                                        Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                                    Report No: 25864

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (SCL-46780)

                                           ON A

                                           LOAN

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF US$100 MILLION

                                          TO THE

                                     REPUBLIC OF PERU

                                            FOR

                      THE PROGRAMMATIC SOCIAL REFORM LOAN II




                                        June 23, 2003




Country Management Unit for Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective as of 05/05/2003)

                           Currency Unit = Nuevo Sol
                                       3.46 = US$ 1.00
                                US$ 0.29 = 1.00 Nuevo Sol

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                            January 1       December 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAF          Andean Development Corporation (Corporación Andina de Fomento)
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CGR          National Controller's Office (Controlaría General de la República)
CIAS         Interministerial Commission on Social Affairs (Comisión Inter-Ministerial
             para Asuntos Sociales)
CLAS         Community-Managed Health Centres (Comunidades Locales de
             Administración de Salud)
CONSUCODE    National Council for Contracts and Procurement (Consejo de
             Contrataciones y Adquisiciones del Estado)
COOPOP       Popular Cooperation (Cooperación Popular)
DISA         Regional Health Department (Dirección de Salud)
ENAHO        National Household Survey (Encuesta Nacional de Hogares)
ESSALUD      Social Security Health Institute
FONAHPU      National Public Savings Fund (Fondo Nacional de Ahorro Público)
FONCODES     Social Development and Compensation Fund (Fondo Nacional de
             Compensación y Desarrollo Social)
FSAL         Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
IDB          Inter-American Development Bank
IMF          International Monetary Fund
INADE        National Development Institute (Instituto Nacional de Desarrollo)
INEI         National Statistical Institute (Instituto Nacional de Estadísticas e
             Informática)
INS          National Institute of Health (Instituto Nacional de Salud)
MECEP        Program for the Improvement of the Quality of Primary Education (
             Programa de Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educación Primaria)
MEF          Ministry of Economic and Finance (Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas)
MIMDES       Ministry of Women and Social Development (Ministerio de la Mujer y
             Desarrollo Social)
MINSA        Ministry of Health (Ministerio de Salud)
MOE          Ministry of Education (Ministerio de Educación y Cultura)
NGO          Non-governmental organization
PCM          Presidency of the Council of Ministers (Presidencia del Consejo de
             Ministros)
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
PRAL         Pension Reform Adjustment Loan

PRONAA           National Program of Food Assistance (Programa Nacional de Apoyo
                 Alimentario)
PRONAMACHCS      National Project for the Maintenance of Water Basins and Soil Conservation
                 (Proyecto Nacional de Mantenimiento de Cuencas Hidrográficas y
                 Conservación de Suelos)
PSAL             Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loan
PSP              Protected Social Program (Programa Social Protegido)
PSRL             Programmatic Social Reform Loan
QAG              Quality Assurance Group
SIAF             Integrated System of Financial Administration (Sistema Integrada de
                 Administración Financiera)
SIS-MI           Integral Health Insurance-Mother and Child Component (Seguro Integral de
                 Salud-Materno/infantil)
SIVISO           System of Social Accountability (Sistema de Vigilancia Social)
SMI              Mother and Child Health Insurance (Seguro Materno Infantil)
SNP              National Pension System (Sistema Nacional de Pensiones)
TAL              Technical assistance loan
UE               Executing Unit (Unidad Ejecutora)
UN               United Nations



                              Vice President:      David de Ferranti
                 Country Manager/Director:         Marcelo M. Giugale
                  Sector Manager/Director:         Ana María Arriagada
           Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Evangeline Javier

                                             PERU
                     PROGRAMMATIC SOCIAL REFORM LOAN II


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            17
6. Sustainability                                                                18
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 19
8. Lessons Learned                                                               21
9. Partner Comments                                                              22
10. Additional Information                                                       22
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             25
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             32
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             33
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             34
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             35
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                36
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            37

Project ID: P073817                                                      Project Name: PE-Programmatic Social Reform
                                                                         Loan II
Team Leader: Evangeline Javier                                           TL Unit: LCSHH
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 23, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: PE-Programmatic Social Reform Loan II                    L/C/TF Number: SCL-46780
   Country/Department: PERU                                                               Region: Latin America and
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (40%); Health (25%); General education sector
                            (20%); Health insurance (8%); Compulsory pension and
                            unemployment insurance (7%)
                  Theme: Social risk coping (P); Public expenditure, financial management
                            and procurement (P); Child health (S); Nutrition and food security
                            (S); Civic engagement, participation and community driven
                            development (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    12/10/2001                                        Effective: 10/09/2002              10/09/2002
   Appraisal:    03/21/2002                                            MTR:
    Approval:    09/17/2002                                         Closing: 12/31/2002               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF PERU/MINISTRY OF ECONOMY AND FINANCE
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              David De Ferranti
Country Director:               Marcelo Giugale                                Isabel Guerrero
Sector Manager:                 Christopher Chamberlin                         Ana Maria Arriagada
Team Leader at ICR:             Evangeline Javier                              Evangeline Javier
ICR Primary Author:             Fred D. Levy


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:M

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

PSRL II was the second of an anticipated sequence of programmatic structural adjustment loans
intended to support the Government's social reform program.                The broad objectives were
essentially the same as those pursued under PSRL I--viz., maintaining economic stability;
establishing a more transparent, participatory and efficient process for allocating social
expenditures; protecting critical anti-poverty expenditures from budgetary cuts; and improving the
efficiency of social expenditures and the access of the poor to social programs. Most of the
actions to be undertaken under the loan were also continuations of measures initiated under PSRL
I, building on the institutional foundations laid or fortified by the latter and on the substantial body
of social sector studies and the broad consultative process carried out in the period leading up to
it.

PSRL I had been prepared and negotiated with a Transition Government during the period of
political uncertainty that followed the fall of the Fujimori Government. The Peruvian economy
was just beginning to emerge from several years of recession occasioned by external economic
shocks and domestic political turmoil. An immediate objective of that loan was thus to contribute
to stabilizing the political and economic situation. At the time of negotiating PSRL II, in contrast,
the Government of President Toledo was beginning its second year in office. Economic recovery
was strengthening, and a two-year Stand-by Arrangement with the IMF was in place and on track.
The Government's commitment to the social reform program had been reconfirmed.

The situation continued fragile, however, and support to economic and social stability continued
to be important objectives of PSRL II. The opening of the political process had brought an
increasing cacophony of competing voices to the formulation of public policy and legislation, and
tight fiscal constraints limited the Government's ability to satisfy the public's demands for quick
results. Financial room for maneuver was also limited by Peru's high external debt and by popular
resistance to further privatizations. Bank management delayed by several months the presentation
of PSRL II to the Board during the summer of 2002 because of extensive changes in the Cabinet
and of the principal technical counterpart, who had negotiated the loan with the Bank team. Bank
Management sought reaffirmation that the new officials endorsed the reform program supported
by PSRL II.

Assessment:

Author's Note: There is an inherent dilemma in preparing a "completion report" in the
traditional ICR format for a Programmatic Structural Adjustment Loan (PSAL). The PSAL is
designed as one of a series of single-tranche loans in support of a medium-term adjustment
program. The individual loan is thus not a discrete product but rather a link in a product chain.
Since the individual loan is contingent on the program measures and achievements that qualified
it, its very Board approval could be argued to constitute a "Satisfactory" rating for the
operation itself, and that what follows is part of the preparation cycle for the next project. On
the other hand, since the success of a single link in the chain depends also on the integrity of the
whole chain, it can be argued that the ICR for the individual operation must also consider the



                                                  - 2 -

progress that follows. While the present ICR attempts to straddle these two concepts, further
guidance from OED would be helpful for future ICRs for PSAL operations. Perhaps, as an
alternative, a brief note could be prepared after each individual operation commenting on the
continuing relevance of the objectives and the overall progress since the beginning of the
program, with a full ICR, including ratings, prepared only after the final loan of the program.

The PSRL program has been based on an intensive and continuing process of consultation with
Peruvian political leaders and with civil society. Broad participation in its design, monitoring and
evaluation has been an integral part of the program. Its focus on achieving greater stability,
efficiency, and transparency of social expenditures; increasing civil society participation in their
allocation and control; and improving their accessibility and targeting in accordance with
anti-poverty objectives has been relevant and important to Peru's social and economic context. A
substantial volume of sector analysis carried out over the past several years, as well as pilot
activities launched prior to and continuing under PSRL I have provided strong underpinnings for
the design of many of its components. This knowledge base was further strengthened by the
completion of a major public expenditure review during 2002. Studies and evaluations built into
program components are intended to inform subsequent stages.

Nevertheless, several questions arise with regard to PSRL II's design and timing. PSRL I already
included a large number of specific actions, and benchmarks across several sectors were set out as
objectives for the program and as triggers for subsequent support. Rather than sharpening the
program's focus, additional activities were introduced during the preparation of PSRL II,
following priorities set out by Government counterparts. A correspondingly larger number of
agencies have been involved, requiring more intensive monitoring, supervision, and coordination
by both the Bank and the Government. In the event, however, this task was further complicated
by the turnover of both managerial and technical staff in most of the participating agencies by the
summer of 2002. As further discussed below, progress among the components has been uneven,
with some exceeding expectations while others fell short. Even though all of the components
were related to the central objectives of the program, it must again be asked whether a more
concentrated emphasis on four or five key elements of the program might not have been more
effective.

A second issue concerns the timing of the Board approval of PSRL II in the light of the changes
of ministers and high-level technical staff that occurred at the beginning of the Toledo
Government's second year in office (July/August 2002). Changes included, inter alia, key people
in the technical secretariat of the Interministerial Commission for Social Affairs (CIAS), which
bore a major responsibility for the design and coordination of the program within the government,
the President of the Council of Ministers (PCM), who heads the CIAS, the Minister of Finance,
and the Minister of Education. Despite the Bank's efforts in this regard, it was not possible to
determine at that time whether all the new teams in the line agencies would continue to implement
the agreed actions. The question is whether more time should not have been spent to reconfirm
program commitment across the sectors and to prepare the implementing teams for the tasks at
hand. The timing issue appears to be inherent to the PSAL instrument itself. The trigger
conditions defined for the second PSRL had all been met, and there was a risk that delay could
result in a loss of momentum jeopardizing the real progress that was being made.



                                                - 3 -

3.2 Revised Objective:

Not applicable.

3.3 Original Components:

As in all Bank adjustment operations, PSRL II was conditioned on the maintenance of sound
macroeconomic policies, which was conventionally interpreted to mean that Peru remained in
compliance with the terms of its Stand-by Arrangement with the IMF. Although the presentation
of social reform objectives was reorganized under the three "pillars" set out in the Government's
own strategy statement, the social reforms supported by PSRL II were essentially the same as
those declared for PSRL I. Somewhat less attention was given in the second operation to the
design and articulation of the social policy agenda, reflecting progress made in this regard under
the first loan, while more attention was given to implementing the reforms designed under the first
loan and to several new initiatives introduced by the Toledo Government. The medium-term
objectives of the program have been to:

§       Improve the anti-poverty focus of public expenditures through an overall shift of the
public budget in favor of programs benefiting the poor, protecting critical social programs from
budgetary cuts, strengthening social protection programs, enhancing the efficiency and targeting
of food distribution programs, and unifying the management and objectives of the rural
infrastructure programs (the "Dignity Pillar").

§       Improve the access of the poor to health and education programs by expanding the
coverage of the maternal, infant, and student health insurance program and the
community-managed health care facilities, by enhancing the efficiency of health services and
health investments, by implementing a more focused approach to nutrition interventions, and by
raising the quality of initial and primary education with particular focus on the rural areas (the
"Equity Pillar").

§       Improve the transparency and social control of resource allocation through enhanced
citizen access to budget information and program results, increased data reliability, the
empowerment of citizens to participate in the policy and budget process, and a more open and
accessible financial administration and procurement system (the "Institutionality Pillar").

As in the first loan, the achievement of these interrelated objectives was linked to a large number
of actions to be undertaken by various government agencies, with coordination centered in the
Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) and the CIAS. Building and institutionalizing the
capacities of the MEF and CIAS to serve as centers for social policy analysis and coordination
have thus also been important objectives of the program.

3.4 Revised Components:

Not applicable.




                                                 - 4 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:

There has been no QAG review of PSRL II. The conclusion of this ICR is that quality at entry
was, on balance, Satisfactory.

The PSRL program has drawn upon a rich body of economic and sector studies and has been
informed by extensive discussions with government officials, representatives of civil society
groups and potential beneficiaries. The objectives being pursued and the issues surrounding them
were at the center of active and lively public debate over the previous two years, and several of
the specific programs supported had already benefited from pilot experimentation. The recently
completed Public Expenditure Review (PER), as well as the evaluation of results being achieved
under PSRL I, provided additional information that was taken into account in the design of the
follow-up operation. The PER included a public expenditure tracking survey, which was financed
partly by PSRL II preparation resources, and covered several critical social programs. PER
results contributed significantly to the redesign of the benchmarks for the protected social
programs and to the rationalization of social programs under PSRL II.

Early in the preparation of PSRL II, President Toledo met with high-level Bank officials and
requested assistance in defining specific indicators for monitoring progress toward his
Government's medium-term development objectives. In response, the Bank incorporated in the
preparation team technical experts to assist CIAS to develop targets and define future processes
for monitoring a set of medium-term development indicators, many of which are related to the
MDGs. The social and transparency indicators served as a framework for PSRL II. This work
also became an important input to the new Peru CAS, which was then under preparation.

The preparation of PSRL II was also marked, both within the Bank and the Government, by the
multi-sectoral collaboration which was started in PSRL I. The PSRL II program itself helped to
keep social issues high on the agenda of MEF, and MEF and CIAS staff worked closely together
and with the line agencies in shaping and monitoring the program. Inside the Bank as well, PSRL
II preparation was carried out by a multi-sectoral team, that included not only the three HD
subsectors, but also a strong participation of PREM, ESSD, and the civil society enhancement
teams. This new way of operating, breaking down the sectoral "silos", is now being replicated in
a number of programmatic adjustment operations in the LAC region.

On the other hand, the addition of new program elements to an already complex program added
under PSRL II inevitably complicated further the already difficult burden of program
implementation. These new elements were arguably appropriate, given the priority attached to
them by the new Government, their importance to program objectives, and the desirability of
incorporating them within the overall targeting and rationalization framework. The new pension
reform component promotes the redirection of massive subsidies currently benefiting the middle
class. Nevertheless, consideration might have been given instead to supporting some of these new
or already-existing components under separate investment loans or coordinating their coverage
under existing or planned operations of the IDB.

Jeopardizing future progress, moreover, was the substantial turnover prior to loan approval of key



                                                - 5 -

officials and technical staff in the principal agencies responsible for design and implementation of
the program. As noted above, the presentation of PSRL II to the Board was delayed for several
months in mid-2002 in order to confirm the Government's continued ownership of the program in
the wake of these changes1. Although some components may have benefited from additional
technical work and analysis that continued in the interim, others, particularly in the education
sector, were set back as a result. Progress was also slowed by the parallel delay in preparation of
the planned technical assistance loan.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

All of the formal "triggers" for going forward with PSRL II had been met prior to Board
presentation. As indicated in the earlier Author's Note, however, the present evaluation of
outcomes under PSRL II seeks to assess ongoing progress toward the program's medium-term
objectives rather than the accomplishment of discrete tasks. In this dynamic context, the
application of a rating to the operation as a whole is deceptively simplistic, inasmuch as the
outcomes and achievements related to the large number of program components have varied
widely, from progress exceeding initial expectations to practically no progress at all and, perhaps,
even retrogression in a few instances. With these caveats in mind, and giving due credit to the
major advances that have been made in the greater emphasis, increasing rigor, and more
participatory and transparent nature of programs aimed at reducing poverty, progress under the
program thus far is rated Satisfactory.

The systematic attention now being given to anti-poverty objectives, to ensuring adequate funding
and interagency coordination, and the effectiveness of social programs, and to mobilizing and
reaping the benefits of increased civil society participation is unprecedented in Peru. Tangible
progress had been made, and the PSRL program has contributed importantly to these efforts.
Progress in some key areas, however, has lagged. The institutionalization of the changes being
pursued is necessarily a slow process and will continue to require informed public debate, steady
and steadfast political leadership and visible results to change ingrained attitudes, overcome
bureaucratic resistance, and build national consensus.

The specific objectives of PSRL II are discussed below under four broad headings, the first three
corresponding to the three pillars of the Government's social reform program: (a) the Dignity
Pillar, (b) the Equity Pillar; and (c) the Institutionality Pillar; plus (d) microeconomic
management. Specific program objectives and the status of their implementation as of end-March
2003 are summarized in Annex 1.

4.2 Outputs by components:


(a) Improving the anti-poverty focus of public expenditures, protecting critical social
programs, and ensuring adequate social protection.

Despite a substantial growth of social expenditures during the 1990s, Peru had developed no
long-term strategy for poverty elimination and had not instituted a systematic mechanism for



                                                  - 6 -

protecting social expenditures in the event of short-term economic downturns. Many programs
lacked clear objectives and were duplicative, poorly targeted, badly managed, and/or had little
impact on poverty.     PSRL II continued support, begun under the Second Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan (FSAL II) and PSRL I, to:

§       Identify and monitor a set of key social programs (PSPs) of demonstrated efficacy, whose
medium-term funding would be protected2; and

§       Consolidate and rationalize the many existing food distribution programs.

Added to the program's objectives were the Toledo Government's commitments to:

§       Reorient aggregate fiscal expenditures away from defense and internal security in favor of
education, health, social protection, and rural infrastructure;

§       Unify the management and improve the anti-poverty targeting of rural infrastructure
programs;

§       Initiate an emergency employment program; and

§       Improve the finances of the public pension system, while exploring options for redirecting
its subsidy elements toward the poor.

Assessment:

Social expenditures. The Government made specific commitments with respect to the level of
actual aggregate budget expenditures in 2002 for education, health, and social assistance, and for
a real increase in these expenditures budgeted for 2003. Specific commitments were also made
with regard to actual 2001 and 2002 expenditures on the identified protected social programs.

The outcome of this sub-component under PSRL II is rated Moderately Satisfactory, the
progress made in institutional development for the protection of social expenditures is rated
Substantial, and sustainability is deemed Likely.

The 2002 actual aggregate expenditures for the social sectors (education, health, social
assistance) were within the agreed budget targets while military and security expenditures were
reduced. On PSPs, actual expenditures in 2001 also met agreed target levels. The number of
PSPs was cut from 12 to 6 for 2002, targeting core social programs, removing less effective
programs and providing somewhat greater budgetary flexibility for dealing with the existing fiscal
stringency. At the same time, the allocation for the more efficient PSPs was increased as a
percentage of GDP, and efforts were continued to improve their targeting to beneficiaries in the
two lowest quintiles of the income distribution.

The global amount budgeted for the PSPs in 2002 was maintained at 2001 real terms, thus
meeting the PSRL II trigger condition. As regards actual progress, data on 2002 actual program



                                                 - 7 -

expenditures are still in the process of being refined. Nonetheless, some information are presented
here in order to comply with the ICR deadline. Preliminary data          indicate that actual total
expenditures for the 6 PSPs surpassed the budgeted amount by 2 percent in 2002.3 However,
shortfalls were experienced by the three investment programs in the education sector, where the
resources budgeted were used instead to cover the costs of large numbers of temporary teachers
contracted by the regional governments. Investment targets may also have been unrealistic given
the Education Ministry's limited capacity to prepare and process investment projects meeting the
public investment law's procedural and quality criteria.

More rigorous selection of PSPs was a positive evolution in the PSRL program, and a more
systematic approach was taken to their budgeting, evaluation, and monitoring. The process is
being further enhanced by the introduction of management contracts between MEF and the
implementing agencies, which will be held accountable for their results and may be rewarded for
goal achievement.

Food distribution programs.         The reform program called for the consolidation of food
distribution programs, formerly scattered among a large number of separate agencies with varying
and often unclear objectives. Studies undertaken by the Bank and others over the past several
years had raised serious questions about their cost (totaling some US$350 million per year),
targeting, nutritional benefits, and probable misuse of funds. These programs had long been
protected, however, by political and bureaucratic interests, and progress was not expected to be
easy. The principal objectives of the consolidation are to reduce administrative costs, and to
better focus food programs on nutritional objectives, particularly with regard to mothers and
young children in the lowest income groups and in coordination with other nutritional
interventions. Studies of specific programs were initiated to analyze their impacts and to establish
baseline information for their future monitoring and modification. Funding of the less effective
programs is to be gradually reduced and the resources shifted to the more effective programs.

On balance, the achievements under this sub-component are rated Satisfactory, the institutional
development has been Substantial, and sustainability is Likely.

The scope of consolidation of food programs has exceeded the minimum target of PSRL II. Five
major food programs have been formally merged into two under the administration of PRONAA.
The specific modes of operation of the individual programs are being changed gradually, as the
new organizational structure takes hold. PRONAA, whose primary concerns in the past were to
support farm prices and to manage the logistics of food distribution, appears to be genuinely
refocused on nutritional objectives and toward the targeted beneficiaries. Its newly constituted
board of directors includes representation, among others, from the Ministry of Health (MINSA)
to ensure coordination with the latter's programs of nutritional education and dietary
supplementation for poor mothers and infants (see below)4. The goals for retargeting the infant
and school food programs, the largest of the programs now under PRONAA, to direct them
towards areas of highest poverty concentration, were exceeded in 2002 and have been raised
further for 2003. Expenditures on the politically popular but poorly targeted Comedores
Populares program have been sharply reduced since 2000, but exceeded their budget in 2002 and
have been given a higher budget (albeit below actual 2002 expenditures) for 2003.



                                                 - 8 -

Of the studies that were to have been undertaken following the approval of PSRL II, only the
evaluation of the Vaso de Leche program has been completed and released5. That study confirmed
that the program, which accounts for more than a third of total expenditures on food programs,
has practically no nutritional impact. It is managed by local governments, however, and remains
outside of PRONAA. Difficult decisions remain to be taken regarding its future funding and, if
continued, its orientation and management. Those decisions will now be made in the context of
the process of governmental decentralization. Finally, after some delay, a proposed pilot program
of cash transfers in lieu of feeding programs has recently been approved by PRONAA's board of
directors, an implementing team has been assembled, and an initial 6-month phase is expected to
begin shortly6.

Rural infrastructure.        A number of programs were created during the 1990s to improve
small-scale infrastructure in the rural areas in the effort to better integrate economically remote
regions into the national economy and to enhance their income-earning potential. Several of these
programs, which were administered by different ministries or autonomous institutes, were
supported by the Bank and by other donors.             While the specialization of some of these
activities--e.g., rural electrification--has justified their separate administration, many activities
have overlapped in their objectives while applying different methodologies and targeting criteria.
In order to reduce administrative costs, achieve better coordination, and improve targeting toward
areas of greatest poverty concentration, PSRL II supported the unification of overlapping
activities under the administration of FONCODES, the Peruvian Social Fund. Specific goals were
also set for the targeting of FONCODES activities in 2002.

Progress thus far under this sub-component is Satisfactory, the expected institutional
development is considered Modest, and its sustainability is Likely.

The benchmarks set for the targeting of FONCODES expenditures in 2002 were exceeded.
Despite some resistance from interested parties, including some donor agencies, an interagency
commission was established and is now working out the details of the integration of programs.
Its report is expected by mid-2003.

Workfare programs. Support was provided under the PSRL II program for the initiation and
targeting of the Government's new rural and urban workfare programs (known as A Trabajar),
intended to provide emergency employment as part of a more comprehensive safety net for the
poor. The rural and urban components of A Trabajar are administered separately, with the
former under the jurisdiction of FONCODES and the latter under the Ministry of Labor and
Employment Promotion. With the Bank's assistance, wage level, sub-project, geographical, and
family eligibility criteria were introduced to ensure that the activities financed would be
labor-intensive and targeted at the lowest income groups, and would not substitute for other
sources of employment. Benchmarks were also agreed to hold down the administrative costs of
the program and to incorporate a process of impact evaluation.

Progress under this sub-component is considered Satisfactory. Considering that workfare is a
new concept and initiative in Peru, institutional development is rated Substantial, and


                                                  - 9 -

sustainability is Likely.

As of March 2003, some 127,000 jobs, with a normal maximum duration of 4 months, had been
created under the urban program. Some 80,000 of these jobs were created in 2002. In addition,
69,000 jobs (typically of 6-months duration) were created in 2002 under the rural program. An
agreed study of the wage rate set for the program confirmed its appropriateness as a self-targeting
mechanism, and it has been applied accordingly. Projects financed under both the urban and rural
programs are presented and executed by local organizations with the participation of civil society
groups and municipal authorities. Although project sustainability is one criterion for selection,
and local authorities are expected to commit to its maintenance, ex post supervision is not
currently being done. Both the urban and rural programs initially used the geographical poverty
map as their initial targeting reference. It was agreed that they would subsequently shift to
targeting on the basis of household income and employment data. Toward that end, the Labor
Ministry contracted with the National Statistical Institute (INEI) for a household survey to
establish a baseline for evaluation of the urban program. This work was completed, and the data
are now being cleaned and analyzed. A similar agreement has not yet been signed between
FONCODES and INEI to carry out a baseline survey for the rural program. On the other hand,
the rural program has met and exceeded targets set for the proportion of program costs accounted
for by wages to unskilled labor, while there was a substantial shortfall from the same target in the
urban program, as administrative costs exceeded their agreed benchmark7. It must be noted that
the urban program was just started in 2002 and thus, had to incur start-up costs while the rural
program is run by FONCODES, an established institution. Although A Trabajar was initially
established as a temporary program, the Government intends to use the experience to create a
permanent counter-cyclical jobs program that is flexible enough to contract or expand depending
on Peru's economic situation.

Pension reform. PSRL II also gave renewed attention to reform of Peru's extremely costly and
inequitable public and private pension systems, building on previous support provided by the
Bank's 1997 Pension Reform Adjustment Loan (PRAL) and the 1999 FSAL II, and by parallel
operations of the IDB. PSRL II included measures to reduce the system's burgeoning fiscal
liabilities, while increasing the attractiveness to workers of shifting from the public to the private
system and gradually shifting the weight of subsidies embodied in the overall system from
middle-class recipients toward minimum old-age protection for the poor.

Progress under this sub-component is rated Satisfactory. Institutional impact has thus far been
Modest. Sustainability is rated Likely.

Progress towards program objectives was made in 2002 with the passage of Law No. 276178,
which simultaneously put a ceiling and floor on the survivor benefits to be paid to widows and
orphans of pensioners, and put age limits on payments to the latter, under the formally closed
Cédula Viva pension system for government employees.               The new law also reduced the
replacement rate for early retirees covered by the defined-benefit, pay-as-you-go National Pension
System (SNP) and extended the years of salary history used to calculate the pension. At the same
time, the minimum pension under the SNP was raised. Legislation has also been prepared, and
awaits congressional approval, to mandate the publication of financial projections for the SNP,



                                                  - 10 -

including cash flow, reserves, and the actuarial costs of any proposed changes.

Not attacked by PSRL II was a long-standing central issue of pension reform: viz., the indexing of
Cédula Viva pensions to the salaries of active government employees9. As a consequence of this
provision, the fiscal impact of ordinary pay increases for public employees is multiplied
several-fold, making infeasible badly needed reform of the level and structure of civil service
salaries and the government's ability to attract and retain needed technical and managerial skills.
At the same time, the ad hoc efforts of public sector managers to get around the indexing
provision by introducing a wide variety of non-pensionable pay supplements have weakened
control over the pay system and have led to gross distortions and inequities in pay among and
within agencies10. The Peruvian Congress is currently drafting a new national Constitution,
providing an opportunity to deal with the indexing issue. The extreme political sensitivity of
pension reform, however, and of any threat to the benefits of middle-class workers and retirees
implies significant risk that progress could be stymied or reversed.

(b) Improving the access of the poor to health and education.

In addition to measures to increase and protect social expenditures, to improve program
efficiency, and to better target them in favor of the poor, PSRL II has continued the support
initiated under PSRL I for:

§       The expansion of the maternal and infant component of the Integrated Health Insurance
Program (SIS-MI).

§       The expansion and capacity building of community-administered health facilities (CLAS).

§       The rationalization of health expenditures by better coordination between MINSA and
ESSALUD, the separation of health financing from health provision within ESSALUD, and
greater efficiency and transparency of ESSALUD activities.

§       The reduction of inefficiencies in nutrition expenditures by consolidation and better
targeting of food distribution programs (see discussion under the Dignity Pillar), and by more
systematic efforts to improve the access of poor mothers to nutritional information and education,
as well as micronutrients for pregnant women and young children under the SIS-MI.

§       The improvement of initial and primary education, with particular attention to rural
teacher incentives, qualifications, and performance. A pilot project was initiated to provide
special incentives to teachers to work in rural areas and to acquire bilingual skills.     These
incentives were to be reinforced by the establishment of effective school councils with parental
participation.

Maternal and infant insurance. In an effort to confront the problem of affordability of health
care, two public insurance programs were introduced by the Fujimori Government--the Seguro
Escolar in 1997 for children from 5 to 17 years of age, and the Seguro Materno-Infantil (SIS-MI)
for mothers and infants in 1999. The insurance is non-contributive and is funded from the fiscal



                                                - 11 -

budget.    Expanding the implementation of the latter program to cover all Regional Health
Departments in Peru was set out as one of the objectives of PSRL I. The unification of the two
insurance programs under a single administration was also stipulated as a PSRL I benchmark.
These conditions were formally met, but the budget provided for SIS-MI in 2001 was not
sufficient to increase the actual number of mother and infant beneficiaries. The focus under PSRL
II, therefore, was to assure adequate budget resources, and targets were set with regard to the
actual number of SIS-MI beneficiaries.       An appropriate package of the services to which
beneficiaries would be entitled was also to be defined and enacted into law.

Progress under this sub-component is rated Satisfactory, institutional development has been
Substantial, and sustainability is Likely.

The amount budgeted for SIS-MI in 2002 met the PSRL II conditions, the target for number of
beneficiaries was exceeded, and a Supreme Decree formalized beneficiary entitlement to an agreed
package of covered services. However, the actual amount spent on the program over the course
of the year fell short of the agreed minimum amount, and, looking forward, the amounts budgeted
for 2003 have not taken account of the agreed expansion of services. As mentioned earlier, the
budget numbers are still preliminary and further changes may occur as PSRL III preparation
proceeds. The integration of the two insurance programs has been carried out as agreed.
Performance agreements have also been introduced between MINSA and the Regional Health
Departments to establish and hold authorities accountable for achieving agreed targets.

Community-administered health facilities. PSRL II has continued the support begun under
PSRL I for the expansion of the number of primary health facilities being co-managed by local
communities and made more responsive to the needs and cultures of those communities. This
initiative began during the late 1990s and has been endorsed and pushed forward by the Toledo
Government despite continuing resistance to this shift of authority away from the traditional
bureaucracy and political interests.

Progress under this sub-component is rated Highly Satisfactory, institutional development has
been Substantial, and sustainability appears Likely.

At end-1999, some 15 percent of public primary clinics were operated under the CLAS program.
This proportion had expanded to 25 percent by the time of approval of PSRL II, and the
expansion has continued, reaching about 34.5 percent of the more than 6,100 primary clinics in
Peru as of March 2003.        In addition, a Ministerial Resolution was issued in May 2002 to
strengthen local co-management at all care levels, and this is being progressively implemented.
Not surprisingly, managerial capacities vary widely among the communities. There is general
agreement, however, that the experience overall has been a success, and efforts are now being
made by MINSA to expand training programs for local managers with assistance from the School
of Public Administration.

Rationalization of health expenditures.        Investments in the health sector have long been
characterized by massive waste of resources, as two powerful bureaucracies, MINSA and
ESSALUD, continued to construct excess hospital capacity and offer medical services in virtual



                                               - 12 -

competition with each other but undisciplined by market forces. PSRL II continued the effort
initiated under PSRL I to rationalize expenditures by initiating the exchange of services between
the two institutions and the coordination of their investment plans11.          Guidelines for the
institutional reform of ESSALUD were also to be adopted and implemented to achieve, inter alia,
the separation of its health financing and health service provision functions, providing users
greater freedom of choice among service providers, and greater decentralization and transparency
of managerial decisions.

Progress under this sub-component is rated Moderately Satisfactory. Institutional development
is considered exceedingly Modest given the magnitude of the problem. Sustainability is in doubt.

Over the past year, the interchange of 20 identified services was started, and studies have been
undertaken in two pilot Departments to serve as the basis for coordinated investment planning.
Progress is also reported in the internal reforms being carried out by ESSALUD, but doubt about
their continuity has been created by the recent firing of ESSALUD's president. Efforts are also
reported in Congress to increase ESSALUD's financial and managerial autonomy, granting it
status equivalent to that of the central bank. Meanwhile, the principal barrier to continued
wasteful investment has been the hard line thus far taken by MEF in enforcing the procedures and
criteria required by the Law of Public Investments.

Nutrition programs. Significant progress was made over the 1990s in the improvement of
nutrition indicators.    Nevertheless, despite huge expenditures over the past decade on food
distribution programs, malnutrition remains a major problem in Peru. In addition to the highly
unequal income distribution, significant factors have included lack of access to clean water and
health facilities, and poor maternal education with regard to health, nutrition and hygiene. In
addition to the efforts initiated under PSRL I to improve the efficiency and better target existing
food distribution programs, PSRL II has included increased attention to nutrition education and
promotion and to dietary supplementation through local health clinics. Such interventions were to
be included in the benefits package covered under the SIS-MI.

Progress under this sub-component is rated Unsatisfactory, and institutional development has
been Negligible. The question of sustainability is thus not yet relevant.

The requisite nutritional services have been included in the SIS-MI insurance coverage, and the
National Health Institute (INS) has begun sample surveys of anemia and other nutritional
deficiencies at the community level. Little additional progress has been made, however, since the
approval of PSRL II. Targets were established for increasing the proportion of rural primary
health facilities that provide a complete package of nutritional interventions, including education
and iron supplements for gestating mothers and children less than 2 years of age. The package of
services to be provided in this respect remains to be defined, and no agency has yet been tasked
with overseeing the implementation of this initiative.

Initial and primary education.        Although Peru has achieved virtually universal access to
primary education over the past two decades, educational quality is very low, particularly in the
rural areas. Actions were initiated under PSRL I aimed at improving the quality of education



                                               - 13 -

generally and of rural education in particular. Support for this very ambitious agenda continued
under PSRL II. For the first time, Congress enacted regulations establishing merit criteria for the
hiring of new teachers, and the Ministry of Education began to publish data on student
performance. Pilot efforts were begun also to rationalize the pay schedule for teachers; to create
local school councils with parental participation that would, among other things, monitor teacher
attendance, which has been a major source of poor educational quality in the more remote areas;
to decentralize authority over the management of personnel and budget to local school directors;
and to introduce a system for handling citizen complaints related to the educational system. With
particular regard to the improvement of rural education, a pilot program was developed to
provide special incentives for teachers to work in rural areas and to develop bilingual skills for
teaching indigenous children.

The amounts to be budgeted in 2002 for three major education projects were agreed under PSRL
II. Targets were also set with respect to the number of teachers to be included in the rural
teaching incentive program in the 2002 school year, including training as well as financial rewards,
and for the number of children to benefit later from the bilingual education initiatives.        A
Ministerial Resolution was issued making the establishment of school councils mandatory
nationwide, and targets were set for the number of schools with active councils. A reduction of
enrolments in teacher training institutions in a situation of large excess supply was also
programmed.      The PSRL II conditions for Board presentation under this sub-component were
met, but progress since loan approval has been mixed and, in several key areas, disappointing.
Outcome to date is rated Unsatisfactory. Institutional development has been Modest. With the
resistance of the teachers' union to any incursions on job security and acquired rights, the
sustainability of progress in this area is still in doubt.

Progress in implementing the program was severely disrupted by the replacement of the Minister
of Education and virtually the entire team of responsible management-level and technical
counterparts. The agreed 2002 expenditure targets were met or exceeded for two of the three
major education programs, but a substantial shortfall was experienced by Initial and Secondary
Education.    Some 27,000 new teachers were hired in 2002 under the new merit-based criteria,
thus exceeding the PSRL II target, but an almost equal number were hired on a fixed-term
contract basis outside of the merit system. The targeted number of teachers to be included in the
pilot rural incentives program was also exceeded, but housing, which was to be one of the
incentives, was not included. Moreover, the monetary incentives provided were paid as a lump
sum and not tied to any criteria of teacher performance or even teacher attendance, which has
been a major problem in rural schools12. None of the schools where the pilot was carried out had
participatory school councils that might have provided active oversight13. The training provided to
the teachers, which was to focus on problems and techniques of multi-grade teaching, the typical
context of Peru's rural schools, was also substantially different from what had been agreed and
included no base-line analysis or evaluation. Greater progress does appear to have been made
with regard to bilingual education, where upgrading teacher language skills and the preparation of
didactic materials is reported to have benefited some 90,000 children. The targeted reduction in
enrolments in teacher training institutions also appears to have been exceeded.

The Ministerial Resolution that had mandated the establishment of school councils was later



                                                    - 14 -

supplanted by a Supreme Decree that made them optional. Expansion has consequently slowed,
and fewer than half the targeted number (2,356 compared to a target of 5,000) have thus far been
created. The pilot effort undertaken by PSRL I to rationalize teacher payrolls in Lima/Callao,
Trujillo, Sullana/Piura, and Huancavelica, covers about 40 percent of all teachers and appears to
be working well, but little, if any, further progress has been made under PSRL II. Although not
an explicit objective of PSRL II, it had been hoped to achieve nationwide coverage by now. The
new team in the Education Ministry appears to be moving forward with respect to other PSRL
objectives--e.g., redefinition of the teaching career, completing the inventory of teacher profiles,
and the introduction of merit-based incentives with a system of evaluation and sanctions for
misconduct. An integral plan for initial education is currently being revised.

 (c) Increasing transparency and social control over public expenditures, financial
management and procurement.

Governance in Peru was long characterized by its lack of popular participation and transparency,
either in the design or in the implementation of public programs. By the end of the 1990s,
however, transparency, participation and social control had become strongly asserted priorities of
the country's citizens. PSRL II continued the support provided under PSRL I to make social
programs more transparent and accountable, to promote collaborative planning and budgeting
processes, and to improve the systems of public financial administration and procurement. In
addition, it was intended to make statistical information generally more reliable and timely by
providing administrative and financial autonomy to INEI.

Taking these many facets of the "institutionality pillar" into account, progress is rated on balance
as Satisfactory, institutional development as Substantial, and sustainability as Likely.

Although performance has varied among the large number of activities supported under this
"pillar", the overall progress that has been achieved towards more open and participatory political
process since the beginning of the PSRL program was unimaginable three years ago.               The
Integrated Financial Management System (SIAF) is rapidly being extended to the regional and
municipal levels of government, and the system's accessibility and user friendliness as a source of
budget and financial information has been improved, enabling citizens as well as officials
themselves to monitor, analyze, and evaluate the funding of social programs disaggregated to the
district level14. The SIAF is now being used as a model by other countries. Extensive training is
being provided to local community groups to use the system, and the data are being distributed on
CDs to areas lacking adequate internet facilities.

The regional and national roundtables (Mesas de Concertación) have served as active mechanisms
for the development, mediation and expression of civil society views, and 9 regional development
plans prepared with the participation of the Mesas have formed the basis for regional budget
proposals for 200315. A directive mandating the use of participatory processes in budget
preparation for 2003 was sent to all regional departments, and preparatory workshops were
conducted with the departments.

MEF is regularly publishing on its website semiannual reports on macroeconomic performance,



                                                - 15 -

quarterly reports on budget execution, and data on the timing and amount of transfers to the
municipalities. The Contraloría General de la República (CGR) is reportedly now exercising
effective audit control over the accounts of the Ministry of Defense and other security services. A
module to examine public perceptions about governmental transparency and the quality of social
services is under preparation and will be added by INEI to the nationwide household survey.

The National Contracting and Procurement Agency (CONSUCODE) and CGR signed an
interagency agreement for the implementation of control and supervision of procurement and
contracting procedures, and the publication of control and supervision norms obligatory for all
public agencies is pending. A policy guide has been issued for the implementation of an electronic
government procurement system to raise transparency and efficiency in public contracting. An
electronic web-based system has been developed for the bidding and awarding of small
procurement contracts and is expected to open shortly on a pilot basis.

Some activities under this sub-component have lagged expectations. The implementation of the
System of Social Vigilance (SIVISO), whose design was promoted under PSRL I, has not
progressed as intended. The Defensoría del Pueblo, as noted earlier, has been without a
designated chief executive for almost 3 years and appears to have lost the dynamism needed to
play its expected role as a promoter of transparency and social control.

(d) Macroeconomic management.

At the time PSRL II was negotiated, Peru was emerging from several years of economic
stagnation, coupled with rising unemployment and deteriorating poverty indicators.               After
achieving growth of 7 percent per annum during 1993-97, Peru's growth averaged less than 1
percent during 1998-2001.

Performance under this condition is rated Highly Satisfactory. Sustainability is considered
Likely. Institution-building impact: N/A.

Despite the reemergence of strong populist pressures, economic management has remained firm,
and economic performance in Peru improved significantly in 2002. Growth reached 5.2 percent,
with low inflation (1.5 percent) and rising international reserves. The easing of monetary policy,
in part to offset the tendency of the sol to appreciate, has been facilitated by growing demand for
sol-denominated financial assets. The predominance of dollar holdings in the financial system,
although still high, has been falling along with interest rates. Employment growth, however,
remains weak. The Stand-by Arrangement approved by the IMF Board on February 1, 2002 has
stayed on track, although two key structural reforms supported by the program remain to be
implemented: completion of tax reform and implementation of a fiscally-neutral decentralization.
The near-term economic outlook is for continued strong growth (4-5 percent per annum) and low
inflation. The main risks are rooted in the high level of dollar-denominated liabilities in the private
sector, the large public external debt, the uncertain external environment, and the fragile political
situation.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:




                                                - 16 -

Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

While institutional change has been substantial in comparison to the situation prevailing at the fall
of the Fujimori Government, and significant further progress has been made under some
components of PSRL II, the latter's overall incremental impact is rated as Modest.

Assessments of the institutional development impacts of the various components of PSRL II have
been given in the previous paragraphs. In summary, progress continued in establishing and
refining mechanisms to bring greater transparency to the governance of social programs, promote
popular participation in the design of and budgeting for social programs, and facilitate monitoring
and feedback regarding program implementation. The strengthening of the social safety net and
the budgetary protection and more effective targeting of key social expenditures have also
become widely supported objectives of public policy, and progress has been made in introducing
effective mechanisms to achieve them. Good progress has also been made in the face of expected
political and bureaucratic resistance, in the reorganization, rationalization, and redirection of
Peru's hugely expensive food distribution programs, and similar efforts have begun with regard to
rural infrastructure programs.

Less progress, however, has been made in the reform of investment decision-making in the health
sector, and strong efforts are being mounted to stymie further reform. Progress has also been
disappointing with respect to the promising institutional and policy initiatives undertaken with the
support of PSRL I for improvements in educational quality. The strengthening of mechanisms of
social policy analysis and coordination within the government has been a central institutional
objective of the PSRL program from its inception. The technical teams of MEF and CIAS have
continued to play the central coordinating role and, for the most part, have done so effectively
despite the turnover of staff experienced by CIAS and MEF as well as by their counterpart teams
in the implementing agencies. The PSRL framework itself has continued to provide an important
tool of coordination and for maintaining program coherence. However, the policy development
and coordinating function has not been institutionalized within the Peruvian government. Its
staffing remains small, contracts are subject to annual renewal, and salaries remain dependent
largely on funding from external donors.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The Toledo Government came to office at a time of great political uncertainty and constrained
fiscal resources.      It also inherited the PSRL program, which had been negotiated with the
previous Transition Government. After a year in office, however, the overall program had been
endorsed and assumed by the new regime, and PSRL II had incorporated new components and
emphases reflecting its priorities and proposals. The fiscal situation remained tight, however, and


                                                     - 17 -

the new power of Congress and the division of political interests within it have constrained the
Government's ability to move boldly in some needed, but politically controversial, directions.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Despite strong populist pressures, the Government has maintained sound macroeconomic policies,
restoring the confidence of investors and setting the foundation for the economic recovery now
under way. It has made clear its commitment to social and democratic reforms. Nevertheless, the
persistence of "politics as usual" in the continuing turnover of public sector managers and
technical staff has disrupted progress in a number of programs, setting back the Government's
own social agenda. At the same time, while the Government has encouraged and facilitated the
opening of public sector programs and decision-making to greater social participation and
monitoring, it has as yet not effectively used the fora and channels of communication made
available in this process to build consensus behind some of the difficult decisions that need to be
taken.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

An unusually large number of implementing agencies has been responsible for the many activities
incorporated into the program.          Many, if not most, of these agencies have suffered major
turnovers of high-level staff since the inception of the program.         The principal agencies
responsible for coordinating the implementation of the program and keeping activities on
track--the CIAS and the technical advisory staff of MEF--have themselves experienced key
turnovers. The core teams in CIAS and MEF, however, have worked diligently to maintain
momentum, including during the hiatus in the negotiation of PSRL II that followed the departure
and replacement of key ministers.

5.4 Costs and financing:

Not applicable

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Sustainability ratings have been indicated above for the individual program components. Viewed
broadly, the sustainability of the program's overall achievements to this point in time is regarded
as Likely.

The broad progress toward greater openness, transparency and responsiveness of government, as
well as the enhanced attention being given to poverty and social protection responds to the
aroused expectations and expressed priorities of the Peruvian electorate.        Less certainty of
continuity attaches, however, to specific initiatives and activities encompassed under the PSRL
program, where political and bureaucratic resistance in some instances remain strong, and
government leadership has been uneven in attempting to overcome them.                 Progress in
rationalizing the food and nutrition programs, for example, now seems more assured than efforts
to improve teacher incentives and performance.



                                                    - 18 -

The greatest opportunities for ensuring the sustainability of the reforms supported by PSRL, and
perhaps the greatest risks of setbacks, are now being opened by the accelerating process of
decentralization of decision-making and executive power, itself a strongly felt aspiration of
Peruvian civil society. The devolution of authority and responsibilities to the regional and local
levels will enormously expand the possibilities for meaningful citizen influence over the decisions
of government and for holding public officials accountable for their performance. The institutions
of local government are still weak, however, and their tradition has not generally been one of
broad participation and responsiveness to all but narrow interest groups. Many of the initiatives
under the PSRL program--e.g., greater fiscal accountability and reforms in the management of
the food and rural infrastructure programs--will be directly affected and have to be adapted to
decentralized administration. The building of strong local government institutions should be a
major focus of external assistance over the next several years.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Not applicable.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank continued under PSRL II to dedicate considerable effort and strong staffing, from both
Headquarters and the Country Office, to the support of the Government's social reform program.
PSRL II preparation served as a useful vehicle for providing technical assistance to the new
Government. Contributions in this regard included the elaboration of medium-term development
objectives and indicators, the analysis of public expenditure allocation and effective utilization,
and the sharing of experiences of other countries (e.g., South Africa, India, Mexico and Brazil) in
enhancing citizen participation in public policy-making and monitoring. Close consultations were
also maintained with civil society organizations, and staff worked assiduously to sustain progress
during the hiatus caused by Cabinet and high-level technical changes during mid-2002.

While the Bank's lending performance under PSRL II is thus rated as Satisfactory, concern about
the design complexity of the program deserves to be highlighted. The number of components and
activities supported under the program was increased from the already heavily loaded program
initiated under PSRL I, even as individual components were entering more complex phases of
implementation. These two factors complicated further the coordination and supervision
responsibilities of the involved staff and government counterparts. Moreover, given the costly
turnover among counterparts, it might have been preferable to have waited still longer to
consolidate the understanding and commitment of the new teams to the program and/or to have
reduced the size and scope of the program.

Coordination with the IMF, particularly with regard to the fiscal implications of the program and
efforts to support more decentralized and participatory budgetary processes, has been close and
appropriate. The public expenditure review, which contributed importantly to the design of PSRL
II, was undertaken jointly with the IDB. Coordination between the Bank and IDB in the areas


                                                  - 19 -

covered by PSRL II has also been constructive, particularly at the level of field offices. This
coordinating effort is especially important given the extensive overlap of the two IFIs' programs
in support of fiscal, social, public administration, and pension reforms.

7.2 Supervision:

Inasmuch as PSRL II was one link in a chain of programmed operations, there is essentially no
distinction between its post-approval supervision and the preparation of the next operation.
Indeed, there was no formal supervision budget separate from that for the preparation of PSRL
III or for work on parallel investment projects in health and education. Given the large number of
components and activities, and the need to reestablish mutual understandings and relationships
when counterparts were replaced, these resources have necessarily been spread thin. Nevertheless,
Bank staff have been conscientious in pursuing program objectives and building consensus within
both the government and civil society. This broad effort is rated Satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:


On balance, Bank performance has been Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:


Borrower performance in PSRL II's preparation is rated Satisfactory.

The preparation of PSRL II began right after the new Toledo Administration took office. To the
Government's credit, the agreements reached and actions started under PSRL I were continued
without major disruption, leading to close and productive collaboration between the Bank and
Government throughout the preparation and negotiation of PSRL II. Government counterparts
made effective use of the PSRL program to maintain the priority given to social issues on the
Government's agenda.        They also judiciously managed implementation of the PHRD grant
approved for the preparation of PSRL II.

As mentioned frequently in this report, however, the replacement of key counterparts during
May/June 2002, lead to the Bank's decision to delay the presentation of PSRL II to the Board.
This disruption, together with the undue complexity of PSRL II, has slowed implementation of
some the reform actions that were to follow.

7.5 Government implementation performance:


The Borrower's implementation performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

As discussed above, implementation shortfalls were, in part, to be found in the operation's design.
Additional key staff turnovers in the second half of 2002 also affected implementation capacity.
While strong commitment and leadership have been demonstrated in some aspects of the
program--e.g., transparency and reform of the food programs and the expansion of community
co-managed primary health centers--less commitment and leadership have been shown with
respect to some other politically difficult program elements--e.g., the rationalization of health


                                                 - 20 -

investments and achieving educational improvements in the classroom.

7.6 Implementing Agency:


The implementing agencies' performance is rated Satisfactory.

A large number of line agencies have been responsible for the implementation of the various
components of PSRL II. The evaluation here refers only to the technical units of MEF and CIAS
that were responsible for the overall coordination and monitoring of the program and were the
principal points of contact with the Bank. Like others, these units were also disrupted by key
personnel changes over the past year as well as by changes in their respective ministers. They
worked diligently and continually to maintain the program's coherence and to keep it on track,
including during the period of hiatus in 2002 and, reportedly, without being paid during part of
this time.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:


Overall, Borrower performance is rated Satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

As noted in the ICR for PSRL I, the start-up costs for the social reform program in the context of
an abrupt move from the tradition of highly centralized, secretive, autocratic style government to
transparent, participatory, responsive government were bound to be high and characterized by
stops, turns, and wheel spinning.       This has been confirmed.         Other lessons, some now
commonplace in the evaluation of Bank operations, include:

1.      The number of specific components, activities, conditions and implementing agencies
incorporated into an operation should be bounded by and prioritized within the coordinating and
supervision capacities of the Bank and the Borrower. The designation of a subset of these
elements as benchmarks and triggers for follow-up operations may help to specify priorities but
does not significantly lighten coordinating and monitoring responsibilities, so long as the
non-highlighted objectives are also to be taken seriously.

2.      The PSAL instrument, designed as a series of one-tranche loans, is useful for giving
flexibility to adjust program details over time, and thus, assures continuity of support to an agreed
medium-term program of reforms. It offers the potential in Peru, for example, of now adjusting
program elements to the requirements of governmental decentralization, while maintaining the
overall coherence of its programmatic objectives. At the same time, however, it potentially
presents a trade-off between maintaining continuity in support and evaluating rigorously the
achievements of program phases whose future direction may change because of country
circumstances. Judgment is further complicated by the number of components, some of which
will inevitably progress more rapidly than others. Again, the designation of some objectives as
triggers for follow-up operations may simplify the judgment in mechanical terms. But it also sets
up the potential dilemma (which seems to have characterized the timing of approval of PSRL II)
of having fulfilled all the "legal" requirements for proceeding with the next operation, even as
concerns may still exist about continued Borrower commitment to some program components as


                                                - 21 -

evidenced by slowdown some follow up actions towards the next loan.

3.      The probability of success of fast-disbursing programmatic loans that require substantial
analytical foundations and involve significant institution building is enhanced by the availability of
financing for technical assistance. An accompanying technical assistance loan or similar financing
under a parallel investment loan also provides the resources and "foot in the door" for the
intensive supervision that is typically required by capacity-building support. Conversely, the
absence of such support may reduce the pace of reform.

4.      The agenda of reforms encompassed by the PSRL and the successful decentralization of
government functions are, appropriately, being given high priority in the assistance programs for
Peru of the Bank, other IFIs, UN and bilateral agencies. Greater attention should be given by all
involved to achieving active coordination of these assistance efforts. The Government of Peru
itself needs to lead actively such coordination to ensure effectiveness of the assistance programs
especially for the decentralization of government functions.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
        (Translated from Spanish)

        Before the year 2000, the government of Peru did not have a social policy instrument that
        would assure a medium-term strategy to improve social programs and the efficiency of
        social spending. For this reason, the Programmatic Social Reform Loans (PSRL I and II)
        were very useful instruments because they permitted the design of the reforms to be
        implemented in the social sector.

        At present, almost two years into the administration of the current government and with
        the publication of the "Bases for the Strategy to Overcome Poverty, an initial consensus
        has been reached regarding the characteristics of a suitable instrument that would allow
        the commitments included in the National Agreement to become operational. In other
        words, a multi-annual social strategy is being developed to improve and/or strengthen the
        scope of the achievements reached under the PSRL I and II operations.

        In this sense, it is necessary for the Bank to support the efforts made to continue
        developing said instrument and implementing a system to monitor and evaluate social
        policy objectives.

        Nevertheless, we agree with the Bank's opinion with reference to the complexity of the
        design of the PSRL projects, especially with regards to the excessive number of
        benchmarks, which complicated coordination and supervision.

        Thus, we share the recommendation of the Bank that future operations should include
        fewer conditions but whose impact should still contribute to the sustainability of the
        reforms set forth by these agreements.




                                                 - 22 -

        The Project

        The Peruvian government considers that, just like the previous PSRL I, this operation has
        been successful, given that it has contributed to strengthening and facilitating the
        continuity of social policy reforms, in the sense of improving the protection and efficiency
        of priority social programs - not only by saving resources, but also by increasing the
        quality of public services - increased participation by civil society in the control of social
        spending and improved transparency in public accounts.

        Bank Performance

       The government is satisfied with the performance of the World Bank during the
       development of this operation, not only for their technical support and ongoing
       communication, but also for their dedication and time invested.

        Borrower's Performance

       The government considers that it has taken important steps to institutionalize the reforms
       implemented in the social sector, however the government is also conscious of the fact that
       it is necessary to work even more on said reforms.

       For that reason and given that the primary objective of the government is the "fight against
       poverty", the document "Strategy for Poverty Reduction and Economic Opportunities for
       the Poor" has been approved, which sets forth actions to accomplish this objective and is
       the base for the design and work of the PSRL III project.


                                                                                      Lima, May 2003

(b) Cofinanciers:

Not applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

Not applicable

10. Additional Information

Footnotes:

1. More recent turnovers of officials key to the program have included the presidents of the
    National Statistical Institute (INEI) and of the Health Security Institute (ESSALUD). In
    addition, the Congress has never named a new National Ombudsman (Defensor del Pueblo)
    since the original holder of that position resigned in 2000 to become a candidate for the
    presidency.
2. The protection was specifically accorded to current and capital expenditures, exclusive of
    salaries, pensions and financial charges, financed from the ordinary budget and from foreign


                                                 - 23 -

    resources. Not included in the targeted funding were resources from privatization or fees and
    other revenues generated directly by the activities themselves.
 3. It was agreed that expenditure targets for the PSPs would be reduced in the event that
    ordinary budget revenues fell by 3 percent or more in 2002. In fact, revenues fell by 2
    percent. (Since definitive data on 2002 revenue collections only became available in May
    2003, it would have been difficult in practice to adjust program expenditures on this basis.)
 4. Overall nutrition policy guidelines are set by an interministerial National Commission on Food
    Security.
 5. All the other studies, with the exception of that covering the school breakfast program, have
    reportedly been completed, but the final reports are still pending.
 6. Some officials have expressed reservations about the introduction of cash transfers, partly
    because of the potential difficulty of controlling their targeting and expansion.
 7. Administrators for the urban program point to high start-up costs associated with the need to
    install 26 local offices, and report that costs of administration are now falling.
 8. Published in El Peruano on January 1, 2002.
 9. The elimination of this indexing provision was one of the key conditions of the PRAL, but the
    action was declared unconstitutional by the Peruvian Supreme Court.
10. External donors, including the Bank, commonly contribute to these distortions by topping up
    the salaries of skilled counterparts.
11. The measures initiated under PSRL I were originally also to include the hospital investments
    of the Ministries of Defense and Interior, but they dropped out of the program during the
    course of loan preparation.
12. Teachers receiving both bonuses--for distance from urban centers and for bilingual
    skills--would realize about a one-third increase in their salary levels. The lack of performance
    criteria attaching to the incentive bonus has led, not surprisingly, to demands from teachers
    closer to urban centers that they also be paid the additional amounts.
13. It is also unclear whether any of the schools with councils, most of which are located in urban
    areas, have kept any attendance or other records.
14. Development of the SIAF system has received substantial financial support from the IDB. It
    was originally intended to extend only to the 194 provincial-level municipal governments, but,
    with the support of a US$10 million loan from the Andean Development Corporation, it will
    now be extended also to the 1,826 district-level municipalies. The expansion of the system's
    capability and accessability does not seem yet to have been matched on the demand side,
    however. According to the SIAF's administrator, more contacts ("hits") have come from
    external parties than from Peruvian civil society.
15. The Mesas participated in the preparation of 22 regional investment plans, but consensus was
    reached in only the 9. The Bank has assisted in mobilizing grant funds to provide technical
    assistance to this effort.     The accelerating process of decentralization of governmental
    functions raises some uncertainty about the future role and institutionalization of the Mesas,
   which remains to be worked out.




                                                  - 24 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


                         1
 ISSUES/PROBLEMS                   ACTIONS TAKEN AND STATUS AS OF MARCH 2003

I. DIGNITY PILLAR: POVERTY REDUCTION, DECENT AND PRODUCTIVE JOB
OPPORTUNITIES
A. Poverty Reduction: Reorientation of Public Expenditures and Social Protection
Shift to Pro-Poor Public
Expenditures
                           The 2002 global approved budget for three defined priority social sector functions--Education
Public expenditure needs   and Culture, Health and Sanitation, and Social Assistance-- (S/11,391 million) was greater in
to be appropriately        real terms than the executed budget (S/10,085 million) for those functions in 20012. The
allocated to Peru's social 2002 executed budget was slightly lower (S/. 11,181 million) than the amount budgeted but
priorities                 was still within the agreed targets. The Budget for these functions in 2003 (S/ 12,245
                           million) has again increased in real terms compared to the 2002 executed budget.

                           The 2002 approved budget allocation for Defense and Public Security (S/4,189 million) was
                           reduced in real terms with respect to its 2001 executed budget (S/4,698 million), and the
                           budget approved for 2003 has been kept at close the same level (S/ 4,617 million).
Protected Social
Programs (PSPs)            The executed budget for PSPs exceeded agreed levels in 2001.

Pro-cyclical spending      The number of PSPs was reduced from 12 in 2001 to 6 in 2002 in order to shift resources
pattern does not ensure    from less efficient to more efficient programs, permit somewhat greater fiscal flexibility and
minimum financing          target core social programs. Their budget allocation was increased as a percentage of GDP,
requirements of the PSPs   and their targeting was improved in favor of the two lowest income quintiles.
in support of the GOP
Social Protection          The total (non-wage, non-financial, non-pension) approved budget for the 6 selected PSPs in
Strategy.                  2002 was maintained at their 2001 levels in real terms, with a global allocation of S/2,321.
                           Preliminary information indicate that actual total expenditures (data are in the process of
                           being reviewed) surpassed this level (S/ 2,363 million), but with significant shortfalls in 3 of
                           the 6 programs, as follows (in million of soles):

                                                                         PSRL            Exe. 3          %

                                       Educación Inicial                  230             124            54

                                       Educación Primaria                 229             142            62

                                       Educación Secundaria               212             123            58

                                       Salud Individual                   835             735            88

                                       Salud Colectiva                    432             380            88

                                       Promoción y Asistencia Social      383             859            224
                                       Comunitaria
                                       TOTAL                             2,321           2,363          102

Temporary Employment

Lack of a counter-cyclical The Programa de Emergencia Social Productivo (PESP) - better known as A Trabajar ­ is
social protection program  in operation generating temporary employment for poor families. The rural and urban
such as an employment      programs are separately administered. Initially, a monthly wage below the minimum wage
(workfare) program.        was set at S/ 300, later modified to a daily wage of S/ 10 in rural areas and S/14 in urban
                           areas to assure that the program was not substituting for otherwise available employment. An



                                                       - 25 -

                             agreed study on the effects of the wage rate was carried out and confirmed the suitability of
                             the rates adopted.

                             Prior to the presentation of PSRL II to the Board, 42 percent of the urban A Trabajar budget
                             was allocated to urban districts in the first (poorest) income quintile, and 67 percent of the
                             budget was allocated to districts in the first two quintiles. Comparable budget allocations for
                             the rural areas were 34 percent and 59 percent, respectively. During the course of
                             implementation, it was agreed to shift the base for future targeting from the geographical
                             poverty map to directly target households instead. Toward this end, a convenio was signed
                             in October 2002 between INEI and the urban program to incorporate a special sample in the
                             national household survey. A similar arrangement has not yet been reached between INEI
                             and the rural program, and the possibility of using FONCODE's own beneficiary data base is
                             being explored as an alternative basis of evaluation. On a geographical targeting basis, the
                             results for the rural program in 2002 have exceeded those of 2001.

                             Targets were also agreed with regard to the minimum proportions of the urban and rural A
                             Trabajar budgets to be spent on unskilled labor: viz., 40 percent in the rural areas and 75
                             percent in the urban areas. This target for the rural program was met, but there has been a
                             shortfall from the target in the urban program because administrative costs related to the
                             opening of new district-level offices.

                             Impact evaluations of both the urban and rural A Trabajar were also to be carried out on the
                             basis of INEI survey data as described above. The urban study is now being completed under
                             the agreement with INEI.
Food Programs

Duplication and lack of      PRONAA and MINSA school breakfast and pre-school feeding programs have been merged
coordination of food         as proposed into a Nutrition Program under PRONAA under Supreme Decree No.
programs, resulting in: (i)  034-2002-PCM published on May 14, 2002. In addition, three other programs (
excess expenditures and      Complementación Alimentaria,Comedores Populares and the food program for sufferers of
high administrative costs;   tuberculosis--Pacfo) have been integrated into a Supplementary Food Program under
ii) overlap and/or gaps in   PRONAA.
coverage; iii) inadequate
targeting; also, lack of    The share of total expenditures on Vaso de Leche, Comedores Populares, Alimentación
impact evaluation of        Infantil and Desayunos Escolares for districts in the first (poorest) income quintile during the
programs limits scope for   period July 2001-April 2002 was 35.5 percent, exceeding the agreed target of 30 percent, and
effective reform.           the combined share of expenditures going to districts in the first and second income quintiles
                            was 59.6 percent, exceeding the targeted 55 percent. During 2002, Alimentación Infantil spent
                            37 percent in districts of the first quintile and 68 percent in the first and second quintiles;
                            Desayunos Escolares spent 22.5 percent in first-quintile districts and 48 percent in first and
                            second-quintile districts. For 2003, Alimentación Infantil expenditures are programmed to
                            reach ratios of 53 and 87 percent, respectively, and Desayunos Escolares is programmed to
                            achieve 32 and 64 percent, respectively. Comparable information is not available for Pacfo.

                            The total expenditures of Programa de Comedores Populares, which are intended to be
                            reduced, amounted to S/ 91 million in 20024, exceeding the agreed budget of S/ 66 million,
                            but still significantly below actual expenditures of S/ 133 million in 2000 and virtually equal to
                            the S/ 90 million spent in 2001. The budget for 2003 is S/ 79 million, so that the agreed
                            reduction of expenditures on this program is not being achieved.

                            A pilot program of cash transfers in lieu of food is planned to be carried out in 5 districts and
                            evaluated for possible replication. Design of the program has only recently been agreed and a
                            team assembled for managing it. A first stage of the pilot is expected to be implemented by



                                                        - 26 -

                            mid-2003.
Pensions

High-cost,                  Law No. 27617, published on Jan. 1st 2002, modified the pension regimes to:
publicly-subsidized pension
programs that benefit a     ·       Restructure the Sistema Nacional de Pensiones (SNP) for affiliates under 55 years and
priviledged minority of the         to incorporate the resources of the Consolidated Insurance Reserve Fund (FCR);
population; majority        ·       Lower the survivor pension entitlement for unmarried daughters and widows of
population remains without          pensioners, while introducing both a cap and a floor;
basic social insurance      ·       Lengthening the salary period for the calculation of pension for affiliates under age 55
coverage; distortions limit         of the Cédula Viva pension system for government workers, while also absorbing the
expansion of coverage under         National Savings Fund (FONAHPU) into the pension fund and raising the minimum
the private AFP system.             pension;
                            ·       Improve incentives for workers to switch to the private pension system, including the
                                    issuance of a new "recognition bond," the introduction of a minimum pension, and an
                                    early retirement provision for long-term unemployed.

                            Legislation to mandate the publication of cash-flow and actuarial projections for the SNP, of
                            the projected impacts of any proposed changes to any of the systems, and of the actuarial
                            reserves of public institutions is under preparation.
 B. Poverty Reduction: Rationalization of Rural Infrastructure Expenditures

 Duplication and lack of     It has been agreed to unify several rural infrastructure programs--FONCODES itself, the
 coordination of rural       infrastructure components of PRONAMACHCS, and the projects of INADE costing not more
 infrastructure programs,    than S/ 300,000--under the administration of FONCODES. A Supreme Decree was issued in
 resulting in: (i) high      January 2003, naming a Commission to work out the details of the consolidation within 120
 administrative costs; (ii)  days. Once the integration is completed, all the programs will follow the methodology of
 overlap and/or gaps in      FONCODES.
 coverage; (iii) inadequate
 targeting of some           Some 24 percent of the expenditures of COOPOP, FONCODES, PRONAMACHS, Rural
 programs.                   Electrification, and Rural Roads in 2002 were directed to districts in the first (poorest) rural
                             income quintile, compared to a targeted 25 percent; 49 percent was assigned to the first and
                             second quintiles as compared to the targeted 50 percent.

                             Of S/ 17 million spent on 1,360 projects by FONCODES itself in 2002, 57 percent was
                             directed to districts in the first income quintile and 90 percent to districts in the first and
                             second quintiles combined.
 II. EQUITY PILLAR: ACCESS TO HEALTH, NUTRITION, AND EDUCATION SERVICES
A.1. Health: Access of the Poor to Health Services
 Mother/Child Health
 Insurance
                             Coverage of SIS-MI has increased from 154,000 mothers and 395,000 children below 5 years
 Despite expanded            of age in 2001 to 545,000 mothers and over 2 million children in 2002, exceeding the targets
 provision of health         set by PSRL II.
 services, a significant
 proportion of the poor      An agreed benefit plan was approved and enacted. by Supreme Decree No 003-2002-SA of
 population remains          May 25, 2002 (Annex 1, Plans A and C), and a system has been established under which
 without access to health    reimbursements can be made directly to health service providers.
 services.
                             The integration of the operational systems of the student and maternal-infant insurance
                             programs was effectively carried out, and Law No. 27657, published on Jan. 28, 2002, gave
                             SIS the character of an autonomous decentralized agency.




                                                         - 27 -

                              The overall budget for SIS in 2002 was S/.231 million, slightly below the agreed S./ 240
                              million, but the agreed S/.116 million was designated for SIS-MI. Actual budget
                              expenditures for SIS in 2002 totaled S./ 180 million, of which S./ 97 million were for SIS-MI5

                              The agreement with MEF to fully budget any coverage changes under SIS-MI was carried out
                              in 2002, but sufficient funds to cover the benefit expansion foreseen in 2003 have not been
                              provided in the initial budget allocations. Moreover, the SIS budget for 2003 is below the
                              amount budgeted for 2002.
Health Service Management

Lack of sufficient            The number of health service establishments that are co-managed via the Comités Locales de
mechanisms for community Administración de Salud (CLAS) has increased from 20 percent to 35 percent of the total
co-management of health       number of primary health care facilities, exceeding the 25 percent target agreed under PSRL
services.                     II. MINSA has reaffirmed its intention to continue this expansion, for which the 2003 budget
                              has been increased to S/ 83 million, compared to actual expenditures of S/ 61.5 million in
                              2002.

                             Ministerial Resolution No. 895-2002-SA/DM of May 23, 2002, directed at strengthening the
                             co-management system for all levels of care, is being implemented.

                              Performance Management Agreements signed in 2002 between MINSA and 34 Regional
                              Health Departments (DISAS), and MINSA Resolution No. 225-2002 was issued to institute a
                              monitoring plan for these Agreements, which include 18 performance indicators. The
                              Agreements are reportedly being actively monitored and the results documented.
 A.2. Health: Improve Efficiency of Health Programs

 Duplication of health        An action plan for reforms was approved in April 25, 2002, including measures to restructure
 programs.                    ESSALUD and to make its operations more efficient and more transparent. Implementation
                              has thus far been partial.

                              A system for the purchase and sale of services between ESSALUD and MINSA was initiated
                              in 2 Departments, Tacna and Huánico, and the desired interchange has begun. The pilot is
                              now to be expanded to cover an additional 6 Departments. A joint investment plan has not
                              yet been elaborated in the 2 pilot Departments. Consultants have been invited to bid on a
                              preparatory study of the supply of and demand for additional health facilities. It is intended
                              to extend this study later to the national level. Investment proposals generally are being more
                              rigorously evaluated through the National Investment Program procedures administered by
                              MEF.
 B. Nutrition

 Inadequate strategies in     A sample survey was carried out to establish baselines for targeted indicators, including the
 nutrition programs,          proportion of primary level health facilities in rural areas that provide the complete package
 implying : (i) interventions of nutritional interventions for pregnant women; the proportion of women from districts in
 do not attend the priority   the first and second income quintiles that received the full iron supplementation during their
 populations (children        last pregnancy; and the proportion of children less than 2 years from districts in the first and
 below age 3 and poor         second income quintiles that received preventive iron.
 pregnant and lactating
 women), and (ii) excessive A Supreme Decree (No. 003-2002-SA of May 25, 2002 Annex 1, Plan C) was issued
 emphasis is placed on food instituting an SIS-MI benefit plan that includes counseling in health, nutrition, and hygiene
 distribution, compared to    and iron supplementation for pregnant women and children6 INS is now monitoring the
 other interventions such as  number of mothers receiving iron supplements through health centers and carrying out
 health education, nutrition, sample surveys of anemia and other nutritional variables at the community level. However, a
 hygiene, access to potable   basic nutrition package for pregnant women and the institution responsible for supervising it



                                                         - 28 -

 water, and other             have yet to be designated.
 complementary health
 interventions.
 C. Education and Culture

 Low incentives for           Financial incentives have been paid under a PSRL II-supported pilot program to 600 rural
 teachers to stay in the      teachers based on distance from urban areas, thus exceeding the target of 400. Teacher
 rural areas. Insufficient    training under the program has been provided to 1,000 teachers as compared to a target of
 education coverage of        600. The training provided, however, did not respond, as intended, to the needs of a
 children ages 0-5 in rural   multi-grade teaching environment. Evaluation of the program has also been judged
 areas.                       inadequate, and plans are now being made to redo the pilot in 2003.

                              The agreed global budgets for 2002 were met or exceeded for two of the three Executing
                              Units (UEs), but the realized actual budget for the third UE (MECEP Initial Education and
                              Secondary Education) reached less than half of its targeted amount. Bidding processes for
                              didactic materials were suspended, and infrastructure works have been delayed, while funds
                              were redistributed to cover the salaries of unbudgeted teachers. There was also reportedly a
                              problem of unavailability of counterpart funds.

                              An integral plan for initial education is currently being revised.
 Lack of quality (teaching    A new law and implementing regulations were enacted establishing merit criteria for the
 skills) criteria in teacher  hiring of new teachers . Some 27,000 teachers were hired under this new regime, as
                                                       7

 hiring procedures and        compared to a target of 22,000.
 oversupply of teachers in
 the system.                  The target for reducing enrollment in public and private teacher training institutions in 2002
                              has apparently been exceeded. Admission targets in 2002 were 38.6 % below 2001 levels, as
                              compared to a targeted reduction of 30 percent.

                              Little progress has thus far been made toward altering the teacher career structure,
                              introducing a merit-based teacher incentive and evaluation system, completing the inventory
                              of teacher profiles, or introducing sanctions for misconduct.
Low quality of bilingual     About 4,300 teachers have been trained in bilingual teaching skills, and an estimated 90,000
teaching is persistent,      students received new didactic materials. The training so far has not included all the agreed
particularly in rural areas. elements, specifically multi-grade teaching methods and Spanish as a second language.




Improvement of               A system for registering citizen complaints in the education sector has been implemented
transparency and public      (Supreme Resolution No. 273-2001-ED). The system is reportedly fully functional and on line
participation mechanisms in in Lima, and is also functioning via a toll-free telephone line at the national level, albeit
education sector.            inefficiently. It is reported that few people are thus far making use of it.

                             A Ministry of Education Directive in March 2002 made the establishment of school councils
                             with parental participation obligatory nationwide (Ministerial Resolution 168-2002-ED), but a
                             later Supreme Decree has made the establishment of such councils optional. As of end-March
                             2003, 2,356 councils were functioning in accordance with the Ministerial Directive, but little
                             was known regarding the quality of their operation .
 III. INSTITUTIONAL PILLAR: BETTER GOVERNANCE
A. Transparency and Access to Information

 Lack of transparency of     A strategy was presented for increased transparency in 6 selected programs (Educación Inicial,
 expenditures on social      Educacion Secundaria, Salud Individual, Salud Colectiva, Promoción y Asistencia Social
 programs. Problems with Comunitaria) as well as 5 specific activities and/ or programs (A Trabajar, Desayunos



                                                          - 29 -

 budget expenditure           Escolares, Comedores Populares, Vaso de Leche, and SIS-MI) has been presented. The
 tracking system (SIAF),      strategy includes measures to: (i) improve access to and the presentation of SIAF information
 including: i) lack of        by linking it to sectoral program and activity information via an internet-based Friendly
 knowledge and capacity       Window (Ventana Amigable), and (ii) increase the capacity of authorities and local
 for using the system; ii)    communities for using the information as a planning and tracking tool.
 system is not
 user-friendly; (iii) lack of More than 6,000 technicians around the country have been trained to use the system, including
 basic infrastructure         the procurement module, and to train others in turn. The newly designed Friendly Window is
 (internet access) at         operative, and satellite dishes and solar panels will be utilized to extend transmission.
 provincial and district
 level; iv) low capacity and Information on the amounts and timing of budgetary transfers to districts and municipalities
 speed of the national        from customs duties, Vaso de Leche funds, Foncomun, and the mining royalty are provided on
 computing system.           the Economic Transparency Website (Portal de Transparencia Económica) of MEF.

                             A supreme decree has been drafted mandating the standardization of processes and
                             technologies to facilitate ministerial production and use of data from the Geographical
                             Information System. The draft is currently under revision by the new administration of INEI.
Lack of dissemination of      FONCODES issued a resolution to initiate a campaign for the dissemination of information
information on programs,      regarding rural A Trabajar to 530 districts.
budgets, eligible
beneficiaries and expected    A new organizational law for INEI was drafted to ensure its functional autonomy, but the
results.                      Legal Office under the new INEI management team has requested its revision.




Persistence of a "culture of   A budget of S/ 3 million was made available for implementation of ENAHO (Household
secrecy". Inconsistent         Survey) IV at the departmental level, including the incorporation of a module on public
application of program         perceptions regarding transparency, practices and attitudes with respect to major social
norms, over-charging for       programs.
public services, lack of
public awareness of            A campaign by the Defensoría del Pueblo (Ombudsman Office) to promote citizen use of the
citizens' rights, and          channels being created to increase access to information and to process citizen complaints
responsibilities of public     was initiated, but its effectiveness has been restricted by the Defensoria's institutional
servants.                      limitations. Consideration is being given to relying instead on new transparency mechanisms
                               being created in the line agencies.

 B. Participation and Partnerships in Public Policy
 Social Control
 (Vigilancia Social)
                               The attempt to implement SIVISO (social accountability system) in 10 districts of three
 Lack of formal and            regional departments has not succeeded. Alternative mechanisms are to be explored.
 sustainable mechanisms
 for public oversight (only
 ad hoc and pilot efforts
 have been implemented
 to date).




 Citizen input to Social
 Policy
                               Regional Mesas de Concertación participated in the formulation of 22 department
 Lack of clarity regarding     development plans and consensus was reached with respect to 9 of them, exceeding the target



                                                           - 30 -

the role, composition and      of 6.
procedures of the "Mesas
de Concertación".              A directive mandating the use of participatory processes in budget preparation for 2003 was
                               sent to all regional departments, and preparatory workshops are being conducted with the
Public discussions in the      departments.
Mesas do not have
impact on public policies      The recent regional elections have now created some uncertainty regarding the future role and
and procedures.                source of authority for the Mesas de Concertación.
C. Transparency in Procurement and Financial Administration

Improving transparency         A policy guide has been issued for the implementation of an electronic government
and efficiency in              procurement system to raise transparency and efficiency in public contracting. A Commission
procurement procedures,        was nominated in October 2002 to develop the system. The website under the administration
and strengthening the          of CONSUCODE for listing contracts on offer has been developed. The system for effecting
government's capacity for      small purchases is reported to be ready to open bidding procedures on a pilot basis.
fighting corruption.
                               The CGR and CONSUCODE signed an interagency agreement for the implementation of
                               control and supervision of procurement and contracting procedures in December 2001. The
                               publication of control and supervision norms obligatory for all public agencies is pending.

Improving financial            The National Control Law No. 27785 was approved on July 22, 2002. The Law ensures
administration.                CGR's functional autonomy.

                               The CGR is exercising its ex-post control according to its legal mandate over the finances of
                               the Ministry of Defense and other security services, and a special audit has been carried out.

                               The SIAF-Gl has been installed in 21 provincial municipalities. With support from IDB and
                               the CAF, the objective now is to implement the system in 194 provincial and 1,826
                               district-level municipalities.

                               MEF is producing and disseminating a semiannual report on progress under the Multi-annual
                               Macroeconomic Framework and a quarterly report on budget execution. Both reports are
                               posted on MEF's Economic Transparency website.


1. The ordering of issues follows that of the Policy Matrix for PSRL II, presented as Annex 2 of the President's Report.
2. All references to approved budget refer to the Presupuesto Inicial de Apertura, while all references to executed budget
    refers to the Presupuesto Devengado. Average inflation in 2001 was 1.5 percent.
3. Includes expenditures financed by ordinary budget revenues and external resources, in accordance with the agreed targets.
    If other sources of finance are also included--i.e., revenues from fees, etc. collected by the projects
    themselves--expenditures for the 6 PSPs totaled S/ 2,576 million, well above the total target. This inclusion, however,
    affects principally the programs for salud and asistencia social and does not offset the substantial shortfalls in the 3
    education programs.
4. Only includes food and subsidies. Business promotion, infrastructure and equipment support are excluded.
5. In the event of 3 percent revenue decline, the executed budget could be reduced by up to 10 percent under the formula
    agreed.
6. Access to rural water and sanitation services is being financed under other Bank and other donor operations.
7. Ley de Nombramiento de Maestros (Law No. 27491 and Supreme Decree No. 065-2001-ED; 071-2001-ED;
    002-2002-ED).




                                                            - 31 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Not applicable.




                                      - 32 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable.




                                      - 33 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               HQ/RM                    13     SM, TM, SS, E, CSS, FS, PA, C        S               S
               September/2001
               HQ February/2002          3     SS                                   S               S

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               HQ/RM                    12     TM, SS, E, CSS, FS, PS, C            S               S
               April/2002


 Supervision
               2002


 ICR
               HQ/RM                     2     C                                    S               S
               March/2003



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                  47                    269,364.48
  Appraisal/Negotiation                   14.84                       85,160.90
  Supervision
  ICR                                      9.71                       55,577.04
  Total                                   71.55                     410,102.42




                                               - 34 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 36 -

 Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

 1. Ministerio de Economía y Finanzas: "Transparencia Económica", Manual del Usuario
 2. Ministerio de Educación: "Plan Estratégico Sectorial Multianual 2002-2006" Junio 2001.
 3. Ministerio de Salud "Plan Estratégico Multianual de Salud 2002-2006" Lima.
 4. Ministerio de Salud, Seguro Integral de Salud. Estad´siticas a Diciembre del 2002, January 15,
    2003.
 5. Presidencia de la República: "Bases para la Estrategia de Superación de la Pobreza y
    Oportunidades Económicas para los Pobres ", Anexo Decreto Supremo No 002-2003-PCM,
    January 4, 2003
 6. World Bank, Peru: "Proposed Programmatic Social Reform Loan", President's Report,
    Report No P 7447-PE, April 2, 2001.
 7. World Bank, Peru: "Proposed Programmatic Social Reform Loan II", Presidents Report,
    Report No. P7514-PE, August 19, 2002.
 8. World Bank, "Poverty and Social Developments in Peru, 1994-1997", A World Bank Country
    Study.
 9. World Bank "Peruvian Education at a Crossroads", A world Bank Country Study.
10. World Bank "Peru Improving Health Care for the Poor" Report No 18549-PE, May 28, 1999.
11. World Bank "Implementation Completion Report" for PSRL I, Report No 23755, March 26,
    2002.
12. World Bank "Peru Country Assistance Evaluation", Report No 24898-PE, September 25,
    2002.
13. World Bank "Peru Restoring Fiscal Discipline for Poverty Reduction: A Public Expenditure
    Review" Report No 24286-PE October 24, 2002.




                                              - 37 -

- 38 -

