Page  1
RCA 248423. 
\09
WUI 64145 
\09
FAX (202) 477-6391
 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
I
NTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
July 23, 2003 
 
His Excellency 
Javier Silva Ruete 
Minister of Economy and Finance 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Lima, Peru 
 
Re:  Japan Social Development Fund Grant to Peru: Giving Voice to the 
Poor in Influencing, Planning, and Evaluating Service Delivery 
Grant Number No.TF051333
Excellency: 
 
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
(the Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan 
under the Japan Social Development Fund, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding seven 
hundred and fifty-eight thousand and five hundred United States Dollars (US$758,500) (the Grant) 
to the Republic of Peru (the Recipient). 
 
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance to the 
project described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement (the Project) and on the 
terms and conditions set forth in the said Annex.  The Recipient represents, by confirming its 
agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said Project and 
on the said terms and conditions. 
 
Please note that it is the Bank’s policy to make publicly available this Letter Agreement 
and any information related thereto, after this Letter Agreement has become effective and the 
Recipient has given its consent to such disclosure. The Recipient, by countersigning this Letter 
Agreement, confirms its consent to such disclosure. 
 
Page  2
His Excellency 
- 2 - 
           TF051333 
Javier Silva Ruete
 
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, 
dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by the Bank 
of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become 
effective as of the date of the countersignature. 
 
Very truly yours, 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
 
By____________________ 
Andrea L. J. Silverman 
Acting Director 
Bolivia, Ecuador, Peru, and Venezuela 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region 
 
AGREED: 
REPUBLIC OF PERU 
 
By: _______________________ 
 
Authorized Representative 
Name: 
Jaime Quijandría Salmon
Title: 
Minister of the Economy and Finance
Date:  
December 23, 2003
Page  3
His Excellency 
- 3 - 
           TF051333 
Javier Silva Ruete
 
ANNEX
Objectives, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant 
 
1. Description 
of 
the 
Project
1.1. 
The objective of the Project is t
o
build the capacity of the Recipient’s poorest   
communities by ensuring that the design of the protected social programs is based on their needs 
and that such programs are delivered in an effective, transparent, and accountable manner. The 
Project complements the objectives of the Programmatic Social Reform Loan II PE-P073817. 
1.2. 
The Project consists of the following Parts, each of which includes the following 
activities (Activities): 
Part A:
Engaging Poor People’s Voice in Local Planning Processes
(a) Carrying out of roundtables among poor citizens to define their engagement role and 
their influence in the delivery of social services in twelve (12) pilot provinces in Peru; (b) 
provision of training through Non-Government Organizations (NGOs) in connection with 
roundtables preparation; and (c) carrying out of an evaluation on the impact of the participatory 
planning approach on: (i) welfare and poverty outcomes; (ii) perceptions of access, quality and 
utility of services provided; and (iii) self-esteem and dignity of the communities engaged (these 
Activities are estimated to cost US$161,450). 
Part B:
Providing Information to Citizens and Local Communities on Public Expenditures
(a)  Assessment of the quality and relevance of the latest information provided through 
the Recipient’s integrated financial management system; (b) design and implementation of 
information campaigns on: (i) access to information and (ii) neutral use of public funds; and (c) 
evaluation of the impact of web-based and community-based information campaigns (these 
Activities are estimated to cost US$104,450). 
 
Part C:
Empowering Communities to Monitor Public Services and Expenditures
(
a) Provision of technical assistance and training to civil society organizations to: (i) 
initiate  independent budget analysis of the composition of the Recipient’s national budget by 
priority areas and target groups; and (ii) evaluate  public services from the poor people’s 
perspective through the use of score cards in poor communities; (b) evaluate how the above-
mentioned two initiatives: (i) provide communities with additional tools for influencing local 
decision-making processes; (ii) provide incentives to the Recipient’s agencies to be more 
responsive to citizen’s needs; and (iii) provide decision-makers, including the Recipient’s 
Congress with better information and incentives to perfect the design of social service delivery 
(these Activities are estimated to cost US$492,600). 
 
Page  4
His Excellency 
- 4 - 
           TF051333 
Javier Silva Ruete
 
2. Implementation 
Generally
2.1. 
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out the Project  in coordination  with  the Ministry of 
Economy and Finance, 
Unidad de Coordinación de Programas Sectoriales del Ministerio de 
Economía y Finanzas
 (UCPS-MEF) with due diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly provide the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for that purpose; (c) furnish all information 
covering the Project and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as the Bank shall reasonably request; 
(d) from time to time exchange views with the Bank's representatives on the progress and results of 
the Project; and (e) take all necessary measures required to enable the Bank to visit the territory of 
the Recipient for purposes related to the Grant.  Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient 
shall, if the Bank shall so request, prepare and furnish to the Bank promptly upon completion of the 
Project a report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the results and impact of the 
Project. 
 
3. Procurement
3.1. 
 Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of
 the consultants’ services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by 
the provisions of  Attachment I to this Annex. 
4. 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1. 
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the Bank on its books in 
the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
 
services
 
required for the
 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
 
4.2. 
The expenditures for the following Categories of items may be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Project: 
 
Category
Amount of the Grant 
Allocated (in US Dollars)
%
of  
Expenditures to 
Be Financed
(1) Consultants’        
Services 
and Audits 
 
603,500 100% 
 
 
(2) Training  
 
155,000
100% 
 
TOTAL
758,500
For the purposes of this paragraph, the term “Training” means the non-consultant 
expenditures incurred by the Recipient in connection with the carrying out of the training activities 
under the Grant, including travel costs, per diem of trainers and trainees, rental of training facilities 
and equipment, and training materials. 
 
Page  5
His Excellency 
- 5 - 
           TF051333 
Javier Silva Ruete
 
4.3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: 
 
(a) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by the Bank
,
except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding US$75,000, may be made on account of 
payments made for expenditures before a date not exceeding 12 months of the signing date of this 
Letter Agreement; (ii) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the 
Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of 
the Bank or for services supplied from such territories; or (iv) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons 
or entities, if such payment to the Bank’s knowledge is prohibited by a decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations. 
 
(b) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after
 
June 30, 2006
 
or such 
later date that the Bank shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date). And  
 
(c) 
If, in the Bank’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the items in the 
table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the expenditures for such item, the Bank 
may, by written notice to the Recipient, reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then allocated 
to another item which, in the Bank’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures. 
 
4.4. 
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall 
deliver to the Bank a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by the 
Bank.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by the Minister of 
Economy and Finance or such other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) 
accompanied by such evidence in support of the application as the Bank shall reasonably request.  
Authenticated specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be 
provided with the first application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application for an 
amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy 
the Bank that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that 
such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Project.  The Bank shall pay the amounts 
withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on the order of the Recipient. 
 
4.5. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures for (a) services of consulting firms under contracts 
costing less than US$100,000; (b) services of individual consultants under contracts costing less than 
US$50,000 equivalent each, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Recipient; and (c) all training activities.  
 
4.6. 
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  The 
Bank, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with the 
currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to pay 
for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for 
the purposes of this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, 
such value shall be as reasonably determined by the Bank. 
 
4.7. 
Upon receipt of notification from the Bank allowing the establishment of a Special 
Account, the Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project and in order to facilitate the carrying 
out of the Activities, open and maintain in U.S. dollars a special deposit account in a commercial 
bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against 
Page  6
His Excellency 
- 6 - 
           TF051333 
Javier Silva Ruete
 
set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Attachment II of this Annex. 
 
5. Accounts 
and 
Audits
5.1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect  the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Activities. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall: (i) commencing with the fiscal year in which the grant becomes 
effective to and including the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account is 
made, have the  financial statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above  for each such fiscal year 
or other period agreed to by the Bank, audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards, acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the 
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each such year or 
such other period agreed to by the Bank, (A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
subparagraph (a) above for such year or such other  period agreed to by the Bank, as so audited, and 
(B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, in scope and  detail satisfactory to  the Bank; and 
(iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records and accounts and the audit 
of such financial statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:  (i) retain, until at least one 
year after the Bank has received the audit report for or covering the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to 
examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such  statements of expenditure are included in the audit 
for each fiscal year, or other period agreed to by the Bank, referred to in subparagraph (b) above.
 
6. Suspension 
and 
Cancellation
6.1. 
The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to 
make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or (b) 
the right of the Recipient or any other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of 
the Recipient, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development 
credit agreement with the International Development Association shall have been suspended. 
 
6.2. 
The Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to 
make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient to 
make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the Bank, 
within six (6) months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Project.  
 
Page  7
His Excellency 
- 7 - 
           TF051333 
Javier Silva Ruete
 
Attachment I  
 
Procurement and Co
nsultants’ Services 
Section I
.
Consultants’ services
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the Sections 
I
and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997, January 1999 
and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines) paragraph 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
following provisions of this Section and Section II. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of 
consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list of 
consultants for services under paragraph 1.2 of the Annex, estimated to cost less than 
US$350,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for the Activities under paragraph 1.2 of the Annex estimated to cost less than 
US$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services for the Activities under paragraph 1.2 of the Annex in tasks that meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost estimates, 
contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be furnished to the 
Bank, for its review and approval, prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for 
proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every six (6) months during the execution of the Project,  
Page  8
His Excellency 
- 8 - 
           TF051333 
Javier Silva Ruete
 
and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval.  Selection of 
all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan (as updated 
from time to time) as shall have been approved by the Bank. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost $100,000 equivalent or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3, and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the 
qualifications and experience of candidates, and the terms of reference and terms of employment 
of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract 
shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 
3
of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II.
Special Provisions
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other provision set forth in this 
Attachment or the Consultant Guidelines, the following provisions shall govern all employment 
of consultants referred to in Section I of this Schedule: 
 
1. 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be locally registered as a condition of 
participation in the selection process. 
 
2. 
No reference value shall be required for publication in the proposal documents. 
 
3. 
No minimum number of responsive proposals shall be required prior to awarding a 
contract for consulting services. 
 
4. 
Foreign consultants shall not be required to legalize their proposals or any documentation 
related to such proposals with either Peruvian consulates, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or any 
Peruvian authorities, as a pre-condition to participating in the selection process. 
Page  9
His Excellency 
- 9 - 
           TF051333 
Javier Silva Ruete
 
Attachment II 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Attachment: 
 
(a) 
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories (1) through (2) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$100,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii)  
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Attachment for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account 
for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from 
the Grant Account under the eligible item(s), and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, at 
such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
Page  10
His Excellency 
- 10 - 
           TF051333 
Javier Silva Ruete
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should 
be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records 
and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend 
in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant 
to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice 
the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant 
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) 
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
