Page  1
August 24, 2001
Mr. Pedro Pablo Kuczynski
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Lima, Peru
Re:
Japanese Grant for the preparation of the Second Programmatic
Social Reform Loan - Grant No. TF026847
Dear Minister:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant 
funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding six-hundred 
fifty-three thousand U.S. Dollars (US$653,000) (the Grant) to the Republic of Peru 
(the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement 
below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes 
and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon 
receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this 
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
   AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Isabel Guerrero
Country Director
Bolivia, Ecuador and Peru
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF PERU
By /s/ Diego García Sayán
By /s/ Luis Vicente Chang Reyes
Minister of Foreign Affairs
Minister of Transportation
Authorized Representative
Communications, Housing and Construction
Date:
October 15, 2001
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist the Recipient in the preparation of the 
Second Programmatic Social Reform Loan (the Project), which has as its main objective 
to continue supporting the Recipient’s medium term social reform program. The 
activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
(a)
Social Risk Analysis:
Carrying out of a qualitative and quantitative analysis of the Recipient’s 
social risks to: (i) determine the size, location and characteristics of poor and 
vulnerable groups; (iii) analyze the risks to which these groups are most frequently 
exposed and the assets they have to face such risks; (iii) assess the effectiveness of 
different survival strategies; and (iv) identify ways to support or complement 
existing risk-reduction and risk-coping programs (these Activities are estimated to 
Page  2
cost US$176,000 equivalent);
(b)
Social Protection Institutional Assessment:
Carrying out of an inventory and analysis of the Recipient’s existing 
institutions, interventions and approaches for providing social protection services, 
including: (i) the roles of the Recipient’s institutions and programs, both public and 
private, in the context of sectoral and decentralization strategies; (ii) the 
Recipient’s public spending on such interventions; (iii) targeting methods and actual 
beneficiaries; (iv) consistency of approaches and delivery methods; (v) institutional 
arrangements; and (vi) formal incentives for effective and transparent implementation 
(these Activities are estimated to cost US$132,000 equivalent); 
(c)
Targeting Tools and Coordination Mechanisms:
Identification and development of tools and information systems for improved 
targeting, monitoring, evaluation and coordination between the Recipient’s social 
protection agencies and programs, including: (i) methodological improvements of the 
unified poverty map; (ii) an updated and accessible social geographic information 
system; and (iii) a monitoring and evaluation system applicable by individual agencies 
or programs (these Activities are estimated to cost US$130,000 equivalent);
(d)
Social Expenditure Transparency and Empowerment of Beneficiaries:
Development of a strategy to allow beneficiaries and civil society organizations 
to monitor the use of the Recipient’s public funding for services to the poor and 
vulnerable groups, including: (i) consultations with beneficiaries and civil society; 
(ii) assistance to the Recipient’s agencies to draw communication strategies that 
respond to the concerns and preferences of beneficiaries and civil society; (iii) 
specialized services to design user-friendly web-sites for monitoring social 
expenditures; (iv) adoption of social control mechanisms; and (v) assistance to 
improve the fiduciary framework of social programs (these Activities are estimated to 
cost US$95,000 equivalent); and
(e)
Social Expenditure Rationalization:
Provision of technical assistance to ensure rationalization of the Recipient’s 
public social expenditures, including: (i) institutional restructuring assessments to 
implement the rationalization of the food supplementation and nutrition programs; (ii) 
budget transfers from the traditional mother and child programs into an innovative 
social insurance program; (iii) analysis of the Recipient’s social security institute; 
(iv) assessment of the pilot teacher tracking system; and (v) development of 
nation-wide education planning system (these Activities are estimated to cost 
US$120,000 equivalent).
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient, through the Ministry of Finance, shall: (a) carry out the 
Activities with due diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for that purpose; (c) furnish all 
information covering the Activities and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as the 
Bank shall reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange views with the Bank's 
representatives on the progress and results of the Activities; and (e) take all 
necessary measures required to enable the Bank to visit the territory of the Recipient 
for purposes related to the Grant.  Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient 
shall, if the Bank shall so request, prepare and furnish to the Bank promptly upon 
completion of the Activities a report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
on the results and impact of the Activities.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ 
services and goods required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Attachment I 
to this Annex.
3.2.
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and that any 
indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely usable currency to replace or 
repair such goods.  The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant to the 
Activities are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate 
Page  3
practices and that any repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as 
needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the Bank on 
its books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn 
therefrom by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for 
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
For purposes of this paragraph, the term "foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Recipient for goods 
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Recipient, and the term "local expenditures" means any expenditures that are not 
foreign expenditures.
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above:
(a)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments 
made for expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by the 
Bank, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding US$65,000 Amount 
to be confirmed and cleared by LOAEL., may be made on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after August 1, 2001; (ii) on account of payments 
for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of 
expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or 
for goods produced in or services supplied from such territories; or (iv) for the 
purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such 
payment or import, to the Bank’s knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations;
(b)
no withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after December 15, 
2001 or such later date that the Bank shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the 
Closing Date), provided that, except in special circumstances, the Closing Date shall 
not be extended beyond the expected date of Bank approval of financing for the 
Project.  However, withdrawals may be made after the Closing Date for expenditures 
incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding withdrawal application is 
received by the Bank within four (4) months after the Closing Date, after which time 
any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be 
canceled; and
(c)
if, in the Bank’s opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the 
items in the table in paragraph 4.2 above will be insufficient to finance the 
expenditures for such item, the Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, 
reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to another item which, 
in the Bank’s opinion, will not be necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to the Bank a written application for withdrawal of such amount in 
the form specified by the Bank.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on 
behalf of the Recipient by the Minister of Finance or such other person as he or she 
shall have authorized in writing; and (b) accompanied by such evidence in support of 
the application as the Bank shall reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen 
signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided 
with the first application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application 
for an amount of the Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and 
substance to satisfy the Bank that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount 
from the Grant Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the 
Activities.  The Bank shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant 
Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
4.5.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) services of 
consulting firms costing less than US$100,000 equivalent; (b) services of individual 
consultants costing less than US$40,000 equivalent; and (c) goods, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.  The Bank, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, 
Page  4
shall purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such 
currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this 
Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by the Bank.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and 
maintain in U.S. Dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Attachment II to this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Activities.
(b)
The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial 
statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one (1) year 
after the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the 
Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following 
events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any 
of its obligations herein specified; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other 
entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make 
withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit agreement 
with the International Development Association shall have been suspended.
6.2.
The Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been 
suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient 
shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the Bank, within six (6) months 
after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities; or (c) if the Bank has 
decided, at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its support to 
the Project; or (d) if the Recipient has withdrawn its request for the Bank’s 
assistance in financing the Project.
Attachment I 
Procurement
Page  5
Section I.
Consultants’ Services
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers", published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the 
following provisions of this Attachment.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services rendered by consulting firms for the Activities estimated to cost less 
than US$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services rendered by individual consultants for the Activities in tasks that 
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Activities shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of US$40,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms or 
individual consultants not governed by paragraphs (a) and (b) above, the terms of 
reference of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been 
given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II.
Procurement of Goods
Goods shall be procured: (a) in accordance with the provisions of Section I of 
Page  6
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) under contracts awarded on the basis of 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.  The review procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply to such contracts, provided that the word "bids", in such 
paragraph 4, shall be read as "quotations".
Attachment II
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term "eligible items" means the items set forth in the table in 
paragraph 4.2 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to US$200,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a 
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall 
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Attachment for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Grant Account under the eligible items, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special 
Page  7
Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
