 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14750

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                      Date Posted: 06/26/2015

               Country: Benin
             Project ID: P071579                                                  Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Community-based              Project Costs (US$M):                     11.6                 4.63
                         Coastal And Marine
                         Biodiversity
                         Management P
  L/C Number:                                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                       4.3                  4.3
      Sector Board:      Environment                 Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                            02/19/2008
                                                                Closing Date:             06/30/2013     05/15/2014
          Sector(s):       Sub-national government administration (48%); Central government administration (39%);
                           General agriculture; fishing and forestry sector (13%)
         Theme(s):         Biodiversity (50%); Environmental policies and institutions (50%)


Prepared by:               Reviewed by:          ICR Review                 Group:
                                                 Coordinator:
Santhadevi Meenakshy Ridley Nelson               Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                 Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
  The objective of the Project was: “to promote the participatory conservation and sustainable use of biological
diversity of coastal wetlands and marine resources through the establishment of community-based conservation areas
in high priority biodiversity sites” (Grant Agreement (GA) – Schedule#1 p.6).

The global environment objective was: To promote the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity of
coastal wetlands and marine resources, while supporting the livelihood and economic opportunities of the local
communities living near and around the conservation areas (Project Appraisal Document p.75).

The DO was not revised as part of the restructuring. The PDO articulated in the Grant Agreement is used for this
assessment

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

 c. Components:
  There were four original components. At a Level II restructuring only Components #1 and #2 were revised, with no
changes to Component #3 and # 4.

Component 1 – Coordination, Institution and Capacity Building for Integrated Coastal Zone Management (Appraisal
cost : US$ 6.5 million and Actual cost: US $ 0.72 million)
This component included two sub-components ‘a’ and ‘b’ as detailed below.
a) Reduction of the fragmentation of policy and institutions related to the management of coastal resources through:
(i) supporting the preparation and adoption of the Coastal Zone Master Plan; (ii) supporting the preparation and
adoption of the Coastal Zone Framework Law, and related implementation decrees; (iii) creation of a national
commission for coastal zone protection and management (NCCZPM) that will help to harmonize sector policies and
programs that affect coastal resources; and (iv) helping to create and/or strengthen communal councils (CCED) and
the inter-communal council for eco-development (CIED) to coordinate economic development and the management of
critical natural resources and to oversee the implementation of the CBCA management plans.
b) Strengthening of the technical capacity of line ministries, coastal municipalities, the ABE, and local communities
involved in coastal resource management and conservation, through workshops, seminars, awareness raising study
tours, participation in regional conferences, and learning by- doing, and short-term training sessions, which will focus
on developing skills in: (i) integrated land use planning; (ii) conflict resolution in resource multiple-use systems; (iii)
environmental impact assessment; and (iv) participatory monitoring and evaluation in sustainable natural resource
management.

Component 2 – Community-based coastal biodiversity conservation areas (Appraisal cost : US$ 2.8 million and Actual
cost: US $ 2.28 million)
The component objective was to establish four Community-Based Biodiversity Conservation Areas (CBCAs), through:
(i) elaboration of a baseline study on socio-economic and institutional conditions; (ii) consultation and sensitization of
local populations and governments; (iii) supporting the adoption of communal statues designating the targeted sites
as CBCAs; (iv) demarcation of the conservation sites; (v) preparation and adoption of site management and
conservation charters; (vi) formulation of effective site-specific conservation management plans, which will provide for
small grants to be available for sub-projects; (vii) creation of site management units for each of the CBCAs, through
technical assistance, surveys and baseline studies; and (viii) supporting creation and reinforcement of the capacities
of associations of CBCA users, representatives of local communities and local partners for the implementation of the
CBCA management plans.

Component 3 – Monitoring and Evaluation of Coastal and Marine Biodiversity (Appraisal cost : US$ 1.4 million and
Actual cost: US $ 0.8 million)
The component had two sub-components:
a) Development of a monitoring and information system for coastal and marine resources and ecosystems to guide
local and national policy and decision-making processes, and to foster public awareness of conservation needs and
social, economic and cultural benefits, through (i) design of an integrated database for biodiversity monitoring and
evaluation linked to the existing environmental information and monitoring system which is managed by ABE; and (ii)
purchase and establishment of hardware and software necessary for the operation of the integrated database and the
effective functioning of the biodiversity monitoring and evaluation system, and (iii) technical assistance.

b) Provision of support for inventorying and monitoring activities of coastal biodiversity resources, through (i) planning
of inventorying and monitoring activities, (ii) surveying, quantifying and mapping of resources, and (iii) collection of
economic, social and environmental baseline data within the coastal zone in order to establish the baseline for
monitoring the performance of the project during implementation.

Component 4 – Project Management (Appraisal cost : US$ 0.9 million and Actual cost: US $ 0.83 million)
The component objective was to provide support to the implementation of the project activities by procuring goods and
services required for the operations, assuring financial management and reporting, activity planning and coordination,
project performance monitoring and evaluation, mobilizing and providing assistance and advisory services to the
technical partners of the project.

Implications of the restructuring on 5/17/2011:
As a Level II restructuring the scope of only Component #1 and #2 were revised.
Component 1: Second and third sub-components were dropped to compensate for the implementation delays.
Component 2: Number of CBCAs was reduced from original four sites to three sites, namely: Hio, Bembe and
Togbin- Adounko, where consensus on the protection areas and status was obtained. Houéké site was dropped due
to lack of consensus on the protection area and status. The project also increased the funds for micro-projects to
extend project support to fringe communities.

Though the ICR Team has done a split rating, IEG judged that there is no material difference in the impact of the
restructuring on the overall DO or outcome. 



d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project Cost:
Total actual project cost was US$ 4.63 million, less than half the planned amount.

Financing:
The actual financing was US $ 4.27 million. There was no co- financing.

Borrower Contribution :
Borrower contribution decreased from US$ 7.3 million at appraisal as provided for in the covenants to US$ 0.38
million( ICR p.22).

Dates:
Project closed on 05/15/2014 instead of 06/30/2013 as planned at appraisal.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
Substantial
During conception, the objective was consistent with the National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan published in
2002, which emphasized the need to protect biodiversity hotspots in the coastal zone by mainstreaming biodiversity
conservation into sector policies. At appraisal, the Project was consistent with Benin’s 2007 Poverty Reduction
Strategy and the World Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy for FY04-07. During the project period, the coastal zone
was of great economic importance to Benin as it contained most of the country’s economic infrastructure and
contributed about 70 percent of its GDP. The DO was also coherent with the long-term goal of the country’s National
Environmental Management Program to help reduce poverty while protecting the natural resource base.

At closure, the Project’s objectives continue to be relevant to Benin’s national priorities. The current poverty reduction
strategy indicates that managing natural resources together with improving living conditions and fostering
environmental governance is one of the country’s priorities. In this context, the Government aims to promote
environmental best practices, integrated management of the living environment, and rational management of forests
and natural resources.

The Project objectives were also consistent with the World Bank’s country partnership strategy for FY13-17, which
promotes sustainable management of natural resources under one of the strategy’s main pillars; and the World Bank’s
environment strategy, for 2012-2022, which notes the importance of protecting biodiversity by particularly referencing
the protection of coastal and marine areas and integrated coastal and marine ecosystem management

 b. Relevance of Design:
Modest
The design was comprehensive in targeting coastal biodiversity conservation at the national and local levels. It was
appropriate to the creation of an enabling environment for integrated coastal zone management and coastal
biodiversity conservation through enactment of new regulations, effective coordination mechanisms, and capacity
building. The design also provided for coastal biodiversity conservation through the creation of CBCAs.

The four components were consistent with enabling the achievement of the development objective. However, the
results chain was unfocussed and cumbersome with too many indicators. It also failed to link financial management
within the framework.

The implementation agency, Benin Environment Agency (Agence Béninoise pour l’ Environnement – ABE) was
selected based on its experience in implementing the IDA-financed environmental management project, that closed in
2001.

Shortfalls of the design include the following: (a) insufficiently focusing on the regulatory instruments that were
intended to strengthen the policy and legal framework at the national level; (b) underestimating the time needed for
the numerous project activities, particularly for consultations and negotiations with stakeholders; (c) planning for the
CBCAs to be created within 18 months of project effectiveness without considering the lengthy process of
consultations and negotiations with the communities and authorities; (d) tying project investments with the creation of
the CBCAs; and (e) inadequately considering the lack of government commitment, particularly while establishing risk
mitigation measures
As part of the restructuring, the scope of the two components was reduced and the results chain was revised to
simplify project indicators. However, though restructuring simplified the implementation process, there was
insufficient pro-activity from the Bank’s side in addressing the Government’s low commitment by either closing the
Project or modifying the PDO early during project implementation.
 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
    The objective of the Project was to promote the participatory conservation and sustainable use of biological
diversity of coastal wetlands and marine resources through the establishment of community-based conservation areas
in high priority biodiversity sites (Grant Agreement (GA) – Schedule#1 p.6). The DO was not revised as part of the
restructuring. The PDO articulated in the Grant Agreement is used for this assessment. The section assesses the
Global Environment Objective (GEO) and PDO together in accordance with the IEG guidelines.

As part of restructuring, there was no change to the development objective. The modification of the project
components 3 and 4, did not result in a material change to the overall development outcome.

The assessment of two parts of the objective is as follows:

 “To promote the participatory conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity of coastal wetlands and marine
resource”
Modest

Outputs
1) Two inter-communal management councils participating in the conservation of marine and coastal resources,
including mangrove conservation ( Target: Participation of three councils: 66% of target achieved). Two
inter-communal management councils participated in the conservation of marine and coastal resources, including
mangrove conservation through six meetings held by each council- {First DO indicator})
2) Two Communal Councils (CC) and two Inter-Communal Council (ICC) needed to coordinate the management of
biodiversity hot spots were established by Year 2 (60% of target achieved. One communal and two inter-communal
councils were established in Year 2 (2010) – {Second IO indicator}).
3) .At least 90% of local, municipal and central level staff involved in the implementation of the project trained in
conservation, planning and management by PY5 (100% target achieved: 375 stakeholders were trained in
conservation, planning, and management by Year 5 (2013) { Third IO indicator}).
4) Technical working groups on coastal and marine biodiversity management established (One technical working
group was formally established in 2010 and has been meeting regularly. The group also conducted field visits.
{Second Revised IO indicator})
5) 106 awareness campaigns on biodiversity, including wetlands conservation organized for the people in the three
coastal communities (100% target achieved : 106 awareness campaigns including 261 individual awareness activities
                                                               (
were conducted among the population of the three CBCAs Fourth revised IOP indicator}).
6) The constitutions of two inter-communal management councils prepared and adopted (100% target achieved: The
constitution of the two inter-communal management councils were prepared and adopted in December 2010 { Fifth
Revised IO indicator}).
7) Existing national coastal and marine biodiversity management strategy revised and Implemented (50% of target
achieved. A decree including the revised national coastal and marine biodiversity management strategy was adopted
in October 2013. However, the strategy itself has not been implemented yet {Third Revised IO indicator}).

Outcome
Enactment and enforcement of the envisaged regulatory instruments including the coastal zone
framework law, the national Inter- Sectorial Commission (ISC), National Commission for Coastal Zone Protection and
Management (NCCZPM), and the coastal zone master plan, were not achieved.
Even though some of the national coastal and marine biodiversity management strategy’s activities were already
initiated during the strategy’s revision and adoption process (i.e., reforestation of degraded areas, establishment of
security guards), the strategy’s implementation was not officially started at project closure.

On the positive side, two inter-communal councils for development (CIEDs) were effective in coordinating the
management of natural resources as has been evident from their efforts in building partnerships and resource
mobilization. With financial support from the ‘Parc Naturel Régional de la Narbonnaise’ in France, the CIED Lagunes
Côtières was implementing a water access program, while the CIED Nokoué was implementing a project focusing on
integrated water resource management in collaboration with the national partnership for water (Partenariat National
de l’Eau). CIEDs were in the process of being recognized as public institutions to enable access to public funds.

“Establishment of community- based conservation areas in high priority biodiversity sites”.
Modest
Outputs
1) Three CBCAs were established in biodiversity priority sites: These were created and
demarcated under communal order, and subsequently adopted by ministerial decree on October
21, 2013 (Revised First PDO Indicator – 100 percent).
2) Number of sustainable livelihoods projects delivered. (100% target achieved. 149 income generating activities and
13 micro projects at the communal level were delivered by project closure{ Revised Sixth IO indicator})
Outcome
1) Ministerial decrees regarding establishment of CBCAs were still awaiting presidential signature to fully ensure their
legal recognition in the long-term. Each CBCA consists of a core area where little if any resource extraction was
allowed, and a buffer zone, in which controlled livelihood activities were allowed.
2) Management units and conservation charters for each of the CBCAs were established; and management plans
were prepared and validated by a technical group, they are yet to be adopted by the communities
3) To finance the transition costs for moving away from conservation-unfriendly practices in the CBCAs, the Project
supported the livelihood and economic opportunities of the local communities living near and around the conservation
areas by enabling them to conduct environment - friendly business activities. Infrastructure for market gardening, fish
farming, and transport was provided to enable community members to engage in income generating activities such as
the production and sale of market products, fish farming, salt trade, fish processing and marketing, and palm oil
production. 1,887 community members including 924 women have directly benefitted from these activities. A
socio-economic analysis of these activities noted that beneficiaries particularly benefitted from the provision of
equipment and capacity building as it increased their economic opportunities.
However, lengthy adoption processes stalled the overall achievement of the outcome of the sub-objectives and
negligible sustainable outcomes were generated.


 5. Efficiency:
  Negligible
Economic Efficiency
According to Annex 9 of the Project Appraisal Document, the project was not suitable for a standard economic
cost-benefit analysis because the nature of its activities (capacity building, strengthen legal, policy and institutional
framework) lead to non-quantifiable (in economic terms) benefits and results.

At closure, many of the project’s studies were produced with significant delays, an inefficient use of these resources.
This created a major gap in the availability of data during ICR preparation.

The ICR argues that the design and structure of this project was not amenable to a full stand-alone financial or
economic analysis, as the environmental, social and capacity building benefits were difficult to quantify. However, the
ICR also adds that activities under Component #2, had the potential to deliver tangible results but it did not analyze
them to determine returns. Instead it reported that the cost of income-generating activities and micro-projects under
Component #2 was 49 percent of total project costs. A social-economic impact analysis of the Project’s
income-generating activities in the buffer zones of the CBCAs was carried out by an independent local consultant in
March 2014. According to the analysis, “while allocated resources were used efficiently, the activities’ impact was
considered satisfactory, the activities were most appreciated for its capacity building and equipment provision. The
specialized capacity training allowed for technical improvements of production, conservation, breeding, and
processing, and provision of equipment allowed for production capacity increases” (paragraph 47:p.ICR).

Administrative Efficiency
The Project’s administrative efficiency was weakened by: (i) ambitious project design that underestimated the time
needed for negotiations and consultations; (ii) insufficient government support leading to non-achievement of
important project targets (i.e., adoption of the coastal zone framework law) and low counterpart funding; and (iii)
project management issues caused by a high turnover in project staff including the Project coordinator, that led to
communication and collaboration problems.

IEG concludes the efficiency of the project is negligible, given the lack of any evidence (quality based or quantifiable).

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                        No
     ICR estimate                     No
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   The relevance of objectives is rated substantial. At the concept stage, the objective was consistent with the CAS
for FY04-07 and national priorities. At closure, it continued to remain aligned with the CPS for FY13-17, which
promotes sustainable management of natural resources under one of the strategy’s main pillars; and the World Bank’s
environment strategy, for 2012-2022.

The design, although it was comprehensive in targeting coastal biodiversity conservation at the national and local
levels, is rated modest given its shortfalls, in particular: (a) insufficient focus on the regulatory instruments that were
intended to strengthen the policy and legal framework at the national level; (b) underestimating the time required for
the numerous project activities; (d) tying project investments with the creation of the CBCAs, and others, as recorded
in section 3b above.
Efficacy is rated modest. Significant implementation delays during the first three years coupled with a lack of
government commitment and lengthy adoption processes stalled the overall achievement of the outcome of the
sub-objectives, while negligible outputs and outcomes were generated.
Efficiency is rated negligible given the lack of evidence (quality based or quantifiable)
Therefore, outcome is rated unsatisfactory.
 a. Outcome Rating: Unsatisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   Low government commitment during implementation suggests a significant risk of weak long term support from the
government in sustaining the project outcomes. The following actions are critical to ensure the overall sustainability of
the outcome and are heavily dependent on government commitment as noted in the page 21 of the ICR.

1) Confirmation by the President on the juridical status of the three CBCAs to enable them to protect and maintain
biodiversity and natural habitat at the national level,
2) Continued capacity reinforcement to ensure: (a) stakeholder awareness; (b) institutions charged with managing the
CBCA have the required potential; and (c) income-generating activities are available as an alternative to the
destructive use of natural resources
3) Long-term financing for the CIEDs to guarantee their adequate functioning.
4) Finalizing the adoption process for CIEDs as public institutions that would provide access to public funds
5) Completing coastal and marine biodiversity database to effectively use the biodiversity monitoring and evaluation
system to monitor changes in the status and trends in environmental health and ecological stability of biodiversity of
the coastal zone
6) Access to public funds to finance the recurrent costs for managing the protected areas to ensure long-term impact
of the CBCAs

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    Project preparation was lengthy due to the following reasons. Starting in 2002, the Government of Benin and
the Bank adopted a programmatic approach focusing mainly on public finance and expenditure management.
Under the new approach nearly all Bank assistance had to be delivered through budget support. Given the lack of
traceability of the GEF incremental resources (whether mixed with the country’s own budgetary resources), and
the weakness of the country’s public financial system, the choice of the lending instrument was held up until 2004,
when more flexibility was introduced for Benin( p.7 ICR).

Secondly, the ongoing municipal elections disrupted renegotiating on how to best secure land for biodiversity
conservation in the municipalities. The first elected local government was installed in over two decades at the time
and there was no clarity in sharing ownership rights between the central and local governments. This in turn led to
a subsequent delay in preparing the social safeguard documents ( p.7 ICR)

With regard to background analysis, the project preparation was well researched. Feasibility studies were
conducted on: (a) suggested conservation sites; (b) threatened species; and (c) land tenure constraints. The
STAP Roster Review was supportive of the Project, and confirmed that there was sufficient ecological and
technical information available to give the Project a reasonably sound scientific base.

A financial management assessment was carried out jointly by a World Bank financial management specialist and
the ABE financial specialist and procurement capacity assessment was conducted by a Benin country office
procurement specialist. According to them, fiduciary aspects were well prepared, ABE as adequately equipped
and measures to strengthen procurement capacity were subsequently included as conditions of negotiations and
effectiveness (p 8 ICR).
The project was designed in a participatory manner, involving the local population and authorities. In this regard,
according to the ICR, a two-step consultation process was adopted in order to ensure effective participation. The
first phase consisted of organizing separate discussions evolved around the needs of each category of
stakeholders (resource users, community leaders, public administrators, etc.), whereas the second step consisted
in organizing a workshop where information on the Project objectives and planned activities was shared with the
stakeholders

The implementation agency, Benin Environment Agency (Agence Béninoise pour l’ Environnement – ABE) was
selected based on its experience in implementing the IDA-financed environmental management project, which
had closed in 2001.

Risk was underestimated. There was a lack of government commitment and a lengthy governmental authorization
process. High procurement risk was noted due to inexperience in procurement among most of the micro-project
grant recipients. The ICR records that measures to strengthen procurement capacity were subsequently included
as conditions of negotiations and effectiveness, This was confirmed with the ICR task team.
While the preparation team had the appropriate skill mix, the Project was ambitious. Numerous activities were
proposed and the scope of components did not fully consider situation on the ground. For instance Houéké site
under Component #2 was dropped due to lack of consensus on the protection area and status.

The Project results framework was not concise and the indicators were not fully aligned with the PDO. The results
framework design did not adequately track the linkages between the enactment and enforcement of the envisaged
regulatory instruments. With regard to the scope of components, again the design did not fully respond to the
realities on the ground. As noted, the Houéké site under Component #2 was dropped due to lack of consensus on
the protection area and status.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    , Implementation delays were noted from the early stages of implementation. Aide-memoires reflected the
implementation issues and the Bank team increased the frequency of supervision missions (i.e., three missions in
2009). The mid-term review was delayed due to long delays and periodic standstill in activities.

The ICR reports that the Bank Team worked closely with the borrower to address key bottlenecks, and it was
supplemented by the task team who identified the measures that were needed to address them.
A Level II restructuring was applied to the project in 2011. The World Bank team correctly proposed revising the
Project’s components and indicators to focus it on achievable activities (i.e., focusing only on three instead of four
conservation areas and dropping the adoption of the coastal zone framework law). This was a substantial lowering
of the bar. The Level II restructuring in 2011 also rightly included the reallocation of funds and an extension of the
closing date. In addition, the revised indicators were linked to outputs rather than outcomes to effectively monitor
the achievement of the DO.
The World Bank team supported preparation of a three- year action plan to focus on priority activities to sustain
implementation progress until project closure. However, even though the Project’s restructuring simplified project
implementation and allowed for improved implementation progress towards the more modest goals, there was
insufficient pro-activity from the Bank’s side in addressing the Government’s low commitment by either closing the
Project or modifying the PDO early during project implementation.




   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    Government was very slow in meeting the Project’s effectiveness conditions. The Project became effective
eight months after approval. The legal covenants were only partially complied with by the original dates set in the
grant agreement.

None of the regulatory instruments, which would have allowed the implementing agency to work more effectively
with the municipalities and local communities in the targeted areas, were adopted or enacted by the Government.
Originally, these instruments had been planned to be adopted during project negotiations as they had already
been presented to the country’s national assembly in 2007. These were finally adopted in December 2009, one
year later than project effectiveness (10/14/2008).

Counterpart funding continuously declined, affecting project implementation. Field missions that had originally
been agreed to be supported by counterpart funding as per the grant agreement were not conducted to the extent
that had been originally planned. This contributed to the necessity of restructuring the Project, and to reallocating
funds to the operating costs, funds that had been intended to be funded by the Government. The lengthy and
bureaucratic nature of the National Department of Public Procurement significantly slowed down approval and
administrative procedures necessary for the implementation agency to increase disbursements.


   Government Performance Rating                                Unsatisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:
   The Project was implemented by Benin Environment Agency (Agence Béninoise pour l’Environnement) (ABE),
which was under the Ministry of Environment and Protection of Nature (Ministère de l’Environnement et de la
Protection de la Nature - MEPN). There were a number of problems.

First, a turnover in key senior staff accompanied by vacant positions in the beginning of project implementation
contributed to the Project’s delayed effectiveness and affected the launch of project activities. Newly recruited staff
subsequently lacked technical expertise, which resulted in continued project implementation delays.

Second, a high turnover in the Project Coordinator’s position together with temporary acting appointments (while
the position was officially vacant) continuously affected internal collaboration. The Project Coordinator role was
performed by the agency’s director before it was informally/temporarily passed on to two subsequent technical
directors. Associated communication, collaboration, and interpersonal issues slowed project activities down, until
in 2011 the director of the agency at the time assumed the role of Project Coordinator and project activities picked
up. Two months before project closing the Project Coordinator was replaced again.

Third, communication issues between the procurement and technical staff at ABE contributed to procurement
delays. The procurement specialist was also temporarily responsible for project M&E, hampering the procurement
related tasks. However, in January 2013, a new procurement officer unfamiliar with World Bank procurement
guidelines was appointed without the World Bank’s endorsement. While training was offered by the World Bank, it
was not completed by the officer. Subsequently, delivery of works, equipment and services was sometimes
delayed. Even though ABE put in place an action plan to ensure full execution of the remaining activities prior to
project closure, a post-procurement review conducted before project closure showed that procurement activities
had not been conducted in line with World Bank procurement procedures. Non-compliance with World Bank
procurement procedures was noted in a couple of instances. Lastly, the performance in M&E implementation was
also weak.


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Unsatisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The Project’s M&E system was elaborate with many indicators and not fully consistent with the PDO. Project
component #3 and #4 included monitoring and evaluation aspects. The design proposed to upgrade ABE’s
environmental information and monitoring system by including a coastal and marine biodiversity related database, and
linking the database to the Project’s M&E system. New hardware and software were planned to be acquired and
installed. A participatory M&E plan was also proposed to be established to: (a) collect baseline data in the Project
areas; (b) carry out periodic studies to monitor and evaluate project performance; and (c) prepare, and implement an
M&E capacity strengthening plan adapted to the needs of participating actors.
 b. M&E Implementation:
   Until 2012, neither an M&E system nor an appropriate tracking mechanism linked to financial management was put
in place. This prevented ABE from effectively assessing implementation progress or monitoring activities against
disbursements as envisaged in the PAD.

With the eventual establishment of an M&E system and the simplification of the Project’s indicators during the Project
restructuring there was easier reporting and monitoring. The newly designated and subsequently trained M&E officer
closely followed project activities and reported against the Project’s indicators.

However, the Project’s revised indicators continued to be not fully linked to the PDO. The Project’s indicators
measured outputs rather than project outcomes and the sustainability of project activities. Also, the separate database
that was put in place to monitor and evaluate coastal and marine biodiversity indicators, linked to the Project’s M&E
system, was not fully operational even by the time of project closure. Field missions aimed at monitoring project
activities on the ground were not conducted to the extent originally envisaged due to the lack of counterpart funding


c. M&E Utilization:
  No information provided in the ICR

M&E Quality Rating: Negligible




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
Environment:
The Project was a category B project (partial assessment), and triggered safeguard policy OP 4.01 on Environmental
Assessment. Potential environmental effects associated with the planned operations were related to the creation of
the CBCAs under the second component of the Project. An Environmental and Social Management Framework was
developed.

The Project complied with OP 4.01 in: (i) creating CBCAs; (ii) familiarizing key local actors with the content and
recommendations of the safeguard document through a series of sensitization activities conducted in 2010;
(iii)promoting capacity building of community stakeholders in biodiversity management; (iv) establishing functional
eco-guards for monitoring the CBCAs; (v) holding trainings in how to use Management Effectiveness Tracking Tools
(METT); and (vi) training income-generating activity beneficiaries in adopting environment- and biodiversity-friendly
practices (e.g., composting, organic fertilizing).

An environmental screening for potential adverse environmental and social aspects was conducted by ABE in line
with the ESMF for income-generating activities and micro-projects for communities adjacent to the three
community-based marine protected areas created by the Project. The screening covered 16 micro-projects and 81
income-generating activities in the three CBCAs, and categorized them by required safeguard measures.

Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (ESIAs) required for 23 income-generating activities and three
micro-projects were subsequently conducted and validated recommendations provided in the ESMF.

Social:
The project triggered OP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement, though it did not include land acquisitions and/or
involuntary resettlement. According to the ICR, the policy was triggered to monitor the impact of access restrictions
(i.e., potential economic losses) on people deriving their livelihoods from the natural resources that were subject to
conservation under the Project. Measures that were adequately implemented include the following: (i) Resettlement
Process Framework (RPF) (ii) awareness raising and sensitization activities; (iii) promotion of stakeholder
participation; and (iii) sponsoring of income-generating activities and micro-projects.

Environmental and Social Impact Assessments (ESIAs) indicated that certain micro-projects were implemented
without an official land certificate in place, hence potentially creating social and sustainability issues. Assurance was
given by the authorities to resolve these land tenure issues as a post-completion activity


b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial Management:
According to the ICR (page 12), the first two years of implementation demonstrated: (i) delayed and poor quality
interim financial reports; (ii) limited movements in the designated account; (iii) cumbersome financial management
compliance; (iv) non-compliance with a dated covenant related to the recruitment of an internal auditor for ABE, which
was only corrected in 2012; (v) low mobilization of counterpart funds which continued until project closure.
Subsequent to departure of ABE’s chief financial officer, the recruitment of his replacement was delayed.

However post restructuring, (i) ABE was adequately staffed with regard to financial management; (ii) new accounting
software was set up; (iii) disbursement rate had significantly improved to around 100 percent; (iv) interim financial
reports were submitted on time with acceptable quality; and (v) external annual audit reports were submitted on time
with unqualified opinions and there were no open accountability issues at project closure.

Procurement:
Procurement was often delayed, slowing down implementation and disbursements. Lengthy authorization processes
at the national procurement agency mainly caused delays as procurement documents containing requests were often
delayed by the Agency for several months. Approval times were slightly reduced during the last two years of project
implementation (p.13 ICR).

Communication issues between the procurement and technical staff at ABE also contributed to procurement delays.
While ABE was adequately staffed throughout project implementation, there was a lag in meeting the procurement
requirements as warranted by the World Bank guidelines. For instance, a new procurement officer unfamiliar with
World Bank procurement guidelines came on board in January 2013, without the World Bank’s endorsement.
Further, the officer did not also complete the training was offered by the World Bank. According to the ICR (p.13),
subsequently delivery of works, equipment and services was occasionally delayed, including shortly before project
closure. Even though, ABE put in place an action plan to ensure full execution of the remaining activities prior to
project closure, a post procurement review conducted before project closure showed that procurement activities have
not been conducted in line with World Bank procurement procedures


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
NONE

d. Other:
NA


12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                Reason for
                                                                                    Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Moderately                   Unsatisfactory    The relevance of objectives is
                               Unsatisfactory                                 substantial. The revised design is
                                                                              modest. Efficacy is modest. Efficiency
                                                                              is rated negligible. Therefore, outcome
                                                                              is unsatisfactory
          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                              Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Unsatisfactory    Unsatisfactory performance of the
                              Unsatisfactory                                  Government and the implementing
                                                                              agency with regards to delays, lack of
                                                                              institutional engagement, reduced
                                                                              counterpart funding, turnover of staff
                                                                              and lack of engagement with project
                                                                              protocols.
                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 Two lessons from the ICR are cited below with slight modifications by IEG

 A borrower's bureaucratic processes and historical lapsed times for clearances and other departmental
procedures needs to be taken into account in project design . In this case, the lengthy and bureaucratic nature of
the of Public Procurement department significantly slowed down approval and administrative procedures, and
substantially hampered the Project team’s ability to increase disbursement.


A sustainable financing instrument needs to be put in place prior to project closure .
Locally appropriate financing mechanisms that help to ensure that project outcomes can be sustained beyond the
Project's lifetime are important to establish during project implementation. In the case of this project, the long-term
impact of the CBCAs primarily depends on access to public funds to finance the recurrent costs for managing the
protected areas.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

On the positive side, the ICR provides a generally satisfactory summary of project preparation and implementation.
Stakeholders are well defined. The lessons are derived from the project experience.

On the negative side, the ICR fails to provide enough evidence on the measures taken to address procurement risk
and implementation delays. It also falls short in identifying the reasons for the delayed Mid-Term –Review. It does not
sufficiently address the adequacy of the Bank preparation team.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
