                   ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN                     E1021
          BAM EMERGENCY EARTHQUAKE RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
            Social and Environmental Screening and Assessment Framework

Objectives

The Social and Environmental Screening and Assessment Framework (SESAF) provides general
guidelines, codes of practice and procedures that are to be integrated into the initial phase of the
World Bank-supported emergency earthquake recovery project. It provides a framework for
ensuring compliance with the World Bank’s safeguard policies under current conditions in the
Islamic Republic of Iran. Consistent with existing national legislation, the objectives of the
SESAF are to ensure that activities carried out under the proposed recovery operations will
address the following issues:

       Enhance positive social and environmental outcomes;
       Protect human health and welfare;
       Minimize environmental degradation as a result of individual sub-projects or their
        cumulative effects;
       Fairly compensate for any loss of livelihood; and
       Minimize impacts on cultural property

General Principles

Recognizing the emergency nature of the proposed recovery operations, and the related need to
provide emergency assistance, while at the same time ensuring due diligence in managing
potential social and environmental risks, the SESAF is based on the following principles:

       To ensure the effective application of the World Bank’s safeguard policies, the SES AF
        provides guidance on the approach to be taken during implementation for the selection
        and design of sub-projects, and the planning of mitigation measures.
       Resettlement issues are likely to be minimal as most reconstruction efforts are likely to
        take place in situ. In the event that involuntary resettlement is necessitated then detailed
        Resettlement Action Plans (RAP) will be developed in accordance with Operational
        Policy (OP) 4 will be prepared and based on the RAP, the project authorities will make
        every effort to minimize displacement and restore livelihoods.
       Environmental category ‘A’ sub-projects are not expected in the Project. But
        environmental screening will be carried out based on the checklist (see Attachment 1) to
        confirm this before obtaining approval for sub-project launch. If any do occur,
        Environmental Assessments (EAs) for specific sub-projects will be prepared during
        implementation. Corrective measures in the form of an Environment Management Plan
        (EMP) will be built into the emergency recovery project, in accordance with #13 of O.P.
        4.01 and #5 of B.P. 4.01.
       The proposed emergency recovery operations will finance feasibility and detailed design
        studies for these investments when and if they should be envisaged. These will include
        social as well as environmental assessments as required by World Bank safeguard
        policies.
       Care will be taken to ensure that vulnerable sections of the population (particularly the
        poor, women, orphans, the elderly and the physically disabled) are included in project
        design. Where employment opportunities are available within sub-projects, care will be


                                                                                                  1
        taken to ensure that the affected populations can benefit. In all sub-projects, arrangements
        for ensuring effective consultations with and the meaningful participation of local
        communities (both male and female) will be made to elicit their different views and foster
        local ownership of the design.
       The SESAF will be disclosed in the offices of the concerned implementing agencies, in
        prominent public places locally, and in the World Bank InfoShop.

Project Description

The project objectives will be met through the five components that are described below:

   Component-A- Provision of Construction Material and Equipment for Housing and
    Commercial Buildings: This component will finance the procurement of: (i) construction
    material (steel bars, steel components for frames and Portland cement) for housing and
    commercial buildings; (ii) construction equipment; and (iii) design and supervision activities.

   Component-B- Repair of the Transport Infrastructure: This component will finance: (i) the
    rehabilitation and preventive works for the main highway linking Bam with the provincial
    capital city of Kerman; (ii) the rehabilitation and reconstruction of the Bam Airport facilities;
    (iii) the rehabilitation and paving of village streets; and (iv) design and supervision activities.

   Component-C- Repair of the Telecommunications Infrastructure: This component will
    finance: (i) the repair and reconstruction of telecommunication center buildings; (ii) the
    reconstruction of the transmission networks; (iii) reconstruction and expansion of mobile and
    data services; and (iv) design and supervision activities.

   Component-D- Improved Emergency Preparedness in the Province of Kerman and the city
    of Bam: This component will finance: (i) retrofitting works of strategic emergency response
    buildings in the Province of Kerman; (ii) the provision of emergency response vehicles for
    the city of Bam (fire fighting trucks and ambulances) to replace equipment lost during the
    earthquake; and (iii) risk assessment and design and supervision activities.

   Component-E- Project Management and Technical Assistance: This component supports
    (i) project management through the establishment of the Bam Reconstruction Office (BRO),
    and (ii) technical assistance to the BRO, aiming at assisting project implementation and
    improving project management capacity through the procurement of consultants for
    Procurement Advisory Services, Monitoring Advisory Services and Technical Advisory
    Services.

Social and Environmental Screening and Assessment Framework (SESAF)

This SESAF has been developed specifically for the proposed sub-projects to ensure due
diligence, to avoid causing harm or exacerbating social tensions, and to ensure consistent
treatment of social and environmental issues by project authorities and those working for them.
The purpose of this framework is also to assist the Project Implementing Agencies in screening
all sub-projects for their likely social and environmental impacts, identifying documentation and
preparation requirements and prioritizing investments.

OP. 4.01 Environmental Assessment. Most of the proposed sub-projects are likely to focus on
the repair and structural reinforcement of damaged buildings, roads, Bam airport and
telecommunication networks.


                                                                                                     2
Considering the limited nature and scale of potential environmental impacts, most, if not all, of
the proposed operations are likely to be classified as Category ‘B’ sub-projects. Therefore, for
sub-projects with potential adverse impacts, a limited Environmental Assessment will be
undertaken during project and will apply the following minimum standards during
implementation:

            The inclusion of standard environmental codes of practice in the repair and reconstruction
             bid documents of all sub-projects;
            Review and oversight of any major reconstruction works by specialists;
            Implementation of socially and environmentally sound options for the disposal of debris;
             and,
            Provision of adequate budget and satisfactory institutional arrangements for monitoring
             effective implementation through the inclusion of an Environment Officer in the Bam
             Reconstruction Office (BRO).

The environmental guidelines are designed to provide guidance to the Bam Reconstruction Office
(BRO) and the implementation agencies on the procedures used to identify those investments that
may induce negative environmental impacts. Guidance is given on the mitigation of negative
environmental impacts that may accrue from sub-project construction. The guidelines are to be
implemented during the application, screening, assessment, approval and execution of
investments.

Under the BEERP most of the eligible investments will involve repair and structural
reinforcement of transport facilities (airport buildings), public buildings (retrofitting works1) as
well as telecommunication networks and village streets in affected areas. Sewage treatment
plants, solid waste equipment, waste disposal sites are not eligible for financing under the
BEERP. All investments will be subjected to environmental screening and assigned to one of
three categories (A, B, and C) depending on the magnitude and adversity of predicted
environmental impacts. No BEERP investments are expected to be given a category ‘A’
classification. Most are expected to fall into category ‘C’ and will thus not require an
environmental assessment. In most cases, any necessary impact mitigation will be inherent in
standard engineering design and good construction practice. Investments considered to impose
unacceptable negative environmental impacts will not be approved for financing.

OP 4.12 Involuntary Resettlement. The need for land acquisition or for involuntary resettlement
in specific sub-projects will only be known during project implementation, when site-specific
plans are available. Sub-projects will therefore be screened for applicability of the resettlement
policy. Any sub-projects involving involuntary resettlement or land acquisition of more than 25
families will only be approved after the preparation of a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
acceptable to the Bank. Several issues are likely to increase the complexity of land acquisition –
the availability of reliable land records, the inability of people to document ownership, the demise
of occupants and subsequent uncertainty about transfers of title. The Government has also agreed
to implement the principles of full compensation and livelihood restoration for any Project
Affected Person (PAP). This includes any person who, on account of the execution of the Project,
has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by the
involuntary taking of land resulting in: (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of assets or access
to assets; or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood, whether or not such person must


1
    This involves structural reinforcement and does not involve expansion works of the target buildings.



                                                                                                           3
move to another location, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person, provided
that such person should have before the occurrence of the Earthquake, either: (i) formal legal
rights to land, including customary and traditional rights recognized under the laws of the
Borrower; or (ii) claims to such land or assets, provided that such claims are recognized under the
laws of the Borrower, or become recognized through a process identified in the Resettlement
Action Plan (RAP). The GOI will review relocations on a case-by-case basis and will provide
information to the Bank about any secondary displacement that has occurred to date. The
safeguards framework includes procedures for identifying eligible project affected people,
calculating and delivering compensation, and mechanisms for dealing with grievances. It is good
practice for the borrower to undertake a social assessment and implement measures to minimize
and mitigate adverse social impacts, particularly as they affect poor and vulnerable groups.

OP 4.20 Indigenous Peoples. The five defining characteristics normally used to define
indigenous peoples are inappropriate in Iran’s case and positive discrimination in favor of any
group on these grounds is likely to be counter-productive and to exacerbate divisions between
communities. A vulnerability assessment will be built into the social assessments to be
undertaken for cases at high risk in terms of social safeguard/protection, to ensure effective
consultations with and culturally appropriate benefits to each of the vulnerable groups and will
incorporate adequate measures to address such vulnerability in sub-project design.

OPN 11.03 Cultural Property. Sub-projects will be reviewed for their potential impact on
cultural property, and clear procedures will be developed for the identification and protection of
cultural property and will be included in standard bidding documents. Sub-project preparation
may involve the identification of and assistance for the preservation of culturally important sites.
If these opportunities occur, cultural property management plans will be prepared for these sub-
projects.

OP 4.37 Safety of Dams. No dams will be repaired under the project.

Safeguard Screening and Mitigation.

The selection, design, contracting, monitoring and evaluation of sub-projects will be consistent
with the following guidelines, codes of practice and requirements and will include:
     A list of negative characteristics rendering a proposed sub-project ineligible for support
        (See Attachment 1);
     A proposed checklist of likely social and environmental impacts to be submitted for each
        sub-project. (See Attachment 2);
     A sample Environmental and Safeguards procedure for inclusion in the technical
        specifications of contracts. (See Attachment 3);
     Procedures for the protection of cultural property, including chance discoveries (See
        Attachment 4);
     Relevant elements of the codes of practice for the prevention and/or mitigation of
        potential environmental impacts. (See Attachment 5); and
     Guidelines for land and asset acquisition, entitlements and compensation (See
        Attachment 6.)

Responsibility for Safeguard Screening and Mitigation

Each implementation agency (Housing Foundation of Islamic Revolution, sector ministries and
utilities represented at the provincial government level) will be responsible for applying the



                                                                                                  4
safeguard screening and mitigation requirements as defined in the Framework to its own
investments and will work closely with the Bam Reconstruction Office (BRO) and the
Department of Environment. The BRO will be responsible for close coordination with the
implementation agencies in order to ensure compliance by the implementation agencies with the
safeguard requirements as defined in the framework.

Capacity-Building and Monitoring of Safeguard Framework Implementation.

Technical assistance services will be mobilized under the Project Management Component of the
Project to provide guidance and review of the application of the SESAF. As part of the technical
assistance, the BRO, together with relevant staff of the implementation agencies will receive
training in SESAF’s application. During supervision of the project, the World Bank will assess
the implementation of the SESAF, and recommend additional strengthening if required.

Consultation and Disclosure.

The Government of Islamic Republic of Iran will publicly disclose the SESAF. It will be
disclosed in Farsi by the BRO on behalf of the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran, both
nationally and locally. It will also be made available to the public in the BRO, and at the Word
Bank’s InfoShop.        Relevant sub-project specific safeguard documents/mitigation plans
subsequently prepared will also be disclosed and be publicly available to local citizens.

The implementing agencies will consult project-affected peoples, local government and non-
government organizations on the project’s social and environmental aspects, and will take their
views into account during preparation of sub-projects. The implementing agencies will initiate
these consultations as early as possible to solicit the effective participation of the local population
in its activities wherever appropriate. The implementing agency will also provide relevant
materials in a timely manner prior to consultations, in a form and a language that are
understandable and accessible, to ensure that meaningful consultations can take place and that
relevant information is available to concerned citizens. Draft reports and plans will be made
available to project-affected groups and to local civil society organizations and will normally be
considered to be in the public domain.




                                                                                                     5
                                                     Attachment 1

                                    List of Negative Subproject Attributes


Sub-projects falling outside the following categories will not be financed under the IBRD Loan:

1. Provision of Equipment and Construction Material for housing and commercial buildings
2. Repair of transport infrastructure (airport facility, highway repairs, and village streets)
3. Telecommunication networks
4. Retrofitting works of the key strategic buildings in the Province of Kerman
5. Project management (Consulting Services)

In addition, sub-projects with following attributes within the eligible categories will not be
financed:

                                          Attributes of Ineligible Subprojects

GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS

Damages cultural property, including but not limited to, any activities that affect the following sites:
       Archaeological and historical sites; and
       Religious monuments, structures and cemeteries.
Roads
New primary roads and highways.




                                                                                                           6
                                                Attachment 2

            Checklist of Likely Environmental and Social Impacts of Subprojects

This Form is to be used by the Bam Reconstruction Office (BRO) in screening Subproject
Applications.

Note: One copy of this form and accompanying documentation to be kept in the BRO and one
copy to be sent to the task team leader of the World Bank.

Name of Subproject:


Number of Subproject:


Proposing Implementation Agency:


Subproject Location:


Subproject Objective:


Infrastructure to be rehabilitated:


Estimated Cost:


Proposed Date of Commencement of Work:


Technical Drawing/Specifications Reviewed (circle answer):                                  Yes __ No __


I. Subproject Related Issues


No       ISSUES                                                                     No   Small   Medium        Large

A.       Zoning and Land Use Planning
1.       Will the subproject affect land use zoning and planning or conflict with
         prevalent land use patterns?
2.       Will the subproject involve significant land disturbance or site
         clearance?
3.       Will the subproject land be subject to potential encroachment by urban
         or industrial use or located in an area intended for urban or industrial
         development?

B.       Utilities and Facilities



                                                                                                           7
4.    Will the subproject require the setting up of ancillary production
      facilities?
5.    Will the subproject make significant demands on utilities and services?
6.    Will the subproject require significant levels of accommodation or
      service amenities to support the workforce during construction (e.g.,
      contractor will need more than 20 workers)?

C     Water and Soil Contamination
7.    Will the subproject require large amounts of raw materials or
      construction materials?
8.    Will the subproject generate large amounts of residual wastes,
      construction material waste or cause soil erosion?
9.    Will the subproject result in potential soil or water contamination (e.g.,
      from oil, grease and fuel from equipment yards)?
10.   Will the subproject lead to contamination of ground and surface waters
      by herbicides for vegetation control and chemicals (e.g., calcium
      chloride) for dust control?
11.   Will the subproject lead to an increase in suspended sediments in
      streams affected by road cut erosion, decline in water quality and
      increased sedimentation downstream?
12.   Will the subproject involve the use of chemicals or solvents?
13.   Will the subproject lead to the destruction of vegetation and soil in the
      right-of-way, borrow pits, waste dumps, and equipment yards?
14.   Will the subproject lead to the creation of stagnant water bodies in
      borrow pits, quarries, etc., encouraging for mosquito breeding and other
      disease vectors?

D.    Noise and Air Pollution Hazardous Substances
15.   Will the subproject increase the levels of harmful air emissions?
16.   Will the subproject increase ambient noise levels?
17.   Will the subproject involve the storage, handling or transport of
      hazardous substances?

E.    Fauna and Flora
18.   Will the subproject involve the disturbance or modification of existing
      drainage channels (rivers, canals) or surface water bodies (wetlands,
      marshes)?
19.   Will the subproject lead to the destruction or damage of terrestrial or
      aquatic ecosystems or endangered species directly or by induced
      development?
20.   Will the subproject lead to the disruption/destruction of wildlife
      through interruption of migratory routes, disturbance of wildlife
      habitats, and noise-related problems?


F.    Destruction/Disruption of Land and Vegetation
21.   Will the subproject lead to unplanned use of the infrastructure being
      developed?
22.   Will the subproject lead to long-term or semi-permanent destruction of
      soils in cleared areas not suited for agriculture?
23.   Will the subproject lead to the interruption of subsoil and overland
      drainage patterns (in areas of cuts and fills)?
24.   Will the subproject lead to landslides, slumps, slips and other mass
      movements in road cuts?
25.   Will the subproject lead to erosion of lands below the roadbed
      receiving concentrated outflow carried by covered or open drains?
26.   Will the subproject lead to long-term or semi-permanent destruction of
      soils in cleared areas not suited for agriculture?
27.   Will the subproject lead to health hazards and interference of plant
      growth adjacent to roads by dust raised and blown by vehicles?




                                                                                   8
G.         Cultural Property
28.        Will the subproject have an impact on archaeological or historical sites,
           including historic urban areas?
29.        Will the subproject have an impact on religious monuments, structures
           and/or cemeteries?
30.        Have Chance Finds procedures been prepared for use in the subproject?

H.         Expropriation and Social Disturbance
31.        Will the subproject involve land expropriation or demolition of existing
           structures?
32.        Will the subproject lead to induced settlements by workers and others
           causing social and economic disruption?
33.        Will the subproject lead to environmental and social disturbance by
           construction camps?


II. Site Related Issues

S.No      ISSUES                                                                          YES   NO   DO
                                                                                                     NOT
                                                                                                     KNOW

1.        Is the subproject located in an area with designated natural reserves?
2.        Is the subproject located in an area with unique natural features?
3.        Is the subproject located in an area with endangered or conservation-worthy
          ecosystems, fauna or flora?
4.        Is the subproject located in an area falling within 500 meters of national
          forests, protected areas, wilderness areas, wetlands, biodiversity, critical
          habitats, or sites of historical or cultural importance?
5.        Is the subproject located in an area, which would create a barrier for the
          movement of conservation-worthy wildlife or livestock?
6.        Is the subproject located close to groundwater sources, surface water bodies,
          watercourses or wetlands?

7.        Is the subproject located in an area with designated cultural properties such
          as archaeological, historical and/or religious sites?
8.        Is the subproject in an area with religious monuments, structures and/or
          cemeteries?
9.        Is the subproject in a polluted or contaminated area?
10.       Is the subproject located in an area of high visual and landscape quality?
11.       Is the subproject located in an area susceptible to landslides or erosion?
12.       Is the subproject located in an area of seismic faults?
13.       Is the subproject located in a densely populated area?
14.       Is the subproject located on prime agricultural land?
15.       Is the subproject located in an area of tourist importance?
16.       Is the subproject located near a waste dump?
17.       Does the subproject have access to potable water?
18.       Is the subproject located far (1-2 kms) from accessible roads?
19.       Is the subproject located in an area with a wastewater network?
20.       Is the subproject located in the urban plan of the city?
21.       Is the subproject located outside the land use plan?



Signed by Environment Officer:                   Name: _______________________________

                                                 Title: _______________________________

                                                 Date: _______________________________



                                                                                                        9
Signed by Project Manager (Implementation Agency):
                                     Name: _______________________________

                                  Title: _______________________________

                                  Date: _______________________________




                                                                             10
                                          Attachment 3
      Safeguards Procedures for Inclusion in the Technical Specifications of Contracts

I.      General
1.      The Contractor and his employees shall adhere to the mitigation measures set down and
take all other measures required by the Engineer to prevent harm, and to minimize the impact of
his operations on the environment.

2.     The Contractor shall not be permitted to unnecessarily strip clear the right of way. The
Contractor shall only clear the minimum width for construction and diversion roads should not
be constructed alongside the existing road.

3.      Remedial actions, which cannot be effectively carried out during construction, should be
carried out on completion of each Section of the road (earthworks, pavement and drainage) and
before issuance of the Taking Over Certificate:

        (a) These sections should be landscaped and any necessary remedial works should be
            undertaken without delay, including grassing and reforestation;

        (b) Water courses should be cleared of debris and drains and culverts checked for clear
            flow paths; and

        (c) Borrow pits should be dressed as fish ponds, or drained and made safe, as agreed
            with the land owner.

4.      The Contractor shall limit construction works to between 6 am and 7 pm if it is to be
carried out in or near residential areas.

5.       The Contractor shall avoid the use of heavy or noisy equipment in specified areas at
night, or in sensitive areas such as near a hospital.

6.      To prevent dust pollution during dry periods, the Contractor shall carry out regular
watering of earth and gravel haul roads and shall cover material haulage trucks with tarpaulins to
prevent spillage.


II.     Transport

7.      The Contractor shall use selected routes to the project site, as agreed with the Engineer,
and appropriately sized vehicles suitable to the class of road, and shall restrict loads to prevent
damage to roads and bridges used for transportation purposes. The Contractor shall be held
responsible for any damage caused to the roads and bridges due to the transportation of excessive
loads, and shall be required to repair such damage to the approval of the Engineer.

8.      The Contractor shall not use any vehicles, either on or off road with grossly excessive,
exhaust or noise emissions. In any built up areas, noise mufflers shall be installed and maintained
in good condition on all motorized equipment under the control of the Contractor.




                                                                                                11
9.      Adequate traffic control measures shall be maintained by the Contractor throughout the
duration of the Contract and such measures shall be subject to prior approval of the Engineer.


III.    Workforce

10.     The Contractor should whenever possible locally recruit the majority of the workforce
and shall provide appropriate training as necessary.

11.     The Contractor shall install and maintain a temporary septic tank system for any
residential labor camp and without causing pollution of nearby watercourses.

12.     The Contractor shall establish a method and system for storing and disposing of all solid
wastes generated by the labor camp and/or base camp.

13.    The Contractor shall not allow the use of fuel wood for cooking or heating in any labor
camp or base camp and provide alternate facilities using other fuels.

14.     The Contractor shall ensure that site offices, depots, asphalt plants and workshops are
located in appropriate areas as approved by the Engineer and not within 500 meters of existing
residential settlements and not within 1,000 meters for asphalt plants.

15.      The Contractor shall ensure that site offices, depots and particularly storage areas for
diesel fuel and bitumen and asphalt plants are not located within 500 meters of watercourses, and
are operated so that no pollutants enter watercourses, either overland or through groundwater
seepage, especially during periods of rain. This will require lubricants to be recycled and a ditch
to be constructed around the area with an approved settling pond/oil trap at the outlet.

16.     The contractor shall not use fuel wood as a means of heating during the processing or
preparation of any materials forming part of the Works.


IV.     Quarries and Borrow Pits

17.      Operation of a new borrow area, on land, in a river, or in an existing area, shall be subject
to prior approval of the Engineer, and the operation shall cease if so instructed by the Engineer.
Borrow pits shall be prohibited where they might interfere with the natural or designed drainage
patterns. River locations shall be prohibited if they might undermine or damage the riverbanks,
or carry too much fine material downstream.

18.     The Contractor shall ensure that all borrow pits used are left in a trim and tidy condition
with stable side slopes, and are drained ensuring that no stagnant water bodies are created which
could breed mosquitoes.

19.      Rock or gravel taken from a river shall be far enough removed to limit the depth of
material removed to one-tenth of the width of the river at any one location, and not to disrupt the
river flow, or damage or undermine the river banks.

20.     The location of crushing plants shall be subject to the approval of the Engineer, and not
be close to environmentally sensitive areas or to existing residential settlements, and shall be
operated with approved fitted dust control devices.


                                                                                                   12
V.      Earthworks

21.     Earthworks shall be properly controlled, especially during the rainy season.

22.     The Contractor shall maintain stable cut and fill slopes at all times and cause the least
possible disturbance to areas outside the prescribed limits of the work.

23.     The Contractor shall complete cut and fill operations to final cross-sections at any one
location as soon as possible and preferably in one continuous operation to avoid partially
completed earthworks, especially during the rainy season.

24.      In order to protect any cut or fill slopes from erosion, in accordance with the drawings,
cut off drains and toe-drains shall be provided at the top and bottom of slopes and be planted with
grass or other plant cover. Cut off drains should be provided above high cuts to minimize water
runoff and slope erosion.

25.     Any excavated cut or unsuitable material shall be disposed of in designated tipping areas
as agreed to by the Engineer.

26.     Tips should not be located where they can cause future slides, interfere with agricultural
land or any other properties, or cause soil from the dump to be washed into any watercourse.
Drains may need to be dug within and around the tips, as directed by the Engineer.


VI.     Historical and Archeological Sites

27.     If the Contractor discovers archeological sites, historical sites, remains and objects,
including graveyards and/or individual graves during excavation or construction, the Contractor
shall:

        (a) Stop the construction activities in the area of the chance find.
        (b) Delineate the discovered site or area.
        (c) Secure the site to prevent any damage or loss of removable objects. In cases of
            removable antiquities or sensitive remains, a night guard shall be present until the
            responsible local authorities and the Iranian Cultural Heritage and Tourism
            Organization (ICHTO) take over.
        (d) Notify the supervisory Engineer who in turn will notify the responsible local
            authorities and the ICHTO immediately (less than 24 hours).
        (e) Contact the responsible local authorities and the ICHTO who would be in charge of
            protecting and preserving the site before deciding on the proper procedures to be
            carried out. This would require a preliminary evaluation of the findings to be
            performed by the archeologists of the ICHTO (within 72 hours). The significance
            and importance of the findings should be assessed according to the various criteria
            relevant to cultural heritage, including the aesthetic, historic, scientific or research,
            social and economic values.
        (f) Ensure that decisions on how to handle the finding be taken by the responsible
            authorities and the ICHTO. This could include changes in the layout (such as when


                                                                                                  13
            the finding is an irremovable remain of cultural or archeological importance)
            conservation, preservation, restoration and salvage.
        (g) Implementation for the authority decision concerning the management of the finding
            shall be communicated in writing by the ICHTO; and
        (h) Construction work will resume only after authorization is given by the responsible
            local authorities and the ICHTO concerning the safeguard of the heritage.

VII.    Disposal of Construction and Vehicle Waste

28.     Debris generated due to the dismantling of the existing structures shall be suitably reused,
to the extent feasible, in the proposed construction (e.g. as fill materials for embankments). The
disposal of remaining debris shall be carried out only at sites identified and approved by the
project engineer. The contractor should ensure that these sites (a) are not located within
designated forest areas; (b) do not impact natural drainage courses; and (c) do not impact
endangered/rare flora. Under no circumstances shall the contractor dispose of any material in
environmentally sensitive areas.

29.      In the event any debris or silt from the sites is deposited on adjacent land, the Contractor
shall immediately remove such, debris or silt and restore the affected area to its original state to
the satisfaction of the Supervisor/Engineer.

30.      Bentonite slurry or similar debris generated from pile driving or other construction
activities shall be disposed of to avoid overflow into the surface water bodies or form mud
puddles in the area.

31.     All arrangements for transportation during construction including provision,
maintenance, dismantling and clearing debris, where necessary, will be considered incidental to
the work and should be planned and implemented by the contractor as approved and directed by
the Engineer.

32.      Vehicle/machinery and equipment operations, maintenance and refueling shall be carried
out to avoid spillage of fuels and lubricants and ground contamination. An 'oil interceptor" will be
provided for wash down and refueling areas. Fuel storage shall be located in properly bundled
areas.

33.     All spills and collected petroleum products shall be disposed of in accordance with
standard environmental procedures/guidelines. Fuel storage and refilling areas shall be located at
least 300m from all cross drainage structures and important water bodies or as directed by the
Engineer.




                                                                                                  14
                                         Attachment 4

                                Protection of Cultural Property

1.       Cultural property include monuments, structures, works of art, or sites of significance
points of view, and are defined as sites and structures having archaeological, historical,
architectural, or religious significance, and natural sites with cultural values. This includes
cemeteries, graveyards and graves.

2.      The initial phase of the proposed emergency reconstruction operations pose limited risks
of damaging cultural property since subprojects will largely consist of small investments in
community infrastructure and income generating activities, reconstruction of existing structures,
and minor public works. Further, the list of negative subproject attributes, which would make a
subproject ineligible for support (Attachment 1), includes any activity that would adversely
impact cultural property. Nevertheless, the following procedures for identification, protection
from theft, and treatment of discovered artifacts should be followed and included in the technical
specifications of the standard bidding documents as provided in Attachment 3.

Chance Find Procedures

3.      Chance find procedures will be used as follows:

        (a) Stop the construction activities in the area of the chance find;
        (b) Delineate the discovered site or area;
        (c) Secure the site to prevent any damage or loss of removable objects. In cases of
            removable antiquities or sensitive remains, a night guard shall be present until the
            responsible local authorities and the Iranian Cultural Heritage and Tourism
            Organization (ICHTO) take over;
        (d) Notify the supervisory Engineer who in turn will notify the responsible local
            authorities and the ICHTO immediately (within 24 hours or less);
        (e) Responsible local authorities and the ICHTO would be in charge of protecting and
            preserving the site before deciding on subsequent appropriate procedures. This would
            require a preliminary evaluation of the findings to be performed by the archeologists
            of the ICHTO (within 72 hours). The significance and importance of the findings
            should be assessed according to the various criteria relevant to cultural heritage;
            those include the aesthetic, historic, scientific or research, social and economic
            values;
        (f) Decisions on how to handle the finding shall be taken by the responsible authorities
            and the ICHTO. This could include changes in the layout (such as when finding an
            irremovable remain of cultural or archeological importance) conservation,
            preservation, restoration and salvage;
        (g) Implementation for the authority decision concerning the management of the finding
            shall be communicated in writing by the ICHTO; and
        (h) Construction work could resume only after permission is given from the responsible
            local authorities and the ICHTO concerning safeguard of the heritage.

4.      These procedures must be referred to as standard provisions in construction contracts,
when applicable. During project supervision, the Site Engineer shall monitor the above
regulations relating to the treatment of any chance find encountered are observed.




                                                                                               15
5.      Relevant findings will be recorded in World Bank’s Project Supervision Reports (PSRs),
and Implementation Completion Reports (ICRs) will assess the overall effectiveness of the
project’s cultural property mitigation, management, and activities, as appropriate.




                                                                                           16
                                                          Attachment 5

               Codes of Practice for Prevention and Mitigation of Environmental Impacts2

    Potential Impacts                                 Prevention and Mitigation Measures


    Roads
              Rehabilitation of secondary and tertiary roads.
              Widening of secondary or tertiary roads.

    Disruption of drainage:

             Hampers free drainage, causes                     Design to provide adequate drainage and to minimize changes in flows,
        stagnant pools of water.                          not limited to the road reserve.
              Increased sediments into ponds,                    Provision of energy dissipaters, cascades, steps, and checks dams.
        streams and rivers due to erosion from
        road tops and sides.
              Increased run-off and flooding.                    Provision of sufficient number of cross drains.
                                                                  Balancing of cut and fills.
                                                                  Revegetation to protect susceptible soil surfaces.
                                                                  Rehabilitation of borrows areas.

    Erosion:

     Erosion of land downhill from the                           Design to prevent soil erosion and maintain slope stability.
      roadbed, or in borrow areas.                                Construction in the dry season.
                                                                  Protection of soil surfaces during construction.
     Landslides, slips or slumps.                             Physical stabilization of erodible surfaces through turfing, planting a
                                                          wide range of vegetation, and creating slope breaks.
     Bank failure of the borrow pit.                             Rehabilitation and re-grading of borrow pits and material collection
                                                          sites.

    Loss of vegetation.                                Balancing of cut and fills.
                                                       Revegetation to protect susceptible soil surfaces.
                                                       Minimize loss of natural vegetation during construction.
                                                       Revegetation and replanting to compensate any loss of plant cover or tree
                                                        felling.

    Loss of access.                                               Design to include accessibility to roadsides in case roadbed is raised.
                                                                  Alternative alignments to avoid bisecting villages by road widening.




2
 The IBRD-financed BEERP only finances works on roads, transport facilities, telecom networks and procurement of construction
materials and equipment. But code of practices on other investments such as water and solid waste are included in this list for the
GoI’s reference.



                                                                                                                                  17
Potential Impacts                                 Prevention and Mitigation Measures

Impacts during construction:

         Fuel wood collection.                               Provision of fuel at work camps to prevent cutting of firewood.
         Disease due to lack of sanitation.                  Provision of sanitation at work camps.
         Introduction of hazardous wastes.                Removal of work camp waste, proper disposal of oil, bitumen and other
                                                      hazardous wastes.
         Groundwater contamination (oil,
    grease).
         Accidents during construction.
         Potential   impacts     to   cultural               Management of construction period worker health and safety.
    property.
                                                           Use archaeological chance finds procedures and coordinate with
                                                      appropriate agencies.

    Increased migration from nearby cities.           Provide comprehensive community participation in planning, and Migration
                                                      issue to be resolved through local conflict resolution system.

Housing and Public Buildings
       Rehabilitation of dwellings or public buildings.

Deforestation caused by:

Wood firing of bricks.                                        Ensure fired bricks are not wood-fired.

Injury and death from earthquake.                             Apply low-cost seismic structural designs.

Disease caused by inadequate provision of                     Ensure designs include adequate sanitary latrines and access to safe
water and sanitation.                                 water.

Damage to historical buildings.                             Ensure actions involving historical buildings are reviewed/designed by
                                                      qualified specialists.

         Telecommunications

Noise.                                             Location or sound-proofing to achieve a maximum increase in background
                                                    levels of 3 decibels, or a maximum of 55 decibels in residential areas,
                                                    whichever is higher.

Erosion and deforestation caused by:

         Access roads.
                                                            Selection of access road alignments to minimize cut and fill, and tree
                                                      felling.
                                                   See section on roads (above).

Injury or death caused by:

         Risk of accidents.                               Awareness campaign          (regarding      electrocution   dangers)   before
                                                      construction starts.
          Collapse of telecommunication                      Application of generic safety standards.
    stations.
                                                          Archaeological and historic site survey to be conducted for any new
         Potential   impacts     to   cultural       power plants accompanied by use of chance find procedures.
    property.




                                                                                                                           18
                                            Attachment 6

         Guidelines for Land and Asset Acquisition, Entitlements and Compensation

I.      Objectives

1.      Resettlement and land acquisition will be kept to a minimum, and will be carried out in
accordance with these guidelines. Subproject proposals that would require demolishing houses or
acquiring productive land should be carefully reviewed to minimize or avoid their impacts
through alternative alignments. Proposals that require more than minor expansion along rights of
way should be carefully reviewed. No land or asset acquisition may take place outside of these
guidelines. A format for a Land Acquisition Assessment Data Sheet is attached as Attachment
6(i).

2.      These guidelines provide principles and instructions to compensate negatively affected
persons to ensure that they will be assisted to improve, or at least to restore, their living standards,
income earning or production capacity to pre-project levels regardless of their land tenure status.

II.     Definitions

3.      The terms used in this document are defined as follows:
        (a) "PAP" means Project Affected Person, and includes any person or persons who, on
        account of the execution of the Project, or any of its components or sub-projects or parts
        thereof, would have their:
                         (i) Right, title, or interest in any house, land or any other fixed or
                         moveable asset acquired or possessed, in full or in part, permanently or
                         temporarily; or
                         (ii) Business, occupation, work, place of residence or habitat adversely
                         affected; or
                         (iii) Standard of living adversely affected.
        (c) "PAF" means Project Affected Family, and consists of all members of a household
        residing under one roof and operating as a single economic unit, who are adversely
        affected by the Project, or any of its components.
        (d) "SPAF" (Substantially Affected Persons) means a PAF whose house is totally or
        partially acquired under eminent domain, rendering it not habitable; or from whom
        acquisition of agricultural land exceeds 20% of the PAF's total landholding, provided that
        for farmers holding less than 1 ha., the limit of land acquisition shall be 10%, beyond
        which they shall be considered SPAFs. For determining the number of SPAFs,
        acquisition of houses and acquisition of agricultural land shall be treated severally; each
        house acquired being considered equivalent to one SPAF. (I need to understand the
        definition better)
        (e) "RAP" means the detailed resettlement action plans prepared for sub-projects, where
        the number of PAPs exceed 25.
        Description of the objectives of a RAP;
        - Description of socioeconomic condition of the people affected by resettlement;
        - Evaluation of economic and financial impact of resettlement on the community;
        - Description of the sites considered for settlement of the relocated population,
             estimated time for land development, present condition of the land in terms of
             land use (commercial, residential, etc.), and legal ownership;
        - Description of programs for improving standards of living;



                                                                                                     19
     -   Description of projects for providing social facilities to improve the living
         environment;
     - The schedule of resettlement operations
     - Resettlement costs assessment;
     - Description of the strategies for community participation in planning and
         implementation of resettlement projects
     - Description of social networks, local institutions and local NGOs;
     - List of rules and regulations governing the resettlement process;
     - Differences existing between the laws in Iran and the resettlement policies of the
         World Bank and proposals for resolving them;
     - Identification of public organizations in charge of resettlement operations and the
         NGOs that can play an effective role in the operations;
     - Evaluating the capacity of the public organizations and NGOs;
     - Capacity building strategy for the implementing agencies and NGOs;
     - Identification of the resettled individuals and the criteria for determining their
     eligibility for compensation;
     - Methods for assessing the amount and forms of compensation; and
     - Monitoring and inspection procedures by the implementing agency as well as
     independent inspection for assuring the completeness and accuracy of data gathered.
(f) "Land Acquisition" means the process whereby a person is compelled by a public agency
to alienate all or part of the land he/she owns or possesses, to the ownership and possession of
that agency, for public purpose in return for a consideration.
(g) "Right-of-Way Easement" means the process whereby the owner or possessor of land is
compelled to permit the continued use of a part of his land as a means of transit of persons or
services, in return for an appropriate compensation, but where the ownership of the land
remains unchanged.
(h) "Grievance Redress Committee" means the committee established at the Municipality
level, with the participation of the Housing Foundation and the local committee, to hear the
complaints and grievances of PAPs regarding resettlement, including acquisition of land,
houses and other assets, and loss of livelihoods caused by the Project.
(i) "Property Valuation Committee" means the committee established at the System level,
with the participation of the Housing Foundation, the local committee, PAPs and other local
government officials from the respective sub-project, for the purpose of determining
replacement value of affected properties.
(j) "Replacement Value" means the value determined to be fair compensation for agricultural
land based on its productive potential, the replacement cost of houses and structures (current
fair market price of building materials and labor without depreciation), and the market value
of residential land, crops, trees and other commodities3).

3
  “The pricing of land or property should be done with the agreement of the implementing agency and the inhabitants. In case of
disagreement, a committee of three experts will determine the final price: one nominated by the implementing agency and one
by the owner of the property. The third should be an expert jointly nominated by both parties. If either of the parties refuses to
nominate their respective or the mutually nominated expert, the local court is authorized to name the expert(s) within 15 days.
The acquisition of land and property should also be in line with the following principles:
           -     If the property is a place of living or business, 15 percent shall be added to the price of the land;
           -     For the agricultural land cultivated by farmers, the damage to their farming shall be compensated;
           -     If the property had been commercially used for at least a year before the plan was announced, the damage to
                 business shall be compensated;
           -     If the owner agrees, an equivalent piece of land belonging to the implementing agency may be provided instead
                 of monetary compensation. The same applies to the place of business: the owner may receive a similar shop
                 instead of monetary compensation;
           -     The pricing of land or property shall be done on the basis of the market price of similar land or property in the
                 same locality without however, considering the impact of the implementation of the plan on the prices;
           -     Acquisition of land or property is not authorized before the compensation is duly paid, except when this
                 impedes proper land transaction such as refusal of the owner, dispute in ownership, anonymity of the owners,



                                                                                                                              20
III.       Categorization

4.      Based on the number of persons that may be affected by the project, Project Affected
People (PAPs) and the magnitude of impacts, projects will be categorized as follows:

           (a) Projects that will affect more than 25 families due to land acquisition and/or physical
               relocation and where a full Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) will be produced.

           (b) Projects that will affect less than 200 persons require the following documentation:
               (i) a land acquisition assessment, (ii) the minutes or record of consultations which
               assess the compensation claimed and agreement reached, and (iii) a record of the
               receipt of the compensation, or voluntary donation, by those affected (see below).

           (c) Projects that are not expected to have any land acquisition or any other significant
               adverse social impacts; on the contrary, significant positive social impact and
               improved livelihoods are expected from such interventions.

III.       Eligibility

5.       PAPs are identified as persons whose livelihood is directly affected by the project due to
acquisition of the land owned or used by them. PAPs deemed eligible for compensation are:

           (a) Those who have formal legal rights to land, water resources or structures/buildings,
               including recognized customary and traditional rights;

           (b) Those who do not have such formal legal rights but have a claim to usufruct rights
               rooted in customary law; and

           (c) Those whose claim to land and water resources or building/structures do not fall
               within (a) and (b) above, are eligible to resettlement assistance to restore their
               livelihood.


IV.        Acquisition of Productive Assets and Compensation

6.         PAPs are eligible for replacement costs for lost assets as described below:




                        land being in mortgage, death of the owner, disagreement among the heirs, etc. In such cases the beneficiaries
                        shall be warned according to the legal procedures, and then an expertly appraised price of land shall be
                        deposited in the account of Registrations Fund. The local attorney may then sign on behalf of the owner and the
                        transfer of ownership will be valid within a month. The price of land or the compensation will be paid to the
                        beneficiaries by the Registration Department. The previous deeds will be accordingly modified or nullified. The
                        local Deeds and Properties Registration Office should issue new deeds of ownership of land or property for the
                        implementing agency on the basis of the signature of the local attorney or his representative.
If the urgency of the plan is approved by the highest administrative official in the province on the basis of concrete evidence indicating
that any delay in implementation might entail irreplaceable losses, the implementing agency may acquire the land and implement the
plan before finalizing the transfer of ownership. In this case the details of the plan should be stipulated in the presence of the owners
or their representative, a representative of the local attorney and the official experts. The implementing agency is however obliged to
pay a fair price for the land to the owner in less than three months after the acquisition. Otherwise the owner can appeal to court and
demand the interruption of any construction until he/she receives the compensation. The court should consider the appeal out of turn
and issue the necessary verdict. The construction may resume immediately after the com pensation is paid.”



                                                                                                                                      21
        (a) Voluntary contributions. Individuals may elect to voluntarily contribute land or
            assets provided the persons making such contributions do so willingly and are
            informed that they have the right to refuse such contributions; and

        (b) Contributions against compensation. A contributor/asset loser considered "affected"
            will be eligible for compensation and other necessary assistance in accordance with
            the provisions sated below.

7.       Voluntary contribution will be clearly documented to confirm the voluntary nature of the
transition. The documentation will specify that the land is free of any squatters, encroachers or
other claims. A format is shown in Attachment 6(i), which includes a Schedule for assessing any
compensation claimed and the agreement reached.


V.      Compensation Principles

8.     the project implementation agencies will ensure timely provision of the following means
of compensation to affected peoples:

        (a) Project affected peoples losing access to a portion of their land or other productive
            assets with the remaining assets being economically viable are entitled to
            compensation at a replacement cost for that portion of land or assets lost to them.
            Compensation for the lost assets will be made according to the following principles:

            (i)    Replacement land with an equally productive plot, cash or other equivalent
                   productive assets;
            (ii)   Materials and assistance to fully replace solid structures that will be
                   demolished;
            (iii) Replacement of damaged or lost crops and trees, at market value;
            (iv)   Other acceptable in-kind compensation;
            (v)    In case of cash compensation, the delivery of compensation should be made in
                   public, i.e., at the Community Meeting; and
            (vi)   In case of physical relocation, provision of civic infrastructure at the
                   resettlement sites.

        (b) Project affected peoples losing access to a portion of their land or other economic
            assets rendering the remainder economically non-viable will have the options of
            compensation for the entire asset by provision of alternative land, cash or equivalent
            productive asset, according to the principles in (a) i-iv above.


VI.     Consultation Process

9.      the implementing agencies will ensure that all occupants of land and owners of assets
located in a proposed subproject area are consulted. Community meetings will be held in each
affected district and village to inform the local population of their rights to compensation and
options available in accordance with these Guidelines. The Minutes of the community meetings



                                                                                               22
shall reflect the discussions held, agreements reached, and include details of the agreement, based
on the format provided in Attachment 6(ii).

10.    The implementing agency shall provide a copy of the Minutes to affected people and
confirm in discussions with each of them, their requests and preferences for compensation,
agreements reached, and any eventual complaint. Copies will be recorded in the posted project
documentation and be available for inspection during supervision.

Subproject Approval

11.    In the event that a subproject involves acquisition against compensation, the
implementing agency shall:

        (a) Not approve the subproject unless satisfactory compensation has been agreed
            between the affected person and the local community; and
        (b) Not allow works to start until the compensation has been delivered in a satisfactory
            manner to the affected persons.

Complaints and Grievances

12.      Initially, all complaints should be negotiated to reach an agreement at the local
community/village/district level. If this fails, complaints and grievances on these Guidelines,
implementation of the agreements recorded in the Community Meeting Minutes or any alleged
irregularity in carrying out the project can also be addressed by the affected peoples or their
representative at the municipal or district level. If this also fails, the complaint may be submitted
to the relevant implementing agency for consideration.

Verification

12.     The Community Meeting Minutes, including agreements of compensation and evidence
of compensation made shall be provided to the Municipality/district, to the supervising engineers,
who will maintain a record hereof, and to auditors and socio-economic monitors when they
undertake reviews and post-project assessment. This process shall be specified in all relevant
project documents, including details of the relevant authority for complaints at the
municipal/district or implementing agency level.




                                                                                                  23
                                          Attachment 6(i)

                             Land Acquisition Assessment Data Sheet
                   (To be used to record information on all land to be acquired)


1.       Quantities of land/structures/other assets required:

2.       Date to be acquired:

3.       Locations:

4.       Owners:

5.       Current uses:

6.       Users:

        Number of Customary Claimants:
        Number of Squatters:
        Number of Encroachers:
        Number of Owners:
        Number of Tenants:
        Others (specify): ______________________          Number: ___________________

7.       How land/structures/other assets will be acquired (identify one):

        Donation
        Purchase

8.       Transfer of Title:

        Ensure these lands/structures/other assets are free of claims or encumbrances.
        Written proof must be obtained (notarized or witnessed statements) for the voluntary
            donation, or acceptance of the prices paid from those affected, together with proof of
            title being vested in the community, or guarantee of public access, by the title-holder.

9. Describe grievance mechanisms available:




                                                                                                 24
                                                       Attachment 6(ii)

                                  Format to Document Contribution of Assets


The following agreement has been made on............................ day of...................……….
between...............................................resident of ............................................(the Owner)
and ……………………………………………….(the Recipient).

1.           That         the Owner  holds the    transferable       right       of
........................………………………donum         of              land/structure/asset
in.........…………………………………………………………………………….

2.       That the Owner testifies that the land/structure is free of squatters or encroachers and not
subject to other claims.

3.     That the Owner hereby grants to the Recipient this asset for the construction and
development of ................................for the benefit of the villagers and the public at large.

(Either, in case of donation:)

4.         That the Owner will not claim any compensation against the grant of this asset.

(Or, in case of compensation:)

4.      That the Owner will receive compensation against the grant of this asset as per the
attached Schedule.

5.         That the Recipient agrees to accept this grant of asset for the purposes mentioned.

6.      That the Recipient shall construct and develop the……………………and take all
possible precautions to avoid damage to adjacent land/structure/other assets.

7.      That both the parties agree that the………………………so constructed/developed shall
be public premises.

8.         That the provisions of this agreement will come into force from the date of signing of this
deed.

___________________________________
       _____________________________________
       Signature of the Owner                                                            Signature of the Recipient


Witnesses:

1.         _____________________________

2.         ______________________________
           (Signature, name and address)



                                                                                                                            25
                                           Schedule of
                                 Compensation of Asset Requisition


Summary of                         Units to be Compensated           Agreed Compensation
Affected Unit/Item

a. Urban/agricultural
   land (m2):                      _____________________             ___________________

b. Houses/structures to be
   demolished (units/m2):          _____________________             ___________________

c. Type of structure to be
   demolished (e.g. mud,
   brick, cement block, etc.,)     _____________________             Not Applicable.

d. Trees or crops affected:        _____________________             ___________________

e. Water sources affected:         _____________________             ___________________



Signatures of local community representatives:


Include record of any complaints raised by affected persons:


Map attached (showing affected areas and replacement areas):




                                                                                       26
                                        Attachment 7
                 Guidelines for Closures of Debris Disposal Sites Stabilization

- Site shall be stabilized with erosion control measures, including establishment of vegetative
cover.

- Disposal heaps at the dumping sites should be leveled and compacted to prevent water induced
erosion. Administrative guidelines need to be issues to ensure this. This is applicable to the
disposal on roadsides.

- All sites should be closed and rehabilitated in such a way that during monsoon the roadside
drainages remain open to prevent water accumulation on the roads.

- Local administrative bodies should ensure that disposal sites do not become a dumping area for
domestic wastes. While taking up rehabilitation programme of such sites, the task of cleaning of
city can also be taken up side by side with the help of NGOs and local communities.

- In some cases where debris has been disposed on the roadside, which are also the embankments
of the inlet or the periphery of village pond, the debris should be leveled and compacted firmly so
that it does not affect the inflow of the water when it rains.

- The dumped debris on the revenue wastelands should also be leveled because several such cases
fall on the drainage routes and water storage systems.

- Moreover, debris from such places should also preferably be used to widen the roads and filling
the roadside ditches in the affected towns and villages, instead of digging new locations for filling
material.

- Regarding the rehabilitation of the dumping sites, it is difficult to raise plantation on such sites
due to nature of debris, which largely constitutes cement and aggregate, with no trace of mud in
it. However, an attempt may be made to spread some soil layer sufficient for growing grasses,
which would help in binding the leveled ground and act against soil erosion.

- In places of high aesthetic and cultural significance such as Arg-e-Bam, landscaping can be
resorted to enhance the aesthetic values and correct the effects of unplanned dumping by local
people.

- At some places if observed that dumping of debris has been done in the upstream or across the
inlet of water bodies, to ensure that the water holding capacity of the water body is not reduced,
the inlet and drainage to the water body needs to be managed or altered.

- At some places where it is noticed that dumping has taken place in the outflow of the ponds and
lakes, the drainage channels need to be modified to allow free flow of the overflow from the
water body.

- In case of outflow of a pond towards cultivable areas or towards water body harvesting
structures, the drainage can be altered to ensure that the water holding capacity of the harvesting
structure is maintained.




                                                                                                   27
Guidelines for Further Disposal of Rubble and Debris

        Rehabilitated sites should be strictly avoided for further disposal of debris.
        The use of disposal sites for dumping of solid waste should be strictly controlled by
         municipal authorities or by villages.
        The new site should preferably be a low lying, non-productive revenue land enclosed
         from all sides, which should be close to the village/town. It should be prevented from
         possible surface runoff through proper embankments and leveling, after the dumping.
        The embankments and roads surrounding the water bodies should be left out from the
         possible dumping locations to avoid filling & turbidity in the water bodies.
        Creeks and mudflats - which are ecologically sensitive areas in terms of habitat and
         breeding grounds of several marine flora and fauna, should not used as dumping sites.
        It should not be carried out in and around the agricultural fields and productive grasslands
         or forests.

Re-approval
    Sites that were approved as temporary staging or processing sites will require re-approval
      for long-term storage, continuing reduction processing, and permanent disposal if site is
      not closed out in accordance with environmental management and site closure guidelines.

Monitoring
   Sites shall be managed and monitored in accordance with applicable environmental
      safeguards rules and to prevent threats to the environment or public health.

Guidelines for Closure of Temporary Shelter sites

        As a part of the immediate relief measures, temporary shelters were constructed at
         various places. Now, once the permanent shelters are ready, future utilization of these
         temporary shelters need to be decided.
        All temporary shelters in rural areas should be dismantled immediately after the
         permanent rehabilitation is completed. Salvaged building materials may be auctioned at
         the local market. Alternatively, entire dismantling work may be given to private parties,
         who shall dismantle and take away the building materials against payment of a pre-
         decided amount to the District administration.
        After dismantling of the structures, possession of land shall be taken over by the local
         administration. Pre - earthquake status of the land parcel shall be restored.




Elena Gagieva
P:\IRAN\IF\88060\BOARD\IRAN-BEERP-Negotiations-SESAF.doc
9/29/2004 11:29 AM




                                                                                                  28
