Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
Report No.:  AB798 
Project Name 
BAM EARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY RESPONSE PROJECT 
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Sector 
Housing and construction (35%), Roads and highways (25%), 
Gen. Agriculture (20%), Power (10%), Telecommunications 
(10%) 
Project ID 
P088060 
Borrower(s) 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN 
Implementing Agency 
OIETAI, Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance 
Nasser Khosrow Avenue 
Tehran, Islamic Republic of Iran 
 Fax: 98-21-390-1033 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [X] B   [  ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [ ] S
2
  [X] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
May 11, 2004 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
May 27, 2004 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
August 31, 2004 
 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
(a) The circumstances of the disaster 
 
Iran is known to be one of the most earthquake prone countries in the world.  With two major seismic 
belts, the entire country faces moderate to very high seismic risks.  In the 20th century alone, twenty large 
earthquakes have claimed more than 140,000 lives.  
 
Province of Kerman is the second largest province, located at the southeastern part of Iran with a total 
population of about 2 million.  Bam is known for its ancient Arg-e-Bam (Bam citadel) and its production 
of dates.  Recently a modern automotive assembly plant called Arg-e-Jadid Complex has drawn overseas 
investments such as Volkswagen and Daewoo companies.  
 
On December 26
th
, 2003, a powerful earthquake measuring 6.3 on the Richter scale struck the historic city 
of Bam in Iran and its surrounding villages.  The population of Bam District (covering Bam city, 
neighboring Baravat and Arg-e-Jadid towns and 900 surrounding villages) was close to 200,000 in 2003 
while the city of Bam had a population of 92,000 before the earthquake.  The earthquake resulted in more 
than 43,000 deaths and over 30,000 injuries.  About 85% of the houses, commercial units, health facilities 
and administrative buildings in the city and surrounding villages were severely damaged or destroyed.  
 
GoI has set up an institutional framework solely dedicated to the reconstruction of Bam through the Inter-
Ministerial Bam Guidance and Policy Taskforce, chaired by the Minister of Housing and Urban 
Development, and charged with policy planning and implementing and supervising the reconstruction of 
the Bam District.  At the local level the Bam Provincial Reconstruction Task Force has been formed 
under the supervision of the Guidance Taskforce.   
 
 
Page  2
 
 
(b) Preliminary damage estimates the potential economic effects 
Total damage resulting from the Bam earthquake is estimated to be on the order of IR 12,410 billion 
(US$1.5 billion) of which IR 10,120 billion (US$1.2 billion) constitutes direct damage and IR 2,280 
billion (US$0.3 billion) constitutes indirect damage.  
 
Macroeconomic impacts are expected to be minimal.  Loss in production and tourism in the area is 
expected to have a minimal macroeconomic impact.  The most significant macroeconomic consequences 
will concern public finances.  There is an estimated US$ 670 million financing gap for the reconstruction 
effort, not including reconstruction financed from the banking system.  This would represent a worsening 
of the operational deficit by about 10% or more if extensive restoration of Bam’s monuments is 
contemplated. 
 
(c) The response of the government and the international community, including relief activities;
 
 
Government response.
 Government and the Iranian Red Crescent Society (IRCS) immediately 
mobilized emergency rescue and relief operations.  Bam city and its suburbs have been divided into 14 
districts.  Each district has been adopted by a neighboring province outside Kerman including 
administration and coordination of assistance and relief to the victims through the provincial IRCS.  GOI 
currently estimates a period of two years (4 months in tents and 16-18 months in temporary prefabricated 
housing) before the population will be able to settle into reconstructed housing.   A total of 16,200 
prefabricated shelters have been ordered by the authorities, and 800 container houses have been provided 
by Turkey (preparation underway to set up a camp) and 1,000 used prefabs will be provided by Tehran 
city as part of the intermediate shelter program for Bam city.   
 
International response.
  International agencies and more than 44 countries have contributed in the 
rescue and relief operation. Emergency shelters have been provided to 17,000 of the 20,000 families 
rendered homeless. The United Nations and donor countries across the world have mobilized rapidly 
emergency relief support to victims.  The United Nations issued a joint flash appeal on January 13, 2004 
soliciting funds totaling US$31.3 million to address relief and rehabilitation needs during the first 90 
days.  As of February 9, 2004, donors have pledged US$14 million (46%) but only 3.5 millions have been 
made available to various humanitarian agencies.  The January Bank mission was informed that the Gulf 
Cooperation Council (GCC) would be most likely to pledge US$400 million in the form of loans to the 
Government of Iran for the reconstruction of Bam. 
 
(d) The rationale for Bank involvement 
The rationale for Bank’s involvement should be viewed in the following context: (a) Bank’s experience of 
collaboration with the Government in post-disaster emergency reconstruction; (b) GOI’s interest in 
Bank’s assistance to better integrate disaster mitigation into development efforts and reduce economic 
and social risks of natural hazards to which Iran is particularly prone; and (c) GOI’s request for Bank 
assistance for this complex reconstruction program. 
 
Over the past years, the Bank has been particularly responsive to the country’s needs for post-disaster 
reconstruction.  So far three reconstruction projects have been prepared between 1992 and 2002 with a 
total lending of US$487 million.   The projects covered both reconstruction investments and technical 
assistance programs.  Given the magnitude of the damage and the comprehensive nature of reconstruction 
efforts needed, the Bank is in a unique position to assist the Government of Iran with its global experience 
of large-scale emergency reconstruction programs. 
 
 
 
 
Page  3
 
 
2. Proposed 
objective(s) 
 
The project’s main objective is to assist the Government in:  restoring the living conditions and resuming 
economic growth of areas affected by the December 2004 Bam earthquake.   
 
The IBRD’s program of assistance to the GoI will aim at achieving the following: 
• 
Restoring living conditions, through support to housing reconstruction, essential infrastructure 
and economic recovery; 
• 
Restoring transport links, through reconstruction investments in district’s major roads and the 
Bam Airport;  
• 
Restoring symbolic values, through priority consolidation works on Bam citadel and emergency 
repairs of the cultural heritage sites in Bam city; 
• 
Improving disaster preparedness in Kerman Province, through retrofitting of strategic public 
buildings, purchase of search & rescue equipment; training and awareness programs; and,  
• 
Support for effective project implementation through establishment of project/reconstruction 
management systems and technical assistance. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
Housing and commercial buildings
 (Estimated cost: US$150 million, Proposed IBRD financing: 
US$140 million).
 
This component finances approximately 50% of the cost of basic construction material 
(US$110million)
 for housing reconstruction in addition to the cost of construction machinery 
(US$40million) 
in both rural and urban areas.  This component will be implemented by Housing 
Foundation of Islamic Revolution (HF), who will be in charge of close supervision and the distribution of 
materials at discounted prices to the beneficiary households receiving Government loans and grants.  
 
 
Economic recovery
 (Estimated cost: US$58 million, Proposed IBRD financing: US$42 million).  This 
component finances investments in earthquake-affected areas aimed at strengthening the base for 
economic recovery, in particular, agriculture and agro-industry sectors, which have been the key industry 
for the affected areas.  Proposed investments would cover: (a) restoration of irrigation systems, to be 
implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture and Jihad (MoJA); (b) livestock support (purchase to 
replenish the livestock lost due to the earthquake, livestock management through organization of 
cooperatives; (c) construction of cattle breeding centers; (d) support to the reestablishment of agro-
industry facilities including cold storage, washing and packaging facilities for dates, to be implemented 
by the Ministry of Industry (MoIn); and (e) forest recovery and watershed protection, to be implemented 
by the MoJA.  
 
Transport Infrastructure
 (Estimated cost: US$25 million, Proposed IBRD financing: US$20 million).  
This component finances repairs and preventive works for the key transport infrastructure damaged by the 
earthquake and envisaged to be further damaged by heavy-load transport during the reconstruction period.  
The planned investments to be financed under this component will cover: (a) rehabilitation and preventive 
works for the main highways between Kerman and Bam; and (b) rehabilitation and reconstruction works 
for Bam Airport facilities.  
 
Infrastructure (telecom, electricity, and rural infrastructure/sites & services)
 (Estimated cost: US$82 
million, Proposed IBRD financing: US$65 million).  This component finances repair and reconstruction 
of telecom, electricity networks covering Bam and Baravat.  The component will also include the 
provision for financing essential community infrastructure in villages to service the target housing 
reconstruction areas in affected villages. 
 
Page  4
 
 
Historic sites
 (Estimated cost: US$10 million, Proposed IBRD financing: US$ 8 million).  This 
component finances priority consolidation works for Arg-e-Bam (Bam Citadel), Ice House and Ghala 
Dokhtar in close collaboration with the Iranian Cultural Heritage Organization (ICHO) and UNESCO.    
 
Preparedness
 
for Kerman Province
 (Estimated cost: US$20 million, Proposed IBRD financing: US$15 
million).  To increase disaster preparedness at the provincial level, this component finances: risk 
assessment and design studies and retrofitting works for the key buildings in Kerman Province that could 
continue to serve emergency needs during relief periods (e.g., hospitals, local administration buildings, 
emergency storages).  The component will also include purchase of emergency rescue and search 
equipments for Kerman Province.   
 
Project implementation support and technical assistance 
 (Estimated cost: US$15 million, Proposed 
IBRD financing: US$10 million). Series of technical assistance (TA) will be included for IBRD financing 
to ensure effective and timely implementation of the proposed reconstruction program. 
  
 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
Category B is proposed for the project.  OP.4.01 (Environmental Assessment) and Cultural Property 
(OPN. 11.03) will be triggered, while application of OD/BP 4.12 (Involuntary Resettlement) remains to 
be determined.    
 
On OP. 4.01, based on the OP.8.50 on emergency recovery loans, a waiver will be requested for the 
environmental assessment to be complied with during implementation instead of before appraisal.   
During appraisal, Environment and Safeguard Policy Framework will be prepared.  On OPN 11.03, the 
project will establish a proactive system to review and assess the cultural and architectural value of 
buildings before they are repaired or, in the worst case, torn down.  The project will work closely with the 
appropriate organizations tasked with restoration of the cultural and architectural heritage.   
 
5. Tentative 
financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER                      
60 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
300 
 Total 
360 
 
6.  Implementation arrangements, including temporary mechanisms for in-country and donor 
coordination 
 
An Inter-Ministerial Task Force, chaired by the Minister of Housing, to serve as the policy-making body 
for reconstruction of Bam.  It will have the ultimate responsibility for selection of sectoral projects, 
allocation of the necessary funding, approval of master plans for urban development and issuance of 
implementation policies and decrees.  Reporting to this Task Force are three principal operational units, 
namely, the Bam Reconstruction Office (BRO) to be set up by the Housing Foundation of Islamic 
Revolution (HF), the Bam Provincial Task Force (BTF), and a Financial Management Unit (FMU).  The 
BRO will serve as the overall construction manager to coordinate and provide procurement assistance to 
the multitude of local sector agencies responsible for implementation of sectoral housing component, the 
largest project component, and the quality control of the work of private contractors and suppliers.  
 
The BTF, headed by the Governor-General of Kerman Province, will be responsible for coordinating the 
local participation and resolution of local issues.  The FMU will be in charge of disbursement of funds, 
Page  5
 
 
both Government and donors’ funds, preparation of disbursement applications for replenishment, 
management of the special accounts and preparation of required financial reporting.   
 
7. Project and implementation issues and actions 
• 
Slow procurement due to unfamiliarity with the Bank’s procedure both at national and local 
levels
: Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) for goods and works have been submitted to the Bank’s 
review under the on-going EERP.  The mission advised to coordinate with the EERP team to use the 
same SBDs.  It is strongly recommended that the PIU (Bam Reconstruction Office-BRO) hire a local 
and international firm to assist procurement and contract management.   
 
• 
Slow disbursement, due to unfamiliarity of the financial controller (FC) with the Bank’s 
procedure
:  Usually, the FC is assigned for each ministry. The mission requested that a FC dedicated 
to the Project be appointed to facilitate the administrative procedure of approving payments and 
disbursement.  It is also recommended that a training program be organized for the FC on Bank 
fiduciary guidelines soon after the appointment.  
 
• 
Due diligence and risk mitigation. 
The proposed project will be a highly visible operation both 
locally and internationally with a challenge of ensuring structurally sound reconstruction while 
maintaining historic charge of the city. The project preparation requires to define: (a) M&E 
mechanism to be embedded in the project design to ensure that these issues are duly addressed; and  
(b) communication and participation strategy to ensure effective coordination among multiple 
stakeholders involved.        
 
8. Major benefits and risks
. 
 
Benefits 
• 
Restoration of housing and infrastructure serving the population of Bam and its surrounding 
areas.
 Project investments will enable the population to reconstruct physical assets with minimum 
disruption of their lifestyles.  The project will directly benefit the affected population by constructing 
housing and buildings with improved standards and less vulnerability to future earthquakes.  
Training on self-construction and quality assurance will enhance the confidence of the population to 
deal with natural disasters. In addition, the Project will support the restoration of economic activities, 
particularly in agricultural production.  The project will also support the restoration of historic 
monuments damaged by the earthquake. 
 
• 
Comprehensive urban reconstruction in post-disaster context.  
The multi-sectoral programming 
and the proposed implementation arrangements are intended to serve as a comprehensive framework 
for reconstruction planning and implementation. 
 
 
Risks 
• 
Institutional strengthening and capacity building.  
Facing the challenge of citywide 
comprehensive reconstruction, it is intended that the experience of the proposed project will 
contribute to establishing a model for future schemes on post-disaster reconstruction with improved 
preparedness in the country.  
 
 
• 
Urban planning and housing. 
 Balancing technical soundness and aesthetics (to maintain the 
historic charm of the city) in city reconstruction and housing is critical and how the Bank will handle 
this issue will be highly visible among donor community.   
 
Page  6
 
 
• 
Weak capacity at the municipal level. 
 In a few months, it is envisaged that the Municipality of Bam 
will take over the local administration from the current relief set up where the city is divided by 14 
zones and other provincial governments across the country have been acting per zone.  However, no 
concrete arrangements for the transfer of delegation have been made and the municipal mayor and 
councilors are concerned for the lack of financial and human capacity to manage the city.   Long-
term support to strengthen the capacity of Bam municipality should be explored through donor 
support, if not through the proposed ERL.  
 
 
9. Contact point 
Contact: Sateh Chafic El-Arnaout 
Title: Senior Municipal Development Specialist 
Tel: (202) 473-0203 
Fax: (202)477-1993 
Email: sarnaout@worldbank.org 
 
 
 
