Page  1
 
 
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AC746 
 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: March 25, 2004 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: Iran, Islamic Republic of 
Project ID: P088060 
Project Name: BAM EARTHQUAKE 
EMERGENCY RESPONSE PROJEC 
Task Team Leader: Sateh Chafic El-Arnaout, 
Mayumi Kato  
Estimated Appraisal Date: May 3, 2004 
Estimated Board Date: August 31, 2004 
Managing Unit: MNSIF 
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery Loan 
Sector: Housing construction (35%);Roads and 
highways (25%);General agriculture, fishing and 
forestry sector (20%);General water, sanitation and 
flood protection sector (10%);General education 
sector (10%) 
Theme: Natural disaster management (P);Access to 
urban services for the poor (P);Other urban 
development (S);Rural services and infrastructure 
(S) 
Safeguard Policies Specialists in the task team: David Marsden 
Loan/Credit amount ($m.):  
IBRD: 360 
Other financing amounts by source:  
($m) 
 
 
B.  Project Objectives 
 
The project’s main objective is to assist the Government in:  restoring the living conditions and resuming 
economic growth of areas affected by the December 2004 Bam earthquake.   
 
The IBRD’s program of assistance to the GoI will aim at achieving the following: 
• 
Restoring living conditions, through support to housing reconstruction, essential infrastructure 
and economic recovery;Restoring transport links, through reconstruction investments in district’s 
major roads and the Bam Airport;  
• 
Restoring symbolic values, through priority consolidation works on Bam citadel and 
emergency repairs of the cultural heritage sites in Bam city; 
• 
Improving disaster preparedness in Kerman Province, through retrofitting of strategic public 
buildings, purchase of search & rescue equipment; training and awareness programs; and, 
• 
Support for effective project implementation through establishment of project/reconstruction 
management systems and technical assistance. 
C.  Project Description  
 
Housing and commercial buildings
 (Estimated cost: US$246.5 million, Proposed IBRD financing: 
US$140 million).
 
This component finances approximately 50% of the cost of basic construction material 
(US$110million)
 for housing reconstruction in addition to the cost of construction machinery 
(US$40million) 
in both rural and urban areas.  This component will be implemented by Housing 
Foundation of Islamic Revolution (HF), who will be in charge of close supervision and the distribution of 
materials at discounted prices to the beneficiary households receiving Government loans and grants.  
 
Page  2
 
 
 
Economic recovery (Estimated cost: US$55 million, Proposed IBRD financing: US$40 million).
  
This component finances  investments in earthquake-affected areas aimed at strengthening the base for 
economic recovery, in particular, agriculture and agro-industry sectors, which have been the key industry 
for the affected areas.  Proposed investments would cover: (a) restoration of irrigation systems, to be 
implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture and Jihad (MoJA); (b) livestock support (purchase to 
replenish the livestock lost due to the earthquake, livestock management through organization of 
cooperatives),  (c) construction of cattle breeding centers; (d) support to the reestablishment of agro-
industry facilities including cold storage, washing and packaging facilities for dates, to be implemented 
by the Ministry of Industry (MoIn); (e) forest recovery and watershed protection, to be implemented by 
the MoJA.  
Transport Infrastructure
 (Estimated cost: US$25 million, Proposed IBRD financing: US$20 million).  
This component finances repairs and preventive works for the key transport infrastructure damaged by the 
earthquake and envisaged to be further damaged by heavy-load transport during the reconstruction period.  
The planned investments to be financed under this component will cover: (a) rehabilitation and preventive 
works for the main highways between Kerman and Bam; and (b) rehabilitation and reconstruction works 
for Bam Airport facilities.  
 
Infrastructure (telecom, electricity, and rural infrastructure/sites & services)
 (Estimated cost: US$83 
million, Proposed IBRD financing: US$65 million).  This component finances repair and reconstruction 
of telecom, electricity networks covering Bam and Baravat.  The component will also include the 
provision for financing essential community infrastructure in villages to service the target housing 
reconstruction areas in affected villages. 
 
Historic sites
 (Estimated cost: US$13 million, Proposed IBRD financing: US$10 million).  This 
component finances priority consolidation works for Arg-e-Bam (Bam Citadel), Ice House and Ghala 
Dokhtar in close collaboration with Iranian Cultural Heritage Organization (ICHO) and UNESCO.    
 
Preparedness for Kerman Province (Estimated cost: US$20 million, Proposed IBRD financing: 
US$15 million).
  To increase disaster preparedness at the provincial level, this component finances: risk 
assessment and design studies and retrofitting works for the key buildings in Kerman Province that could 
continue serve emergency needs during relief periods (e.g. hospitals, local administration buildings, 
emergency storages).   The component will also include purchase of emergency rescue and search 
equipments for Kerman Province.   
 
 
 
 
D.  Project location (if known) 
 
The project is located in and around the ancient city of Bam in the Province of Kerman. Kerman 
province is the second largest province, located in the southeastern part of Iran with a total 
population of about 2 million.
.
  The District of Bam is located 183 kilometers east of Kerman and is 
known for its ancient Arg-e-Bam (Bam citadel) and its production of dates.  The date and citrus fruit 
industry accounted for about 60 percent of income in Bam and the surrounding villages.  The city's 
historic mud-brick citadel drew about 30,000 foreign visitors last year.  Recently a modern 
automotive assembly plant called Arg-Jadid Complex has drawn overseas investments such as 
Volkswagen and Daewoo companies. The population of Bam District (covering Bam city and 
surrounding 900 villages) was close to 200,000 in 2000 while the city of Bam had a population of 
92, 000 before the earthquake. 
Page  3
 
 
 
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies 
 
 
The on-going IBRD financed Emergency Earthquake Recovery Project successfully prepared 
Environment and Social Safeguard Framework before project’s appraisal.   Given the scale and 
comprehensive nature of  reconstruction needs for Bam and the new institutional set-up for the proposed 
project, Borrower’s institutional capacity for safeguard policy require to be carefully assessed and a 
framework for capacity building needs to be drawn.   To address this, an Operational Manual will be 
prepared covering the screening criteria, procedure and mitigation measures covering the social and 
environment safeguards. This will include an agreed Environment and Social Safeguard Framework.  As 
well as providing details of procedures for dealing with land acquisition it will outline provisions for the 
development of an effective grievance redressal mechanism. The Government will secure provision of 
adequate funding to screen and monitor the social and environmental impacts during implementation.    
 
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
 
Applicable?
 
Safeguard Policy 
If Applicable, How Might It Apply? 
[x ] 
Environmental Assessment
 (
OP
/
BP
 4.01) 
 
 
[ ] 
Natural Habitats
 (
OP
/
BP
 4.04) 
 
 
[ ] 
Pest Management
 (
OP 4.09
) 
 
 
[TBD ] 
Involuntary Resettlement
 (
OP
/
BP
 4.12) 
 
The Project is unlikely to  involve any involuntary resettlement or to  trigger O.P.4.12.  
For road widening purposes small tracts of land may need to be acquired. For the 
construction of public buildings, government land will be used.  For land acquired for road 
widening purposes the Bank will seek assurances from the Government that  the principles 
of full compensation and livelihood restoration for affected persons will be applied and for 
other currently unanticipated purposes . An Environment and Social Safeguards 
Framework will be agreed with the Bank during Appraisal.
 
 
 
[TBD ] 
Indigenous Peoples
 (
OD 4.20
) 
OD 4.20 is not likely to apply. From available information the persons affected are not 
vulnerable ethnic minorities and are not scheduled as tribal people within the provisions of 
Iranian law.
 
 
 
[ ] 
Forests
 (
OP
/
BP
 4.36) 
 
 
[ ] 
Safety of Dams
 (
OP
/
BP
 4.37) 
 
 
[x ] 
Cultural Property
 (draft OP 4.11 - 
OPN 11.03
) 
In addition to the restoration efforts surrounding the Arg-e-Bam there may well be a need 
to assist in the repair of public buildings which have cultural and architectural value and 
which are not already listed, and which may be included in the proposed list of public 
buildings to be repaired.  The project will establish a proactive system to review and 
assess the cultural and architectural value of buildings before they are repaired or, in the 
worst case, torn down. The project will work closely with the appropriate organizations 
tasked with restoration of the cultural and architectural heritage.
 
 
 
Page  4
 
 
[ ] 
Projects in Disputed Areas
 (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.60)
*
 
 
 
[ ] 
Projects on International Waterways
 (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 
7.50) 
 
 
 
 
Environmental Assessment Category:
    
[ ] A   [X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
 
If TBD, explain determinants of classification and give steps that will be taken to determine that EA category 
(mandatory): 
 
III.  SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN 
 
A. 
Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD-stage ISDS would be prepared. 
 
B. 
For simple projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD-stage ISDS 
May 1, 2004 
 
C. 
Time frame for launching and completing the safeguard-related studies that may be needed.  The specific 
studies and their timing
1
 should be specified in the PAD-stage ISDS. 
 
      TBD 
 
IV.  APPROVALS 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
  
Task Team Leader: 
Sateh Chafic El-Arnaout 
 
Approved by: 
  
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Sherif Arif Kamel, MNSRE 
 
Comments 
Sector Manager: 
Hedi Larbi, MNSIF 
 
Comments 
 
 
Elena Gagieva 
P:\IRAN\IF\88060\prep\BERP - ISDS - Concept Stage 03-25-04.doc 
4/14/2004 3:56 PM
                                                          
 
*
 
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the
 
disputed areas
 
1
 
Reminder: The Bank's Disclosure Policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal (i) at the 
InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible to potentially af
fected 
persons.
 
 
