                                            Document of
                                         The WorldBank

                                    FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY


                                                                           ReportNo: T7637 - IR




                       TECHNICAL ANNEX FORA PROPOSEDLOAN
                                       OF US$220MILLION


                                                 TO


                               THE ISLAMIC REPUBLICOFIRAN


                                               FORA


          BAMEARTHQUAKE EMERGENCYRECONSTRUCTIONPROJECT


                                           October 5,2004




Finance,PrivateSector andInfrastructure
MiddleEast andNorthAfrica Department

This document has arestricteddistribution and may be usedbyrecipientsonly inthe performance
o ftheir official duties. Its contents mav not otherwise be disclosed without IBRDauthorization.

                       CurrencyEquivalents
              (Exchange Rate effective October 7, 2004)
                 Currency Unit: Iranian Rials (IRR)
                           Exchange Rate
                        US$I.OO= 8,565 IRR

                       Weights andMeasures
                       1meter (m)=3.228 feet
                    1kilometer (km)= 0.62 miles
                   1hectare (ha) =2.47 acres (ac)

                      Fiscal Year of Borrower
                        March21-March20

                   Abbreviations andAcronyms

BEERP    BamEarthquake Emergency ReconstructionProject
BGPTF    BamGuidance and Policy Task Force
BRO      BamReconstruction Office
BP       BankProcedures
BTF      BamProvincial Task Force
CQ       Consultants' Qualifications
EERP     Earthquake Emergency Recovery Project
FC       Financial Controller
FMR      Financial Monitoring Report
FMU      FinancialManagement Unit
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GO1      Government o f Iran
HF       HousingFoundationo fthe Islamic Revolution
IBRD     InternationalBank for Reconstructionand Development
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
ICHTO    Iranian Cultural Heritage and Tourism Organization
IFAC     InternationalFederation o fAccounts
IRCS     Iranian Red Crescent Society
w        Islamic Republic of Iran
I S      International Shopping
ISA      International StandardsonAuditing
ITC      IranTelecommunications Company
KTC      Kerman Telecommunications Company
MASC     Monitoringand Advisory Services Consultant
MOE      MinistryofEducation
MOEAF    MinistryofEconomic Affairs andFinance
MOHME    MinistryofHealthandMedicalEducation
MOI      MinistryofInterior
MICT     MinistryofInformationand CommunicationsTechnology
MORT     Ministry of Roads and Transportation

                                                              FOROFFICIAL USEONLY


                                                 ..
                                                 11



       MOU               Memorandum o f Understanding
       MPO               Management and Planning Organization
       N C B             National Competitive Bidding
       NCRNDI            National Committee for Reductiono f Natural Disasters' Impact
       NDTF              National Disaster Task Force
       NGO               Non-Govemmental Organization
       N S               National Shopping
       O&M               Operation and Maintenance
       OP                Operational Policy
       PAP               Project Affected Person
       PASC              Procurement Advisory Services Consultant
       PFS               Project Financial Statements
       QBS               Quality Based Selection
       QCBS              Quality and Cost Based Selection
       RAP               Resettlement Action Plan
        SA               Special Account
        SBD              StandardBiddingDocument
        SESAF            Social Environmental Screening and Assessment Framework
        SOE              Statement of Expenditures
        SW               Small Works
        TASC             Technical Advisory Services Consultant
        TCI              Telecommunication Company of Iran
        TOR              Terms o f Reference
        UN               UnitedNations
        UNDP             UnitedNations Development Programme
        UNESCO           UnitedNations Educational and Scientific and Cultural Organization




        Vice President:                            ChristiaanPoortman
        Country Director:                          Joseph Saba
        Sector Director:                           Emmanuel Forestier
        Sector Manager                             Hedi Larbi
        Task Team Leader:                          Sateh El-Amaout / MayumiKato




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


                                          ...
                                         111



              BAMEARTHQUAKEEMERGENCYRECOVERYPROJECT

                               TECHNICAL ANNEX

                                  Table o f Contents

SECTIONS                                                              Page

    I. BACKGROUNDTHEEARTHQUAKE
                        TO                                               1

    11.     IBRD'SRESPONSEAND STRATEGY                                  3

    111.    DETAILEDPROJECTDESCRIPTION      AND COSTESTIMATES           4

    Iv.     INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PROJECT                      6
            IMPLEMENTATION

    V.      ACTIONPLAN                                                  13


A T T A C H M E N T S

    1. DescriptionofProject Components andDetailedCost Estimates        17

    2. PerformanceMonitoringIndicators                                 41

    3. Project Implementation Arrangements                              43

    4. Terms of Reference for the BamReconstruction Office andthe       45
        Financial Management Unit

    5. Procurement Arrangements and Provisions                          61

    6. Procurement Plan                                                 69

    7. Disbursement andFinancialManagement Arrangements                 75

    8. Summary o f the Social andEnvironmentalSafeguards Screening      85
        andAssessment Framework

    9. Documents inthe Project Files                                    91


                                                 1


                     TECHNICAL ANNEX FORA PROPOSEDLOAN
                                    OF US$220 MILLION
                          TO THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OFIRAN
                                              FORA
         BAMEARTHQUAKEEMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTIONPROJECT



I.BACKGROUNDTOTHEEARTHQUAKE

1. Bam.Bam is a historical oasis city located inKerman Province inthe southeastern part o fthe
   country.   In 2003, the population of Bam District (consisting of Bam City, neighboring
   Baravat and Arg-e-Jadid towns and 900 surrounding villages) was equal to 200,000 while the
   population o f the city o f Bam alone numbered around 92,000 inhabitants.           Bam i s an
   important part o f Iran's history and i s internationally renown for its quality dates and rich
   cultural heritage. This includes the 2500-year old Arg-e-Bam citadel considered among the
   largest earthen structures inthe world.

2. December 26, 2003 Earthquake. A major earthquake registering 6.5 on the &chter scale
   devastated the Bam District on December 26, 2003. Latest estimates indicate that more than
   26,000 people were killed, 30,000 injured and up to 75,600 left homeless. A substantial
   number o f professional and managerial staff fi-om local civil service has also perished, thus
   makingit a human resource tragedy for the local governance.

3. Government Emergency Response in the Aftermath of the Earthquake. Search and
   rescue efforts were immediately mobilized by the Government o f Iran (GOI), through the
   National Committee for Reduction o f Natural Disasters' Impacts (NCRNDI) under the
   Ministry o f Interior (MOI) and the Iranian Red Crescent Society (IRCS).             The latter
   mobilized more than 8,500 relief workers and volunteers and launched large-scale rescue,
   evacuation and relief operations. The affected District was divided into fourteen zones, and
   relief and humanitarian assistance in each zone was assigned to a Provincial Government in
   the country.

4. Donor Support for RescueandReliefOperations. International agencies and more than 44
   countries have contributed to the rescue and relief operation. Both United Nations agencies
   and international non-governmental organizations (NGOs) have been in the field since the
   aftermath of the earthquake to support the Government in the immediate socio-economic
   concerns. In February 2004, and at the request o f the GOI, the International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) carried out also a damage assessment mission to
   Iran.

5. Damage incurred by the Earthquake.The earthquake destroyed 85% o f the buildings and
   severely affected infrastructure networks. The rich cultural heritage o f Bam, including Arg-e-
   Bam and 26 other cultural heritage sites suffered significant damage. The "Qanats"
   (traditional underground imgation systems) that were vital to the dates production`sustained
   severe damages. Preliminary figures o f damage were estimated to be equal to US$1.5 billion
   (direct damage: US$1.2billion, indirect damage: US$0.3 billion).

6. Disaster Management Capacity in Iran. Iran i s known to be one o f the most earthquake
  prone countries inthe world. With two major seismic belts, the entire country faces moderate
   to very high seismic risks. One runs along the Zagros Mountains in southem Iran, along the

                                                2


   Persian Gulf, while the other runs through northern Iran around the Caspian Sea. Inthe 20'
    century alone, twenty large earthquakes have claimed more than 140,000 lives, destroyed
   many villages and cities, and caused extensive economic damage to the country. Serious
   attention to emergency response and disaster management emerged after the 1990
   RashdGilan earthquake. In 1991, the Consultative Assembly assigned formal responsibilities
    for natural disasters management to the Ministry o f the Interior, which up to that time, were
   discharged by a special task force within the Office o fthe President.

   While the country's emergency response capacity has improved considerably, it remains
    insufficient should a major earthquake or a natural disaster occur in a large urban area, like
   Tehran. Better inter-agency coordination on all aspects (research, training and application)
   and all stages o f disaster management (prevention, relief, reconstruction) i s needed to enable
    smoother transition from relief to reconstruction, and to better prepare for future potential
   disasters.   Over the next five years, the UN system in Iran envisions to support the
   Government in developing and mainstreaming appropriate risk-reduction policies and
   practices beyond Bam to reduce the possibility o f similar catastrophes invulnerable cities.

   While the major focus remains on the physical reconstruction, the proposed project will
    address the emergency preparedness o f the Kerman Province. Broader capacity building
    activities will be implemented under the on-going Emergency Earthquake Recovery Project
    (EERP, Loan 4697-IRN) that aims at medium-to-long term strengthening the country's
   disaster management system.

    Special institutional set-up for the reconstruction of Bam. While relief efforts were
   coordinated through the MOIbased on the above structure, the Govemment created the Bam
   Guidance and Policy Task Force (BGPTF) that i s charged with issuingpolicy guidelines, as
    well as planning and supervising the reconstruction efforts. This Task Force comprises the
   Minister o f Housing and Urban Development (Chairman), the head o f the Management and
   Planning Organization (MPO), three representatives o f the president, the Minister o f Interior,
   the Minister o f Economic Affairs and Finance, the Minister o f Culture and Islamic Guidance,
   the president o f the Iranian Red Crescent Society, the president o f the Housing Foundation o f
    the Islamic Revolution and the Kerman Governor-General.

10. Three subcommittees were created. These include: (i) Internal Aid Committee; (ii)
                                                             the                                the
   InternationalAid Committee; and (iii)    the Reconstruction Planning Committee. The first two
    committees are headed by the Minister o f Economic Affairs and Finance, whereas, the third
    committee i s chaired by the Head o f the Housing Foundation and acts as the executive arm o f
   the Task Force. At the local level, the "Bam Provincial Reconstruction Task Force" was
    formed and i s composed of the Governor-General (Chairman), the head o f the province's
    MPO office, the head o f the province's Housing and Urban Development Organization, the
    Managing Director o f the province's Housing Foundation (HF), the Head o f the province's
   Economic Affairs and Finance Organization, the Managing Director o f the Cultural Heritage
    Organization o f the province, Bam's Govemor, Bam's Mayor and the Head o f Bam's Islamic
    City Council.    Identification, preparation and implementation o f the reconstruction works
   was carried out by the sectors and utilities concerned under the coordination o f the above
   Task Force.

                                                               3


11.IBRD'SRESPONSE AND STRATEGY

11. The IBRD has significant global and country-specific experience inpost-disaster emergency
    reconstruction. Over the past two decades, the IBRD's financing for post-disaster recovery
    projects amounts to US$40 billion and has accumulated a strong knowledge base to promote
    strategic approaches to disaster risk and the integration o f disaster risk management into the
    development process. In Iran, between 1992 and 2002, three reconstruction projects were
    prepared with a total lending value equal to US$487 million'. The projects covered both
    reconstruction investments and technical assistance programs aimed at improving disaster
    management capacity o f the Government.

12. Lessons from previous IBRD involvement. The main lesson learned from recent
    emergency lending operations by the IBRD i s that the project objectives should be realistic
    and focused on achieving rapid resumption o f economic and social activities. Projects that
    have successfully achieved their objectives had simple design, relied on already existing
    institutions and were not burdened with macro-conditionality. Furthermore, considering that
    emergency projects are prepared on an accelerated schedule, rigorous independent auditing
    and evolving monitoring and evaluation systems are to be plannedand budgeted for.

13. The design o f the project incorporates lessons drawn from past and on-going IBRD-financed
    emergency projects in Iran. They are: Sistan River Flood Works Rehabilitation Project
    (LN3478-JRN, October 1992 - June 2000, US$57 million), the Earthquake Emergency
    Response Project (LN3301-IRN, March 1991 - June 1996, US$250 million) and the on-
    going Earthquake Emergency Recovery Project (EERF', LN 4697-IRN, US$180 million).
    The first two projects were rated satisfactory by OED. Disbursements were slower than
    expected due to implementationsdelays, and the loans closed 2 to 3 years beyond the original
    schedule.        The on-going EERP has accumulated delays o f about 6 months. Key lessons
    learned &om previous projects were integrated into the design o f the this project and are
    summarized inTable-1.It i s also expected that, with the opening o f the Bank liaison office in
    Tehran in FY05, and the recruitment o f a local fiduciary team, implementation issues will be
    further addressed.

                     Table-1 LessonsLearnedfrom Previous Projectsand Mitigation Measures

              FactorsContributingto Delay                            MeasuresIncorporatedinthe Project Design
0 Differences     between the national procurement                 Use o f the same standard documents (National
  regulations and IBRD's procurement guidelines,                    Competitive Bidding (NCB) works and International
  contributing to delay in the finalization of bidding              Competitive Bidding (ICB) goods) preparedunder the
  documents.                                                       on-goingEERPthat addressesthis difference.


0 Lack     of     inter-agency    coordination        in   the     Creation o f a strong project management unit (i.e.
  implementationof the reconstructionprograms.                     Bam Reconstruction Office (BRO)) with adequate
                                                                   staffing under effective leadership, reporting directly
                                                                   to the key decision-makers.


0 Unfamiliarity of the implementation agencies on the              Recruitment of a Procurement Coordinator at the
  IBRDprocurementandfiduciary procedures.                          BRO.

                                                                   Recruitment of a Procurement Advisory Services
                                                                   Consultant responsible for procurement management
                                                                   under theproject.

' They are: Sistan River Flood Rehabilitation Project (LN3478-IRN, US$57 million), the Earthquake Emergency Response Project
(LN3301-IRN, US250 million) and on-going Earthquake Emergency Recovery Project (LN4697-IRN, US$I80 million).

                                                          4



 Delay in authorizing payment and disbursement.                Appointment o f a dedicated Financial Controller for
                                                               the project and the establishment of the Financial
                                                               Management Unit,next to BRO.

 Delay in allocating counterpart financing (both revenue       For this project,    the Govemment has already
 and expenditure lines).                                       committed the budget resources for the counterpart




111.DETAILEDPROJECTDESCFUPTION COSTESTIMATES     AND

14. The GO1has formulated a comprehensive reconstruction program that focuses on the priority
    reconstruction needs o f the District o f Bam. The program aims at restoring the basic living
    conditions including the provision o f key social and economic services inthe affected region.
    The funding o f the reconstruction program relies primarily on Government financing as well
    as support from the World Bank, the Japan Bank for International Cooperation, the Islamic
    Development Bank and countries from the Persian Gulf and Europe. Government
    contribution to the overall construction program exceeds US$200 million. The Bank-financed
    elements o f the comprehensive reconstruction program constitute the BEERP. Activities
    retained under the Bank-financed project were selected based on: (i)efficiency o f
    implementation; and (ii)      strategic focus (refer to Table-2).

                        Table-2 CriteriaAdoptedfor the Selection of ProjectActivities

Criteria                        Description
Efficiencyof                    Activities that are:
Implementation:                     Simple and could be implemented immediately;
                                    Independent from prior pre-investments and parallel donor financing;
                                    Require minimal land expropriation or resettlement;
                                    Linked to a minimal number o f Govemment agencies.

StrategicFocus:                 Activities that contribute to:
                                    Strengthening the management o f implementation o f the comprehensive
                                    reconstruction program through the establishment o f the Bam Reconstruction
                                    Office;
                                    Addressing the shelter needs o f the affected population through the provision o f
                                    construction material and equipment for housing and commercial buildings;
                                    Reconnecting the city o f Bam with the rest o f Iran through the repair o f the
                                    transport and telecommunications infrastructure;
                                    Restoring confidence & hope to the local population through improved
                                    emergency preparedness inthe Province o f Kerman and the District o f Bam.

15. Considering the comprehensive and complex nature of the reconstruction program, the
    project will assist the GO1in program management, coordination and implementation. This
    will be achieved through the establishment by the GO1o f the BRO that will act as the "one-
    stop" coordination unit for project management and donor coordination. The BRO staff and
    experts will be financed under the project.

16. Project Objectives. The objectives o f the BEERP are to: (a) restore the living conditions o f
    the communities affected by the earthquake; (b) improve emergency preparedness in the
    Province o f Kerman and the city o f Bam; and (c) strengthen the planning and management
    capacity under the reconstructionprogram. Considering the complexity o f the reconstruction
    efforts and taking into account the Bank's country and international experience in earthquake

                                                         5


   projects, the project will be implemented over afour (4) years period. Also, project activities
   will be simple, independent from pre-investments and will require limited land expropriation
   efforts. Achieving the above objectives will be carried out through the activities listed in
   Table-3.


                         Table-3 Project Objectives and Corresponding Project Activities

Objectives                           Project Activities
Objective-1:
          Restoringthe living        (a) Provision o f equipment and construction material for housing and
          conditions o f the             commercial buildings;
          communities affected       (b) Repair o fthe transport infrastructure;
          by the earthquake:         (c) Repair o fthe telecommunications infrastructure.

Objective-2:
          Improving emergency        (a) Retrofitting o f strategic emergency response buildings in the Kerman
          preparedness inthe             Province;
          Province o f Kerman        (b) Purchase o femergency response vehicles for the District ofBam.
          and the city o f Bam:

Objective-3:
          Strengthening the          (a) Establishment o f the "Bam Reconstruction Office;
          planning and               (b) The provision o ftechnical assistance.
          management o f the
          reconstruction program:

17. ProjectDescriptionand CostsThe total cost o fthe proposed Project is estimated to be equal
    to US$235 million, o f which US$220 million will be financedby an IBRDLoan, with GOI's
    counterpart funding equal to US$15 million. The project objectives will be met through the
    five components described below. The project cost and Bank financing is included inTable-4
    and further details on the project components are included inAttachment-1.

18. Component-A- Provision of Construction Material and Equipment for Housing and
    Commercial Buildinas: This component will finance the procurement of: (i)construction
    material (steel bars, steel components for frames and Portland cement) for housing and
    commercialbuildings; (ii)      construction equipment; and (iii) and supervision activities.
                                                                             design

19. Component-B- Reuair of the Transport Infrastructure: This component will finance: (i)                   the
    rehabilitation and preventive works for the main highway linking Bam with the provincial
    capital city o f Kerman; (ii)    the rehabilitation and reconstructiono f the Bam Airport facilities;
    (iii) rehabilitationandpavingofvillagestreets;and(iv)designandsupervisionactivities.
         the

20. Component-C- Reuair of the Telecommunications Infrastructure: This component will
    finance: (i)the repair and reconstruction o f telecommunication center buildings; (ii)                  the
    reconstruction o f the transmission networks; (iii)         reconstructionand expansion o f mobile and
    data services; and (iv) design and supervision activities.

21. Component-D- Imuroved Emernencv Preparedness in the Province of Kerman and the
   District of Bum: This component will finance: (i)retrofitting works o f strategic emergency
    response buildings in the Province o f Kerman; (ii)the provision o f emergency response
    vehicles for the District o f Bam (fire fighting trucks and ambulances) to replace equipment
    lost duringthe earthquake ;;and (iii)       risk assessment and design and supervision activities.

                                                       6


22. Component-E- Project Management and Technical Assistance: This component supports
    (i) managementthroughtheestablishmentoftheBRO;and(ii)
       project                                                                   technical assistance to
    the BRO, aiming at assisting project implementation and improving project management
    capacity through the procurement o f consulting firms for "Procurement Advisory Services"
    and "Monitoring Advisory Services" and the recruitment o f consulting firms and individuals
    for "Technical Advisory Services Assistance will be provided to BRO for the supervision o f
                                           ".
    the project's performance monitoring indicators that are included inAttachment-2.


                                    Table-4 ProjectCost and BankFinancing

Component                                                               ProjectCost     Bank Financing
                                                                        US%million           US%million
Component-A: Provisionof Equipment and Construction Material for             150.00               150.00
Housingand Commercial Buildings.
Component-B: Repair o f the Transport Infrastructure                          29.32                22.35
Component-C: Repair o f the Telecommunications Infrastructure                 12.10                11.45
Component-D: Improved Emergency Preparedness inthe Province o f               10.00                 8.39
Kerman and the District o f Bam
Component-E: Project Management & Technical Assistance                         7.80                 5.85

                             BaselineCost                                    209.22               198.04
                Physicaland PriceContingencies                                24.68                20.86
                            Front EndFee                                       1-10                 1.10

                    TOTAL PROJECT COST                                       235.00               220.00



IV.     INSTITUTIONAL IMPLEMENTATION
                              ARRANGEMENTS         ANDPROJECT

23. Policy-making. The overall responsibility for the reconstruction o f Bam i s entrusted by the
    Govemment o f Iran to the inter-ministerial BGPTF chaired by the Minister o f Housing and
    Urban Development. Reporting to this policy-malung body i s the Reconstruction Planning
    Sub-committee, chaired by the President o f the HF which serves as the Technical Secretariat
    for the implementation o f the reconstruction program. At the provincial level, the BTF
    headed by the Govemor o f the Province o f Kerman i s responsible for the coordination o f
    program implementation.

24. Project ImplementationArrangements. The project will be implemented by the HF, line
    ministries and other specialized agencies o f the Govemment. Project management support
    will be provided through the BRO that will be set-up under the ReconstructionPlanning Sub-
    committee at the HF as shown inAttachment-3. The BRO will be responsible for the overall
    contract management, coordination and procurement assistance to project implementation
    agencies; as well as the supervision and monitoring o f implementation progress. The BRO
    will play an oversight function to ensure the adherence o f the implementing agencies to the
    safeguard policies and to the implementation o f relevant mitigation measures. The mission
    discussed the overall staffing o f BRO and agreed on the need to establish offices in both
    Tehran and Bam. The BRO will be composed o f 13 stafc 6 based in Tehran and 7 in Bam as
    shown inAttachment-4.

25, Implementation Agencies. Procurement will be the responsibility o f the participating
    implementation agencies. However, all payment transactions will be processed at the

                                                    7




Component                                                Agency
Component-A: Provision ofConstruction material and       Housing Foundation o f Islamic Revolution
equipment for housing and commercial buildings

Component-B: Repair ofthe Transport Infrastructure

(i).Bam-Kerman Highway                                   General Office (GO) of the Ministry o f Roads and
                                                         Transportation (MORT) in the Kerman Province

(ii). Airport
     Bam                                                 Airport Authority of Kerman

(iii) Streets
     Village                                             HousingFoundation o f Islamic Revolution

Component-C: Repair ofthe Telecommunications             Telecommunication Company o f Iran(TCI)
Infrastructure
Component-D: ImprovedEmergency Preparedness inthe        Provincial Govemment of Kerman and provincial
Province of Kerman and District o f Bam                  offices of participating sector ministries.

Component-E:Project Management andTechnical              BRO
Assistance

26. Procurement Arrangements. Procurement for the proposed project will be carried out in
    accordance with the World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA
    Credits" dated May 2004; and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by
    World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004, and the provisions stipulated in the Loan
    Agreement (LA). The Procurement Plan will be updated at least annually or as required to
    reflect the actual project implementation needs. A General Procurement Notice o f bidding
    opportunities and consultants' contracts was advertised in the UNDevelopment Business on
    July 28, 2004 andwill be updatedannually for all outstanding procurement.

27. Special Procurement Provisions. Iranian procurement procedures needs to be reconciled
    with and adapted to Bank requirements under the procurement guidelines, irrespective o f
    adequate capacity o f implementing agencies to handle procurement and adequate control
    organizations in the country.        In particular, the Bank's procedures need to be applied
    according to a number o f Procurement Arrangements and Provisions (PAP) to be included as
    integral part o f the LA. The detailed PAP are attached inAttachment-5.A Memorandum o f
    Understanding (MOU) between the Bank and GO1i s expected to be finalized by November
    2004. The MOU defines the procurement provisions that all Bank financed project should
    follow mainly with regards to procurement activities that are based on the Iranian public
    procurement system.

28. Procurement of Works. Works procured under this project, would include: (i)                  rehabilitation
    of the 190 km long Kerman-Bam highway; (ii)rehabilitation o f the Bam civil airport
    including reconstruction o f the control tower, o f technical buildings and o f ancillary
    buildings; (iii) reconstruction o f about 20 km of village streets; (iv) a pilot program for the
    structural retrofitting o f public buildings; and (v) rehabilitatiodreconstruction o f
    telecommunication buildings. The procurement will be done using the Bank's Standard
    BiddingDocuments (SBD) for all ICB and National SBD agreed with (or satisfactory to) the
    Bank.

                                                 8


29. Procurement of Goods. Goods procured under this project would include: (i)        construction
   materials (steel rebars, steel components for house frames, Portland cement); (ii) construction
    equipment;     (iii)communication       and   navigation    equipment     for  Bam      airport;
    (iv) telecommunication equipment; (v) emergency response equipment; and (vi) office
    equipment and furniture. The procurement will be done usingBank's SBD for all ICB and
   National SBD agreed with (or satisfactory to) the Bank.

30. Selection of Consultants. The project will require consulting services in the fields o f
    (i) Procurement Advisory Services, including follow up and advice in contract management
    and certification o f payments; (ii)Monitoring Advisory Services, including technical audit;
    (iii)Technical Advisory Services, to be provided mostly by individuals in the fields o f urban
   planning, social and environmental safeguards, etc.; (iv) consulting services for risk
    assessment and for design and supervision o f the pilot structural retrofitting program;
    (v) individual consultants (nationals) hired to staff the BRO for the duration o f the project;
    and (vi) consulting services for design and supervision o f all civil works. Short lists o f
   consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be
    composed entirely o f national consultants in accordance with the provisions o f paragraph 2.7
    o f the Consultant Guidelines.

31. Assessmentof the ProcurementCapacity of the HousingFoundation.The HF will be the
    agency in charge o f overall coordination and supervision o f the reconstruction activities. As
    such, the HF through BRO, will be directly responsible for managing procurement activities
    for its own urbanreconstruction component. Procurement activities for other components will
   be carried out by the line ministries or agencies responsible, like General Office o f Kerman o f
    the Ministryo f Roads and Transport, etc.

32. An assessment o f the capacity o f the Implementing Agencies to implement procurement
    actions for the project was carried out between March and June 2004. The assessment
    reviewed the organizational structure for implementing the project and the procurement
    capacity at the HF. The latter was found to be generally adequate for normal procurement
   needs under GOI's procurement laws and regulations. However,             this was found to be
    inadequate for managing procurement activities in compliance with IBRD's Guidelines and
   procedures.

33. Most o f the issues/ risks concerning the procurement component for implementation o f the
    project have been identified and include: (i) systemic issues o f divergences between national
    legislation and Bank Guidelines and procedures; (ii)      limited experience of, international
    public procurement practices, particularly in the application o f principles o f transparency;
    (iii) forenhancedintegrationofprocurementandtechnicalcapacitiesfortheproduction
         need
    o f generic specification and quantifiable evaluation criteria; (iv) limited exposure to Bank
    Guidelines and procurement practices; and (v) poor command o f the Englishlanguage.

34. The mitigation measures which have beenincorporated into the project design consist of:

             0  The BRO, in addition to carrying out procurement for the components under the
                responsibility o f HF, will be responsible for providing advisory services and
                supervision o f procurement and contract management to the other agencies and
                institutions implementing the other project components.        In other words, the
                BRO will carry overall responsibility for quality assurance and compliance with
                LA procurement provisions for all component o fthe Project;

                                                  9


              0  Strengthening BRO's procurement capacity by hiringa Procurement Coordinator
                 with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank. In particular, the
                 candidate should be able to communicate effectively inEnglish;


              0  Employing a highly qualified consulting firm to provide PASC to the BRO inthe
                 management o f procurement activities, preparation o f bidding documents,
                 assistance to other implementation agencies in the above activities, and
                 management o f reconstructionhehabilitation contracts carried out by other
                 agencies, including certification o f payment applications. The Draft TOR for the
                 services o fthe PASC are included inAttachment-5.

35. Based on the existing information on the overall environment for procurement and in
   particular the approach to procurement under IBRD financed projects and the procurement
    capacity assessment o f the HF/BRO,the overall procurement risk assessment i sjudged to be
   high.As a result, the Borrower, for the first time under a Bankproject, has agreed to use part
    o f the loan proceeds to recruit an international procurement services consultant.

36. Procurement Plan. The Borrower, at appraisal, developed a Procurement Plan for project
    implementation which provides the basis for the procurement methods (Attachment-6). This
   plan was reviewed and agreed upon during project appraisal. It i s available at the HF and the
    BRO offices inTehran and will be also available inthe Project's database and inthe Bank's
    extemal website. The Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement with the Project Team
    on an annual basis or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs.

37. Frequency of Procurement Supervision. In addition to prior review, supervision to be
    carried out from Bank offices, the capacity assessment o f the Implementing Agency has
   recommended three supervision missions the for first year o f implementation and two full
    supervision missions per year afterwards during which post-reviews o f procurement will be
    carried out.



FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT

38. Risk Assessment and Mitigation Summary. The financial risks associated with this
    operation are considered high due to the: (i)      limited knowledge by the Bank team o f the
    procedures governing the emergency budget addendum under which the project will be
    implemented; (ii)   risk o f poor information transfer between Bam and Tehran on material
    delivery and distribution; (iii) limited warehousing and distribution facilities in Bam for the
    construction material purchased; and (iv) tracking the large number o f beneficiaries receiving
    construction material vouchers. Part o f the above risks were mitigated through the project
    design while others will require close supervision.

39. The following mitigation measures were introducedinto the project design. These include:

    0    The establishment o f the BRO inTehran and Bam to provide the required support and to
         validate any information neededby the FMUinTehran;
    0    The HF, being the agency implementing the purchase o f construction material has
         developed warehousing and distribution systems capable o f tracking the delivery process.
         Also, contracts for delivery o f construction materials will stipulate different delivery
         dates;

                                                10


    0    The BRO office inBam will be staffed with communications and legal officers to follow-
         up on any public complaints.

40. Financial Management Arrangements. The financial management functions will be
    centralized at the FMUthat will be located at the HF and reportingto the BPGTF. The FMU
    will be responsible for project disbursements inaccordance with the appropriate policies and
   procedures o f the World Bank. All payments will be subject to the applicable controls, rules
    and regulations o f Iran in addition to the BRO verification and approval.        A full time
    Financial Controller (FC) will be assigned by the Ministry o f Finance to the FMU. An
    Accountant will be recruited to the FMU in order to assist the F C with the accounting tasks
    and the preparation o f withdrawal applications.     Also, an accounting system capable o f
    generating timely project reports will be established at the FMU.

41. The FMU will maintain records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format
    acceptable to the World Bank. These shall reflect the operations, resources and expenditures
   related to the Loaflroject execution. Also, the FMU will maintain supporting documents
    supporting documents for all expenditures including those that are paid for fiom the Special
    Account. The records should reflect all categories o f withdrawals such as replenishments to
    the Special Account, reimbursements with SOEs and/or summary sheets with supporting
    documents, direct payments, and payments against Special Commitments issuedby the Bank.

42. The IBRD Loan will be provided to the Islamic Republic o f Iran who will allocate the loan
    proceeds, on-grant basis, to the HF and the respective Government agencies. Also, the GO1
    will provide the counterpart funding, to the various ministries or organizations implementing
    the project. To ensure that funds are readily available for project implementation and
    following the Central Bank authorization, two accounts will be opened at a commercial bank
    and will be operated by the FMU. One account will be the project SA, denominated in U S
    Dollars, while the second will be in local currency and will deposit the project counterpart
    funds. The FMU will maintain and operate an accounting system to generate the quarterly
    Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs). The FMU staff will be subject to training in Bank
    guidelines and procedures. A detailed description o f the financial management arrangements
    i s included inAttachment-7.

43. Auditing Arrangements. The records, accounts and financial statements o f the Project and
    the records and accounts for the SA for each fiscal year will be audited. This will be carried
    out in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by
    independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Audited Financial Statements will be submitted
    to the World Bank as soon they become available but not later than six months after the end
    of the fiscal year. In fulfillment o f the LA, the Governing Body will engage a qualified
    independent audit firm according to terms of reference and scope o f work acceptable to the
    World Bank. The cost o f the audit will not be financed from the loan proceeds.

DisbursementArrangements.

44. Retroactive financing. Payments made for expenditures prior to the Loan signature date but
    after August 25,2004 in an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent o f US$40,000,000
    will be reimbursed to the Government upon presentation o f a withdrawal application with
    supporting documents and/or Statement o f Expenditures (SOEs).

45. Use of Statements of Expenditures. SOEs will be used for all expenditures for: (i)     works
    under contracts costing less than US$ 500,000 equivalent each; (ii) under contracts
                                                                            goods

                                                                 11


      costing less than US$250,000; (iii)              services under consultant firms contracts costing less than
      US$lOO,OOO equivalent each and under individual consultant contracts costing less than
      US$50,000 equivalent each; under such terms and conditions as the IBRD shall specifL by
      notice to the Borrower.

46. SpecialAccount. The SA will have an authorized allocation o f US$10 million and an initial
      deposit o f US$5 million, while the full allocation may be claimed when disbursements and
      special commitments reach US$30 million. Replenishment o f the SA would follow IBRD's
      procedures, and a bank's statement o f SA transactions would support all replenishment
      applications. The minimum amount for applications regarding direct payments and special
      commitments would be 20% o f the respective authorized allocations to the SA.

SAFEGUARDS

47. Environmental Aspects. The overall environmental impact o f the proposed project i s
      expected to be positive in that it supports the restoration o f necessary infrastructure in areas
      heavily damaged by the earthquake. Potentiallynegative environmental impacts are primarily
      associated with the construction works, such as land clearing, disposal o f debris and worker
      safety. Investments identified under the IBRD financing will only include reconstruction o f
      core units and will not involve major expansion o f space2nor invasion into green areas. The
      Project does not finance investments related to solid waste management facilities.

48. To ensure full compliance with the IBRD's environmental and social safeguard requirements,
      and based on the best-practice models in similar earthquake recovery operations, a Social and
      Environmental Screening and Assessment Framework (SESAF) was finalized during
      appraisal (refer to Attachment-8). MASC will be financed under Component-E o f the
      project and will provide monitoring support to BROthroughout the project duration.

49. The Project i s rated as a category "B", which requires the preparation o f an Environmental
      Assessment (EA) under OP.4.01. Under normal IBRD processing, official receipt and
      clearance o f the EA by the IBRDand public disclosure o f the EA both inIran and the IBRD's
      Info shop i s a prerequisite for appraisal.                 Given the emergency nature of the Project, an
      exemption from the application o f the above rule was obtained. As a result, the SESAF was
      disclosed inlocal language (Farsi) inIran and at the Bank prior to Board presentation. During
      Project implementation, all proposed projects will be screened to ensure that environmental
      and social risks, if any, could be adequately addressed through the application o f the
      standardized guidelines o fpracticeprovided for under the SESAF.

50. Social Aspects. The social impacts o f the earthquake have been considerable. The main
      social concern is restoring livelihoods o f people as rapidly as possible. Given the
      comprehensive nature and citywide scale o f the reconstruction program, the following social
      safeguard policies may be triggered: Cultural Property (OPN. 11.03) and Involuntary
      Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12). OP 4.20 on indigenous peoples does not apply because persons
      affected by the project are neither vulnerable ethnic minority nor scheduled as tribal people
      withinthe provisions o fIranianlaw.

51. CulturalProperty (OPN. 11.03) The Project does not finance works related to the cultural
      heritage sites in Bam. However, during the planned infrastructure works, caution should be


  For example, retrofitting works will aim at providingnecessary structural reinforcementto the existingbuildings (selection to be
finalizedduringthe StrategicAssessment Study) to be seismic-resistantand will not involve major expansion ofthe buildings.

                                                   12


    taken by the BRO and the implementation agencies to ensure protection o f the cultural
    heritage sites in case o f chance-finds. The above-mentioned SESAF includes guidelines on
    chance-finds procedures to be reinforced in all civil works. The project will liaise closely
    with the appropriate organizations such as United Nations Educational, Scientific and
    Cultural Organization (UNESCO) specialized in restoration o f the cultural and architectural
    heritage

52. InvoluntaryResettlement (OP/BP 4.12). The Project i s not directly engaged in the physical
    reconstruction efforts. It finances, however, the provision o f equipment and construction
    material for the reconstruction o f housing and commercial buildings, and therefore, the
    chance o f triggering OP/BP 4.12 i s minimum.However given the large-scale reconstruction
    activities during the project period, possible triggering OP/BP 4.12 should not be totally ruled
    out. As a proactive measure, the above-mentioned SESAF has included guidelines to ensure
    application o f OPBP 4.12.

53. The GO1has agreed to consult the Bank when relocations involve more than 25 families, and
   has agreed to implement the principles o f full compensation and livelihood restorationfor any
    Project Affected Person (PAP). This includes any person who, on account o f the execution o f
    the Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused
    by the involuntary taking o f land resulting in: (i)   relocation or loss o f shelter; (ii) o f
                                                                                              loss
    assets or access to assets; or (iii)loss o f income sources or means o f livelihood, whether or
   not such person must move to another location, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood
    o f such person, provided that such person should have before the occurrence o f the
    Earthquake, either: (i) formal legal rights to land, including customary and traditional rights
    recognizedunder the laws o f the Borrower; or (ii) to such land or assets, provided that
                                                         claims
    such claims are recognized under the laws o f the Borrower, or become recognized through a
    process identified in the Resettlement Action Plan (RAP). The GO1will review relocations
    on a case-by-case basis and will provide information to the Bank about any secondary
    displacement that has occurred to date. The Go1will review additional cases as they arise and
    ascertain that agreed procedures for resettlement and rehabilitation are being followed. Based
    on the agreed principles provided in the SESAF, a land acquisition data sheet will be
   prepared and agreed with the Bank duringthe first six months o f implementation.

54. If land acquisition is necessary, the GO1will inform the Bank and prepare an appropriate
    RAP to ensure from the Government that the principles o f full compensation and livelihood
   restoration for affected persons will be applied. If private land is needed for
    relocatiodreconstruction land will be purchased on the principle o f willing seller-willing
    buyer. Decisions about land acquisition will be taken only after full consultation with the
    affected people and full disclosure o f information and entitlements. The owners and
    occupants o f the acquired land would be eligible for support based on the Bank's policy on
    Involuntary Resettlement. The GO1would work with agencies experienced in working with
    local populations to ensure proper consultation, compensation and relocation assistance to the
    displaced persons. In addition to providing details o f procedures for dealing with land
    acquisition and entitlement, the SESAF will outline provisions for the development o f an
    effective grievance redressing mechanism.

55. Local Consultation. In order to ensure effective participation o f affected communities,
    especially the most vulnerable groups, a communication strategy will be finalized and agreed
   upon with the Borrower during the first six months o f Project implementation. The strategy
   presents the consultation process among different stakeholders (project implementation
    agencies, local governments, community leaders, NGOs, women, youth and children). Also,

                                                  13


    a Sr. Social Officer and Sr. Legal Officer will be hired at BRO under the project in order to
    implement the Communication Strategy and the SESAF. They will also ensure: (i)       the timely
    consultation o f the affected population; (ii)the early identification o f social safeguard
    concerns; and (iii)  the sound implementation o frelevant mitigation measures.

56. UrbanPlanning. InApril 2004, the HighCouncil o f Urban Planning and Architecture at the
    MHUDapproved the Structural Plan (2015) for the city of Bam. Duringproject preparation,
    IBRD experts reviewedthe draft Plan and presented comments to the GOI. Among the key
   recommendations were the protection o f buffer zones and the minimization o f potential
   resettlement and land expropriation. These have since been incorporated into the Plan. The
    GO1intends to proceed with the preparation o f the detailed city plans and, provision is made
   under Component-E of the BEERP to provide technical assistance to the GO1 (on needs-
   basis) to ensure coherence between the city plans and the reconstruction efforts (i.e. interms
    o f location, sequence, compliance with design ordinances and buildingcodes).

57. Supervision. This project willjustify intense supervision. Inaddition to prior review, three
    full supervision missions are planned for the first year of implementation and two full
    supervision missions will be conducted each year in the field thereafter during which post-
   reviews o fprocurement will be carried out.

V. ACTIONPLAN

58. The following actions were taken by the GO1prior to Loan negotiations:

           (a) At the Project Management Level: establish and nominate the core staff o f the
               BRO offices in Tehran and Bam according to World Bank procedures and
               guidelines for the selection o f individual consultants. The core staff includes: the
               Director, the Sr. Technical Officer and the Sr. Procurement Coordinator inTehran;
               and the Manager, the two Sr. Technical Officers inBam.

           (b) At the Procurement Level: (9 publish the Expression o f Interest for the PASC
               consulting firm under the project; (ii) prepare and submit the Procurement Plan for
               the first 18 months o f project implementation.

           (c) At the Financial Management Level: (i)nominate a fully dedicated Financial
               Controller to the project; and (ii)  nominate a Project Accountant to the FMU to
               assist the Financial Controller.

59. The following actions were completedby the GO1prior to Board presentation:

           (a) At the Project Management Level: Nominate the remaining non-core staff o f the
               BRO offices in Tehran and Bam according to World Bank procedures and
               guidelines for the selection o f individual consultants.

           (b) At the Procurement Level: Short-list firms and send invitation for "Request for
               Proposals" for the PASC under the project.

           (c) At the Safeguards Level: Submit to the World Bank and disclose the SESAF at the
               MEAF;the HF;the Governorate o fKerman; and the Municipality ofBaminIran.

                                              14


                                                                                     SCHEDULE A


                           TABLEA: PROJECTSUMMARY COST

Component                                           Local        Foreign     Project Cost
                                                                             US$ million
Component-A: Provision o f Construction Material          0.20        149.80         150.00
and Equipmentfor Housingand Commercial
Buildings

Component-B: Repair ofthe Transport                      24.06         5.26           29.32
Infrastructure
Component-C: Repair o f the Telecommunications            1.04         11.06          12.10
Infrastructure

Component-D: Improved Emergency Preparedness             4.30          5.70           10.00
inthe Province of Kermanand the District ofBam

Component-E: Project Management and                       3.84         3.96            7.80
Technical Assistance

                  BaselineCost                           33.44        175.78         209.22
         Physicaland Price Contingencies                  4.94         19.74.         24.68
                 Front EndFee                                           1.10            1.10
            TOTAL PROJECT COST                           38.38        196.62         235.00
                   Financing:
                 Go1                                      2.45         12.55          15.00
                 IBRD                                    35.93        184.07         220.00

                 Total                                   38.38        196.62         235.00




                         TABLE ESTIMATED
                                 B:               SCHEDULE OFDISBURSEMENT




 Cumulative Total                   33          88        165        198         220

 CumulativePerfenPTotal            15%         49%       75%2*   , j 95%<       loOo/o"*
                                                                -   >        " *




          Project Implementation Period:       December 31,2004 December 31,2008
                                                                 -
             Expected Effectiveness Date:      February 15,2005
             Expected Loan Closing Date:       May31, 2009

                               15


                                                                    ScheduleB
                   TABLE DISBURSEMENT
                         B:          ARRANGEMENTS




                                                              Yo of
                                                         Expenditures
                                                        to be Financed

Civil works                     25,540,000          75%

Goods:                                        100%of foreign
                                              expenditures, 100%of
                                              localexpenditures (ex-
                                              factory cost) and 80% of
                                              localexpenditures for items
                                             procured locally

      (a) for PartsA, B, C,     161,400,000
          andDofthe Projec

      (b) for PartEofthe           200,000
          Project

Consultants' services and                     88% of local expenditures
training:                                     for services of consulting
                                              fums andindividuals
                                              domiciled within the
                                              territory of the borrower
                                              and 95% for foreign
                                              expenditures.
      (a) for PartsA, B, C,       5,250,000
          and D ofthe Projec

      (b) for PartE ofthe        5,650,000
          Project
                                              Amount due under
Fee                               1,100,000   Section2.04 ofthe LA


Unallocated                      20,860,000


      TOTAL                     220,000,000

16

                            17


               ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OFIRAN
BAMEARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTIONPROJECT




                      ATTACHMENT-1:

  DescriptionofProjectComponents and DetailedCostEstimates

                                                                 18


                                           ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
            BAMEARTHQUAKEEMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
                                                    DetailedProjectCosts


                                           Component                                    Procurement Total Cost  IBRDfinancing
                                                                                         category

                                                                                                    JS$million
.Provision of Equipment and Construction Materialfor Housing and Commercial Buildings  I             150.00          150.00
   1.l- ConstructionMaterial                                                                         110.00    IO0   110.00
   1.2-ConstructionEquipment                                                                           40.00   IO0    40.00
.Repairof Transport Infrastructure                                                                     29.32          22.35
  2.1- Repairof the Kenan-Bam Highway                                                                  21.00    75    15.75

   2.2- Repairof the BamAirport                                                                        3.80     75     2.85
                                                                                                       0.30    IO0     0.30
   2.3- Repairof the Village Streets                                                                   2.05     75     1.54
   2.4- EngineeringDesignsand Construction Supervision                                                 2.17     88     1.91
.Repair of Telecommunications Infrastructure                                                           12.10          11.45
   3.1- Reconstructionof the Telecommunications Buildings                                              2.20     75     1.65

   3.2- Repair of the TransmissionNetworks                                                             7.10    100     7.10
   3.3- Expansionof Mobile and Data Services                                                           2.00    100     2.00
   3.4- EngineeringDesignsand ConstructionSupervision                                                  0.80     88     0.70
-Improved Earthquake Preparednessin the Province of Kerman and the District of Bam                     10.00           8.39

   4.1- Retrofittingof Key EmergencyResponsebuildingsinthe Provinceof Kerman                           5.00     75     3.75

   4.2- Provisionof EmergencyResponseVehicles for the Districtof Bam                                   2.00    100     2.00

   4.3- RiskAssessment,Engineering Designs and ConstructionSupervision                                 3.00     88     2.64
.Project Management8 Technical Assistance                                                              7.80            5.85
   5.1- ProjectManagement
                     (a)- BRO StaffingCost                                                             1.50     88     1.32
                     (b)- BRO InvestmentCost                                                           0.20    100     0.20
                     (c)- BRO Running Cost                                                              1.40     0

   5.2- TechnicalAssistance

                     (a)- ProcurementAdvisory Services                                                 2.75     95     2.61
                     (b)- MonitoringAdvisory Services                                                   1.20    88     1.06
                     (c)- TechnicalAdvisory Services                                                   0.75     88     0.66

                                                                                                                  I
   Total BaselineCost                                                                                 209.22          198.04
   Physicaland PriceContingencies                                                                      24.68          20.86
   Front End Fee(0.5% of LoanAmount)                                                                    1.10           1.10

3TAL PROJECTCOSTS                                                                    I I             235.00

                                                 19




                                 ISLAMIC REPUBLICOFIRAN
           BAMEARTHQUAKEEMERGENCYRECONSTRUCTIONPROJECT
                                          COMPONENT-A:
Provision of ConstructionMaterialandEquipment for Housingand CommercialBuildings


1.       Scope

Immediately following the earthquake o f December 2003, the Government initiated the revision
o f the land-use plan (2025) for the city o f Bam. Also, considering the high rate o f resident
ownership in the city (about SO%),    a reconstruction strategy based on rebuilding the housing and
commercial units "in-situ" has been implemented by the Government. This strategy promotes the
efficient reconstruction o f the city whilst securing an appropriate level of quality control during
the reconstruction process. This will be achieved through: (i)     training o f local engineers and
contractors; (ii) close supervision and monitoring o f the reconstruction activities by the Housing
Foundation (HF) and the Engineering Association o f Iran; and (iii)       the provision (on a grant
basis) o f basic construction material.

As such, Component-A under the BEERPwill finance total o fUS$l50 million: (i) provisionthe
o f basic construction material as detailed in Annex-1 (US$1I O million); and (ii)  the provision o f
construction equipment (US$40 million) for housing and commercialbuildings.

2: Constructionmaterialfor housingand commercialbuildings
(Estimated Cost: US$llO.OO million; IBRDJinancing: US$I10.00million)

(a)- UrbanHousing

Most o f the housing inthe urban areas consisted o f individual and low-rise buildings.These were
built mainly by owners usingtraditional constructionmethods with local adobe material or steel
structural elements and masonry. The traditional adobe buildingshad very thick, heavy roofs and
almost all such buildingscollapsed duringthe earthquake. Also, a highpercentage o f steel framed
masonry buildings collapsed in Bam, Baravat and the surrounding areas. According to the latest
available information, 24,598 housing units were severely damaged. These will be totally rebuilt
on existing sites usinghigher construction standards and appropriate material. The average size
o f a housing unit in the urban areas i s assumed to be around 1OOsq.m.and damage is estimated at
120 US$/sq.m. The damage estimates for urbanhousing are equal to US$295million.

(9- Design and Supervision: The city of Bam was divided into eleven lots and each lot was
awarded to an architectural firm for the design o f around 2,000 housing units in each lot. In
addition, two architectural firms were entrusted with the design o f commercial units and one firm
will be responsible for the coordinationo fthe overall design activities. Another firmwill provide
back-up design support when needed. Firms will prepare architectural and engineering designs
for housing units up to 250 sq.m. in size. The designs will be reviewed by the "National
Engineering Association ofIran and will need to comply with a set o f financial, architectural,
                                   "
climatic and seismic criteria set by the newly established "Architectural Committee". The
Committee includes five prominent local architects and representatives from the MHUD , the
MOI and the HF. The cost o f engineering design will be met by the Government o f Iran and
construction supervision will be delegated to the "National Engineering Association of Iran "
through a contract with the HousingFoundation.

                                                      20



(i+ Reconstruction: The Government is in the process o f pre-qualifying around twenty (20) to
thirty (30) national contractors based ontheir: (i)     relevant experience; (ii) to introduce new
                                                                                         ability
and appropriate construction technologies; and (iii)           technical capacity and financial situation.
Each contractor i s expected to be awarded the reconstruction o f 500-1000 housing units o f
100sq.m. in size each. Individual house owners will select among the pre-qualified contractors
and enter into a contractual agreement with the retained contractor. The cost o f reconstruction
will be financed through a combination o f loans and grants that will be provided by the
Government to each individual house owner.                Basic construction material will be provided
through pre-assigned distributors in Bam via a voucher system. However, the cost o f labor and
finishing material will be funded through a loan scheme. The provision o f basic infrastructure
such as water and sanitation will be entrusted to local utilities and Government agencies.

 (ii+ Government Compensation: The Government will compensate individual house owners
 through a combination o f grants and loans. Payments will be made in four installments as shown
 in Table-1. The level of Government compensation is expected to cover the provision of a
 1OOsq.m. o f a housing unit at a unit cost equal to US$ZOO/sq.m. The first two payments will
 cover the cost o f the basic construction material excluding the internal finishing. The third
 payment i s optional and i s provided at a higher interest rate.

                   Table-1: Proposed Government Compensation per Urban HousingUnit

            Payment       US$         Terms of Payment              Remarks
            1"payment     4,167       Grant                         Provided as vouchersfor basic construction
                                                                    material

            2"dpayment    7,143       Loan @ 5% for 15 years        Remaining construction material

            3'd payment   4,762       Loan @ 16% for 15 years       Optionalfor internalfinishing

            4Ihpayment    2,381       Loan @ 5% for 15 years        Forproperty walls fence more than IOOm in length
                                                                    along the main street)
            TOTAL          18,453
          Note: 1US$=8400     Source: Housing Foundation (June 2004)


Inthe caseofmulti-ownership of ahousingunit,andprovidedthe sizeofthedamagedpropertyis
larger than 154sq.m., each individual owner will be eligible to the above-mentioned Government
compensation. In the case where auxiliary households (married children, parents, etc..) are
sharing the property with the owner, each auxiliary household will be only eligible to loans (2nd
and 3rdpayments) but not to grants. Inthe case o f tenants, they will be eligible to participate in
the "Rent-to-Own" Government funded program or to use the 2nd and 3rd payments. The
Government will offer new land added to the city through the expansion o f city lines at
Government pricing to the later two groups.

(iv)- Bank Supuort to the Reconstruction of Urban Housinn: World Bank support to the
reconstruction o f urban housing in Bam will focus on financing the procurement, by the Housing
Foundation, o f part of the steel and cement requirements for the reconstruction o f a 100sq.m.
housing unit. Bank financing       only covers the cost o f production and excludes the cost o f
transportation within Iran.

                                                         21



                       Table-2: Bank-Financed Construction Material for Urban Housing

                              j                      :   Steel rebars   1 Steel components for         Portland cement,
                                                                                                   ~

          Material               Steel rebars 8mm    '      12"         j                                   Type I1
                                         kg                   kg                  frames
                              ~

          unit                                                          j            kg            I       metricton
          Unit cost(US$)      I                 0.5251            0.475,                      0.881'               53.750
          unit quantity       j                234.00'           525.00                    3,350.00,                10.00
          No. of houses                     22,140.001        22,140.001                 11,284.001             24,598.00
                              j
          TOTAL(US%)          1         5,180,760.00/    11,623,500.00~              37,801,400.00!            245,980.00
          Note: I US$=8400     Source: Housing Foundation (June 2004)


@)- RuralHousing

Rural housing units within about 4 km o f Bam were destroyed and an estimated 24,715 rural
housing units suffered heavy damage and will need to be rebuilt. The average size and property
value o f a rural housing unit are assumed to be equal to 60sg.m. and 100 US$/sq.m. respectively.
The reconstruction scheme for rural housing inBam i s summarized below:

(i) Design and Reconstruction: Details of the rural housing designs are shown in Annex-2 and
Annex-3. Government support to the reconstruction o f rural housing will involve securing the
access by house owners to basic constructionmaterial (such as sand, gravel, cement, steel frames,
pre-cast ceiling beams at market prices. The steel frames will be supplied through (supply-install)
or (supply only) contracts with house owners. These will hire a contractor to build the
foundations, set-up the frames and erect the house with the internal finishing.

(ii) Government Comuensation: Each house owner will receive a combination o f grants and
loans equal to US$7,144 per housing unit as shown in the Table below. This will finance a
6 0 ~ 9m.. housingunit at approximately 12OUS$/sg.m.including the excavation and construction o f
the house foundations.
                      Table-3: ProposedGovernment CompensationPer Rural HousingUnit

           Payment        US%           Terms of Payment                 Remarks
           1 payment
            ''                 1,786    Loan @4% for 15 years            Paid after excavation for foundations
              payment          1,786    Loan (34% for 15 years           Paid after completing the house foundations
           31dpayment          1,786    Loan (34% for 15 years           Paid after installationof steel frames
           41h payment         1,786    Grant                            Paid after completing the roofceiling
           TOTAL               7,144
          Note: IUS$=8400      Source: HousingFoundation (March 2004)


(iii) Bank Suport to the Reconstruction of Rural Housing: World Bank support to the to the
reconstruction of rural housing will focus on financing the procurement, by the Housing
Foundation, o f part o f the steel and cement that i s required for the reconstruction o f a 60sq.m.
housing unit. Bank financing will only cover the cost o f production and will exclude the cost o f
transportation within Iran.

                                                        22



                       Table-4: Bank-FinancedConstruction Material for Rural Housing

                                                    ;   Steel rebars  ,  Steel components for     Portland cement,
         Material               Steel rebars 8mm           12"        j          frames                Type I1
                             ~                      1

         unit                           kg                   kg                    kg          I    metric ton
         Unitcost(US$)       1                 0.525'            0.475,                   0.881/              53.75
         unitquantity                            1401              315;                   1,8001                 6.2
                             i  "
         No. o f houses                       22,850,           22,850,                  22,850/              24,7 15
                             ~




         TOTAL(US$)          i
                             1             3,199,000'        7,197,750'              41,130,000/          153,233.00
         Note: 1US$=8400      Source: Housing Foundation (June2004)


(c)- CommercialProperties

(i) Damage To Commercial Properties: Prior to the disaster, services, including commercial
activity, represented 73% o f Bam urban employment. An estimated 3,346 commercial unitswere
destroyed in the disaster, including shops and workshops. About 60% o f the commercial units
were shops; the rest were classed as workshops. The average area per unit i s estimated at 100
sq.m. In addition there were approximately 15,000 sq.m. of warehouses and 4,200 sq.m. o f small
refrigerated warehouses. Intotal about 619,200 sq.m. o f commercial area was lost. The average
unit cost of replacingthese structures is estimated at US$180per sq.m. and the total replacement
cost of the structures amounts to approximately US$II1.5million.
(ii) Government Compensation and Bank Support to the Reconstruction of Rural Housing:: The
proposed reconstruction scheme for commercial properties i s similar to the one adopted by the
Government for the reconstruction o f urban housing. The pre-qualified contractors for the urban
housingwill be involved inthe reconstruction o f commercial properties as well. Each commercial
property owner will receive an initial US$I,190 grant and loans o f US$144 per xqm. with a
ceiling o f US$7,143 (5% annual interest over 15years). It shouldbe noted that dual or mixed use
commercial and housing units will be eligible for both facilities offered to the housing and
commercial units.Bank support to the reconstruction of commercial properties inB a m will focus
on funding part o f the procurement o f steel and cement material for a 30sq.m. size commercial
units.
                             '                                          '
                   Table-5: Bank-Financed Construction Materialfor Commercial Buildings

                                                    I   Steel rebars      Steel components for    Portland cement,
         Material               Steel rebars 8mm    1      12mm         /        frames                Type I1


         Unitcost(US$)       I                 0.525'            0.4751                    0.881j             53.750
         unitquantity        !
                             j                    92               204                     1170'                    4
         No. ofhouses                          3,011;            3,011,                    3011'               3,346
                             j
         TOTAL(US$)          !               277,012           614,244                 3,522,870:             13,384
         Note. IUS$=8400      Source. Housing Foundation (June 2004)



3. ConstructionEquipmentfor the HousingFoundation of Iran
(Estimated Cost: US$40.00million; IBRDfinancing: US$40.00million)

The mandate o f the Housing Foundation includes emergency reconstruction of rural villages
following natural disasters like floods and earthquakes. The emergency response activities rely on
a fleet o f heavy and medium construction equipment strategically distributed in the 28 provinces

                                                  23


of Iran. At times of heavy equipment demand, for debris removal or emergency reconstruction,
the fleet supplements the services provided by the private sector. The fleet includes about 1,015
pieces of equipment, more than half o f which are dump trucks. About 90% o f the equipment i s
more than 10,years old and more than 500 pieces are out o f service and beyond their economic
life, The Bank has already started assisting the Housing Foundation with the renewal of the
equipment fleet under the first EEW and will continue this assistance by financing the purchase
of an additional 454 pieces o f equipment, o f which about 312 dump trucks. Other main items
include debris excavation and removal equipment - wheel loaders and excavators. The total
estimated cost o f this sub-component i s about US$40million as detailed inTable 6.

                   Table-6: ConstructionEquipmentto Be Procuredunder Component-A

           Type of Machinery                               Number         EstimatedCost (US$million)
       1   Wheel Loaders                                        36                   5.55
           Dumptrucks (6x4)                                    204                   17.00
           Dumptrucks (4x2)                                     96                   6.86
           Transit Mixers (6x4)                                 29                   4.19
           Wheel Excavators                                     11                   1.50
           Motor graders                                        7                    1.50
           Pick Uptrucks                                        54                   1.35
           Stone crushingplant                                  2                    0.82
           Concretebatching plant                                1                   0.23
      10   Quality control and testing equipment                155                  1.oo
                                                  Sub-total                         40.00

                                                   Annex-1
                    Summary of ConstructionMaterialfor Component-A




                                          Steel rebars  1 Steel rebars    iSteel componentsfori Portlandcement,
Material                                ii   8"         j   12"           j       frames         i  Type11
unit                                    i     kg              kg          j         k            1 metricton

URBAN HOUSING                                                             j                      j
unit quantity                                     234.001          525.00,              3,350.001           10.00
No. of houses                           I     22,140.001        22,140.00'             11,284.00'       24,598.00
sub-total                               !  5,180,760.00/   11,623,500.00~         37,801,400.00i       245,980.00

RURAL HOUSING                                                               (prefab steel frames),
                                                                          ~
                                                        j
                                                        i                 I

unit quantity                                     140.00,          315.001              1,800.00/            6.20
No. of houses                           ,     22,850.001        22,850.00,             22,850.00/       24,715.00
sub-total                               1  3,199,000.001    7,197,750.00'         41,130,000.00/       153,233.00

COMMERCIAL BLDGS.                       i
unitquantity                            i          92.001          204.001              1,I70.001            4.00
No. ofbldgs.                            j       3,011.00/        3,011.OO'              3,011.001        3,346.00
sub-total                               i    277,012.00i      614,244.00i           3,522,870.00i       13,384.00
                                                                          j   '
                                                                          j                      j
TOTAL Quantity                          1  8,656,772.00i   19,435,494.001          82,454,270.00/      412,597.00
                                                                          ~
TOTAL including 10% for waste           !  9,522,449.20:   21,379,043.40,          90,699,697.001

                                                                          j

Unit cost(US$)                          j         0.5251            0.4751                  0.881,         53.750
TOTAL COST                              j    $4,999,286,     $10,155,0461           $72,662,825,      $22,177,089
rounded to                              i    $5,000,000;     $10,160,000,           $72,660,0001      $22,180,000
TOTALCOST: MATERIALS                                        $110,000,000
  Source: Housing Foundation (June 2004)

                                                             25

                                                      Annex-2
                          BamEarthquakeEmergencyReconstructionProject
                                         TypicalRuralHousingUnit
                                            Source:HousingFoundation(March 2004)




TYPE: 60 mzPrefabricatedBolted SteelFrameSystemwith CompositeConcrete Slab
                                                   Roof


 1- Lateralandvertical       Steel frame and eccentric braces
     resistingsystems:


 2- Design code:             Iranian seismic BuildingDesign code, Standard
                             11.0.2800, Chapter3


 3- Built-up area:           60 m2


 4 Constructionmethod:
  -                          Prefabricatedbeams, columns and braces with
                             bolted connections.


 5- Amount of cement         6.2 cubic tons
 required:

 6 Amount of steel required:
   -                         Frame: 1,800 kg
                             Other: 400 kg


 7 Constructionperiod:
   -                         (a)-Constructionof membersin factory: 4 days
                             @)-Erectingbeams and columns onthe
                             foundation: 5 hours
                             (c)-Foundationandbrickwork
                             (d)-Total = 30 days




    Plan of 60 m2HousingUnit Proposedfor RuralAreas of Bam
    Unit:cm

          1) LivingRoom
         2)  Kitchen
         3)  BedRoom                                                              Qi  Qi        Q i
         4)  Bath
         5)  Toilet
         6) Porch




                                                                                        SEC A-A

                                                  26


                                 ISLAMIC REPUBLICOFIRAN
      BAMEARTHQUAKEEMERGENCYRECONSTRUCTIONPROJECT
                                          COMPONENT-B:
                                       Transport Infrastructure

1. Scope

Because o f the emergency nature o f the BEERP, the transport infrastructure activities included in
the project are limited to urgent works for the physical rehabilitation o f the Kerman-Bam
highway, the civil aviation airport of Bam and o f major internal roads in 22 severely damaged
villages. The BEERP will finance also the consulting services required for the detailed design
and construction supervision o f these works. The total o f the Component-B is estimated to be
US$29.32 million, which will finance rehabilitation o f key transport infrastructure affected by the
Earthquake as follows:

2. Repairof the Kerman-Bamhighway
(Estimated Cost: US$21.OOmillion; IBRDJinancing: US$15.75million)

(9 Rehabilitation Works: No major damages as a direct consequence o fthe earthquake havebeen
reported to the highway network in the province. Minor isolated damages to the vertical profile,
bridges and drainage structures are being repaired by the General Office (GO) of the Ministry of
Roads and Transportation (MORT) o f Kerman province with own financing.                 However, a
summary condition survey of the Kerman-Bam highway (190km), carried out in May-June 2004
indicates early signs o f severe pavement deterioration on several sections and some minor
damages to cross drainage structures. The road was originally built in the mid 1970's, but no
information was available on the scope and time o f overlays and maintenance operations. Recent
(June 2004) automated traffic counts, carried out by MORT, have measured traffic volumes o f
about 5500 passenger vehicles and about 1850 trucks per day. The additional traffic originated
by the transport o f construction materials and equipment is expected to generate only marginal
increases; however, these levels are already sufficient to accelerate a further deterioration o f the
pavement ifurgent rehabilitationi s not carried out.

A provisional estimate carried out by the GO of MORT provides for a leveling course,
bituminous overlays and extension o f the bituminous base over the shoulders as detailed below.
In addition the works will include strengthening o f structures and provision o f signs, road
markings and other equipment (guardrails, traffic islands, etc.) to enhance traffic safety.

                                Table 1: Kerman-BamRoadRehabilitation




'Source:MORT and MPO StandardRates, 2004

                                                  27


Item                    Thickness   Width (m)    Length       Quantity      Unit Rate'    Total Cost
                          (mm)                    (km)          (cu m)       (US$)          (US$)
TOTAL (rounded)                                                                            21,000,000

(ii) Implementation Arrangements: The GO o f MORT o f Kerman province will be responsible
for implementation o f the works through contracts procured on the basis o f ICB. In order to
enhance competition and to ensure a short completion period (i.e. 18 months) the works will be
advertised in two lots o f about the same value following a slice and package approach, with the
option o f one contractor being awarded both lots ifpre-qualified for the corresponding amount.

3. Repair of the BamAirport
(Estimated Cost: US4.IOmillion; IBRDJinancing: US3.ISmillion)

(iii) Rehabilitation Works: The earthquake has caused the collapse o f the control tower and the
destruction or irreparable damage to ancillary buildings (fire fighting, emergency power supply,
etc.). The airport runway, taxiway and parking apron were originally built below standard in
1991: a 5 c m thick bituminous wearing course, provided for in the design, was not actually
constructed. Besides the initial weakness, these pavements have suffered damages from the
intense traffic in the weeks immediately following the earthquake (2500 take-offs and landings in
the first two weeks alone).     A preliminary engineering assessment by the Iran Civil Aviation
Organization provides for a complete resurfacing o f the runway, taxiway and apron with an
asphalt base (70"      thick) and an asphalt wearing course (50"      thick). In addition the project
will finance the reconstruction o f technical and ancillary buildings as detailed below.          All
estimates are based on existing standard designs for this type o fbuildingsand on current standard
rates for construction works published by the MPO:

                                   Table 2: BamAirport Rehabilitation




Sub-total                                                                                       3,800
Goods
Communicationand ATC equipment                           Lump-sum                                  60
Firefightingequipment                                      1engine                                240
TOTAL                                                                                           4,100

 (iii) Implementation Arrangements: As for the highway, the Governorate Office o f MORT o f
Kerman province will be responsible for implementation o f the works through private
contractors. It i s anticipated that the pavement rehabilitation and the civil works for buildings
will constitute two separate contracts procured on the basis o f NCB due to the relatively small
value. Communication and A T C equipment will be procured under shopping procedures while
the fire-fighting engine will be procured separately under N C B procedures.

                                                    28

4. Repair of the Village Streets
(Estimated Cost: US2.OSmillion; IBRDJinancing: US$I..54million)

No major damages to the rural roads have been reported. However, roads in the heavily damaged
villages will require rehabilitation, mainly after the completion o f the housing reconstruction
activities and the renovation o f the village infrastructure (water, sewage, side ditches, culverts,
etc) and the. A list o f those villages and the respective estimated investment costs required are
included inTable 3.

                                Table 3: Rehabilitationof Village Streets




The width o f proposed streets varies between 8 to 12 meters including the sidewalks. The roads
are designed to have 15 c m of sub-base, 15 c m o f base and 7 c m o f pavement layers. On the basis
o f above figures, preliminary estimates for the reconstruction o f the major roads inthe 22 heavily
earthquake-affected villages amount to US$2.05million.

5. EngineeringDesignsandConstruction Supervision
(Estimated Cost: US$2.17million; IBRDfinancing: US$I.9Imillion)

(I, Enaineerina Design and Construction Supervision under the reuair of the Kerman-Bum
highway: Inline with current practices by MORT, a consulting firm will be hired to carry out the
detailed design and construction supervision o f the works. The cost o f the services is estimated a
about 8% o f the work value, corresponding to about US$1.7 million, and i s in line with current
MPO rates for this type o f services. Selection o f the consultants will follow the QCBS method.
The scope o f the study would include: (i)detailed condition survey o f about 200 km o f main
highways; (ii)  traffic counts and forecast o f traffic growth including estimates o f reconstruction
traffic; (iii)design of pavement rehabilitatiodstrengthening including economic analysis o f

                                                  29

optimum year o f implementation; and (iv) preparation o f detailed plans, bill o f quantities and
technical specifications suitable for inclusion inWE3 Standard BidDocuments (SBD).

(ii) Engineering Design and Construction Supervision under the Repair of the Bam Airport: Also
in this case, the Governorate Office of the MORT in Kerman will employ consultants for he
design and supervision of the civil works contracts. The cost of the services i s estimated at 8% o f
the value o f the civil works and goods or about US$330,000. The consultants will be selected
following QCBS procedures and the scope o f their services will include: (i)      detailed condition
survey o f the airport runway and apron; (ii)    design o f the rehabilitation works required; (iii)
design o f the civil works for the control tower and ancillary buildings; and (iv) preparation o f
detailed plans, bill of quantities and technical specifications, including separate technical
specifications for communication, ATC and fire-fighting equipment, suitable for inclusion in the
IBRD's SBD.

(iii) Engineerina Design and Construction Suuewision under the Repair of the Village Streets:
Road design studies for those villages will be carried out in coordination with the other type o f
structures undertaken by the other authorities. Implementation will start after the completion o f
the housing construction and placement o f water distribution lines. This project component will
be implemented by the Rural Department o f Housing Foundation under the overall coordination
o f BRO. Depending on the capacity o f the local contractors works can be tendered under one or,
the most, two packages. N C B procedure i s proposed for the tender o f the works. Local
consultants for design and supervision could be selected on the basis o f CQ procedures.

                                                   30


                                ISLAMIC REPUBLICOFIRAN
      BAMEARTHQUAKEEMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTIONPROJECT
                                        COMPONENT-C:
                       Repair ofthe TelecommunicationsInfrastructure


1.Scope

The Telecommunication system inBam, Baravat and surrounding villages was heavily damaged
duringthe earthquake. This includes damage to the telecommunication lines inBam (350km) and
Baravat (35km) and the rural area inthe Bam district (70km). Damage was also considerable at
the three switching centers inBam (2) and Baravat (1) and at the microwave station inBam. It is
reported that sixteen (16) administrative and operative units in Bam and Baravat were severely
affected. The total cost for Component C under BEERPi s estimated to be US$12.10.

Currently the Kerman Telecommunications Company (KTC) i s offering fixed line and mobile
phone services to the inhabitants inthe cities o f Bam and Baravat as part o f the emergency relief
to ensure essential communication systems.         Prior to the earthquake,       there were 16,745
subscribers inBam and 2,300 inBaravat. Currently less than 1,500 lines are restored and the local
phone services are offered free o f charge, however, this i s not sufficient. Since the earthquake, the
I T C K T C has,restored:(1)a trunk switching center with a capacity o f 2200 trunks in Bam City;
(ii)localswitchingcenterwithacapacityof2,200inthecityofBaravat;; and(ii) 300
     a                                                                                      around
rural telecommunication offices.

The KTC i s a subsidiary o f IranTelecommunications Company (ITC) (the holding company) and
the Ministry of Information Communication Technology (MICT). KTC i s accountable to the ITC
for maintenance, operation and expansion o f the telecommunications networks (including fixed
lines, mobile phones, microwave, fiber optic, data and any other infrastructure networks). The
K T C i s an independent legal entity with financial autonomy. All the company's asset belong to
ITCand are 100% Government owned.

Bam telecom network i s connected to the national gnd through fiber optic and microwave
transmission systems. All the above investments are area networks and are operated and
maintainedby the KTC. Rebuilding o f the damaged cable network requires serious reconstruction
o f the buildingsand cable ducts. The KTC intends to install around 20,000 subscriber lines based
on Wireless Local Loop (WLL) in order to avoid restoring o f 350 km o f twisted pairs subscriber
distribution network. This will ensure fast provision o f services even to those living in the
temporary housing. It is also proposed that the mobile G S M network which had 3 BTS (Base
Stations) before the earthquake will be increased to 10BTS with a capacity o f 112TRX.

The repair o f the telecommunications infrastructure under this project are shown in Table-1 and
consist o fthe following investments (works, goods and consulting services):

(a) The reconstruction o f the telecommunications buildings
(b) Therepair o ftransmission networks
(c) The expansion o f mobile and data services
(d) Engineering designs and construction supervision

                                                                    31

2. Reconstructionof the telecommunicationsbuildings
(Estimated Cost: US$2.2Omillion; IBRDJinancing: US$I.65million)

This component involves the reconstruction and equipping o f a number of key
telecommunications buildingsinthe Bam district as described below:

(a) Technical building for new switching, transmission and power supply. (item 11inthe Table
     1): Only one new standard buildingwill be constructed and will be located inthe same site
     as the current site of Microwave Center (MC) to use existing towers and power supply
     infrastructure;
(b) Repair o f the Principal Switching Center (PC) at Etemadi (item 12inthe Table 1);
(c) Repair of the Baravattelephone center building (item 13 inthe Table 1); and,
(d) Installation o f four containers intwo sites (item 14inTable 1)'

3. Repair of the of the transmissionnetworks
(Estimated Cost: US$7.IOmillion; IBRDJinancing: US$7.IOmillion)

This sub-component will be tendered as one turnkey contract for the whole network, including
the procurement o ftransmission and switching equipment:

     Reconstruction of the Bam and Baravat telephone centers with host (item1 in the Table 1) at
     existing PC building;
     Installation o f the 10,000 numberBam thirdphone center (item 2 inthe Table 1);
     Installation o f the 10,000-subscriber capacity in Shahid Etemadi Center (item 3 in the Table
     1);
     Installation of 3000 subscribers remote capacity in existing Baravat building (item 4 in the
     Table 1);
     Expansion o f optical fiber network connecting switching sites and providing enough
     connectivity for future expansion. o f service coverage;(item 5 inthe Table 1);
     Restoration and reconstruction o f the Bam subscriber distribution cable network (item 6 in
     the Table 1);
     New SDHmicrowave link between Bam and Kerman (item 7 inthe Table 1);
     Installation of intelligent public phones across the city o f Bam (300 units, item 8 inthe Table
     1);
     Reconstructiono f subscriber distribution network utilizing WLL technology for about 20 000
     subscribers (item 9 inthe Table 1); and,
     Installations of fiber optic links between Bam and Baravat , and between Bam and Arg-e
     Jadid (item 10 inthe Table 1).

4. Expansionof mobile and data services
(Estimated Cost: US$Z.OOmillion; IBRDfinancing: US$2.00million)

This sub-component involves the expansion o f the GSM network (both BTS, towers and
microwave connections) to cover surrounding rural areas. It includes:




*A technical alternative was proposed to replace above damaged Shahid Etemadi building by containers in which remote switching
capacity i s to be installed on new concrete foundations. (Item 14 in the table). Existing heavily damaged building and old equipment
will be scrapped. Initially a remote local switching capacity o f about I O 000 subscriber lines will be installed in containers on
concrete foundations (the remaining2 containers o f the item 14in the Table), which are to be moved later to the new building.

                                                  32

    (a)      Installation and startup o f mobile BTS in 10 points (items 15 and 16 inTable 1). This
        will enable the installation and startup o f telecommunications coverage in the Bam,
        Baravat and Arg-e Jaddid areas.

    (b)      Construction o f towers for the above BTS and radio links, as well as providing
        coverage for the "WILL" subscriber distribution network in Bam and Baravat. (items 17
        and 18 inTable 1).

5. Engineeringdesignsandconstructionsupervision
(Estimated Cost: US$O.80million; IBRDJinancing: US$O.70million)

For each o f the above three sub-components, consultant services will be procured for engineering
designs and construction supervision services.

    (a) Sub-Component-1 :Design services (total estimate: US$150,000); and,
    (b) Sub-Component-2: Design services (total estimate: US$400,000); and Supervision
        services (Total estimate: US$lOO,OOO);
    (c) Sub-Component-3: Supervision services (total estimate: US$l50,000).

6. Implementationarrangements

The overall implementationresponsibility will rest with the ITC. On the other hand, the K T C will
be responsible for construction supervision tasks. In line with current practices by the ITC, a
consulting firm will be hired to carry out the detailed designs and construction supervision o f the
works and equipment installation for each sub-component. In close coordination with the BRO,
the ITC will ensure compliance with the sector standards through the KTC.

                                               33


          Table-1:Details ofthe Repair ofthe TelecommunicationsInfrastructure
                                       inthe BamDistrict
                              I

Activity                        No.            Capacity          Description              IEstimated I
                                                                                           cost


LOCAL
SWITCH HOST                     1                                CETRAL CONTROL UNIT

LOCAL EXCHENG                                  10000             REMOTE FROM NEW-LX        INCLUDED

LOCAL EXCHANG
(SH.ETEMAD1)                                   10,000            REMOTE FROM NEW-LX        INCLUDED


LOCAL EXCHENG (BARVAT)        1 1                                REMOTE FROM NEW-LX        INCLUDED

OPTICAL LINE TERMINAL         I 4 L I N K      STM16             NEW EQUIPMENT             $600,000


OPTICAL LINE TERMINAL           2 LINK
                                1REPEATER      STM64             NEW EQUIPMENT             $400,000


RADIO SDH (2+1)                 1LINK
                                                               I                          I           I
                                2 REPEATER     155Mbitk        I NEW EQUIPMENT            1$700,0001
                              I
PAY PHONE                                      PREPAIDCARD       NEW SERVICE               $100,000

                                               20,000 SBN        NEW SUBSCRIBER            $2,500,000

FIBER OPTIC CABLE                              30Km              2*12 CORE                 $300,000

TECHNICAL BUILDING                                               FORNEW SWITCHING &
(COLOCATED INM.C)                              2000m2            TRANSMISTION&             $1,500,000
                                                                 POWERSUPPLY


                                               EXISTING           SMALL REPAIR OF CRACKED
REPAIR PC BUILDING              1              2 STOREY          WALLS &ANTI EARTHQUAKE    $250,000
                                               STRUCTURE         MEASURES



REPAIR BARAVAT BUILDING                        2 STOREY
                              I 1

CONTAINER                                      4*36 m2            FORREMOTE
IN2SITES                        4                                                          $200,000

CELLULAR EXTENTION              10BTS

BTS MOBILE TRANSMISTION         10LINK

TOWER
(SELF SUF'ORT)                  10             35 meter           FORNEW MOBILEBTS         $100,000


TOWER                                                             FORNEW EQU.             I           I
(SELF SUPORT)                                  85 meter        I  (BTS, WLL, RADIO)        $100,000

                                                               1
                                PACKAGEA: D {SIGN(US$400K), SPN (US$lOOK);
DESIGN& SUPERVISION             PACKAGEB: D   SIGN (US$l50K); and,                         $800.000
                                PACKAGEC: S' N (US$l5OK)

                                                       34

                                    ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
           BAMEARTHQUAKEEMERGENCYRECONSTRUCTIONPROJECT
                                             COMPONENT-D:
                 ImprovedEmergencyPreparednessinthe Provinceof Kerman



1. SCOPE

The experience o f the Bam earthquake and the failure o f key emergency response buildings inthe
district has confirmed the urgent need to retrofit and strengthen key emergency response
buildings throughout Iran. This component aims to improve the earthquake emergency
preparedness in the Province o f Kerman and the city o f Bam through: (i)         risk assessment and
retrofitting, on a pilot basis, o f key emergency response buildings inthe Province of Kerman; and
(ii) procurementofemergencyresponsevehiclesforthecityofBam.Itisexpectedthatthe
     the
experience acquired under this component could be replicated by the Govemment in the
remaining 26 Provinces of Iran. The total estimated cost for Component-D i s estimated at
US$lO.OO million, under which all of the activities will be implemented by BRO through close
coordinationwith the Govemorate of Kerman and concerned entities.

2. Retrofittingof key emergency response buildings in the Province of Kerman (Estimated
Cost: US$5.00million; IBRDJinancing: US$3.75million)

This activity will involve the retrofitting o f emergency response buildingsbased on: (i) results
                                                                                            the
o f the RiskAssessment and: (ii)      their strategic importance for emergency response intervention in
case o f an earthquake.. Being a pilot exercise, this activity will only focus on the buildings with
the highest ranking. The use o f appropriate construction materials and techniques will be taken
into consideration during the design o f retrofitting works. The unit cost o f retrofitting work in
Iran represents 40% to 50% o f the reconstruction cost and i s estimated to be equal to US$95 per
sq.m. It is also anticipated that approximately 50,000sq.m. of emergency buildings will be
retrofitted under this component at a total cost o fUS$5.00million.

        Description                                               Expenditure     EstimatedCost
                                                                   Category         (US%mil.)
             Retrofitting o f EmergencyResponseBuilding              Works            5.00




3. Provision of emergency response vehicles for the District of Bam (Estimated Cost:
US$2.00million; IBRDJinancing: US$2.00million)

A number of emergency response vehicles were destroyed duringthe earthquake inthe District o f
Bam. This sub-component will help the municipalities o f Bam and Baravat restore their
emergency response capacity by replacing the vehicles and equipment lost.                This includes
firefighting trucks, ambulances and support rescue vehicles.

                                                          35


        Description               EmergencyResponseVehicles         Expenditure      Estimated Cost


                  -    -          3 small size trucks for Bam
                                  2 normal size for Baravat

             Ambulances           5 for Bam                        Goods                 0.40
                                   1for Baravat

             Rescue cars          2                                Goods                 0.20




4. Sub-Component-3: Risk assessment, engineering designs and construction supervision
(Estimated Cost: US$3.00million; IBRDJinancing: US$2.640million)

(a)- Identification of Key Emergency Response Buildings: An indicative list o f key emergency
response buildings in the province o f Kerman was prepared during project appraisal (see Table-
1).The selection criteria usedincluded:

         Buildingsthat are important for rescue andreliefoperations (health services,fire stations,
         Red Crescent Society, etc..);
         Buildings that are important for disaster management (telecommunications, water and
         electricity);
         Buildingsthat are important for maintaining security;
         Buildingsthat canbe usedas temporary shelters (i.e. schools, universities, etc.).
     0   Proximity o fretained buildingsto densely populated areas;
         Location o f retained buildingsand level o f coverage throughout the Province.

(8)- RiskAssessment:          This activity involves the classification of key emergency response
buildings in the Province o f Kerman based on a structural condition assessment to be financed
under this component. The assessment involves the review o f structural and architectural designs
and an evaluation o f the structural strength o f the buildings through both destructive and non-
destructive testing. The key emergency response buildings would then be classified among the
following three categories: (i)Category-A: Buildings in good condition; (ii)Category-B:
Buildingsinneed o fretrofitting;'and(iii)        Category-C: Buildingsto be demolishedand rebuilt.

(c)- Design of RetroJitting Works: This activity will involve ranking Category-B buildings based
on: (i)the results o f the Risk Assessment and: (ii)            their strategic importance for emergency
response. Being a pilot exercise, this activity will only focus on the buildings with the highest
ranlung.

(d)- Documentation and Knowledge Dissemination of the Risk Assessment and RetroJitting
process: This activity will focus on the thorough documentation and dissemination o f this
initiative through regional and national workshops and training programs.

        Description                                                         Expenditure     Estimated Cost
                                                                              Category         (US%mil.)
             Preparation o f TOR for main consultant                      Services               0.05
             Riskassessment, design and construction supervision and      Services               2.95
             documentation and knowledge dissemination
        TOTAL                                                                                    3.00

                                 36

                             Table-1 :
IndicativeListofKey EmergencyResponseBuildingsinthe Province of Kerman

r
   TrI-    I


 -4



 -


 5.               /*
               "I




              -t-

     T     I




       'l'o

                    I




         3
          N




       -        +



         4
         1




               a
00             5
m          -


            ,            N
                         2




                +



      I


                                                40

                                ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OFIRAN
                     BAMEARTHQUAKEEMERGENCYRECONSTRUCTIONPROJECT
                                        COMPONENT-E:
                         Project Management and Technical Assistance



1.Scope

This component supports (i)project management through the establishment o f the BRO; and
(ii)technical assistance to BRO through the provision o f consultants for Procurement, Monitoring
and Technical Advisory Services. The estimated cost for this Component i s US$7.80 million.

2. Project Management
(Estimated cost: US$3.1Omillion, Proposed BankJinancing: US$lSdmillion):

(a)- Establishment of the BRO:       Project management support will be provided through the
establishment o f the BRO and the Financial Management Unit (FMU) at the Housing Foundation.
BRO will be responsible for the monitoring o f implementation progress as well as contract
management and procurement assistance to all implementation agencies involved. BRO will play
also an oversight function to ensure the adherence of the implementing agencies to the safeguard '
policies under the project. BRO will establish offices inboth Tehran and Bam and will consist o f
13 staff; 6 based inTehran and 7 inBam.

3. Technical Assistance
(Estimated cost: US$4.70million, Proposed BankJinancing: US$4.33million):

The BRO will be assisted by three specialized consultancy/advisory services (international and
local, firms and individuals) as detailed below:

(a)- Procurement Advisory Services: The PASC will be responsible for the timely execution o f
procurement and contract management activities and will work in closely with the Sr.
Procurement Coordinator at the BRO.

(b) Monitoring Advisory Services:       The M A S C will assist BRO in establishing a Project
Management Information System (PMIS) and will carry out regular technical audits o f project
activities. The Consultant will monitor implementation progress through regular field visits and
will ensure the compliance o f the reconstruction activities with the project's technical,
environmental and safeguards criteria. A set o fperformance monitoring indicators will be usedto
evaluate progress towards achieving the project's Development Objectives. The Consultant will
prepare quarterly reports that will be shared with the BGPTF and the World Bank. The reports
will include detailed updates on the project's performance and will recommend mitigation
measures for the timely implementation o f the project.

(c) Technical Advisory Services: This sub-component will finance short-term consultants that
will be mobilized on needs-basis to carry out specific technical tasks in support o f the various
project components (e.g. preparing specifications for construction equipment and emergency
response vehicles, preparing and implementing social surveys and environmental assessments,
preparation o f Resettlement Action Plans, preparation and implementation o f communication
activities, etc.).

                     41

           ISLAMIC REPUBLICOFIRAN
BAMEARTHQUAKEEMERGENCYRECONSTRUCTIONPROJECT




                ATTACHMENT-2:

         PerformanceMonitoringIndicators

                                                       42


                                          ATTACHMENT-2:
         BAMEARTHQUAKEEMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTIONPROJECT
                               PerformanceMonitoringIndicators




Comaonents                               Indicators                       Baseline  Mid-Term     End of
                                                                                             Implementation
Provisionof               % numberof urbanhousingunits                     0%         25%        100%
Construction Material     reconstructedout of 22,100 units.
and Equipmentfor
Housingand                                                                 0%         25%        100%
Commercial Buildings      number of rural housingunitsreconstructed
                          out of22,800 units.

                          number of commercial unitsreconstructedout       0%         25%        100%
                          of 3,000 units.

                          numberof construction equipmentprocured          0%         25%        100%
                          out of 440 units.

                        0 Number of quality control and testing            0%         25%        100%
                          equipment out of 155 units.
Repairof the Transport    % lengthofthe Kerman-Bamhighway                  0%         40%        100%
[nfrastructure            rehabilitated out of 190km.


                        0 %physicalcompletion of the rehabilitation
                          and reconstructionof the BamAirport: (i)         0%         40%        100%
                          controltower; (ii)technical buildings; and
                          ancillarybuildings.

                          % physicalcompletionofthe construction of        0%         40%        100%
                          the Communicationsandnavigationequipment
                          for the BamAirport.


                        0 % length ofvillage streets rehabilitatedout      0%         40%        100%
                          20km.

Repairof the              %physicalcompletionof the reconstructionof       0%         25%        100%
Telecommunications        the TechnicalBuilding for new switching,
[nfrastructure            transmissionandpower supply facilities.

                          %physicalcompletionofthe repairof the
                          PrincipalSwitchingCenter at Etemadi.             0%         25%        100%

                          %physicalcompletionof the repairof the
                          Baravattelephonecenter building.                 0%          25        100%

                          % physicalcompletionofthe reconstructionof
                          the cableandradio transmissionnetworksand
                          switchingsites inBamand Bavarat .                0%          25        100%


                          % physicalcompletionof the expansion of
                          GSMnetworkto surroundingrural areas.             0%          25        100%

Improved Emergency                                                         0%         25%        100%
?reparednessinthe         % disbursementonretrofittingworks inthe

?rovinceof Kerman         Province of Kerman out of a total allocated
                          equal to US$5million.
ind the District of Bam   %number ofemergency responsevehicles
                          procured for the District of Bamout of a total   0%         25%        100%
                          of 18 vehicles.

                       43


           ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
BAMEARTHQUAKEEMERGENCYRECONSTRUCTIONPROJECT




                 ATTACHMENT-3:

         ProjectImplementationArrangements

                                            44

                                ATTACHMENT3
            BAMEARTHQUAKEEMERGENCYRECONSTRUCTIONPROJECT
                           Project ImplementationChart




FINANCIALMANAGEMENT            PROJECTPREPARATION        &             PROJECTIMPLEMENT
                               PROCUREMENT        SUPPORT




       MOEAF
  Ministry o f Economic
   Affairs & Finance            Minister o f Housing & Urban
                                   Development (MHUD)
                                                                           Transportation


                                             RPSC
                           Reconstruction Planning Sub-committee
                             President o f Chairedby:                    Urban Development
                                           the HousingFoundation



       Financial                                                        MinistryofInformation
       Controller                                                        & Communications
      (assignedby
                                            BRO
                               Bam Reconstruction Office:
                                  Tehran Office 6 Staff             A
                                   Bam Office     7 Staff




      Sr. Accountant
          Officer
     (recruited at the
          FMU)




                             (       Monitoring Advisory
                                      Services Consultant

                             45

                 ISLAMICREPUBLICOFIRAN
BAMEARTHQUAKEEMERGENCYRECONSTRUCTIONPROJECT




                       ATTACHMENT-4:

Terms of Referencefor the BRO and the FinancialManagementUnit

                                           46

                                    ATTACHMENT-4:
           BAMEARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTIONPROJECT
                                           BRO




     SR. STRATEGIC
        PLANNING                                                   ADMINISTRATOR
        OFFICER



                                                       I



                                 PROCUREMENT        TECHNICAL                SOCIAL
                                 COORDINATOR         OFFICER                OFFICER
                                                    (Component-A)




                                    BRO
                            BamReconstructionOffice
                                    Pam)
                             PROJECTDIRECTOR



                                                                               ADMINISTRATOR




      SR.                SR.                SR.                  SR.              SR. LEGAL
  TECHNICAL          TECHNICAL       ENVIRONMENTAL        COMMUNICATIONS           OFFICER
   OFFICER            OFFICER           OFFICER                 OFFICER
(Component-B & 0)    (Component-C)

                                               47


                                        ATTACHMENT-4:
          BAMEARTHQUAKEEMERGENCYRECONSTRUCTIONPROJECT
                                              BRO

(a) Organization of the BRO

Under the guidance o f the Bam Policy and Guidance Task Force (an inter-ministerial committee
convened under a presidential decree to act as a decision-making body on the reconstruction o f
Bam), multi-disciplinary experts will be recruitedto establish BRO The BRO will be located in
                                                                     .
Teheran and Bam. Reporting to the Task Force, the BRO will be responsible for the management
and monitoring o fproject implementation. Its key activities include:


    0   Working as the main counterpart to the World Bank duringthe Project implementation;
    0   Coordinationwith Government agencies to ensure timely implementation;
    0   Preparing internal documents and obtaining necessary internal approvals in a timely
        manner;
    0   Ensuring compliance with World Bank's fiduciary procedures (procurement, financial
        management, social and environmental safeguards); and,
    0   Preparingprogress reports (to be sent to the World Bank on quarterly basis).

@) Staffing of the BRO

The BROwill be composed o f 13 staff allocated as follows:

BRO-Tehran (6)
--  Director;
    Strategic Planning Officer;
--  Sr. Procurement Coordinator;

--  Sr. Technical Officer (Construction Material & Equipment);
    Sr. Social Officer; and
    Office Administrator

BRO-Bam (7)
--  Manager (BRO-Deputy Director)
    Sr. Technical Officer (Telecommunications & Transport)
-
-   Sr. Technical Officer (retrofitting)
    Sr. Environment Officer
-
--  Sr. Communications Officer
    Sr. Legal Officer
    Office Administrator

Proposed Terms o f References are as below.

                                               48

                 BAMEARTHQUAKEEMERGENCY             RECONSTRUCTION       PROJECT
                                        BRO(BRO-Tehran)

                                     Terms of References for:
                                         Project Director

Scope of Work

The Director will be responsible for leadingthe BRO team (Teheran and Bam) through providing
overall guidance and policy support to ensure effective functioning o f the team for the Project
implementation. The Director will report to the President o f the Housing Foundation and will be
responsible for coordination with all the ministries and organizations concemed including
Ministry o f Economic Affairs and Finance (MoEAF), Ministry o f Interior, Management and
Planning Organization (MPO), the Province o f Kerman, Municipality o f Bam, relevant sector
ministries to ensure quality and timely implementation.

The Director will:
        Head the BRO and supervise the performance o f the BRO staff to ensure that day-to-day
        activities for the project implementation are carriedout ina satisfactory manner;
        Ensure that the Project implementation carried out in compliance with the World Bank
        procedure;
        Authorize launching o f procurement by the implementation agencies and contractual
        payments;
        Provide overall guidance to the implementation agencies on the progress o f
        reconstructionworks;
        Coordinate with the relevant ministries to ensure obtaining necessary internal approvals
        in a timely manner based on the Project Implementation Plan (PIP) agreed with the
        World Bank;
        Act as the direct counterpadfocal point o f communications vis-a-vis the World Bank's
        task team and ensure that the necessary communications with the Bank are made in a
        timely manner;
        Facilitate the communications and consultations with relevant ministries and institutions
        on the necessary follow-up actions based on the outputs and recommendations from the
        technical assistance activities;
        Review the monthly/quarterly reports and submit to the Bam Policy and Guidance Task
        Force, all agencies concemed inthe proposedProject, and to the Bank.

Qualifications

        Relevant University Degree (e.g. civil engineering, urbanplanning, finance);
        Minimum10years ofprofessional experience intherelevant area;
        Experience inmanaging projects o f similar sizehale inIran; with minimumof 5 years in
        positions with management responsibility;
        Past working experience and ability to establish good working relationship with the
        relevant institutionson disaster management for project implementation;
        Computer literacy i s essential;
        Good Englishspealung and writing/reporting slulls are essential;
        Proven capacity for leadingand ensuring the teamwork; and,
        Capacity to adjust and respondingto the demanding workmg environment.

                                                               49

                    BAMEARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY                        RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
                                             BamReconstructionOffice

                                               Terms of Referencesfor:
                                      StrategicPlanningOfficer (Tehran)

ScopeofWork

The Strategic Planning Officer will be responsible for assisting the BRO Director in facilitating
all project implementationactivities. The primary duties will include the following;

(a) Implementationplanning and monitoring:
     Supervise the progress o f Monitoring Assistance Consulting Services in the establishment
     and operation o f the Project Management Information Systems (PMIS), a project planning
     and monitoring database, including developing a set o f formats to be shared across the
     implementation agencies to monitor the implementation o f the project (e.g. timeline, cost,
     contractor, design criteria);
     Based on the database and in consultation with the technical engineers in BRO, monitor the
     project implementation speed and process to ensure adherence to the Project Implementation
     Plan;
     Provide timely reporting and advise to the Director on any priority actions that require to be
     communicatedto the parties involved;
     Coordinating the execution o f regular technical audit activities (defining the scope and
     frequency o f the technical audits, identifying appropriate technical expertise to mobilize
     consultant services and supervise to ensure quality output).
     Communicating the outputs from the technical audits to the BRO's technical specialists and
     assisting them in their technical coordination with the implementation agencies to ensure
     these outputs are reflectedfeed-backed in the implementation planning and that any
     necessary remedial measures are put inplace with minimumdelay.

(b) Reporting and communications
0    Quality assurance of the output o f the Monitoring Assistance Consulting Services in the
     establishment and operation o f the Project Monitoring Information Systems (PMIS);
0    Based information consolidated using the database, assist the Director in preparing
     Monthly/Quarterly Progress Reports be submitted to the Bam Policy and Guidance Task
     Force, all agencies concerned inthe proposedProject, and to the Bank';
0    Assist the P M U Director on communication with the Bank on all matters concerning the
     Project activities.

Qualifications:
0    Relevant University Degree (e.g. civil engineering, urbanplanning, finance);
0    Minimum3 years o fprofessional experience indisaster management;
0    Minimumo f 3 years inpositionswithmanagementkoordinationresponsibility;
0    Computer literacy i s essential;
0    Good Englishspeakmg and writingheporting skills are essential;
0    Experience with international organizations inproject management i s an asset;
0    Willingness to leam from multi-disciplinaryhectoral operations and ability to adjust to
     different working environments (office and the field).




1For the World Bad, reportingwill be on quarterly basis inprinciple

                                                50

                 BAMEARTHQUAKEEMERGENCY             RECONSTRUCTION     PROJECT
                                           BRO-Tehran

                                     Terms of Referencesfor:
                                   Sr. ProcurementCoordinator

Scope of Work

In consultation with the Project Director, manages and supervises the     "Procurement Advisory
Services Consultant (PASC)". H e defines and implements a procurement strategy aiming at
economic and efficient procurement o f goods, works and services required for the project,
optimum use o f resources available and consistent with the project implementation schedule . H e
will obtain the full support o fPASC and will :

        Establish and update regularly a project Procurement Plan in the format agreed with the
        Bank and request timely no objection from the Bank for occasional modifications to the
        same;

        Ensure adequate publicity to business opportunities through the preparation and
        publication, and periodic updating when applicable, o f the General Procurement Notice,
        Specific Procurement Notices and invitations for Expressions o f Interest in the format
        and timing acceptable to the Bank;

        Inconsultation with the PC and in coordination with technical staff of the Housing
        Foundation and/or o f other executing agencies ensure the completeness o f the BD in
        every section and the consistency o f the technical provisions (TOR, technical
        specifications, plans etc.) withthe commercialprovisions o f the BD or RFP;

        Manage the complete procurement process for goods, works and services included inthe
        project components executed by the Housing Foundation, while ensuring its compliance
        withthe provisions o fthe LA andthe Bank Guidelines;

        Manage the preparation o f draft and final contracts for goods, works and services
        procuredunder the project and o f contract variations and /or amendments when required;

        Manage contracts under execution, including preparation o f documentation required to
        certify progress, conclusion or acceptance o f works, goods and services;

        Ensure the timely submission o f procurement documentation, reports and procurement
        decisions to the Bank for no objection in all cases o fmandatory prior review;

 (viii) Establish and maintain complete and accurate procurement records including all actions
        and documents for review by the Bank's supervision missions.                 This includes
        advertisement, preparation o f bids, invitation to bid, record o f bid submissions, bid
        opening, evaluation o f bids, contract award and performance o f the contracts;

 (ix) Facilitate post-review and procurement audits on a randombasis by the Bank; and

 (x)    Perform other relevant duties as requiredby the Project Director.

                                                 51

Qualifications

  0    Relevant degree (civil engineering, industrial management, business administration,
       finance);
  0    At least ten-year experience incontract management, and procurement o fthe similar size
       involved inthe project;
  0    Working experience and knowledge in intemational competitive bidding(based on Bank
       procedure i s an asset, if not at least working with intemational corporations/organizations
       i s an asset)
  0    Familiarity with the domestic (MPO's) procedures o f procurement;
       Mustbe familiar with Computer Programs and Applications; and
  0    Fluency inEnglishrequired.

                                                 52

                BAMEARTHQUAKEEMERGENCY               RECONSTRUCTION     PROJECT
                                     BamReconstructionOffice

                                     Terms of Referencesfor:
                                    Sr. Technical Officer (Bam)
                           (CivilWorks-Retrofittingand Transport)


Scope of Work

   Assemble and document all available information in the project area (in Kerman Province)
   conceming the implementation o f Component-B and Component-D o f the project
   (investment program, detailed studies including designs, drawings, cost estimates, contracts,
   environmental permits and clearances, etc.)
   Analyze available information and data for sufficiency, in order to identify data gaps and the
   need for additional information or studies and, any overlaps with ongoing/planned investment
   activities;
   Assist in preparation o f detailed TORSfor consultants (firms and individuals, international
   and local), which shall incorporate scope o f studies, engineering and design requirements;
   Carry out final reviews for all the TORS,bidding documents, work programs and any other
   project related documents prepared by the implementation agencies,
   Review and provide timely feedback and comments on reports prepared by the Technical
   Assistance consultants;
   Facilitate and coordinate contacts between the consultants, the contractors and the
   implementationagencies;
   Assist the Director in conducting the final validation o f the technical outputs (pre/feasibility
   studies, technical designs) before proceeding to the procurement o f civil works to ensure
   technical specifications andbill o f quantities are appropriate;
   Coordinate with the implementation agenciedthe counterparts to ensure all the technical
   outputs meet the standards acceptable and required by the Bank on social, environmental,
   technical and economic aspects (inconsultation with the social and environmental officers);
   Review and provide timely feedback and comments on all designs and engineering studies
   and reports preparedby the Consultants, and/or Ministries/sector-Companies;
   Take necessary actions to ensure that the signed contracts or agreements are fully
   implementedby the contractors;
   Check all progress reports and invoices for the works, goods and services, which are executed
   in KermadBam prior to the submission to the Financial Controller in BRO-Tehran through
   Sr. Procurement Coordinator; and,
   Provide monthly progress reports to the Director including recommendation or comments on
   the progress o f the project, problems faced on the site and the recommended actions to be
   taken to remedy the problems.

Qualifications
   Relevant degree (civil engineering);
   At least seven-year experience in design, construction and supervision in the relevant area
   (transport, structures) o f the similar scale;
   Familiarity with the domestic procedures o f constructionmanagement; and
   Fluency inEnglishrequired.

                                                 53

                BAMEARTHQUAKEEMERGENCY                RECONSTRUCTION    PROJECT
                                  BamReconstructionOffice

                                   Termsof Referencesfor:
                                 Sr. TechnicalOfficer @am)
                                     (Telecommunications)

Scope of Work

   Assemble and document all available information in the project area (in Kerman Province)
   concerning the implementation o f Component-C o f the project (investment program, detailed
   studies including designs, drawings, cost estimates, contracts, environmental permits and
   clearances, etc);
   Analyze available information and data for sufficiency, in order to identify data gaps and the
   need for additional information or studies and, any overlaps with ongoing/planned investment
   activities;
   Assist in preparation o f detailed TORSfor consultants (firms and individuals, international
   and local), which shall incorporate scope o f studies, engineering and design requirements;
   Carry out final reviews for all the TORS,bidding documents, work programs and any other
   project related documents prepared by the implementation agencies;
   Facilitate contacts between the Province o f Kermadother implementation agencies and the
   contractors and assist the Province o f Kerman in decision-makmg on the pilot buildings for
   retrofitting works;
   Assist the Director in conducting the final validation o f the technical outputs (pre/feasibility
   studies, technical designs) before proceeding to the procurement o f civil works to ensure
   technical specifications and bill o f quantities are appropriate;
   Coordinate with the implementation agenciedthe counterparts to ensure all the technical
   outputs meet the standards acceptable and required by the Bank on social, environmental,
   technical and economic aspects (inconsultation with the social and environmental officers);
   Review and provide timely feedback and comments on all designs and engineering studies
   and reports prepared by the contractors;
   Take necessary actions to ensure that the signed contracts or agreements are fully
   implementedby the contractors;
   Check all progress reports and invoices for the works, goods and services, which are executed
   inKerman/Bam prior to the submission to the Financial Controller inBRO-Tehran through
   Sr. Procurement Coordinator; and,
   Provide monthly progress reports to the Director including recommendation or comments on
   the progress of the project, problems faced on the site and the recommended actions to be
   taken to remedy the problems.

Qualifications
0  Relevant degree (Telecommunications);
0  At least seven-year experience indesign and supervisiono f constructionworks o f the similar
   scale;
0  Familiarity with the recent technology in Telecommunications used in Iran and other
   countries (working knowledge inthis area inother countries i s an asset);
   Fluency inEnglishrequired.

                                              54

               BAMEARTHQUAKEEMERGENCYRECONSTRUCTIONPROJECT
                                  BamReconstructionOffice

                                   Terms of Referencesfor:
                                Sr. Technical Officer (Tehran)
                             (ConstructionMaterial&Equipment)


Scope of Work

0  Review technical specifications to ensure technical soundness and cost efficiency and to
   comply with the requirements o f the World Bank procurement guidelines;
   Assist the Director in conducting the final validation of the technical outputs/specifications
   before proceedingto the procurement o f goods;
0  Take necessary actions to ensure that the signed contracts or agreements are fully
   implementedby the contractors;
0  Assist the Strategic Planning Officer and Monitoring Assistance Consulting Services with
   necessary inputsindefiningthe scope o f technical audits inhousingreconstruction;
0  Check all progress reports and invoices for the goods, which are executed in KermadBam
   prior to the submission to the Financial Controller in BRO-Tehran through Sr. Procurement
   Coordinator; and,
0  Provide monthly progress reports to the Director including recommendation or comments on
   the progress of the project, problems faced on the site and the recommended actions to be
   taken to remedy the problems.

Qualifications
0  Relevant degree (civil/structural engineering, mechanicalengineering);
0  At least seven-year experience in procuring materials and equipments o f similar scale and
   nature (housing construction, municipal equipments);
   Basic knowledge o f seismic engineering i s compulsory.
0  Technical knowledge o f emergency response equipments i s an asset;
0  Workmg experience o f International Competitive Bidding (preferably under the World Bank
   procedure, if not working experience on import through international corporations or
   organizations) i s an asset;
0  Fluency inEnglishrequired.

                                               55

                BAMEARTHQUAKEEMERGENCY             RECONSTRUCTION      PROJECT
                                  BamReconstructionOffice

                                   Terms ofReferencesfor:
                               Sr. EnvironmentalOfficer (Bam)


Scope of Work

Based on the Social and Environment Safeguards Framework (SESAF) prepared for the Project,
Sr. Environmental Officer will be responsible for ensuring all the project investments comply
with the World Bank's social and environment safeguard policyrequirements through;

    e Carrying out environmental screening based on the criteria set inthe SESAF;
    e Ensuring proper recording and filing on environmental aspects o f the reconstruction
        investments;
    e Advising the implementation agencies on necessary measures to be incorporated in the
       technical specifications inthe biddingdocuments;
    e Collect necessary data to set baseline for impacts monitoring and in consultation with
        Sr. Technical Officers, preparing Environmental Management Plan as needed based on
       the screening criteria and monitor its implementationand environmental impacts.

Qualifications

e   Degree inenvironmental engineering.
e   Minimum 5 years working experience in enforcement o f environmental requirements and
    procedures (screening, monitoring, designing mitigation measures) in investments o f similar
    naturehcale (this includes working knowledge o f domestic provisions on environment
    safeguards);
0   Working knowledge inEnglish.

                                                56

                 BAMEARTHQUAKEEMERGENCY              RECONSTRUCTION       PROJECT
                                    BamReconstruction Office

                                      Terms of References for:
                                    Sr. Social Officer (Tehran)


Scope o f W o r k

Based on the principles defined inthe Social and Environmental Safeguard Framework (SESAF),
Sr. Social Officer i s responsible for overseeing all the social safeguard aspects o f the project, to
ensure feedbacks from the stakeholders (beneficiary populations, implementation agencies, local
govemments       and national organizations)    are integrated in the project planning and
implementation inan efficient and timely matter. The officer will be responsible for developing a
robust and participatory Monitoring and Evaluation program with an authoritative baseline with
which progress can be tracked.

The officer's tasks include:
    Arranging updating o f land records and the establishment o f an authoritative base line for
    receipt o f benefits;
    Consolidation o f existing, and preparation and administration o f needed future census surveys
    to determine the nature and level o fneed inconsultation with the affected communities;
    In consultation with the Monitoring Assistance Consulting Services, developing a set of
    monitoring indicators and benchmarks for the achievement o f the objective o f the
    reconstruction program. These will include process indicators to measure project inputs,
    expenditures and staff deployment for example, output indicators that indicate results interms
    of numbers reached, compensation received, houses built, and outcome indicators related to
    the longer term impacts o f the program on people's lives;
    Training and orientation o f staff and agencies that will be responsible for the implementation
    o f the reconstruction program. This will require coordination between different agencies
    working in different zones and it will be particularly important to ensure that contractors are
    sensitized to people's needs and concerns;
    Procure technical advisory consulting services on needs basis to ensure timely application o f
    the SESAF;
    Contract with an external agency to assist to undertake independent evaluations at least twice
    duringthe lifetime o fthe programto inputinto a mid-term review and to a project completion
    report;

Qualifications
0   Relevant      degree   (sociology,     other   social   sciences    such     as     anthropology,
    communications/journalism);
0   Minimum7 years' experience indesigns, carrying out social surveys and consolidatingdata
    for assessing social impacts o f investments (public or private investments);
0   Working experience with international organizations on social developmentlsafeguard issues
    i s an asset;
0   Familiarity with the World Bank's safeguardprocedures i s an asset;
0   Fluency inEnglish (Speaking and Writing).

                                               57

                BAMEARTHQUAKEEMERGENCY               RECONSTRUCTION     PROJECT
                                   BamReconstructionOffice

                                     Terms of Referencesfor:
                               Sr. CommunicationsOfficer (Bam)

Scope of Work

  The person shall be assisting other BRO-Bam technical experts in ensuring smooth
   communicatiordpublicrelations o f the reconstruction program (implementation status and any
   issues arising at both local and national levels) to the stakeholders (project beneficiaries,
  implementationagencies, local governments) and the general public.

  With advisory support from the Sr. Social Officer in BRO-Tehran, the Officer will be
  responsible for the development and implementation o f a communications strategy for the
  Project that outlines initiatives to ensure better understanding and support for the project from
   general public and particularly the project's direct beneficiaries.

  The Officer will implement community outreach initiatives to ensure smooth communication
   and understanding about project implementation. Inparticular, when the issues pertaining to
  the project implementation arise, whether social or technical, the Officer will work closely
  with other officers in BRO and implementation agencies to find reasonable solutions and
   communicate them to the beneficiaries.

   Inparticular, tasksinclude:

            o Communication of the entitlement framework and arrangements being made for
                reconstruction through regular neighborhood meetings and the preparation o f
                information booklets and regularly updated neighborhood notice boards (for
                example) that simply and clearly identify people rights, and create opportunities
                for enhancing transparency and accountability;
            o Establish a Grievance Redressal Committee for the independent review o f
                possible disputes.
            o Preparation and dissemination of information materials (brochures, organization
                o f community/public relations event on the project).

Qualifications

   Relevant degree (sociology, other social sciences such as social work, anthropology,
   communications/joumalism);
   Minimum5 years experience incommunications or social development activities including at
   least one-year field experience;
   Good writing and editing slulls in Farsi, to be able to design and produce information
   materials;
   Working experience with international organizations on social developmentkafeguard issues
   i s an asset;
   Familiarity with the World Bank's safeguard procedures is an asset;
   Fluency inEnglish(Speaking and Writing).

                                                 58

                BAMEARTHQUAKEEMERGENCY               RECONSTRUCTION      PROJECT
                                    Bam Reconstruction Office

                                      Terms of References for:
                                      Sr. Legal Officer (Bam)

Scope of W o r k

Sr. Legal Officer will be responsible for providing advisory support on all the legal affairs
pertaining to the project implementation.     The Officer will also act as the point of reference on
legal concerns for the project beneficiaries. The tasks include:

    Provide regular primary legal advisory support/consultations to the project beneficiaries and
    implementation agencies, in particular on issues closely related to social safeguard aspects
    (resettlement and compensation) inorder to facilitate timely and fair resolutions o f conflicts;
    Provide referral to the specialists on a case-by-case basis;
    In coordination with Sr. Social and Sr. Communication Officers, ensure compliance of the
    legalmeasures with the World Bank's social safeguards requirements;
    Incoordination with Sr. Social and Sr. Communication Officers, ensure that the feedbacks
    from the beneficiary population are communicated to the BRO and the relevant
    implementation agencies;
    Ensure sufficient technical consultation are held between BRO and implementation agencies
    to incorporate any necessary feedbacks inthe project design and implementation;
    Ensure filing and tracking of all the legal records concerning the project.

Qualifications

0 ' Degree inlaw;
0   Minimum5 years professional experience inIranianlaw;
0   Working knowledge in the area o f property rights (e.g. inheritance, absentee rights,
    appropriatiodexpropriation, resettlement compensation);
0   Willingness to work ina multi-disciplinary work environment;
0   Fluency inEnglishi s an asset but not mandatory.

                                                  59



                BAMEARTHQUAKEEMERGENCY                 RECONSTRUCTION      PROJECT
                                     FinancialManagement Unit

                                      Terms of References for:
                                        Accountant (Tehran)


Scope of Work

Under the Supervision o f the FC, the Accountant will assist the FC in monitoring and
coordination aspects o f the financial management, audit and disbursement arrangements o f the
project that are provided in and governed by the LA. Those arrangements include the
responsibility for maintenance of project accounts, preparation of reports, coordination o f audit
arrangements, and compliance with disbursement arrangements.

Inparticular, the tasksinclude:

    o To assist the FC inpreparing all the necessary groundwork /preparatory tasks needed to
        ensure compliance with the Bank's financial management requirements. In particular,
        the Assistant will provide sufficient help in translating between Farsi and English and
        inputting in the system the relevant data to facilitate the FC's responsibilities and to
        ensure proper recording and maintenance o f project's SA.

    o To assist the FC indata consolidation and the preparation ofthe financial statements and
        reports ina timely manner and inline with the requirements o fthe World Bank.

    o To assist the FC in processing Withdrawal Applications for the SA (review and
        verification o f invoices, translation o frelevant data and papers); and

    o To assist the FC inpreparingresponses to the requests fkom the World Bank, andor the
        auditors for clarification or additional information.

Qualifications
    0   Degree inaccounting from an accredited university;
    0   Minimumfive years ofaccounting experience;
    0   Abilityto readandwrite inEnglish;
    0   Familiarity with use o f the computer, and basic accounting sokware;
    0   Familiarity with International Accounting Standards (IAS) i s preferred but i s not
        required.

60

                       61


            ISLAMIC REPUBLICOF IRAN
BAMEARTHQUAKEEMERGENCYRECONSTRUCTIONPROJECT




                ATTACHMENT-5:

       ProcurementArrangements and Provisions

                                               62

                                        ATTACHMENT-5
          BAMEARTHQUAKEEMERGENCYRECONSTRUCTIONPROJECT
                          ProcurementArrangements and Provisions


The following main Procurement principleswill be adhered to inpreparation and implementation
o f the Project:

Universal Eligibility Principle - For any contract to be financed in whole or in part fi-om the
IBRD loan       the    Implementing Agencywnit         will not     deny    participation  o f  any
firm/company/supplier for reasons unrelated to its capability and resources to successfully
perform the contract; nor can it disqualify any bidder for such reasons (paragraph 1.6 and 1.7 o f
the Guidelines). Exceptions to the foregoing are provided in the attached Guidelines (Paragraph
1.8).

            a. International CompetitiveBidding (ICB) - Contracts to be procured under the
                Project using ICB method shall fully comply with the Section I1 o f the
                Guidelines and shall provide all eligible prospective bidders an equal opportunity
                to bid for the required goods and works. T o this effect;

                      i.TheuseoftheIBRDissuedstandarddocuments(Specific Procurement
                        Notice    (SPN),    Pre-Qualification   Documents,      Standard   Bidding
                        Documents (SBD), standard evaluation reports, and form o f contracts) i s
                        mandatory;

                     ii.DomesticPreferencefor Goods (15%) couldbeusedas longas itis
                        provided for inthe LA and the BiddingDocuments (BD).

            b. Simplified ICB: Where the loan provides financing for a program o f imports,
                ICB with simplified advertising and currency provisions may be used for large-
                value contracts, as to be defined in the LA. The simplified provisions for
                notification o f ICB procurement do not require a General Procurement Notice.
                Specific Procurement Notices shall be insertedinat least one national newspaper
                o fnational circulation inthe Borrower's country (or inthe official gazette, ifany,
                or in an electronic portal with fi-ee access) in addition to WDB online and
                dgMurket. The period allowed for submission o f bids may be reduced to four
                weeks. Bidding and payment may be limited to one currency widely used in
                intemational trade.

            c. National Competitive Bidding (NCB) -For contracts for works below US$5
                million for goods below US$l,OOO,OOO, the competitive bidding procedure
                normally used for public procurement in the country o f the Borrower may be
                applied. However, to be acceptable for use inIBRD-financed procurement, these
                procedures are reviewed and modified as necessary to assure economy,
                efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with the provisions included in
                Section Iand I11o f the Guidelines (Paragraph 3.1, 3.3, and 3.4 o f the Guidelines).
                To this effect, Contracts to be procured under the Project using N C B method
                shall comply with the following:

                     i.Anyprospectivebidderfi-omacountryeligibleundertheGuidelineswho
                        propose to provide goods produced inor services supplied from any such
                        country shall be eligible to bid for such contracts.

                                    63

         ii.Invitationto bidshallbeadvertisedinat least one widely circulated
             national daily newspaper and biddingdocuments shall be made available
             to prospective bidders, at least 28 days prior to the deadline for the
        ...  submission o fbids.
        111. Government owned enterprises shall be eligible provided they are legally
             and financially autonomous, operate under commercial law, and are not
             selected or hired by the supervising or reporting authority, and will be
             subject to the same bid and performance security requirements as other
             bidders.
        iv. Bids shall be opened inpublic. The time for the bid opening shall be the
             same as for the deadline for receipt o fbids or promptly thereafter.
         v. Ifa multi-envelope bid submission system is required, all the envelopes
             should be open at the same time inone single stage.
        vi. Bids shall be evaluated based on price and on other criteria fully
             disclosed inthe bid documents and quantified in monetary terms, and no
             provision for preferential treatment for national companies shall be
             applied.
      vii. The contract shall be awarded to the bidder having submitted the lowest
             evaluated responsive bid, and no negotiation shall take place.
     viii. The procedures shall include publication o f evaluation results and the
             award o f contract and provisions for bidders to protest.

d. To further facilitate the use o f the NCB method in IBRD financed Projects, the
   following actions will be carried out:


         i.TheBRDwill conductanassessmentoftheMPOnationalcontractors
             and consultants ranlung system to determine its suitability with regards
             to transparency, faimess and the presence o f an adequate complaints
             systems. On the basis o f that assessment, the IBRD and will determine
             the possibility o f using the system in the IBRD financed NCB and
             Shoppingprocedures;
        ii. A standard NCB Package (including SPN, SBD, evaluation report, and
             form o f contract) that takes the above provisions into consideration has
             been developed under the on-going Earthquake Emergency Recovery
             Project (Loan.No.4697, approved inJune 2003). This same package will
             be disseminated to all implementation agencieshectors responsible for
             execution o fthe Project.

e. Shopping/Smaller       Works - A standard package (including Request for
   Quotation, Evaluation sheets, and Form o f Contract) for use o f these methods
   (quotations vs. bids) will be developed and MOEAFwill disseminate the same to
   all implementing agencieshnits responsible for execution o f the Project.

f. Selection and Appointment of Consultants- The universal Eligibility principle
   applies to all consultancy contracts to be procured under the IBRD Financed
   Projects and they shall comply with the following:


         i.Firms:
          -   Services o f consultants: open competitive bidding will not be used. In
          accordance with the IBRD's procedures, the Borrower addresses a request
          for proposals to a predetermined short list. For consultants, the envelopes

                             64

  containing the financial proposals will be opened in public in a second
  -stage,The selection shall be based primarily (or
          only after the technical evaluation i s completed.
                                                     in some cases only) on the
  quality and secondarily on the cost usingshort lists (six firms with not more
  than two from the same country and at least one firm from a developing
  country - Paragraph 2.6 of the Consultants Guidelines) developed through
  issuance o f Expressions o f Interests (EOI).
  -    For small assignments o f less than US$ 100,000, the shortlist may be
  limited to local consultants (paragraph 2.7 o f Consultants Guidelines)
 provided local expertise i s available at a comparative level. However, if
  foreign firms have expressed interest, they shall not be excluded from
 consideration.
 -    The use o f the IBRD standard documents including the EOI, Request
 for Proposal (RFP), Evaluation Report, and form o f contract i s mandatory
 -for For assignments
      contracts above US$200,000.
                            of less than US$200,000, selection based on
 consultants' qualification (CQ) method may be applied as specified in
 Paragraph 3.7 of the Consultants Guidelines.
 -    The award o f contracts shall be published in United Nations
 Development Business (UNDB) and dgMarket including: (a) the names of
 the consultants who submitted the proposals; (b) the technical points
 assigned to each consultant; (c) the evaluated points o f each consultant; (d)
 the final point ranking o f the consultant; (e) the name of the winning
 consultant and the price, duration, and summary scope of the contract. The
 same information shall be sent to all consultants who have submitted
 proposals.

ii. Individuals:
   -   Selection      of   individual    consultants     shall be   based    on
   comparisodevaluation of at least three CVs, based on the Section V of the
   IBRD's Consultants Guidelines.

                                                 65



                                       ATTACHMENT-SA
          BAMEARTHQUAKEEMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTIONPROJECT
                            ProcurementArrangementsandProvisions
      Terms ofReferencefor the ProcurementAdvisory Services Consultant (PASC)




Objectives

One of the main functions and responsibilities o f the BRO i s to ensure the compliance o f all
procurement activities under the project with the World Bank's procurement Guidelines and the
procurementprovisions o f the LA. Procurement under the project will include, butnot limitedto:

   a. Construction materials (steel and cement);
   b.Construction equipment, including dump trucks;
   c. Civil works for transport infi-ash-ucture (roads and airport) and for retrofitting o f earthquake
       damaged buildings;
   d.Civil works and equipment for telecommunication;
   e.Miscellaneous equipment and vehicles for municipal services, including fire-fighting and
       emergency response; and
   f.Consultingservices for designandconstructionsupervision ofallcivilworks above.

       The Procurement Advisory Service Consultant (PASC) will be responsible for all
procurement activities by the BRO and by other implementation agencies under the overall
responsibility o f the Sr. Procurement Coordinator (PC) at the BRO.

Tasks of the PASC

 I. InconsultationwiththePC,preparecustomizedBiddingDocumentsandRequestfor
      Proposals (RFP) for goods, works and services, including consultants services, using the
      World Bank's Standard Bidding Documents, including standardized Formats for
      International and National ShoppingProcedures.
 11.      Regularly update the project's Procurement Plan for the next 18 months and establish a
      procurement management system for monitoring the progress o f procurement activities, in
      consultation with the PC;
 111.     Update the annual General Procurement Notice (GPN), prepare Specific Procurement
      Notices (SPN) and Expressions o f Interest (EOI) when required, in addition to
      establishing and updating a register o f qualified contractors, suppliers and consultants;
 Iv.      Inconsultation with the PC, review Pre-qualification Documents, BiddingDocuments
      and Requests for Proposals to ensure their conformity with the agreed formats and their
      adequacy for the type o f works, goods and services, including consultants services, being
      procured;
 V.       Provide expert advice on strategic procurement decisions like procurement method, size
      and composition o f lots o f goods andor works, delivery schedules, delivery terms,
      employment o f consulting firms or individuals, etc;
 VI.      Advise upon and assist inthe revision o f Terms o f Reference, Technical Specifications,
      drawings and plans, evaluation criteria and methodology, delivery terms and other
      technical and commercial conditions to ensure overall consistency within the bidding

                                               66

      documents, conformity with prevailing industry standards or local conditions and with
      current market conditions;
 VII.    Initiate the procurement process, and assist the PC inthe establishment o f short lists for
      consultants' services, and the pre-qualification o f contractors and suppliers (when
      applicable);
 VIII.   Coordinate the timely forwarding o f procurement communications and documentation
      to the Bank, where "no objection" i s required and maintain records o f such
       communications.      Initiate and maintain correspondence for the Project Director's
       signature in response to requests for clarifications by bidders and monitor and ensure
      timely responses to procurement relatedquestions which may be raisedby the Bank;
         Provide assistance to the bid opening and evaluation committees for the preparation o f
      bidopening and o fevaluation reports inthe standard format o fthe Bank;
         Oversee preparations for negotiations and assist BRO in the negotiations with
      consultants, contractors and suppliers, including finalization o f draft contracts for
       submission to Bank review and no-objection. Ensure the timely distribution o f all final
      procurement and contract documents to interested parties (implementing agencies,
      Financial Management Controller, technical staff, consultants, suppliers, and the World
      Bank);
         Advise and assist the PC and other executing agencies in key aspects of contract
      management for goods, works and consultants' services including: (i)reception and
       acceptance o f materials and equipment; (ii)  review, validation and monitoring o f quality
       assurance systems by contractors and supervision consultants, including site inspections
       when required; (iii) prior and/or post review, on a spot check basis, o f statements by, and
       Payment Certificates to contractors, including those related to the final acceptance and
       taking over o f the works; (iv) review o f monthly reports fkom supervision consultants; (v)
       advise on claims, variation orders, extensions o f time and other contractual matters
       affecting the cost and/or the duration o f the works; and (vi) review and acceptance o f
       design work by consultants and monitoring o f supervision consultants activities;
         Oversee the establishment and maintenance o f a central procurement filing system in
       the BRO, including complete documentation o f the procurement process for contracts
       subject to the Bankpost-review;
 XIII.   Establish and maintain a detailed database o f technical specifications, prices and other
       relevant information o f major items procured; establish and maintain a database o f
       suppliers and contractors qualified for procurement o f goods, works and services under
       the shopping method;
 XIV. Carry out any other procurement and contract management related periodic duties
       requestedby the PC.
Reporting

        The PASC will report in all matters related to his duties to the PC. They will work
closely with the Sr. Technical Officers at BRO offices and other staff responsible for project
implementation.

Key Staff and Qualifications

    0   One Senior Procurement Specialist with Bachelor's Degree in one o f the following:
        Engineering, Project Management, Finance and/or Business Administration. A master's
        degree in a relevant subject to the project activities would be an added advantage. At
        least 12 years o f international working experience in progressively responsible

                                          67

  procurement functions, o f which at least 5 years o f international public procurement,
  including experience o f World Bankprocurement procedures and Guidelines.

0 One Procurement Specialist with Bachelor's Degree inone o f the following: Engineering,
  Accounting, Finance and/or Business Administration. A master's degree in a relevant
  subject to the project activities would be an added advantage.      At least 8 years o f
  intemational working experience in progressively responsible procurement functions, o f
  which at least 3 years ininternational public procurement, including experience o f World
  Bank procurement procedures and Guidelines.

  One Senior Civil Engineer with at least 12 years o f international worlung experience in
  design, construction and/or supervision o f transport infrastructure o f which at least 5
  years in construction management or supervision o f roads and airports. Experience in
  bituminous pavement rehabilitation and construction o f airport service buildings would
  be desirable.

0 Short-term Specialists in procurement and disciplines related to the goods, works and
  services, including consulting services, to be procured.

0 All positions require excellent writing and speaking communication skills in English.
  Knowledge o f Farsiwould be desirable.

0 Total number o f professional key staff-months required i s estimated at about 92 staff-
  months.

68

                     69


           ISLAMIC REPUBLICOFIRAN
BAMEARTHQUAKEEMERGENCYRECONSTRUCTIONPROJECT




               ATTACHMENT-6:

               ProcurementPlan

                                                70

                                          ATTACHMENT-6
         BAMEARTHQUAKE EMERGENCYRECONSTRUCTIONPROJECT
                                         Procurement Plan


I.General

1. Project information:

     Country:                      Iran
     Borrower:                     The Islamic Republic o fIran
     Project Name:                 BAM EARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTIONPROJECT
     LoadcreditNo.:
     Project Implementing Agency (PIA): Ministryo f Interior; Ministry of Roads and Transport;
                                              Ministry of         Information   and Communication
                                              Technology ;and the HousingFoundation.

2.   Bank's approval Date of the procurementPlan [Original: August 1, 2004; Revision-1:
     August 25,20041
3.   Date of General ProcurementNotice: July 28,2004
4.   Period coveredby this procurement plan: Firsteighteen (18) months fi-om effectiveness

11.Goods andWorks andnon-consultingservices.

1. Prior Review Thresholds:

                Procurement Method                   Prior Review Threshold         Comments
1.   ICB and LIB (Goods)                       All contracts
2.   NCB (Goods)                               =>$250,000 and the first two
                                               contracts <$250,000
3.   ICB (Works)                               All contracts
4.   NCB (Works)                               =>$500,000 andfirst two contracts
                                               <500,000
5.   ICB (Non-Consultant Services)             NA

6. I Shopping                                I First contract
7.  IDirect contracting (Goods andor Works)  I First contract of each category

2. Pre-qualification. Bidders for work contracts estimated to cost U S 1 0 million equivalent or
more shall be pre-qualified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 o f the
Guidelines.


3. ProposedProceduresfor CDD Components(as per paragraph. 3.17 of the Guidelines:
            a. Not Applicable

4. Referenceto (if any) Project OperationaVProcurementManual:
            a. Not Applicable

5. Any Other SpecialProcurementArrangements:
            a. Not Applicable

                                    71


6,ProcurementPackageswith MethodsandTime Schedule

                                                       72



                                         Estimated                                Domestic   Review    Expected
 Ref.             Contract                  Cost     Procurement       Pre        Preferenc by Bank      Bid-
 No.            (Description)               (US$       Method      qualification              (Prior /  Opening Comments
                                           million)                  (yes'no)      (yes7no)    Post)     Date
      Firefightingtrucks
 1                                       1.40       ICB           no              no        prioi      Aug-05
      Ambulances
 2                                       0.40       ICB           no              no        prior      NOV-05
      Rescuecars
 3                                       0.20       ICN           no              no       ,prior      Nov-05
      ComponentE: Project Management and TechnicalAssistance Goods
                                                              -
 1    BRO office equipment               0.20       NCB                                                Mar-05
 2    BRO office running cost            1.40       NCB                                                Mar-05




 1. Prior Review Threshold: Selection decisions subject to Prior Review by Bank as stated in
 Appendix 1to the Guidelines Selection and Employment of Consultants:

                           Selection Method                     Prior Review Threshold                 Comments
      1,     CompetitiveMethods (Firms)                     =>$100,000
      2.     Single Source (Firms)                          All selection decisions
      3      Individuals                                    => $40,000 All contracts
      4.     Individuals                                    < $40,000 Only TOR

 2. Short list comprising entirely of national consultants: Short list of consultants for services,
 estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may be comprised of entirely of
 national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant
 Guidelines.

 3. Any Other Special Selection Arrangements: NA

 4. Consultancy Assignments with Selection Methods and Time Schedule




                       Desim for GSMnetworks


I                I0    Risk Assessment, Design and
                      Sunervision                    I3.00       I OCBS         I Prior     I  Jun-06                I
                 I     BRO Staffing (lndividirals)     1    5      0Section V
                                                                          1     1            I Jan 05       I

                                                73

             0   Procurement Advisory Services 2.75      QCBS       Prior       Dec-04
                 Monitoring Advisory Services  1.20      QCBS       Prior       Dec-05
                 Technical Advisory Services   0.75      Section V              Jan-05



I K ImplementingAgency CapacityBuilding Activities with TimeSchedule

1. Inthis section the agreed Capacity Building Activities (some items could be from CPAR
recommendations) are listedwith time schedule


  No.           Expectedoutcome/              Estimated   Estimated     StartDate    Comments
                Activity Description            cost      Duration

74

                       75


            ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
BAMEARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT




                 ATTACHMENT-7:

  DisbursementandFinancialManagementArrangements

                                                        76

                                              ATTACHMENT-7:
          BAMEARTHQUAKEEMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTIONPROJECT
                   DisbursementandFinancialManagementArrangements



1.DisbursementArrangements.

The Loan will be disbursed over a period o f four years. Managing the project funds and all related
financial transactions, including preparation and submission of disbursement applications will be
the responsibility o f the FMUreporting to the BGPTF. Payments made for expenditures prior to the
Loan signature date but after August 25,2004 in an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent
of US$ 40,000,000 will be reimbursed to the Government upon presentation o f a withdrawal
application.

The allocation o f Loan proceeds by expenditure category are summarized inTable-I below:

                                      Table-1: Allocationof Loan Proceeds


                                                             Amount of the
                                                            Loan Allocated                    Yoof
                                                             (Expressedin                 Expenditures
                                                              US Dollars)                 to be Financed

                                                                25,510,000       75%

                    Goods:                                                       100%of foreign expenditures,
                                                                                 100%of local expenditures
                                                                                 (ex-factorycost) and 80% of
                                                                                 local expenditures for items
                                                                                 procured locally


                    (c)    for PartsA, B, C, and D ofthe
                          Project                                  161,400,000


                    (d)    for Part Eof the Project                   200,000
    (3)             Consultants' services and                                    88% of local expenditures for
                    training:                                                    servicesof consultingfirms
                                                                                 and individuals domiciled
                                                                                 within the territory of the
                                                                                 borrowerand 95% for foreign
                                                                                  firms and individuals.

                    (c)    for PartsA, B, C, and D of
                          the Project                                5,250,000


                    (d)    for Part E of the Project               5,650,000
                                                        I
    (4)                                                              1,100,000   Amount due under
                                                                                  Section 2.04 of the LA

    (5)

                                                                   220,000.000

                                                                 77

Documents for Withdrawals. The loan proceeds will be disbursed in accordance with the
Bank's disbursement guidelines as outlined in the Disbursement Handbook. Transaction-based
disbursement will be used and requests for payments from the loan account will be initiated
through the use o f Withdrawal Applications (WA) either for Direct Payments or for the
replenishment o f project SA. All WA will include the appropriate supportive documentation
including detailed Statements o f Expenditures (SOEs).

Use of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). SOEs will be used for all expenditures for:
(i) under contracts costing less than US$ 500,000 equivalent each; (ii)goods under
    works
contracts costing less than US$ 250,000; (iii)                    services under consultant firms contracts costing
less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent each and under individual consultant contracts costing less than
US$50,000 equivalent each; under such terms and conditions as the IBRDshall specify by notice
to the Borrower.

SA. The SA will have an authorized allocation o f US$lO million and an initial deposit o f
US$5 million, while the full allocation may be claimed when disbursements and special
commitments reach US$30 million. Replenishment o f the SA would follow IBRD's procedures,
and a bank`s statement o f SA transactions would support all replenishment applications. The
minimumamount for applications regarding direct payments and special commitments would be
20% o fthe respective authorized allocations to the SA.

Independent auditor acceptable to the Bank will audit the SA statements annually and a separate
opinion will be issued accordingly. The audit report should be submitted to the Bank for review
no later than six months after the end o f each project fiscal year.

2. FinancialManagement

Overall Arrangements. The IBRD Loan will be provided to the Islamic Republic o f Iran who
will allocate the loan proceeds, on grant basis,                         to the HF and the respective Government
agencies. The following legal documents define the overall arrangements with regards to the
financial management:

            Presidential Decree establishing the "Bam Guidance and Policy Task Force (BGPTF)",
            an inter-ministerial committee chaired by the Minister o f Housing and Urban
            Development. The decree mandates the BGPTF with the same level o f decision-making
            authority as the Cabinet untilthe post-earthquake reconstruction i s declared as completed.

            Budget addendum No. 16. that provides the above-mentioned BGPTF with the budgeted
            financial resources to achieve its mandate. It authorizes it to manage the flow o f funds
            for all reconstruction activities inall sectors2.

Considering the above framework, financial management functions will be centralized at the
Financial Management Unit (FMU) that will be established in parallel with the BRO and will be
located at the HF. Reporting to the BGPTF, the FMU will be responsible for financial
management and project disbursements while procurement and contract award will be carried out
bythe respective implementingagencies assisted by BRO.

ControlEnvironment.All payments, under the project, will be subject to Govemment controls
and regulations and will be complemented by the BRO approval o f all invoices and the
engagement o f an independent external auditor to perform year end audits. The Govemment
controls are applied through the MPO; the MOEAF; and the DiwanMouhassaba (DM).


  T h e current regulations do not allow a unique financial envelope for a multi-sectoral program and that the flow o f funds should be
managed per sector. Given this understanding, the mission notes that the arrangement on BPGTFi s a special arrangement for Bam.

                                                         78


The project budget i s allocated by the MPO, budget expenditure controls are implementedby the
MOEAFthrough the provision o ffunds and payments approval. The DMapplies post-reviews on
transactions made to confirm compliance with the budget and other applicable laws. Approval o f
invoices will be carried out by the MOI, HF and by the BRO. An external independent auditor
will perfonnyearly audits on the project financial statements.

Budget Accounts: Two project accounts were established by the MPO and a framework
agreement, detailing the flow o f funds and project implementation arrangements, will be signed
between the MPO and the BGPTF once the loan i s declared effective. The loan proceeds and the
counterpart funds will be allocated to those two accounts during project implementation. All
payments under the project will be charged to those accounts. These will be reconciled on
monthly basis with the parallel accounting system that will record the project financial
transactions and provideperiodical detailed reports.

Accounting System: To ensure timely project monitoring reports under project implementation,
the FMU will seek the services o f a full time accounting consultant3 who will report directly to
the MOEAF Financial Controller located at the FMU. The accounting consultant will be
responsible for the installation and operation o f the accounting system. The accounting system
will reflect the separate project activities, by sector and categories indicating the source o f
financing. An accounting system i s currently being developed under a different Bank financed
project and will be used under this project to generate the required financial reports.

Flow of Information: While the project will be implemented by different implementing
agencies, the accounting system will be managed by the FMU in Tehran. Each implementing
agency will provide, on a monthly basis, the necessary data on implementation progress and the
overall financial situation under the project . The data submitted will be compile inthe FMR and
will include:

     0   List o f all signed contracts, detailing the amounts paid to date and showing the
         disbursement forecast, under each, for the coming six months;
     0   The activities that will be committed (contracts to be signed) during the next six months
         and the disbursement forecast under each;
     0   Physical progress report detailing the progress o fthe activities being implemented.

Processingof Invoices. All payments under the project made from the SA will be issuedthrough
cheques signed by the: (i)      MOEAF's Financial Controller (FC) located at the FMU; (ii) byand
the Chairman o f the BGPTF (Le. the Minister o f Housing and Urban Development) or any person
he authorizes to sign on his behalf. This FC will be responsible for the project funds and for the
management o f the SA. The FMU will transfer funds from the loan account to the project's SA
that will be opened at a commercial bank as per the Central bank instructions. H e will be also
responsible for requesting counter part funds from the MOEAF. Deposits and payments out o f the
SA will be made in accordance with the provision o f the LA. The invoice processing chart and
the cash and information flow chart are shown inFigure-1 and Figure-2.




 Iftheworkloadjustifiesasecondaccountant will behiredat alater stageintheproject life.

                       79




               FIGURE-1  :
     INVOICES PROCESSINGCHART




     ImplementingAgencies


               I




BROfor InvoiceVerification andApproval

               I
               IIIIIII

               I




    1 Paymentsto Beneficiary

                                                     80



                                                      FIGURE-2:
                                          CASH& DOCUMENTSFLOW CHART


   I                                                                             -
                                   nD

                                                                                  ACCOUNTING
                                                                                      ENTRY
                                                                                    PROJECT
                                                                                      SYSTEM


                                                                                       I
                                                                                        II
                                                                                        I
                                                                                        I
                                                                                        I

                                                   PROJECTSPECIAL
        >P                                        b ACCOUNT AT       -
                                                       BANK                             I




                                                                                  f
                                  l                      I                           FINANCIAL
            MINISTRY OF             REPLENISHMEN                                    MONITORING
              ECONOMIC               4 TIMES I YEAR   PROJECT                          REPORTS
             AFFAIRS AND                            COUNTERPART
                FINANCE                             FUNDSACCOUNT                          (FMRs)
           CounterpartFunds




I                                                      Contractors, Suppliers & Consultants
   CONTRACTORS,
    SUPPLIERS &
   CONSULTANTS




D P   :Direct Payment
SAR   : Special Account Replenishment
------::Document Flow
        Cash Flow

                                                81




Reporting.Project reporting will be on quarterly and annual basis.

(a)- Quarterly reports will consist of:

    0   Financial Reports:     Which set forth sources and uses o f funds for the project, both
        cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds
        provided under the loan, and explains variances between actual and planned uses of such
        funds.

        Physical Progress Reports: Which will reflect the progress inproject implementation.


    0   Procurement Reports: Which set forth the status o f procurement under the Project and
        details the signed contracts values and amounts paid to date, including information on all
        authorized contracts variations.

These reports should be remitted to the Bank within 45 days from the end o f the period. The
format o f the Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) was agreed upon duringnegotiations.

(b)-Annual reports will consist o f AuditedProject Financial Statements (PFS) to be submitted to
the Bank. They include:

    0   Statement o f sources and utilization o f funds, indicating funds received from various
        sources;
        Appropriate schedules classifying project expenditures by activity and by implementing
        entity, showing yearly and cumulative balances;
    0   SA Reconciliation Statement reconcilingopening andyear-end balances;
        Statement o f payments made usingSOEs procedures as defined inthe legal agreement.

Audit arrangements.The FMUwill remit to the Bank not later than six months after the end o f
each year, the audit report of the project. The external audit report will encompass all project
related activities and will be in accordance with internationally accepted auditing standards e.g.,
International Standards on Auditing (ISA). The annual audit report o f the project accounts will
include an opinion on the PFS and a separate opinion on the S A and payments made using SOEs
procedures. In addition to the audit reports, the auditor will prepare a "management letter"
identifying any observations, comments and deficiencies, in the system and controls, that the
auditor considers pertinent, and will provide recommendations for their improvements. The
selection o f the external independent auditor and the Terms o f Reference will be subject to the
Bank's no objection, at least nine months prior to the end ofthe project fiscal year.

                                            82


 RiskAssessment. The following summarizesthe riskassessmentfindings for the project:

I                                         I Risk    I Comments
 A- Inherent Risk
  1.CountryFinancial ManagementRisk             H        The CFAA report for The Islamic Republic of Iran has
                                                         not beenprepared.
  2.Project Financial ManagementIssues          to       The Task Force through the FMU has not implemented
                                                         Bank financed projects in the past and the systems in
                                                         place are not capable to follow on the project activities
                                                         and funds.
  3.Counterpart Funds                           L        MPO opened two accounts for the project within the FY
                                                         04 budgetto facilitate flow of funds.
 B- Overall Inherent Risk                       M

 C- Control Risk
   1.Implementingentity                         to       The Task Force through the FMU has not implemented
                                                         Bank-financedprojectsin the past.
   2.FundsFlow                                  L        The flow of funds requires the opening of the two
                                                         accounts within the budget, MPO has approved this
                                                         activity and has openedthese accounts.
   3.Staffing                                   H        An experiencedaccountant will be hired to follow on the
                                                         project accounting while the Financial Controller will
                                                         sign all projectpayments.
   4,AccountingPolicies andprocedures           M        Upon finalizing the project's Financial Operations
                                                         Manual, well-defined financial policies and procedures
                                                         will be inplace. Howeverthe control policies applicable
                                                         to the public sector in Iran will be complementedby the
                                                         BRO verification when used to follow on the project
                                                         accounts.
   5.IntemalAudit                                        NIA
   6.Extemal audit                              M        Extemal audit will be carried out by an independent
                                                         auditor acceptable to the Bank. There was no capacity
                                                         assessment for the audit profession to determine
                                                         capabilityto perform audits as per ISA
   7.Reporting and Monitoring                   H        The project accountingactivities will be reported on the
                                                         basis of the FMRs.

I  8.Infomation systems                   I     M   I    This risk will be reduced through the installation of an
                                                         accounting software that will follow-up on the project   I

 D- Overall ControlRisk                         H

                                                            83


Responsibility Matrix. Based on the outcomes o f the above-mentioned risk assessment, the
following Responsibility Matrix was agreed upon duringproject appraisal:

                                                   ResponsibilityMatrix

                                            Process                                           Assignment of Responsibility
                                                                                          MPO      1  FMU               BRO




  I


    1. keepingof FinancialRecordsand Documentsfor
               a.   Expendituresunder the Loan                                                         x (COPY)
               b.   Expendituresof Counterpartfunds, and Contributions.                               X(Origina1)

                                    Process                                             Assignr nt of Responsibili
                                                                                MPO                SAC (DM)


    ControlSubsequentto Execution
    1.A comdiance audit of the budget executionfor:                    I AII overallreview of

             A a.   Expendituresof Counterpartfunds and contributions   projectimplementation    Regular andthe
                                                                            (Not an audit)        annual audits

    2. A financial audit of the project executionfor:                                                               Acceptableto
                b. Expendituresunder the Loan                                                                       the Bank, an
                                                                                                                    annualaudit of
                                                                                                                       the PFS


                                                      Next Steps

                                    Process                                             Assignment of Responsibility
                                                                                F3lU                  BRO         I WorldBank
    Recruitan Accountant Officer                                                                        X
    Finalizethe Project's FinancialManual                                         X
    Install AccountingSystem                                                      X
    Provide TrainingSupportto the FMU                                                                                     X

84

                               85



                     ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
   BAMEARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTIONPROJECT




                          ATTACHMENT-8:

Summary of Social andEnvironmentalScreeningandAssessment Framework

                                                86


                                       ATTACHMENT43
          BAMEARTHQUAKEEMERGENCYRECONSTRUCTIONPROJECT
          Summary of SocialandEnvironmentalScreeningandAssessmentFramework




Objectives

The Social and Environmental Screening and Assessment Framework (SESAF) provides general
guidelines, codes o f practice and procedures that are to be integrated into the initial phase o f the
World Bank-supported emergency earthquake recovery project. It provides a framework for
ensuring compliance with the World Bank's safeguard policies under current conditions in the
Islamic Republic o f Iran. Consistent with existing national legislation, the objectives of the
SESAF are to ensure that activities carried out under the proposed recovery operations will
address the following issues:


    0 Enhance positive social and environmental outcomes;
    0 Protect human health and welfare;
    0 Minimize environmental degradation as a result o f individual sub-projects or their
        cumulative effects;
    0 Fairly compensate for any loss o f livelihood; and,
    0 Minimize impacts on cultural property

General Principles

Recognizing the emergency nature o f the proposed recovery operations, and the related need to
provide emergency assistance, while at the same time ensuring due diligence in managing
potential social and environmentalrisks, the SESAF i s based on the following principles:

    0   To ensure the effective application o f the World Bank's safeguard policies, the SESAF
        provides guidance on the approach to be taken during implementation for the selection
        and design o f sub-projects, and the planning o f mitigation measures.
    0   Resettlement issues are likely to be minimal as most reconstruction efforts are likely to
        take place in situ. Inthe event that involuntary resettlement i s necessitated then detailed
        Resettlement Action Plans (RAP) will be developed in accordance with Operational
        Policy (OP) 4 will be prepared and based on the RAP, the project authorities will make
        every effort to minimize displacement and restore livelihoods.
    0   Environmental category `A' sub-projects are not expected in the Project.                  But
        environmental screening will be carried out based on the checklist (see Attachment 1) to
        confirm this before obtaining approval for sub-project launch. If any do occur,
        Environmental Assessments (EAs) for specific sub-projects will be prepared during
        implementation. Corrective measures in the form o f an Environment Management Plan
        (EMP) will be built into the emergency recovery project, in accordance with #13 o f O.P.
        4.01 and #5 o f B.P. 4.01.
    0   The proposed emergency recovery operations will finance feasibility and detailed design
        studies for these investments when and if they should be envisaged. These will include
        social a's well as environmental assessments as required by World Bank safeguard
        policies.
    0   Care will be taken to ensure that vulnerable sections o f the population (particularly the
        poor, women, orphans, the elderly and the physically disabled) are included in project

                                                  87


         design. Where employment opportunities are available within sub-projects, care will be
         taken to ensure that the affected populations can benefit. Inall sub-projects, arrangements
         for ensuring effective consultations with and the meaningful participation o f local
         communities (both male and female) will be made to elicit their different views and foster
         local ownership o fthe design.
    0    The SESAF will be disclosed in the offices o f the concerned implementing agencies, in
         prominent public places locally, and inthe World Bank Infoshop.

ProjectDescription

The project objectives will be met through the five components that are described below:

    Component-A- Provision of Construction Material and Equipment for Housing and
     Commercial Buildings: This component will finance the procurement of: (i)construction
    material (steel bars, steel components for frames and Portland cement) for housing and
    commercial buildings; (ii)  construction equipment; and (iii) and supervision activities.
                                                                   design

    Component-B- Repair of the TransportInfrastructure: This component will finance: (i)         the
    rehabilitation and preventive works for the main highway linking Bam with the provincial
    capital city o f Kerman; (ii) the rehabilitationand reconstruction o fthe BamAirport facilities;
     (iii) rehabilitationandpavingofvillagestreets;and(iv)designandsupervisionactivities.
          the

     Component-C- Repair of the Telecommunications Infrastructure: This component will
     finance: (i) repair andreconstruction oftelecommunicationcenter buildings; (ii)
                  the                                                                            the
    reconstruction o f the transmission networks; (iii) reconstruction and expansion of mobile and
     data services ;and (iv) design and supervision activities.

     Component-D- Improved Emergency Preparedness in the Province of Kerman and the
    District of Bum: This component will finance: (i)     retrofitting works o f strategic emergency
    response buildings in the Province o f Kerman; (ii)      the provision o f emergency response
    vehicles for the District o f Bam (fire fighting trucks and ambulances) to replace equipment
     lost duringthe earthquake ;and (iii) riskassessment and design and supervision activities.

     Component-E- Project Management and Technical Assistance: This component supports
     (i) managementthroughtheestablishmentoftheBRO;and(ii)
        project                                                               technical assistance to
     the BRO, aiming at assisting project implementation and improving project management
     capacity through the procurement o f consultants for Procurement Advisory Services,
     MonitoringAdvisory Services andTechnical Advisory Services.

Social and EnvironmentalScreening andAssessment Framework(SESAF)

This SESAF has been developed specifically for the proposed sub-projects to ensure due
diligence, to avoid causing harm or exacerbating social tensions, and to ensure consistent
treatment o f social and environmental issues by project authorities and those workmg for them.
The purpose o f this framework i s also to assist the Project Implementing Agencies in screening
all sub-projects for their likely social and environmental impacts, identifying documentation and
preparation requirements and prioritizing investments.

OP. 4.01 EnvironmentalAssessment. Most o f the proposed sub-projects are likely to focus on
the repair and structural reinforcement o f damaged buildings, roads, Bam airport and
telecommunication networks.

                                                  88



Considering the limited nature and scale o f potential environmental impacts, most, if not all, o f
the proposed operations are likely to be classified as Category `B' sub-projects. Therefore, for
sub-projects with potential adverse impacts, a limited Environmental Assessment will be
undertaken during project and will apply the following minimum standards during
implementation:


     0   The inclusion o f standard environmental codes o fpractice inthe repair and reconstruction
         biddocuments o fall sub-projects;
     0   Review and oversight o fany major reconstruction works by specialists;
     0   Implementation o f socially and environmentally sound options for the disposal o f debris;
         and,
     0   Provision o f adequate budget and satisfactory institutional arrangements for monitoring
         effective implementationthrough the inclusion o f an Environment Officer inthe BRO       .

The environmental guidelines are designed to provide guidance to the BRO                     and the
implementation agencies on the procedures used to identify those investments that may induce
negative environmental impacts. Guidance i s given on the mitigation o f negative environmental
impacts that may accrue from sub-project construction. The guidelines are to be implemented
duringthe application, screening, assessment, approval and execution o finvestments.

Under the BEERP most o f the eligible investments will involve repair and structural
reinforcement of transport facilities (airport buildings), public buildings (retrofitting works) as
well as telecommunication networks and village streets in affected areas. Sewage treatment
plants, solid waste equipment, waste disposal sites are not eligible for financing under the
BEERP. All investments will be subjected to environmental screening and assigned to one o f
three categories (A, B, and C) depending on the magnitude and adversity o f predicted
environmental impacts.         No BEERP investments are expected to be given a category `A'
classification. Most are expected to fall into category `C' and will thus not require an
environmental assessment. In most cases, any necessary impact mitigation will be inherent in
standard engineering design and good construction practice. Investments considered to impose
unacceptable negative environmentalimpacts will not be approved for financing.

OP 4.12 InvoluntaryResettlement.The needfor landacquisition or for involuntary resettlement
in specific sub-projects will only be known during project implementation, when site-specific
plans are available. Sub-projects will therefore be screened for applicability of the resettlement
policy. Any sub-projects involving involuntary resettlement or land acquisition o f more than 25
families will only be approved after the preparation o f a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
acceptable to the Bank. Several issues are likely to increase the complexity o f land acquisition -
the availability o f reliable landrecords, the inability o fpeople to document ownership, the demise
o f occupants and subsequent uncertainty about transfers o f title. The Government has also agreed
to implement the principles o f full compensation and livelihood restoration for any Project
Affected Person (PAP). This includes any person who, on account o f the execution of the Project,
has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts caused by the
involuntary taking o f land resulting in: (i)relocation or loss o f shelter; (ii) o f assets or access
                                                                               loss
to assets; or (iii)
                  loss o f income sources or means o f livelihood, whether or not such person must
move to another location, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood o f such person, provided
that such person should have before the occurrence o f the Earthquake, either: (i)       formal legal
rights to land, including customary and traditional rights recognized under the laws o f the
Borrower; or (ii)  claims to such land or assets, provided that such claims are recognized under the

                                                89


laws o f the Borrower, or become recognized through a process identified in the Resettlement
Action Plan (RAP). The GO1will review relocations on a case-by-case basis and will provide
information to the Bank about any secondary displacement that has occurred to date. The
safeguards framework includes procedures for identifying eligible project affected people,
calculating and delivering compensation, and mechanisms for dealing with grievances. It i s good
practice for the borrower to undertake a social assessment and implement measures to minimize
and mitigate adverse social impacts, particularly as they affect poor and vulnerable groups.

OP 4.20 Indigenous Peoples. The five defining characteristics normally used to define
indigenous peoples are inappropriate in Iran's case and positive discrimination in favor o f any
group on these grounds i s likely to be counter-productive and to exacerbate divisions between
communities. A vulnerability assessment will be built into the social assessments to be
undertaken for cases at high risk in terms o f social safeguardprotection, to ensure effective
consultations with and culturally appropriate benefits to each o f the vulnerable groups and will
incorporate adequate measures to address such vulnerability insub-project design.

OPN 11.03 Cultural Property. Sub-projects will be reviewed for their potential impact on
cultural property, and clear procedures will be developed for the identification and protection o f
cultural property and will be included in standard bidding documents. Sub-project preparation
may involve the identification o f and assistance for the preservation o f culturally important sites.
Ifthese opportunities occur, culturalproperty management plans will be prepared for these sub-
projects.

OP 4.37 Safety of Dams.No dams will be repairedunder the project.

Safeguard Screening and Mitigation. The selection, design, contracting, monitoring and
evaluation o f sub-projects will be consistent with the guidelines, codes o f practice and
requirements included as Attachments to the Social and Environmental Screening and
Assessment Framework. These include:


    0   A list o fnegative characteristics renderinga proposed sub-project ineligible for support;
    0   A proposedchecklist o f likely social and environmentalimpacts to be submitted for each
        sub-project;
    0   A sample Environmental and Safeguards procedure for inclusion in the technical
        specifications o f contracts;
    0   Procedures for the protection o f cultural property, including chance discoveries;
    0   Relevant elements o f the codes of practice for the prevention andor mitigation o f
        potential environmental impacts;
    0   Guidelines for land and asset acquisition, entitlements and compensation.

Responsibility for Safeguard Screening and Mitigation. Each implementation agency
(Housing Foundation o f Islamic Revolution, sector ministries and utilities represented at the
provincial Government level) will be responsible for applying the safeguard screening and
mitigation requirements as defined in the Framework to its own investments and will work
closely with the BRO and the Department o f Environment. The BRO will be responsible for
close coordination with the implementation agencies in order to ensure compliance by the
implementationagencies with the safeguard requirements as defined inthe framework.

Capacity-Building and Monitoring of Safeguard Framework Implementation. Technical
assistance services will be mobilized under the Project Management Component o f the Project to

                                                90


provide guidance and review o fthe application o f the SESAF. As part o f the technical assistance,
the BRO, together with relevant staff o f the implementation agencies will receive training in
SESAF's application.      During supervision o f the project, the World Bank will assess the
implementation o f the SESAF, and recommend additional strengthening ifrequired.

Consultation andDisclosure.The Government o fIslamic Republic o fIranwill publicly disclose
the SESAF. It will be disclosed in Farsiby the BRO on behalf o f the Government o f the Islamic
Republic o f Iran, both nationally and locally. It will also be made available to the public at the
BRO offices, and at the Word Bank's Infoshop. Relevant project specific safeguards
documentdmitigation plans subsequently prepared will also be disclosed and be publicly
available to local citizens. The implementing agencies will consult project-affected people, local
government and non-government organizations on the project's social and environmental aspects,
and will take their views into account during preparation o f sub-projects. The implementing
agencies will initiate these consultations as early as possible to solicit the effective participation
of the local population in its activities wherever appropriate. The implementing agency will also
provide relevant materials ina timely manner prior to consultations, in a form and a language that
are understandable and accessible, to ensure that meaningful consultations can take place and that
relevant information i s available to concerned citizens. Draft reports and plans will be made
available to project-affected groups and to local civil society organizations and will normally be
considered to be inthe public domain.

                     91



           ISLAMIC REPUBLICOFIRAN
BAMEARTHQUAKEEMERGENCYRECONSTRUCTIONPROJECT




               ATTACHMENT-9:

           Documentsin the ProjectFiles

                                           92


                                    ATTACHMENT-9
        BAMEARTHQUAKE EMERGENCYRECONSTRUCTIONPROJECT
                                 Documentinthe ProjectFiles


A. ProjectImplementationPlan


B. Bank StaffAssessments
   (a) Damage Assessment Report, February 2004
   (b) Procurement Capacity Assessment, March& June 2004
   (c) Financial Management Capacity Assessment, June 2004
   (d) Rapid social assessment, prepared by David Marsden, Lead Social Development
       Specialist, March2004

C.Others
   (a) Mission report: Review of UrbanDevelopmentMaster and Detailed Plans, Danielle Pini,
       Ph.D., April 2004
   (b) BamEarthquakeEmergency Reconstruction Project, Structural Analysis, Dr.Haluk
       Sucuolu (Middle Eastern University,Ankara, Turkey), March 2004.

