                                      Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                      Report No: ICR00001207



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (Loan No.: IBRD-47550)

                                         ON A

                                         LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF US$220 MILLION

                                        TO THE

                         ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN

                                       FOR THE

       BAM EARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT



                                      July 26, 2010




Sustainable Development Department
Middle East Country Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective June 9, 2010)
             Currency Unit = Iranian Rial (IR)
                   1.00 = US$ 0.000104
                    US$ 1.00 = 9,600

                     FISCAL YEAR

                  March 21 -- March 20

         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BEERP   Bam Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction Project
BGPTF   Bam Guidance and Policy Task Force
BRO     Bam Reconstruction Office
BPTF    Bam Provincial Task Force
DO      Development Objective
EERP    Earthquake Emergency Recovery Project
ERL     Emergency Recovery Loan
GOI     Government of Iran
HF      Housing Foundation of the Islamic Revolution
IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICHTO   Iranian Cultural Heritage and Tourism Organization
ISR     Implementation Status Report
IRCS    Iranian Red Crescent Society
IRI     Islamic Republic of Iran
IP      Implementation Performance
ISA     International Standards on Auditing
ITC     Iran Telecommunications Company
KTC     Kerman Telecommunications Company
MOE     Ministry of Education
MOEAF   Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance
MOHME   Ministry of Health and Medical Education
MOI     Ministry of Interior
MICT    Ministry of Information and Communications Technology
MORT    Ministry of Roads and Transportation
MPO     Management and Planning Organization
NGO     Non-Governmental Organization
TCI     Telecommunication Company of Iran
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
QEA     Quality at Entry

             Vice President: Shamshad Akhtar
           Country Director: Hedi Larbi
            Sector Manager: Anna M. Bjerde
        Project Team Leader: Soraya Goga
          ICR Team Leader: Soraya Goga


                            i
                                        Islamic Republic of Iran
                             Bam Earthquake Emergency Reconstruction Project




                                                           CONTENTS


Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information ....................................................................................................iii
    B. Key Dates ...............................................................................................................iii
    C. Ratings Summary.....................................................................................................iii
    D. Sector and Theme Codes...........................................................................................iv
    E. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................iv
    F. Results Framework Analysis .....................................................................................v
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .....................................................................ix
    H. Restructuring............................................................................................................ix
    I. Disbursement
Graph.............................................................................................................ix

   1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ........................................................... 1
   2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes........................................................... 5
   3. Assessment of Outcomes ...................................................................................................... 12
   4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................... 18
   5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................................................. 18
   6. Lessons Learned.................................................................................................................... 21
   7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ....................... 22
   Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ...................................................................................... 18
   Annex 2. Outputs by Component.............................................................................................. 24
   Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................................. 25
   Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ......................... 21
   Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ....................................................................................... 29
   Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results............................................................... 33
   Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................................. 37
   Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ................................... 49
   Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents................................................................................... 50

   MAP




                                                                    ii
 
A. Basic Information
                                                                          BAM EARTHQUAKE
                        Iran, Islamic Republic                            EMERGENCY
Country:                                       Project Name:
                        of                                                RECONSTRUCTION
                                                                          PROJECT
Project ID:             P088060                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-47550
ICR Date:               07/29/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          ISLAMIC REPUBLIC
Lending Instrument:     ERL                     Borrower:
                                                                          OF IRAN
Original Total
                        USD 220.0M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 154.4M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 154.4M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Bam Reconstruction Office
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                              Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process           Original Date
                                                                                  Date(s)
Concept Review:       03/02/2004     Effectiveness:                              01/26/2005
Appraisal:            06/18/2004     Restructuring(s):
Approval:             10/28/2004     Mid-term Review:        03/03/2007          03/03/2007
                                     Closing:                05/31/2009          05/31/2009

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower            Ratings
                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                          Government:         Moderately Satisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory
                        Moderately         Implementing
Quality of Supervision:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory     Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank            Moderately         Overall Borrower
                                                               Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:            Unsatisfactory     Performance:



                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Aviation                                                              2                      2
Housing construction                                                  82                   82
Roads and highways                                                    10                   10
Telecommunications                                                     6                     6


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Access to urban services and housing                                  33                   33
Natural disaster management                                           33                   33
Other urban development                                               17                   17
Rural services and infrastructure                                     17                   17

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Shamshad Akhtar                      Christiaan J. Poortman
Country Director:          Hedi Larbi                           Joseph P. Saba
Sector Manager:            Anna M. Bjerde                       Hedi Larbi
Project Team Leader:       Soraya Goga                          Sateh Chafic El-Arnaout
ICR Team Leader:           Soraya Goga
ICR Primary Author:        Richard James


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project objectives are: (a) to restore the living conditions of the communities affected
by the earthquake; (b) to improve emergency preparedness in the Province of Kerman




                                               ii
and the city of Bam; and (c) to strengthen the planning and management capacity under
the reconstruction program.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)



(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target  Formally        Actual Value
                                                Values (from     Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                   approval      Target        Completion or
                                                 documents)      Values         Target Years
                Housing Reconstruction Work (through procurement of essential construction
Indicator 1 :
                material)
                                             The project to go
                                             beyond the
                85% of houses destroyed: intended scope.                    35,866 urban units;
Value           (i) 22,100 urban units; (ii) Completion of                  29,594 rural units;
quantitative or 22,800 rural units; and      about 60,000                   and
Qualitative)    (iii) 3000 commercial        houses in the                  5,250 commercial
                units                        earthquake zone                units
                                             (more than 30% of
                                             initial target)
Date achieved 12/26/2003                     05/31/2009                     10/25/2009
                160% achievement in urban housing units; 130% achievement in rural housing
Comments
                units; and 175% achievement in commercial units. Higher achievement was
(incl. %
                possible because the government took a decision to include partially damaged
achievement)
                buildings
Indicator 2 : Procurement of Construction Equipment
                                                                            wheel loaders 36
                                                                            dump trucks (6x4)
                                                                            235
                                                                            dump trucks (4x2)
                                                                            110
                                                                            transit mixers 36
                                                                            wheel excavators
                (i) No. of Construction The number of
                                                                            15
                Equipment procured (out unit purchased
Value                                                                       motor graders 40
                of 440 units); (ii)          under the loan
quantitative or                                                             pickup trucks 0
                Laboratory Equipment         likely to be 40%
Qualitative)                                                                stone crushing plant
                delivered                    higher than
                                                                            0
                (out of 115 units)           initially planned.
                                                                            concrete batch plant
                                                                            0
                                                                            testing equipment
                                                                            115
                                                                            crawler dozers 6
                                                                            vibratory drum
                                                                            roller 30



                                              iii
Date achieved   11/16/2004                  05/31/2009                          10/25/2009
Comments
                115% achieved for dump trucks; 124% for transit mixers; 136% for wheel
(incl. %
                excavators; 571% for motor graders.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   Repair of the Transport Infrastructure: % length of highway rehabilitated
                                             Full
                                             implementation of
Value
                0% at the initial stage (of this component
quantitative or                                                                   70 km rehabilitated
                190km)                       would require a 2
Qualitative)
                                             year extension of
                                             the closing date.
Date achieved 11/16/2004                     05/31/2009                           10/25/2009
Comments
                37% achieved. Full implementation of this activity required extension of project
(incl. %
                closing date which was requested by the government but not granted.
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Repair of the Transport Infrastructure: % of works completed on the Bam Airport
                                             NA
Value           NA
                                             Activity dropped
quantitative or Activity dropped at the                                           0% achieved
                                             at the request of
Qualitative)    request of the gvt
                                             the gvt
Date achieved 11/16/2004                     05/31/2009                           05/31/2009
                The activity was dropped from Bank financing mainly because special security
Comments
                clearances were not provided to the international contractors and supervision
(incl. %
                consultants to enter into airport facilities. The activity was dropped from Bank
achievement)
                financing
Indicator 5 : Repair of the Transport Infrastructure: % length of village streets rehabilitated
Value                                                                             137 km completed
                                             100% at end of
quantitative or 0% initially (of 20 km)                                           through
                                             implementation
Qualitative)                                                                      government funds
Date achieved 11/16/2004                     05/31/2009                           05/31/2009
                Due to the emergency nature of work and the readily available work force, the
Comments
                Housing Foundation requested the Bank to authorize use of force account to
(incl. %
                rehabilitate these streets. In order to save time the HF proceeded with its own
achievement)
                funds.
                Repair of Telecommunications Infrastructure: % completion of key building
Indicator 6 :
                reconstruction
                                                                 Except for
                                                                 cable and
                                                                 radio
                                                                 transmission
                                                                 networks and Cable and radio
Value                                                            switching sites transmission
                0% initially (of 3 main      100% at end of
quantitative or                                                  in Bam and       networks and
                buildings)                   implementation
Qualitative)                                                     Baravsat, all switching sites
                                                                 other activities 100% operational
                                                                 got dropped
                                                                 from Bank
                                                                 financing at
                                                                 government#s


                                                 iv
                                                                request.
Date achieved 11/16/2004                   05/31/2009           03/03/2007       05/31/2009
Comments        Difficulties encounterd led gov't to drop 3 of 4 activities (telecom specialist,
(incl. %        NGN system, permits from IGOs). The government is presently considering
achievement) carrying out these activities using own resources.
                Repair of Telecommunications Infrastructure: % completion of telecom
Indicator 7 :
                equipment installation
Value                                      100% at end of
                0% initially (of 3 main
quantitative or                            implementation
                buildings)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/16/2004                   05/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Improve emergency preparedness in the earthquake area: % disbursement of
Indicator 8 :
                retrofitting works in Kerman province
                                           Full
                                           implementation of
Value           0% initially (of 10 key
                                           this component
quantitative or buildings)
                                           would require an
Qualitative)
                                           extension of the
                                           closing date.
Date achieved 11/16/2004                   05/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Improve emergency preparedness in the earthquake area: % of emergency
Indicator 9 :
                response vehicles delivered to Bam District
                                           NA Activity
Value
                0% initially (of 3 main    cancelled at the
quantitative or
                buildings)                 request of the
Qualitative)
                                           government.
Date achieved 11/16/2004                   05/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Strengthen the planning & management capacity under the reconstruction
Indicator 10 :
                program
                                           Full disbursement
Value                                      of the loan would
                % of overall disbursement
quantitative or                            require an
                and % of TA resources
Qualitative)                               extension of the
                                           closing date.
Date achieved 01/26/2005                   05/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                                 v
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                               Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                                Revised
                                                  approval                       Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                                documents)                        Target Years
Indicator 1 : Restore living conditions of the communities affected by the earthquake
Value           Provision of construction
(quantitative   material and equipment Not specified                           Fully achieved
or Qualitative) on an emergency basis
Date achieved 12/26/2003                    05/31/2009                         05/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %        Confirmed through beneficiary assessments
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Improve emergency preparedness in Kerman Province and City of Bam
                Completion of complex
Value                                                                          Not fully achieved
                procurement procedures
(quantitative                               Not specified                      due to project
                is a prerequisite to
or Qualitative)                                                                closing
                achieving the PDO
Date achieved 11/16/2004                    05/31/2009                         05/31/2009
Comments        Limited capacity at the local implementing agency at Kerman Province led to
(incl. %        long delays in starting this activity. Also, full implementation required
achievement) extension of project closing date which was not granted.
                Strengthen the planning & management capacity under the reconstruction
Indicator 3 :
                program
Value
                                                                               Significantly
(quantitative   BRO to perform well         Not specified
                                                                               achieved
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/16/2004                    05/31/2009                         05/31/2009
                With a total project amount committed to about 80% of the loan amount, BRO
Comments
                significantly achieved its development objectives despite challenges, mainly
(incl. %
                related to the change in project currency, replacement of commercial bank acct
achievement)
                among other issues

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                   Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                              DO                         IP                Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                               (USD millions)
  1     11/11/2004           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     04/01/2005           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      1.10
  3     11/14/2005           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    10.79
  4     05/30/2006           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    28.75
  5     12/19/2006           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    52.13
  6     06/27/2007           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                    97.21
  7     12/13/2007           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   107.40
  8     06/24/2008           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                   124.21



                                                vi
  9    12/26/2008         Satisfactory         Satisfactory   128.10


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                         vii
 
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1     Context at Appraisal

On December 26, 2003, a major earthquake registering 6.5 on the Richter scale devastated the
Bam District, killing 26,000 people, leaving 30,000 injured and 80,000 homeless. Most severely
hit was the city of Bam located in Kerman province in the southeastern part of the country and its
92,000 inhabitants. A substantial number of professional and managerial staff from local civil
service perished, considerably undermining the local emergency response capacity. The
earthquake destroyed 85% of the buildings and severely affected infrastructure networks. The
rich cultural heritage of Bam, including the 2,500 years old Arg-e-Bam Citadel, and the
traditional underground irrigation systems (Qanats) vital for the production of dates1suffered
significant damage. Based on the available figures, damages were estimated to be equal to
US$1.5 billion.

Government's emergency response in the aftermath of the earthquake: Search and rescue
efforts were immediately mobilized by the Government of Iran (GOI). Recognizing the need for
coordination between government, donor agencies, and non-governmental agencies (NGOs), the
GOI, almost immediately, established a National Committee for Reduction of Natural Disasters'
Impacts (NCRNDI), under the Ministry of Interior (MOI) and the Iranian Red Crescent Society
(ICRS). The latter mobilized more than 8,500 relief workers and volunteers and launched large-
scale rescue, evacuation, and relief operations. The affected district was divided into fourteen
zones and relief and humanitarian assistance in each zone was assigned to a Provincial
Government in the country.

Donor response: Most United Nations (UN) agencies and donor countries mobilized emergency
relief support to the victims. The UN issued a joint flash appeal on January 13, 2004 soliciting
US$31 million to address urgent relief and rehabilitation needs during the first ninety days. By
January 28 2004, donors had pledged over US$15 million for urgent relief. The Gulf
Cooperation Council (GCC) also pledged US$400 million in soft loans to GOI for the
reconstruction work.

While the financing of the reconstruction program relied primarily on the GOI's funds, the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the World Bank) was requested to
provide emergency assistance valued at US$220 million and to apply its global post-disaster
emergency reconstruction experience as well as significant country-experience to promote
strategic approaches to disaster risk management. In addition to pledges from other donors
(mainly, the Japan Bank for International Cooperation, the Islamic Development Bank and
countries from the Persian Gulf and Europe), the World Bank on October 28, 2004 committed to
finance key elements of the comprehensive reconstruction program through the Bam Earthquake
Emergency Reconstruction Project (BEERP). The Loan Agreement was signed between GOI and
the World Bank on November 16, 2004 and the loan became effective on January 26, 2005.

1.2     Original Project Development Objectives and Key Indicators (as approved)

The objectives of the project were to: (a) restore the living conditions of the communities affected
by the earthquake; (b) improve emergency preparedness in the Province of Kerman and the city

1
  Bam's local economy mainly relies on the date market for its survival. Following Iran's earthquake, Bam
struggled to pick itself up and reconstruct what it had worked over three thousand years to build.


                                                    1
of Bam and; (c) strengthen the planning and management capacity under the reconstruction
program2. The key performance indicators, for each component, as agreed during the Loan
Negotiations3 were:

Component A: provision of construction material and equipment for housing and commercial
buildings: (i) percent number of urban and rural housing units reconstructed; (ii) percent number
of commercial units rebuilt; and (iii) percent number of construction equipment procured.

Component B: repair of the transport infrastructure: (i) percent length of Kerman-Bam highway
rehabilitated out of 190 km; (ii) percent physical completion of the rehabilitation and
reconstruction of Bam airport; (iii) percent physical completion of the construction and
navigation equipment for the Bam airport; and (iv) percent length of village streets rehabilitated
out of 20 km.

Component C: repair of the telecommunications infrastructure: (i) percent physical completion
of the technical building for new switching, transmission and power supply facilities; (ii) percent
physical completion of the repair of the principal switching center at Etemadi; (iii) percent
physical completion of the repair of Baravat telephone center building; (iv) percent physical
completion of the reconstruction of the cable and radio transmission networks and switching sites
in the District of Bam and Bavarat; and (v) percent physical completion of the expansion of GSM
mobile network to surrounding rural areas.

Component D: improved emergency preparedness in the province of Kerman and the District of
Bam: (i) percent completion of retrofitting works in Kerman; (ii) percent number of emergency
response vehicles procured for the District of Bam.

Component E: project management and technical assistance: no indicators were specified.

1.3    Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification
                                                                                             4
The PDOs were not revised. However, during the Quality at Entry Assessment review , the panel
recommended introducing outcome indicators but 5 heeding the recommendation was not a
requirement due to the emergency nature of operation .

1.4     Main Beneficiaries

The intended beneficiaries of the project were a population of about 93,000 people, living in the
city of Bam located in Kerman province in the southeastern part of the country. The project's
direct beneficiaries included: (i) home owners whose homes were destroyed by the earthquake;
(ii) road users; (iii) communities who improved their disaster preparedness capacity; (iv)
government staff at the Housing Foundation (HF) and (v) general offices of Kerman6. There
were also several indirect beneficiaries such as skilled and un-skilled workers who acquired on-
the job construction skills and the local builders who benefited through learning improved
building standards and techniques. The provision of construction components had a positive

2
  The project was expected to be implemented over a four year period.
3
  Schedule 7, Loan Agreement Document No. 4755-IRN, dated November 16, 2004.
4
  Seventh QEA (QEA7), assessment date, September 21, 2005.
5
  To provide OP reference showing outcome indicators are not necessary (only output indicators are) for
emergency projects.
6
  Ministry of Roads and Transport and Bam Reconstruction Office in Tehran and Bam.


                                                    2
impact in developing small and medium consulting and construction firms as well as local job
creation.

1.5        Original Components (as approved)

The project objectives were expected to be met through five components described below:

Component A: Provision of construction material and equipment for housing and
commercial buildings (estimated cost at appraisal: US$150 million; actual cost: US$138.17
million7). This component financed procurement of: (i) construction material (steel bars, steel for
frames and Portland cement) for rural and urban housing units and commercial buildings; (ii)
construction equipment (dump trucks, wheel loaders, quality control and testing equipments); and
(iii) design and supervision activities. The component constituted around 68% of the total project
cost.

Component B: Repair of transport infrastructure (estimated cost: US$22.35 million; actual
cost: US$6.12 million). The component financed: (i) rehabilitation and preventive works for the
main highway linking Bam with the provincial capital of Kerman; and (ii) design and supervision
activities. The rehabilitation and reconstruction of Bam Airport facilities and the paving of village
streets were taken out of the project at GOI's request and are being funded by government's own
resources. The component constituted around 10% of the total project cost.

Component C: Repair of telecommunications infrastructure (estimated cost: US$11.45
million; actual cost: $6.31million). The component financed: (i) repair of telecommunication
center buildings; (ii) repair of transmission networks; (iii) expansion of mobile and data services;
and (iv) related design and supervision activities. The component constituted 5.20% of the total
project cost.

Component D: Improved emergency preparedness in the Province of Kerman and Bam
(estimated cost: US$8.39 million; actual cost: US$0.31million). This component financed: (i)
retrofitting work of emergency response buildings in Kerman; and (ii) risk assessment, design and
supervision activities. The provision of emergency response vehicles (fire trucks, ambulances)
was removed from the project at the GOI's request. The component constituted 3.81% of the total
project cost.

Component E: Project management and technical assistance (estimated cost: US$5.85
million; actual cost: US$1.98 million). This component supported (i) establishment of the Bam
Reconstruction Office (BRO); and (ii) technical assistance to improve project management
capacity through procurement of consulting firms for `procurement advisory services';
`monitoring advisory services' and the recruitment of consulting firms and individuals for
`technical advisory services'. The component constituted 2.66% of the total project cost.

Project Costs: At appraisal, the total project cost was estimated at US$235 million of which
US$15 million was to be financed by the GOI. Details are as follows:
                                                                 Project Cost Bank Financed
Component                                                        (US$ million) (US$ million)
Component-A: Provision of Equipment and Construction
Material for Housing and Commercial Buildings                        150.00           150.00


7
    Actual amount financed/disbursed under the Loan.


                                                       3
Component-B: Repair of Transport Infrastructure8                           29.32              22.35
Component-C: Telecommunication Infrastructure9                             12.10              11.45
Component-D: Improved Emergency Preparedness in the
Province of Kerman and the District of Bam10                              10.00                8.39
Component-E: Project Management & Technical Assistance                     7.80                5.85
Physical and Price Contingencies                                          24.68               20.86
Financing Charges                                                          1.10                1.10
                                        Total Project Cost                235.00             220.00

1.6      Revised Components

No component was formally revised however the scope of work was changed during
implementation, and out of US$42.19 million budgeted for three out of the five components,
US$29.45 million of the proceeds were cancelled as discussed below.

Component A - Provision of construction material and equipment for housing and
commercial buildings:

The component was not revised.

Component B - Repair of Transportation Infrastructure

(i)    Rehabilitation of Bam Airport: The necessary security clearances were not provided to the
       international contractors, supervision consultants and the laborers to enter into the airport
       facilities, in spite of repeated requests. Consequently the activity was dropped with the
       understanding that the government will use its own funds to complete this task. The
       activity constituted US$3.15 million or 1.4% of the total project cost;

(ii)   Repair of village streets: Due to the emergency nature of work and the readily available
       work force, the Housing Foundation (implementing agency for this component) requested
       the Bank to authorize use of force account to rehabilitate these streets. The Bank agreed in
       principle and asked for an official request as it required amending the Loan Agreement.
       However, to save time, the HF proceeded with rehabilitating the streets using its own funds
       but was not able to forward the formal request for the use of force account. This activity
       (repair of village streets) constituted US$1.91 or less than 1% of total project cost.

Component C - Repair of Telecommunications Infrastructure:

The complexity of importing modern electronic equipment i.e.: the New Generation Network
             11
(NGN) system , the difficulties encountered in the preparation of tender documents, and the

8
  Under this component US$16.23million was cancelled, the amount allocated for the repair of Bam
airport and the repair of village streets
9
  Under this component US$5.14 was cancelled, amount allocated for reconstruction of technical building
for new switching, transmission and power supply facilities; principal switching center at Etemadi;
Baravat telephone building; and radio transmission networks and switching sites in Bam and Baravat.
10
   Under this component US$8.08 was cancelled, amount allocated for retrofitting works in Kerman and
procurement of emergency vehicles
11
   NGN is a broad term to describe some key architectural evolutions in telecommunication access
networks that would be deployed over the next 5­10 years. TheNGN would be the one network that would
transports all information and services (voice, data, and all sorts of media such as video) by encapsulating
these into packets, like it is on the Internet


                                                     4
challenges of obtaining permits from the Atomic Energy Organization and from the Department
                                                                                      12
of Frequency Control Departments led the government to drop from Bank financing three out of
the four activities under this component. The activities constituted less than 2% of the total
project cost.

Component D - Improved earthquake preparedness in Kerman and Bam:

Lack of ownership and difficulty in correctly understanding the retrofitting approach by the
                                                         13
implementing agencies resulted in substantial delays. Upon the government's request, this
activity was dropped from the Bank financing. The procurement of emergency vehicles was also
removed from the project with the agreement that the government will use its own resources to
complete this task. The two cancelled activities constituted US$5.75 million or 2.61% of the total
project cost.

Component E ­ Project Management and Technical Assistance:

The component was not revised and all activities were successfully completed. However, only
US$1.98 million or 34% of the allocated funds were utilized with a saving of US$3.87 million.

1.7      Other significant changes

Amendment to Loan Agreement: The US financial sanctions on Iran prevented funds denominated
in US Dollars from being transferred to the Special Accounts, and this necessitated an
amendment of the Loan Agreement.14 The Loan amendment provided the GOI flexibility to open
and maintain special deposit accounts in Euros.

2.0      Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1      Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Ad-Hoc Committee Review: Nine months after project effectiveness, on September 21, 2005, an
ad-Hoc Committee, from within the Bank was established for the project, consisting of
          15
members with prior experience in disaster reconstruction operations. The advice provided by the
committee was considered useful to the Bank's project preparation team. The panel endorsed the
project's design and acknowledged its alignment with the government's reconstruction strategy,
sector priorities, institutional arrangements and its financial needs. For future operations, the
panel recommended the inclusion of expertise (from outside the Bank) ­ from government
disaster agencies with earthquake reconstruction experience ­ on the Ad-Hoc Committee.



12
   (i) Reconstruction of new switching, transmission and power supply facilities; (ii) repair of principal
switching center at Etemadi; and (iii) repair of Baravat telephone center building.
13
   Because of shortage of telecom specialists within the Bank, at the time, it was also difficult to engage an
expert in this field for supervision missions. As per the ISR (Date or number) a Sr. telecom specialist
(CITPO), based in Kenya,was able to visit the country only once, and only during supervision, due to a
variety of factors,, including difficulties in obtaining a visa. There was no telecom. Specialist as part of the
Bank's preparation team
14
   Dated June 15, 2007, Schedule 6, Section 2.02 (b)
15
   Osman S. Ahmed, Hadi Abushakra, Christoph Pusch, Eric N. Peterson, Nezam Motabar, Antonio J.
Cittati, Aloysius Uche Ordu, Alfred H. Nickesen, A. Amir Al-Khafaji, Sateh Chafic El-Aranout, David J.
Marsden, Hocine Chalal, Reidar Kvam, John Keith Rennie, Carlos Silva-Jauregui, Samia Masdek.


                                                       5
                                                        16
Nonetheless, the project design was complex involving several agencies with limited
implementing capacity. Because of implementation delays, specifically on the components
related to economic recovery and capacity building, the Bank's intervention may have been more
effective if these had been separated into two projects, namely an ERL primarily made up of the
reconstruction portion and a follow up project to stimulate economic recovery and to build
capacity on disaster management activities, both, at the local and national levels.

Project Design and Collaboration with Government Task Force: Moving away from the
usual practice of assigning the Ministry of Interior for post-disaster reconstruction, as was the
case of the on-going, at the time, Earthquake Emergency Recovery Project (EERP), the
                                                                                   17
government agreed to create the Bam Guidance and Policy Task Force (BGPTF) with ultimate
responsibility to select investments in priority sectors, allocate necessary resources, approve
urban development Master Plan, issue implementation policy guidelines, and plan and supervise
all earthquake reconstruction efforts. The Iranian President personally designated the Head of the
Housing Foundation to be responsible for the reconstruction and planning of Bam reconstruction
work. Upon World Bank's recommendations, the Bam Reconstruction Office (BRO) was
           18
established with qualified staff to coordinate all project management activities. The Bank's
project preparation team worked closely with each member of the Task Force and with the Head
of the BRO in designing this project. The project design was somewhat complex but responsive
to the country's needs of restoring living conditions of the communities.

Focus on restoring living conditions: The decision to focus on restoring living conditions
through housing reconstruction was a strong feature in this emergency project. In particular, the
decision to exclude components for cultural heritage, economic recovery, and water and sewerage
­ despite strong government interest in having them as part of the project scope ­ was a wise one.
At the same time, the inclusion of a component to improve the main highway and a
telecommunication component, albeit small, was not directly related to the earthquake
reconstruction and resulted in delaying the overall implementation progress due to lack of
readiness of the implementing agencies. For example, procurement was the responsibility of the
participating implementing agencies while processing of all payments was done centrally at the
Financial Management Unit at the Housing Foundation. At first this process seemed appropriate
as it gave implementing agencies the authority to select consultants and contractors, however, in
practical terms the necessary capacity of handling procurement in accordance with the World
Bank's guidelines (at implementing agencies' level other than HF) was never developed causing
major delays.

Lessons learned from other projects that supported post disaster reconstruction were
incorporated in the project's design. These were: ensuring close coordination among government
agencies and entrusting local project management to an efficient organization with similar
previous experience in disaster management activities (in this case the Housing Foundation).




16
   Complexity of the project in regard to designing a New Generation System compatible to the existing
telecommunication system of Bam
17
   Comprising the Minister of Housing and Urban development (chairman), the head of the Management
and Planning Organization (MPO), three representatives of the President, the Minister of Interior, the
Minister of Economic Affairs and Finance, the Minister of Culture and Islamic Guidance, the President of
the Iranian Red Crescent Society, and the President of the Housing Foundation.
18
   By way of a decree on May 1, 2004


                                                    6
Conditionality was minimal and limited to essential project management and fiduciary
appointments for implementation. As a result, the project was effective in just three months after
Board approval.

Quality at Entry (QAE): Quality at19Entry was formally assessed through the QAE7 process by
the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) . The QAG provided a `satisfactory' rating of `2' on a 6-
point scale. All project aspects were rated satisfactory except for the fiduciary aspects which
were rated moderately satisfactory because of delays in appointing independent financial
controller (IFC) and installing the Financial Management system. It was panel's judgment that
while technical, financial and economic aspects had some weak areas, the strong rating for
technical soundness (because of new, seismically sound housing designs) far offset these
weaknesses given the emergency nature of the project.

Strong Aspects: The strong features of the operation were the following (i) good quality damage
assessment taken early during project preparation which provided a sound basis for design; (ii)
the adoption of a simple and pragmatic approach to select project components focused mainly on
housing reconstruction; (iii) the introduction of seismically sound housing designs that could
withstand future earthquakes; (iv) the piloting of new construction standards that are expected to
benefit other regions of the country; (v) the reliance on an existing institution with adequate
capacity to implement the main housing construction component (HF); (vi) the establishment of a
dedicated project management unit (Bam Reconstruction Office) with offices in Tehran and in the
field; and (vii) the recruitment of an international Procurement Advisory Consultant at onset of
the project. All of these features proved critical for the implementation.

2.2        Implementation

Several factors affected the implementation of the project, for example: (i) due to the imposition
of financial sanctions by the US, Special Accounts denominated in US$ had to be switched to
Euros which resulted in delays in disbursements and limited the ability of local firms to submit
bid securities; (ii) multiple UN sanctions discouraged potential bidders from outside Iran, thereby
limiting the pool of competitive bids leading to increased project costs - because of the heavy
reliance on local bidders, the quality and timeliness of many of the works also suffered; (iii)
because of UN sanctions, the Bank put in place additional system to screen purchase of
equipment (specifications had to be reviewed against a list of prohibited items and entities
identified by the relevant UN Resolutions) thus adding another layer of clearance contributing to
delays when this process was first introduced; (iv) decision by the Bank not to extend the closing
date of the project left some activities incomplete and under-funded, and as a result the
government had to approach other donors (i.e. Islamic Development Bank) to fill in this gap; (v)
the inability and reluctance of airport authority to allow contractors and workers to enter into the
airport premises due to security reasons caused delays that ultimately resulted in dropping from
Bank financing activities related to the Bam airport; and (vi) because of an acute shortage of
telecommunication specialists in the Bank, at the time, difficulties were encountered in preparing
tender documents to import complex modern electronic equipment (New Generation Network)
system.

Mid Term Review (MTR): The MTR was carried out during March 3-16, 2007. The MTR rated
the project `satisfactory' on both, the achievement of development objectives as well as on the
results from implementation. The MTR did however highlight the delays encountered in the
supply of steel due to a global increase in its prices, and the reluctance of the contractors to

19
     Assessment date: 9/21/2005.


                                                 7
provide it at the agreed contractual (old) prices. The MTR recommended rebidding the contract
with a possibility of adding a price escalation clause or cancelling the corresponding loan amount.
In order not to cause further delays, the HF used its own strategic stock-pile of steel which was
later returned when steel prices eased somewhat.

Performance of Implementing Agencies: Overall, the performance of the HF in executing the
largest and the most important component (provision of construction material and equipment -
Component A) and in modernizing its construction equipment fleet, was excellent.
Notwithstanding many problems it encountered during implementation, for example, delays in
receiving proper home ownership documents lost due to the earthquake; inability to start urban
reconstruction work due to delays in the preparation of second Master Plan; and delays by Bam
municipalities in issuing construction permits, the HF nevertheless delivered the required
construction material and equipment and thus fully achieved its objectives US$138.17 million out
of US$150 million (92%).

In contrast, the project witnessed a much weaker performance in carrying out sector related
activities (around 30% of project costs) implemented by other agencies i.e.: General Office and
the Bam Airport Authority (under component B they executed US$6.2 million out of US$22.35
million expected); Telecommunication Company of Iran (under component C executed US$6.31
million out of US$11.45 million); and the Provincial Government of Kerman (under component
D executed US$0.31 million out of US$8.39 million). Despite these shortcomings the project was
able to disburse around US$154.43 million out of the total US220 million (70%) at the time the
project was closed. The overall implementation achievement is therefore rated as Moderately
Unsatisfactory.

Project at Risk Status: The Bank's project preparation teams adequately highlighted the main
risks to the reconstruction activities i.e. project management risk given the limited experience in
implementing a citywide reconstruction program. Satisfactory steps were taken to20mitigate such
risks that included hiring of an international Procurement Advisor at the BRO ; hiring of a
Monitoring and Evaluation Advisor; the use of steel frames in housing reconstruction (to mitigate
technical risks); and the establishment of a dedicated monitoring unit (BRO). Risks that could
not be easily mitigated were the need for collaboration amongst a large number of government
ministries that impeded the efficiency of reconstruction effort.

2.3     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E Implementation and Utilization

The Bank's project preparation team went beyond the normal requirement of an emergency
operation and included an adequate budget to engage an M&E Advisor within the BRO to
suitably identify and evaluate the project's social and economic impacts. Because of difficulties
in finding a specialist willing to be stationed in Iran, hiring did not take place until two years after
effectiveness (in February 2007). Despite this delay, the advisor was able to successfully design
a robust M&E system using Monitoring Information System software and the necessary contract
management reports required by the World Bank and the government. Timely recruitment of the
advisor could have provided the BRO with early warning signs when the implementing agencies
(other than HF) had started falling behind their agreed schedules of work plan, either because of


20
  However, no provision was made to recruit procurement advisors at agencies that were responsible to
implement other four components.


                                                   8
capacity issues or because of difficulties in preparing the World Bank required procurement
documents.

2.4     Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Environmental Safeguard:

Most of the sub-projects were of category `C' nature with the exception of rehabilitation of
Kerman-Bam highway which fell under category `B' requiring preparation of Environmental
Assessment (EA) under OP 04.01. However, being an emergency operation, no formal EA or
consultations were undertaken. Only a limited EA was undertaken for sub-projects with the
potential for adverse impact. The environmental aspects of the Social and Environmental
Screening and Assessment Framework (SESAF) prepared by the Borrower21 covered issues
appropriately and clearly identified activities ineligible for financing. An Environment Officer in
the Bam Reconstruction Office ensured that environmental codes of practice were included in all
bidding documents. A negative list of activities ineligible for project financing was also
prepared. SESAF was translated into Farsi and was made available in several locations in the
project area.

Social Safeguards:

Given the comprehensive nature of the emergency reconstruction program, the project documents
highlighted the possibility of triggering two safeguard policies i.e.: Cultural Property (OPN.
11.03); and Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12), neither of which got triggered. A senior
social specialist in the BRO as well as from the Bank 22 regularly monitored all safeguard aspects
of the project.

Cultural Property (OPN. 11.03): The project did not finance works related to the cultural
heritage sites and exercised extreme caution not to disturb any cultural sites. The SESAF clearly
included guidelines for civil works contracts, to guide contractors in the event they came upon
culturally significant items during the reconstruction.

Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12): The project did not directly engage in the physical
reconstruction efforts but financed the provision of equipment and construction material for the
reconstruction of housing and commercial buildings, and therefore OP/BP 4.12 did not get
triggered. Even though there were no resettlement issues that arose, the Bank's project team was
nonetheless assured by the government that they would be consulted if any relocation involving
more than 25 families arose. The government had agreed to implement the principles of full
compensation and livelihood restoration for any project affected person23 as reflected in the
project's Resettlement Action Plan.

Indigenous People (OP 4.20): OP 4.20 did not apply because persons affected by the project
were neither vulnerable ethnic minority nor scheduled as tribal people within the provision of
Iranian law.




21
   Prepared dated August 13, 2004 - the legal agreement committed the Borrower to implementing the
project in accordance with this SESAF.
22
   Helen Z. Shahriari, Sr. Social Specialist.
23
   Technical Annex, page 12, paragraph 53 and page 88.


                                                  9
Financial Management and Disbursement: The Financial Management (FM) was carried out in
accordance with the project's design and the legal agreement. The overall FM arrangements were
considered adequate and capable of generating required quarterly Financial Management Reports
(FMRs). The accounting unit continued to be staffed with a financial officer, reporting to the
HF's Financial Controller; reconciled project Special Account on a monthly basis; posted project
data into customized accounting system; and generated Quarterly Progress Reports that were
verified and approved by the Bank's FMS. There was clear segregation of duties between the
functions of initiation, authorization, disbursement, and recording. The Withdrawal Applications
were issued in a timely manner.

Even though the FM system was considered satisfactory, the project faced several problems
during implementation because of: (i) the US financial sanctions on Iran where funds
denominated in US dollars were unable to be transferred to the Special Accounts (SA); (ii) the
closure of the US$ SAs and the opening of a Euro SAs which generated currency exchange
difficulties impacting the project reporting; (iii) the management of the goods purchased with
limited capacity for the inventory management systems; and (iv) the beneficiaries under the
project being various ministries and entities that were institutionally independent from each other.
The aforementioned issues had direct impact on the project implementation pace and caused
delays, at certain instances, in issuing payments to contractors and vendors.

Despite all these hurdles, the accounting unit, with the valuable assistance from the Bank's
Financial Management Specialist, successfully addressed these issues and kept the accounting
system running smoothly. The Senior FM Specialist24 participated in all supervision missions
after the project became effective.

Audit Arrangements: The project's audit arrangements remained satisfactory. Overall, the FM
performance was considered satisfactory because of financial management capacity at the HF and
because of an experienced Financial Controller who headed the financial unit overseeing project
accounts.

Procurement: The most important problem faced by the project was related to the low
procurement capacity of the implementing agencies (other than HF) which were responsible for
implementing activities that constituted around 30% of the project amount. In addition, non-
performing suppliers and complex nature of procurement packages (supply and installation of
New Generation Network and Wireless Local Loop system for Bam and Baravat - under
component C); the geopolitical environment around the country also contributed to procurement
delays. This was noticed when the international contractors (MSV in particular) were unable to
bring their staff into the country because of security reasons. Considering emergency nature of
project, the Bank introduced simplified procurement mechanisms allowing multi-million dollar
procurement of steel to follow shopping procedure (simple procedure to contract award based on
quotations only). The main difficulty however was the reluctance of the international community
to participate in Iran. The decision to retain an international Procurement Advisor was appropriate
in light of the high risks associated with the procurement.

2.5        Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

While a lot has been achieved under this project, the agenda is essentially left unfinished at the
closure of the Loan. Urgent critical actions are therefore necessary to fully capture the
development benefit for the targeted population and more generally for the country's

24
     Mr. Robert Bou Jaoude


                                                10
development. The GOI considers completion of the outstanding work as a critical part of the
country's national disaster management strategy, particularly in terms of preparedness of the
Kerman Province, to cope with the high probability of future earthquakes.

Because of high awareness of the seismic risks25, the GOI is taking decisive measures to mitigate
vulnerability of the population living in Kerman Province and in this context, the Ministry of
Economic Affairs and Finance (MoEAF) has expressed its intention to seek complementary
financing to implement some of the key activities over the next 2 year period. From the World
Bank's operational perspective, such an investment is well justified and should take into
consideration the following three priority activities.

(i)    First and foremost, the completion of the highway upgrading (rehabilitation and widening)
       would considerably improve the connections between the two largest cities on the Kerman
       Province. Learning from the past earthquakes and the enormous difficulties faced in
       conveying emergency assistance on the two lane road, the GOI has already undertaken
       substantial work to widen some parts of the highway (for a total length of 85 km) with its
       own funds. Because the work is already well advanced, it makes economic sense to finish
       the work on the remaining section of the road till the whole 4-lane highway becomes fully
       functional. While improving the main connection between the North and the South of Iran
       additional funds would make it possible to rapidly and reliably dispatch early rescue and
       relief teams and material as well as the humanitarian assistance. Improving the mobility of
       the population and businesses would generate major social benefits and significantly
       diminish the number of road accident on this major public road.

(ii)   Secondly, the provision of complementary financing would permit to complete the
       retrofitting of all vital public buildings mostly hospitals and other strategic facilities (fire
       fighting stations, telecommunication center, etc.) so that the civil authorities would be
       better equipped to meet any eventualities and avert situations that occurred in the past. As
       a pilot retrofitting program of a representative sample of vital public buildings, this activity
       would clearly demonstrate that there are technical alternatives and viable financial options
       to prevent losses of lives and assets even in a seismic risky environment. The lessons
       learned from the retrofitting program and its decentralized implementation modalities are
       absolutely crucial to defining a sustainable mitigation strategy in other provinces located in
       active seismic zones and devising of the longer term prevention and mitigation policy for
       Iran.

(iii) Thirdly, complementary funds would allow finishing the installation of new generation
      network and the Wireless Local Loop (WLL) communication systems as part of the
      improved communication facilities. Contrary to what happened after the Bam earthquake,
      this would substantially improve the resilience of the communication networks (through
      use of assorted technologies) and would maintain the indispensable communication flows
      in case of a major earthquake. The fixed and mobile networks are both an integral part of
      an effective disaster management strategy.

Possible Operational Risks for a Future Project

Building on the past operational experience, the risks induced by a follow up operation could be
considered minimal for the following main reasons:

25
 With two major seismic belts, Iran is known to be among the most earthquake prone countries in the
world.


                                                  11
      ·   To-date, the road rehabilitation work is progressing well, with a 30% completion rate.
          More importantly, all the feasibility studies of the highway widening are completed and
          the contractor has been selected through a procurement process cleared by the World
          Bank. The design and supervision teams are also in place and could ensure the quality of
          the works. Therefore, as soon as the funds are secured the contract could be signed and
          the contractor could start immediately thus avoiding significant administrative delays
          generally associated with such investments.

      ·   The retrofitting work is also well underway and the expert resources in charge of the
          technical designs are already under contract. With the technical investigations and the
          costing for five key sites finalized, the retrofitting work could start in the near term. The
          selection of the contractors could start immediately and does not present any difficulty
          considering the construction sector capacity in Kerman. Moreover, the extension of the
          program to additional building should be straightforward as it will follow technical
          procedures which have already been well tested during the initial implementation phase.

      ·   With the Fiber Optic Cable in the ground and the networks commissioned there is much
          less uncertainty. The technical specification have been updated and agreed. Once the
          funds become available, the shipment could take place and the installation could follow
          as soon as the goods reach Bam. The company which is supplying and installing the
          telecommunication equipment is already under contract and has demonstrated adequate
          capacity to deliver quality work.


3.0       Assessment of Outcomes

3.1       Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Although somewhat complex in nature, project components were relevant to the project objective
of restoring the normal functioning of communities damaged by the earthquake, and
strengthening national preparedness for future disasters. As an emergency operation, the project
responded in a timely way to complement government's efforts to rapidly rebuild the social and
economic infrastructure of the earthquake-damaged area. The government requested Bank's
support in financing technical advice and implementation and essentially designed the project
with Bank's help.

Link with Country Assistance Strategy: The project was developed as an emergency project upon
government's request at which time Iran's April 2001 Interim Assistance Strategy (2001-2004,
Report No. 220050 IRN) contained little reference to disaster mitigation.

3.2       Achievement of Project Development Objectives

During appraisal, the Bank's project preparation teams highlighted the limited exposure of the
implementing agencies to the Bank's procurement processes, for which the team appropriately
made provisions to recruit an international Procurement Advisor to provide support to the
implementing agencies. Nonetheless, several other factors contributed to the implementation
delays and the cancellation of some of the activities under components B, C, and D, such as:
lengthy feasibility studies; technical complexity of the sectors; attracting suitable international
consultants/contractors to work in Iran; inability of Bank to attract telecommunication specialist;
and increasingly difficult working conditions due to the enforcement of the United Nations


                                                  12
restriction on commercial transactions with Iran. The change in project currency (from US
dollars to Euros) just 18 months before project closing date; and difficulties in opening L/Cs
further complicated this situation. Above all, the main reason for delays and cancellation was the
limited authority of HF over the line ministries' decisions and insufficient influence in resolving
pending, often financial issues.

In spite of all these constraints, the project was successful in committing US$154.43 million of
the loan amount (70%) at the time of project closing. Noteworthy is the timely achievement of the
program under which the physical reconstruction efforts went far beyond the level estimated
                                  26
during appraisal (component A) .

Following is the status of activities that contributed to the achievement of the project's main PDO
under each component:

Component A (provision of construction material and equipment for urban and rural
housing and commercial buildings):

It is important to highlight that Bank was not directly involved in the construction of housing or
commercial units but instead the project only supplied construction materials (steel and cement)
to facilitate a massive emergency reconstruction while preserving the permanent strategic
material stock always kept by the Housing Foundation to respond to other possible recurrent
catastrophic events. It is equally important to recognize that the construction material required to
address the reconstruction needs considerably increased over the implementation period, with the
government total response to the housing sector needs being much larger than the Bank share. In
this regard the project supplied 350,000 metric tons of Type II cement27 and 112,500 metric tons
of steel. During implementation, the construction material globally experienced a significant
price increase as a result the main steel supplier was unable to meet its contractual obligations
even contract was extended by three years. Finally the HF was able to overcome this difficulty by
utilizing its own strategic stockpile of construction material which was later returned when the
prices went down.

In terms of procurement of essential construction material, this component performed beyond
expectations (160% achievement in urban housing units; 130% achievement in rural housing
units; and 175% achievement in commercial units). Several factors explain the increase in
quantities over the life of the project: i.e. (i) the initial damage assessment of the housing units
was based on the number of buildings totally collapsed (and the corresponding quantities of
cement and steel) immediately after the earthquake. However, overtime, the government decided
that buildings severely damaged and rated unsafe would also be included in the reconstruction
program. This was in line with the government disaster mitigation strategy to progressively
provide safer houses to the all households in this high risk area; (ii) the government had
inaccurate information about the Bam population and even less data about the people living in the
remote villages; (iii) initially the benefit was restricted to couples married before March 2004 but
gradually during the reconstruction phase the authorities facilitated access to this benefit and
launched a special housing program for newly married couple with subsidized housing loans
(after the earthquake); (iv) according to the local authorities poor records of ownership rights and
lack of accurate plan of the properties at the time of earthquake significantly contributed to

26
   35,866 urban housing units (vs 22,100 envisaged during appraisal), 29,594 of rural housing units (vs.
22,800 envisaged) and 5,250 commercial units (vs 3,000 units planned) were actually reconstructed. Also,
508 construction equipments were financed vs. 440 units planned during appraisal ­ all within budget.
27
   Type II cements contains no more than 8% tri-calcium aluminates (C3A) for moderate sulfate resistance.


                                                   13
additional of request for houses. The HF also granted residential units to tenants who wanted to
access their own house; (v) the government decided to extend the heavily subsidized housing
loans far beyond the initial deadlines and kept the option open to all families willing to enter in
the reconstruction schemes. The demand for housing finance support was kept high because of
the promises made by high ranking officials to general population that loans may be converted to
grants in case of difficulties. The overall project development objective achieved for this
component is rated as Highly Satisfactory.

Component B (repair of transport infrastructure):

(i) Kerman-Bam highway (US$15.75 or 7.15% of total cost): The transport infrastructure
investments were targeted to the most urgent needs i.e. the design and implementation of physical
                                                                                             28
rehabilitation of Kerman-Bam highway. Two lots were awarded to two different contractors for
the rehabilitation work covering 186 km with expected completion date of October 2009 and
January 2010 respectively. However, because of late start of actual work (around three years),
only part of the highway was completed at the time when the project was closed. Reasons of
delays were: low procurement capacity at the General Office (implementing agency) of the
Ministry of Roads and Transportation (MORT); design consultant's inability to carryout
                                       29
recommended "Benkelman Beam Test " which was at the time uncommon in Iran and for which
another international consultant had to be recruited using lengthy procurement procedures; failure
of international supervision consultant to mobilize its staff for two years due to safety and
security of its employees in the country; at the time of project closure 70 km of highway, vs. 190
km, was satisfactorily completed (37%). As The project development objective achieved for this
component is therefore rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory.

(ii) Rehabilitation of Bam airport (US$3.15 million): Low procurement capacity at the Airport
Authority (implementing agency) combined with the reluctance of airport authority to allow
contractors and workers to enter into the airport premises due to security reasons caused delays.
The government finally requested that this activity be dropped from Bank financing and provided
assurances that it remains a long term priority which it will be finance with own sources. The
activity constituted 1.4% of the total cost. The project development objective achieved for this
component is rated as Unsatisfactory.

(iii) Village street rehabilitation (US$1.54 million or 0.7%): Due to the emergency nature of work
and the readily available work force, the HF requested the Bank to authorize use of force account
to rehabilitate these streets. The Bank agreed in principle and asked for an official request as it
required amending the Loan Agreement. In order to save time however, the HF went ahead and
rehabilitated the streets using own funds. Under the project only 20 km of the main streets were to
be repaired, in reality, the HF repaired 117 additional streets based on their changing priorities
thus making it a total of 137 km. The project development objective achieved for this component
is therefore rated as Highly Satisfactory.

Component C (repair of telecommunication infrastructure):

This component entailed two activities: supply and installation of: (i) the New Generation
Network (NGN) and (ii) the Wireless Local Loop (WLL) system for Bam and Baravat. Since the
NGN was not yet tested and tried in Iran at the time, it was decided to issue the tender for NGN
prior to that for the WLL. However, once the price quotations for WLL were received, it became

28
     Contracts signed on June 17, 2008 ; and October 22, 2008
29
     The Benkelman Beam measures the deflection of a flexible pavement under moving wheel loads.


                                                    14
clear that project funds available for this component would not be enough. The
Telecommunication Company (implementing agency) nevertheless insisted to go for the high-
tech equipment and in consultation with the World Bank, dropped these activities from the
project with the understanding that it will use its own resources to complete these activities. The
reconstruction of the cable and radio transmission networks and switching sites in Bam and
Baravat are now fully functional. The project development objective achieved for this component
is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory.

Component D (improved emergency preparedness in Kerman and Bam):

This component entailed three activities i.e.: (i) retrofitting key emergency response buildings in
Kerman (US$3.75 million); (ii) provision of emergency response vehicles for the District of Bam
(US$2.0 million); and (iii) risk assessments, engineering designs and construction supervision
consultancies (US$2.64 million). Since emergency vehicles were subsequently procured using
government's own funds, this component was reduced to the retrofitting work for which an
international consultant was recruited. However, as mentioned earlier, due to the weak capacity of
the Technical Office in Kerman Governorate General (both in terms of technical and human
resources) a local consultant was recruited to supervise the project. Unfortunately, the three-way
relationship -- the local supervisory consultant with limited professional skills to manage
retrofitting program; the international consultant who faced problems getting timely entry visas
for supervision missions; and the weak Technical Office of the Governorate General -- did not
work well. Moreover, the list of buildings for which retrofitting plans were to be developed
changed several times. The personnel with whom the international consultant was to work also
changed several times during the course of the exercise. The confusion over payments to the
contractors and consultants also remained unresolved for two years i.e.: despite numerous
meetings and countless explanations, the Governorate of Kerman never accepted that Financial
Controller of the HF was the only official authorized to process the foreign currency payments (as
per the Legal Agreement). It was only after the arrival of the new Governor and Deputy Governor
of Kerman that allowed signing of the design contract and the appointment of supervision
consultant - just 12 months before the project was to close. To avoid further delays, the Governor
of Kerman finally decided to cancel this component and implementing it using its own funds. The
cancelled activities constituted US$8.08 million or 3.67% of the total project cost. The project
development objective achieved for this component is rated as Unsatisfactory.

Component E (project management and technical assistance):

This component provided financing to establish BRO (management unit) and the technical
assistance to BRO to put in place the Procurement Advisor, the Monitoring & Evaluation
Advisor; and the Technical Advisory Services. The BRO monitored the implementation progress
and extended the contract management and the procurement assistance to all participating
implementing agencies, however, this required long-term capacity building which the BRO was
not able to fully achieve within the project timeframe. With a total project amount committed to
about US$154.43 million (70% of the total loan amount) BRO significantly achieved its
development objectives in spite of the challenging work environment.

3.3     Efficiency

As an emergency operation (processed under OP08.50), economic and financial analysis was not
required and therefore not done at Appraisal. The economic value of infrastructure that was
reconstructed and replaced by this project is nonetheless indisputable.



                                                15
3.4     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The overall project outcome is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory.

The project indicators were not met numerically for components B through D (19% of the project
cost), however the project's main objective to rehabilitate housing units and to restore living
conditions of communities affected by the earthquake exceeded original targets. After a delayed
start and a non performing contractor, Component B only completed 37% of the Kerman-Bam
highway rehabilitation. After being dropped from Bank financing at the Government's request,
components C and D were implemented and financed by the Borrower.

Component A supported basic construction material and equipment in the amount of US$138.17
million (92% of the appraised amount). In terms of outcomes, the project delivered beyond the
agreed targets i.e.: as per the project, it was agreed that 22,100 urban housing units and 22,800
rural housing units will be rebuild. According to the last survey reported by Monitoring and
Evaluation Consultant, the total number of units rebuilt is 35,866 (160%) and 29,594 (129%)
respectively. As for the commercial units, 3000 units were to be reconstructed as per appraisal
estimates while in reality this number reached 5,250 units (175%). Likewise, the construction
equipment to be procured were estimated at 440 units, in contrast to the508 units (115%) were
procured. The number of quality control and testing equipment procured were 100% of the
appraised value (155 units).

Component B (US$22.35 million or 10% of project cost): repair of transport infrastructure
(Kerman-Bam highway rehabilitation) only around 37% of work was completed due to delayed
start and due to non-performance of the contractor who couldn't meet his contractual obligations
because of global price increase of construction materials. Later when the prices eased up
somewhat and the construction work picked up momentum, the project had reached its closing
date. The government requested an extension, but this was not granted. As for Bam airport
reconstruction work (US$3.15 million or 1.4% of total cost), the activity was dropped by the
government due to security reasons.

As for Component C and D (together US$19.84 million or 9% of project costs), as explained
earlier (in paragraph 1.6), at government's request both components were dropped from Bank
financing with the understanding that all activities would be completed by the government using
its own resources.

It must be highlighted here that the cumulative amount dropped from Bank financing from
components C and D, and part of component B, constituted 13% of the total project cost i.e.
                                              30
US$29.45 million of the total US$220 million.

3.5     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development




30
  It must be highlighted that the government's intention was reallocation of funds within the same category
and not cancellation. This was repeatedly indicated in government's official correspondence with the Bank
when requesting extension.


                                                    16
Even though the project was not a poverty targeted intervention, most of the people affected by
the earthquake were the poor, according to the Rapid Damage Assessment Report (RDAR)31.
Moreover, as per the eligibility criteria, the HF selected only those beneficiaries who were mostly
poor and without means to rebuild adequate dwelling. According to the RDAR, the earthquake
left 3,685 orphans, 1,916 widows and 350 completely disabled while older people without direct
caregivers totaled 1,449. Chronic mental disorders triggered by the trauma of the earthquake with
symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder were observed in the entire Bam population in various
degrees. Mobilization of assistance permitted these poor and traumatized households to resume
their lives and protected them from falling further into poverty. A Beneficiary Assessment
Report32, prepared by the Monitoring and Evaluation Consultant at the suggestion of the World
Bank, highlighted that the reconstruction process was carried out to the satisfaction of the vast
majority of households impacted by the earthquake.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The project's institutional development impact, which is defined in the ICR guidelines as the
extent to which the project `has improved agency's ability to make effective use of its human and
financial resources' is rated as satisfactory, as evidenced by the establishment of the BRO.

The main responsibility to implement the project rested with the HF, an existing and experienced
organization, while for day-to-day project management work, the project established the BRO
and allocated US$7.8 million (under component E) to develop project management capacity
through consulting firms for the `procurement advisory services'; `monitoring advisory services';
and the recruitment of consulting firms and individuals for "technical advisory services'. With
this technical support, the BRO was able monitor implementation progress; liaise with all the
implementing agencies, and affectively play an oversight function also ensuring adherence to the
Bank's safeguard policies. By establishing BRO, the project has clearly established capacity to
deal even with the most complex procurement packages33.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The provision of construction component had a positive impact in developing small and medium
consulting and construction firms as well as local job creation. The decision to drop `repair of
telecommunication infrastructure'; and `improved emergency preparedness in the province of
Kerman and the District of Bam' components and have them built by the government using its
own resources was useful in that the discussions triggered healthy debate about sustainable
options for its operation and management after completion. In order for the government to be
prepared to cope with possible future earthquakes, the government is entering into dialogues with
other donors and international financiers.

3.6     Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

A Social Scientist was recruited on a full time basis at the BRO (under component E - monitoring
advisory services) who undertook regular field visits and assessed the satisfaction levels of
beneficiaries including home owners and owners of commercial establishments, providing



31
   The World Bank Rapid Damage Assessment Report dated January 28 ­ February 10, 2004.
32
   Research Report "A survey on public opinions on various aspects of reconstruction process in the
earthquake areas" by Mehdi Montazer Ghaem, Asst. Professor, University of Tehran, dated Dec. 2006
33
   Selection of contractors for widening of Kerman-Bam highway) for a contract value of US$51 million


                                                  17
continuous and objective feedback.. In addition the World Bank supervision missions34, an
independent local firm35 as well as local consultant36 also conducted beneficiary surveys to assess
overall quality of construction, level of satisfaction, and level of cleanliness of Bam city.

Overall, most beneficiaries are of the view that assistance provided to them, to cover
reconstruction of their habitats, has helped them restore their living conditions, however the
construction activities have also resulted in some unintended outcomes. Summary of the such
findings are: (i) some people, although small in number, still lived in camps (3.5%) mainly those
without land and those who rented even before the earthquake; (ii) some shop keepers are
concerned about an increase in rental values, in some cases, quadrupling of rent of the newly
constructed shops (from 1.2 million IR to around 4 million IR) was anticipated. Some
shopkeepers expressed concerns that once the reconstruction work is fully completed (work being
executed by the government is currently underway), they may lose business because of the
departure of migrant workers/laborers; (iii) the city still has an un-finished look due to over
designing and late comers. This is also true because construction of related city services such as
electricity, fiber optic cables and water pipes are being installed incrementally; (iv) some
households are using old damaged/repaired houses to keep their animals, yet others use them as
warehouses - occupancy of old houses contradicts the purpose of the reconstruction efforts as it
causes serious safety issues; (v) there is a perception that reconstruction has given impetus to the
disappearance of the traditional `garden city', as there is a trend towards apartment dwellings.
For example, there used to be a gender-based spatial separation in private and public places in
Bam and this was only made possible because of the `garden city' nature of town and large
homes. In particular, the old spatial houses allowed women to move freely without the hijab
while the new small construction arrangements have placed more restriction on women.

4.0     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome Rating: Moderate

The likelihood that changes may occur that would be detrimental to the ultimate achievement of
project's outcome is considered Moderate. With the successful outcome of this project, especially
under component `A' which dealt with the reconstruction of housing units, the government has
shown great interest in continuing this trend and has signaled HF its willingness to request even
larger amounts if a new World Bank project were to be made available again. The government is
presently engaged in an advanced dialogue with other donors/lenders37 to secure financing to
complete some additional work i.e. further widening of Bam Kerman highway and retrofitting
emergency buildings etc.

5.      Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1     Bank Performance

(a)     Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


34
   Supervision mission dated November 8-14,2007 and November 26, 2007 (Rosanna Nitti, urban specialist
and Niels Holm-Nielson, disaster risk management specialist);
35
   Research Report "A survey on public opinions on various aspects of reconstruction process in the
earthquake areas" by Mehdi Montazer Ghaem, Asst. Professor, University of Tehran, dated Dec. 2006
36
   Dr. Pooya Alaedini, Beneficiary Assessment, Stakeholder Analysis, & Lessons Learned, dated Mar.
2010.
37
   Islamic Development Bank, among others


                                                 18
The overall Bank's performance in the identification, preparation and appraisal of the project is
considered moderately unsatisfactory. A damage assessment exercise was undertaken which
provided sound grounds to prepare this project. A World Bank ad-hoc committee, with a panel
having prior experience in disaster reconstruction, provided useful advice to the Bank's teams
during project preparation phase. A formal Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA7) carried out by
the Quality Assurance Group considered that the Bank team had prepared the project in a
`satisfactory' manner. The Bank moved quickly by carrying out two preparation missions,
adequately staffed38 with the specialists needed to support design of the project that was
somewhat complex but responsive to the country's needs of restoring living conditions of the
communities. The Project was prepared in a collaborative manner with the government's Task
Force including all the line miniseries and special agencies.

Assessment of the implementing agencies' readiness was however somewhat optimistic. For
example, there were substantial delays in signing the Framework Agreement39 by the
Management and Planning Organization (MPO) as it could not sign the agreement until the
Economic Council had provided its clearance first. As a result, the counterpart funds could not be
allocated on time. The clearance by the Economic Council was finally provided after six months
of project effectiveness, while as per government procedures, this approval should have been
sought prior to negotiations.

(b)      Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory The quality of Bank supervision is rated as Moderately
Unsatisfactory. There were several shortcomings in the supervision of the project by the Bank
which contribute to the rating. Firstly, the task team was unable to provide the required expert
support to supervise the project adequately (e.g. not being able to mobilize a telecommunications
specialist for component C). There was also a lack of candor in reporting on implementation
problems as ISRs rated Implementation Progress and Development Objectives as satisfactory
throughout the life of the project despite serious ongoing issues. In addition, the hand-over
between TTLs when there was change in the management of the project was poor which resulted
in outstanding project implementation and processing issues not reaching resolution. There were
also insufficient management briefings and a vacuum in adequate sector manager supervision due
to prolonged and numerous acting arrangements in the sector manager position.

Finally, it is worth noting that the Bank did not respond positively to the government's request to
extend the closing date of the project and reallocate the proceeds across various disbursement
categories in order to enable the completion of the Kerman-Bam highway and failed to
communicate this decision clearly and with sufficient advance notice to the counterparts. This
had a deleterious effect on the momentum of project implementation and on the achievement of
project development objectives.


38
   Amir Al-Khafaji (Lead Operations Specialist); Sateh Chafic El-Arnaout (Sr. Municipal Development
Specialist); Mayumi Kato (Urban management Specialist); Antonio Cittati (Sr. Procurement Specialist);
David Mardsden (Lead Social Development Specialist); Reza Aboosaidi (Information Specialist); Nuran
Ercan (Infrastructure Specialist); Haluk Sucuoolu (Structural Engineer); and Takemasa Mamiya
(Hydraulic Specialist).
39
   The loan proceeds being public funds are subject to local laws that require all payments be signed off by
the Financial Controller (FC) assigned by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. This Framework
Agreement needed to be signed by MPO so that counterpart funds could be released ­ however MPO could
not sign the Framework Agreement without being clearance from the National Economic Council ­ hence
exorbitant delays.


                                                    19
Having said that, the Bank supervision team worked extensively with the client to assist in the
implementation of the project. The Bank team also showed flexibility. An example of this in
procurement, where - with the consent of team's Procurement specialist - the loan agreement only
allowed contracts of up to US$50,000 for goods to be procured following shopping procedure,
however, the supervision teams provided timely waivers on a number of occasions to procure the
urgently needed steel and cement on the basis of shopping. The commitment and flexibility
earned the team significant praise both among the clients and counterparts and within the region
for the commitment maintained. The implementation environment was made all the more
difficult after the parliamentary elections (in 2008) and after the UN imposed sanctions on Iran
which made procurement and disbursement work more difficult.

Safeguard and fiduciary policies were monitored closely and were addressed on a timely basis.
The project also continued to maintain a satisfactory financial management system.(c)

Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Based on the performance during lending phase and supervision as discussed above, the overall
Bank performance is rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory.

5.2     Borrower Performance

(a)     Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The government's performance is considered as Moderately Satisfactory. During project design
the government (Ministry of Housing, in particular) and the inter-ministerial committee members
worked closely with Bank's preparation team in setting up project priorities. The President of the
HF, hand chosen by the President to be responsible for the reconstruction work, provided all the
necessary support to the preparation team in designing the project. However during
implementation, support other than from the HF, almost completely faded away from all other
implementing agencies.

During the MTR, the supervision team provided a unique opportunity to amend the Loan
Agreement and adjust some of the procurement methods to facilitate implementation (i.e.: use of
force account to build village roads; and option to purchase pickup trucks from Inter-Agency
Procurement Services Organization) so there would be no delays. Unfortunately the
implementing agencies could not benefit from this offer as they were too slow in submitting an
official request for loan amendment.

The process of opening Letter of Credits became more cumbersome and requirement of engaging
only Iranian insurance firms further complicated matter as this was contrary to the World Bank's
guidelines of not being able to have freedom to competitively choose supplier. There were also
frequent delays in providing counterpart funds.

The confusion on the payment modalities of the contractors and consultants remained unresolved
until 2008. Despite numerous meetings, misunderstandings persisted regarding the locus of
responsibility for processing foreign currency payments, and as a result, the design contract,




                                               20
supervision consultant contract and the creation of the provincial coordination unit were not
effected May 2008.

(b)       Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The implementing agencies' performance was mixed and therefore rated as Moderately
Satisfactory. The performance of the HF which was responsible for the largest and the most
successful component A, was highly satisfactory while performance of the four other
implementing agencies (General Office of the Ministry of Roads and Transportation, and Bam
Airport Authority, responsible for component B; Telecommunication Company of Iran,
responsible for component C; and Provincial Government of Kerman, responsible for component
D) is rated as Unsatisfactory. These agencies were neither financially independent, nor
accountable to each other and thus a major source of conflicts and delays. They lacked knowledge
of the World Bank procurement guidelines, lacked ownership of their own component activities,
and lacked dedicated technical staff ­ all of which resulted in long delays in implementation and
cancellation of part of the project.

(c)       Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

6.      The ratings for the Government and Implementing Agency were Moderately
            Satisfactory, therefore the rating for Overall Borrower Performance is
            Moderately Satisfactory. Lessons Learned

      (1) Vigilance during implementation: For projects in countries where there has been
          interrupted Bank engagement or where there is uncertainty about the nature of the future
          engagement, the task team, SMU and the CMU should be vigilant about problems and
          complications as they arise, noting that the task team might require extra support from
          management and recognition for working in a difficult environment.



      (2) Need for additional capacity building: It is important that the Bank understands and
          serves the Client's needs when there has been little previous interaction by preparing
          upfront capacity building on Bank's processes and procedures. In the context of
          interrupted engagement, projects should be designed to be modular and requiring less
          interdependence between components, with a simple design and deliberate and thoughtful
          preparation. There should be a shortened project horizon rather than components/projects
          which require a long, steady relationship.

(3)     Understanding Client circumstance: At project preparation stage, it is very important that
        the Bank staff understand the unique systems, regulations, procedures and institutional
        characteristics of the country in order to design a viable project.

(4)     Simple design for emergency operations: When a project is to move quickly because of an
        emergency situation, arrangements must be made to ensure that project design is kept



                                                21
      simple, Borrower's key project staff are hired and familiarized with the Bank processes and
      procedures well before the actual start of the project.



(5)   Seeking consensus: Before seeking Board approval for a project, including an emergency
      project, the Bank must ensure consensus among all the stakeholders, including all the
      implementing agencies that will be involved in the proposed project.



(6)   Local conditions: In Iran, the loan proceeds being public funds are subject to local laws
      that require all payments be signed off by the Financial Controller (FC). All efforts must
      therefore be made to familiarize the FC with the World Bank guidelines and requirements
      during project preparation stage.

(7)   Focusing on sector is key: Future project design should avoid considering a broad range
      of sectors under the umbrella of a single emergency project. It is more effective to focus
      projects on specific sectors and activities that are directly related to the immediate
      reconstruction efforts.

(8)   Measurable outcome indicators: Even though emergency operations don't require
      outcome indicators, the project under review invested in an M&E consultant and a Social
      Auditor, practice uncommon in projects of similar nature. Future projects should continue
      this practice and include measurable outcome indicators so that outcomes may be
      quantified beyond anecdotic evidence.



(9)   Local Bank office: Presence of a local office in the country invariably helps resolve issues
      in a timely manner.



(10) Counterpart funds: Because of the emergency nature of projects counterpart funds should
     not be a requirement. The revised guidelines for emergency projects (OP.8.0) provide
     flexibility to project teams not to require counterpart funds.

7.      Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a)     Borrower/implementing agencies

No comments were raised by the Borrower/implementing agencies

(b)     Co-financiers

        N/A

(c)     Other partners and stakeholders

        N/A



                                               22
                                  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                               Appraisal   Actual/Latest
                                                                         Percentage of
                Components                   Estimate (USD Estimate (USD
                                                                          Appraisal
                                                millions)     millions)
Component-1: Provision of Equipment and
Construction Material for Housing and              150.00        138.17        92%
Commercial Buildings
Component-2: Repair of Transport
                                                    22.35         6.12         27%
Infrastructure
Component-3: Rehabilitation of
                                                    11.45          6.31        55%
Telecommunication Infrastructure
Component-4: Improved Emergency
Preparedness in the Province of Kerman and           8.39         0.31          4%
the District of Bam
Component-5: Project Management &
                                                     5.85         1.98         34%
Technical Assistance
Physical and Price Contingencies                    20.86                       0%
Currency exchange cost                                            0.46
Front end fee                                        1.1         1.10          100%

                      Total Project Costs          220.00         154.43       70%

(b) Financing
                                Type of    Appraisal         Actual/Latest
                                                                           Percentage of
       Source of Funds            Co-      Estimate            Estimate
                                                                            Appraisal
                               financing (USD millions)     (USD millions)
Borrower                                     15.00               15.00         100%
IBRD                                        220.00              154.43          70%




                                              23
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component A: Provision of Construction Material and Equipment for Housing and
Commercial Buildings:

(i) Procurement of Construction Material:
  No.    Construction Material Purchased              Metric Tons
   1     Portland                                       35,000
   2     Steel                                         112,500

(ii) Procurement of Construction Equipment:
  No.    Equipment Purchased                           Quantity
   1     Wheel Loader                                     36
   2     Dump Trucks (6x4)                               235
   3     Dump Trucks (4x2)                               110
   4     Transit Mixers                                   36
   5     Wheel Excavators                                 15
   6     Motor Graders                                    40
   7     Quality Control Test Equipments                 155
   8     Crawler Dozers                                    6
   9     Vibratory Drum Rollers                           30
         Total Material Procured:                        663


Component B: Repair of the Transport Structure:
Lot 1 (Repairing Mahan to Abaregh of Kerman-Bam Highway): Following outputs were achieved:

  No.   Description of Major Items            Unit          Total              Total Quantity
                                                         Quantity as      achieved till date of
                                                         per contract                  closing
   1    Site clearance and grubbing           Sq. M           530,400                 150,000
   2    Earthworks in excavation              Cu. M           197,700                   27,000
   3    Granular sub base course              Cu. M           119,400                   21,200
   4    Granular base course                  Cu. M           102,500                    4,600
   5    Prime coat and granular surface       Sq. M           256,400                   14,000
   6    Tack coat on bituminous surface       Sq. M         1,548,500                   14,100
   7    Asphalt concrete regulating layer     Cu. M            29,100                    1,000

Lot 2 (Repairing section Abaregh to Rostamabad of Kerman-Bam Highway): Following outputs
were achieved:

  No.                                                                      Total Quantity
                                                             Total       achieved till date of
         Description of major items for        Unit       Quantity as          closing
         Lot-2                                            per contract
    2    Earthworks in excavation             Cu. m            173,100                   38,000
    3    Embankment                           Cu. m             60,500                    2,700
    4    Sub grade and earthen shoulder       Cu. m              2,000                      100


                                                24
    5           Granular sub base course               Cu. m         98,000               16,000
    6           Granular base course                   Cu. m         90,500                3,300
    7           Prime coat and granular surface        Sq. m        245,900               25,000
    8           Tack coat on bituminous surface        Sq. m      1,681,300              133,250
    9           Asphalt concrete regulating layer      Cu. m         36,200                5,900
   10           Asphalt concrete binder course         Cu. m         12,300                2,000
   12           Stress absorbing membrane              Sq. m        500,000                5,100
                interlayer

Component C: Repair of Telecommunications Infrastructure

 C1: Development of New Generation Network (NGN) System:
 (i) Procurement documents were prepared for the Design, Supply and Supervision of contracts to
     install NGN system.40

 C2: Wireless Local Loop (WLL) System based GSM for Bam and Baravat:
 (ii) Procurement documents were prepared for the Design, Supply and Supervision of the WLL
      system.34
 Both these activities were not fully completed at the time of project closing and are now being
 carried out by government's own resources.

Component D: Improved Emergency Preparedness in the Province of Kerman and the
District of Bam:
The following emergency vehicles were procured using government's own funds to avoid
procurement delays.
 (i)            Firefighting Trucks: 10
 (ii)           Ambulances: 6
 (iii)          Rescue Cars: 2

Component E Project Management and Technical Assistance:
 (a)          Bam Reconstruction Office (BRO) was established with core staff
 (b)          BRO office equipment was procured (computers/furniture etc.)
 (c)          Procurement Advisor (consultant) was recruited
 (d)          Monitory & Evaluation Advisor (consultant) was recruited
 (e)          Technical Advisor (Engineering consultant) was recruited
 (f)          Financial Auditors were engaged for four years




         40
              with ZTE Corporation of China (October 15, 2007).



                                                        25
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Not carried out due to Emergency Nature of the Project




                                              26
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
           Names                           Title                Unit   Responsibility
Lending
Amir Al-Khafaji               Lead Operations Officer          MNSSD   Mission Leader
Sateh Chafic El-Arnout        Sr. Municipal Dev. Specialist    MNSSD        TTL
Mayumi Kato                   Urban Management Specialist      MNSSD      Co-TTL
Antonio Cittati               Sr. Procurement Specialist       MNAPR    Procurement
David Marsden                 Lead Social Dev. Specialist                   M&E
Reza Aboosaiedi               Information Specialist                        MIS
Nuran Ercan                   Infrastructure Specialist                 Engineering
Aizad Khan                    Agriculture Consultant                     Agriculture
Haluk Sucuoolu                Structural Engineer Consultant            Engineering
Babak Pirouz                  Consultant                               Project Support

Supervision
Robert Maurer                 Lead Urban Sector Specialist     MNSSD        TTL
Rosanna Nitti                 Senior Urban Specialist          MNSSD    Urban Mgmt
Robert Bou Jaoude             Sr. Financial Mgmt. Specialist   MNAFM   Financial Mgmt
Antonio J. Cittati            Consultant                       AFTEN   Project Support
Mouna Couzi                   Senior Program Assistant         MNCLB   Project Support
Sepehr Fotovat Ahmadi         Procurement Specialist           MNAPR    Procurement
Elena Gagieva-Petrova         Program Assistant                FPDVP   Project Support
Niels B. Holm-Nielsen         Hazard Risk Mgmt Special         LCSUW    Hazard Mgmt
Christianna Johnnides         Urban Specialist                  FEU        Urban
Dahlia Lotayef                Sr. Environmental Spec.          MNSSD    Environment
Balakrishna M. Parameswaran   Sr. Urban Spec.                   FEU        Urban
Thao Le Nguyen                Senior Finance Officer           LOAFC    Disbursement
Alessandro Palmieri           Lead Dam Specialist              OPCQC        Dam
Helen Z. Shahriari            Sr. Social Scientist             ECSSD       Social
Hany Shalaby                  E.T. Consultant                  MNSRE   Project Support
Hiba Muawyah Tahboub          Lead Procurement Specialist      OPCPR    Procurement
Velayutham Vijayaverl         Senior Procurement Specialist    MNAPR    Procurement
Azeb Yideru                   Program Assistant                MNSSD   Project Support

ICR
Christianna Johnnides         Urban Specialist                 MNSSD     Acting ICR
                                                                            TTL
Richard James                 Operations Consultant            MNSSD   Primary Author
Allison Cave                  Sr. Urban Dev. Specialist         ECA    Peer Reviewer
Margaret Arnold               Sr. Social Dev. Specialist        SDV    Peer Reviewer




                                            27
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                     USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                           travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                                   5                              89.00
  FY06                                   6                              92.00
 Total:                                 11                             181.00
 Supervision/ICR
  FY05                                  19.34                          129.23
  FY06                                  16.90                          108.89
  FY07                                  21.54                          123.55
  FY08                                  14.90                          138.26
  FY09                                  18.80                           76.90
                          Total:        91.48                          576.83




                                        28
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Introduction

For Component A, three groups of beneficiaries were considered ­ Bam and Baravat residents,
rural residents, and shop owners and operators. A total of four group interviews and 10 individual
interviews were conducted across the three areas of low income, medium income, and high
income neighborhoods in Bam while two group interviews were organized in Baravat. Group and
individual interviews were also conducted in the villages Baghchamak and Espikan (one near
Bam and one far away). Furthermore, three individual interviews with the commercial unit
owners/operators in the shopping centers, 7 interviews with shop owners/operators in the newly-
reconstructed shopping street (Yek-Tarafeh), and 4 group interviews with members of the Bam
bazaar were held. Further interviews were conducted with the head of the Bam City Council, the
head of Bam Guild Union, and the executive manager of the traditional bazaar. Observations
were also recorded. Finding on Component B are based on observation and the results of a
separate social study commissioned by BRO.
General Observations
Normal life has returned to the city, most people have their own homes, and the majority of shop
owners are back to their usual business. Whereas Bam used to have a rural character, it looks
more like a city now. There exist some nostalgia about the old mud brick/adobe fabric of Bam,
some enthusiasm about the new built environment, and some caution about the loss of identity in
a previous tourist attraction. While Bam does not appear fully reconstructed, it does not look very
dissimilar to other Iranian cities ­ even in its half-built structures scattered around the town, its
uneven sidewalks, and its lack of spatial organization. Furthermore, the achievements of
reconstruction activities should be gauged in the framework of a post-disaster society with its
increasing dependence on the outside help and its heightened levels of expectation, the subsidy
and transfer basis of government-society relations in Iran, and the problematic urban planning
process prevalent across the country. It should also be reminded that reconstruction activities in
Bam have had a much wider scope than that covered by BEERP. Thus, achieving BEERP's first
goal of restoring the living conditions of the communities affected by the earthquake has
depended as much on non-BEERP activities as on the performance of project components.
Urban Homes
All homes whose owners acted quickly to benefit from government loan-grant facilities or had the
ability to pay beyond government facilities have been reconstructed. However, the loan-grant
combination was only adequate for the construction of (HF standard design) homes in the initial
period. Over time, the rise in prices of construction materials increased the costs beyond the
affordability of many households. A part of the reason behind incomplete houses was
misallocation of the received loans/grants. Some beneficiaries had spent the money on starting the
construction of an unrealistically big house, on buying a car, or even on investing in Kerman's
land market. Bam's former renters have also qualified for loans (not the grant) provided they
purchased their own land parcels. However, many renters did not have the resources to do so or
were not quick enough to benefit from the facilities before the price hikes. Some are still living in
the temporary shelters provided after the earthquake (700 households in Shahraké Dusti who live
in containers and claim to be former renters).
Most beneficiaries believe that buildings were reconstructed according to engineering standards
and that the city has become much safer in case an earthquake strikes again. The younger


                                                 29
generation in particular trusts in the safety of the homes. These observations are less valid moving
up across the social classes. Some doubts are expressed for the case of concrete structures. Many
beneficiaries claim that their own supervision was necessary for achieving adequate results.
Despite the existence of 30 design consultants each offering several designs, many urban
respondents feel that design options were limited and similar. Many respondents state that the
designs are not according to their tastes while others think that considering the extent of the
calamity and the need for speedy reconstruction, design similarities (typical designs) were in fact
beneficial. Most urban respondents are not satisfied with the sizes (60-80 sqm) of their new
dwellings. Some people also question the appropriateness of home/building designs for Bam's
climatic conditions.
Most respondents are less than satisfied with the pace of bureaucracy, removing remains of
collapsed buildings, and permit issue. In particular, they believe different people faced different
paces depending on their haggling abilities. Overall, people believe the process was tiring and
unfriendly. Construction permits were issued based on documents showing that remains of
collapsed buildings had been removed. If in one place two houses were destroyed, permits were
issued for two new homes and two sets of loan/grants. Yet, in some cases large extended families
had lived in single large buildings and could subsequently obtain only one permit and one of set
of loan/grant. In other cases, survivors were too traumatized or perhaps too unfamiliar with the
procedures to benefit from the multiple-building policy.
Respondents are not satisfied with the work of contractors in the city of Bam. They believe
contractors coming to Bam from all corners of Iran did not have adequate experience. While the
contractors were introduced to beneficiaries by the auxiliary provincial reconstruction taskforces,
there was no guarantee they would complete their tasks to the satisfaction of home owners.
Rural Homes
While earthquake damages in rural areas of Bam were less severe than in the city itself (except in
a few villages), rural homes had been of low quality prior to reconstruction. Households in rural
areas could benefit from a loan-grant combination (at a lower level as compared to urban
households) to reconstruct their homes. The reconstruction process in rural areas was much
smoother and quicker including the bureaucracy, removing remains of collapsed buildings, permit
issue, and actual construction. Social relations in rural areas were simpler and easier to handle
while basic social capital and social cohesion were at high levels. Rural residents directly
participated in reconstruction of their homes and those of their neighbors. Rural councils were
also effective in clarifying ownership, resolving legal disputes and preventing delays.
Furthermore, non-governmental organizations (in particular the international ones) were quite
active in rural areas in reconstruction and other activities. There was little delay in initiating the
reconstruction process in rural areas (in contrast to the city where the preparation of the urban
detailed plan had delayed reconstruction). An early start and lack of major obstacles meant that
most of the rural houses were finished before the rise in prices. Rural streets were also completed
(HF used domestic funds for this purpose) and the villages do not betray signs of the past
devastation or ongoing reconstruction. The reconstruction has changed the face of rural areas and
has made them more city-like. Rural respondents are for the most part satisfied with the speed of
reconstruction and the reconstruction process. They are happy with their new homes partly
because they were more content to begin with and partly because the new houses are considered
superior to what they were used to. Furthermore, the number of amenities, both public and
private, has increased in the villages. Yet, dissatisfaction is expressed regarding the size of the
rural houses (smaller than those of the urban areas) against the background of multiple uses made
of homes in the villages. Rural residents were not consulted with regard to the designs. One



                                                 30
important issue is that some of damaged houses are still used in the villages despite the fact that
owners have new homes next to them. These are used for storage or animal shelter but there are
also cases in which an old home is rented out despite its unsafe appearance.
Commercial Units
Fully or partially reconstructed commercial units can be found in the traditional bazaar (not part
of BEERP), in the new bazaar (Yek-Tarafeh), and as individual shops across the city. The newly
(re-) constructed Yek-Tarafeh Bazaar, built by the Housing Foundation and financed by BEERP,
has become functional in the past few months and is currently considered the lively commercial
heart of the city. Since shop owners are responsible for interior work and part of the façade, the
bazaar does not look fully finished. It took about two years to settle land conflicts among the land
owners and in a few cases the issue was only settled through the judicial system. Beneficiaries did
not participate in design and execution of this bazaar, a source of dissatisfaction among them.
Furthermore, in the opinion of many respondents, whereas the old structures were cooled and
kept warm naturally, the new buildings require much more energy for ventilation and
heating/cooling.
Other reconstructed shops scattered around the city were for the most part completed before the
Yek-Tarafeh Bazaar since some of them only required minor repairs. Overall, the owners of these
shops had an easier time reclaiming their businesses. Conflicts over property were minimal and
the bureaucracy was straightforward. Despite this, some of the minor stores in side alleys have
not been able to benefit from the reconstruction credit or may not have received reconstruction or
business permits. Those claiming exclusion belong to the poorer areas of the city or are minor
business owners. Damaged or half-built shops are observed in the city, used as storage spaces.
In general, shop owners in Bam are not satisfied with reconstruction. The process of
reconstruction ­ including clarification of ownerships, creation of files, permit issue, and actual
reconstruction ­ is said to have been too long with numerous obstacles along the way. In
particular, the difficult issue of clarifying ownerships and allocating facilities has created a sense
of injustice among business owners. Lack of participation of the representatives of the businesses,
guilds, and unions has created an impression of powerlessness among the beneficiaries and a
feeling of distrust in the quality and achievements of reconstruction.
Transport and Telecommunication Projects
Beneficiaries are not particularly aware of the impact of the telecommunication projects
completed for the city of Bam. While they note improvements in recent times they think the
changes are on a par with upgrading in the rest of the country. In the rural areas, however,
respondents report noticeable improvements.
Observations made by the research team indicate that the situation of the Kerman-Bam highway
has become worse than before the repair/widening project started. Specifically, the signage has
been removed. The incomplete project has had a highly negative impact on the settlements of
Abaragh and Khajeh Asgar. Many residents see their hopes for project-induced investment in
their settlements dashed; owners of shops located in the road's right of way do not know whether
or not they have to eventually move and are highly dissatisfied; the exact right of way is not
known but is thought to be in conflict with the guidance plans for the settlements (potentially
affecting many residents); and there are wild rumors about reasons behind the incompletion of the
project. The section of the highway which was part of the project did not include any
resettlements. For the other segments of the highway not covered under the loan it was agreed
that the provincial authority of the Ministry of Road and Transport would also follow the Bank
social safeguards.


                                                 31
Other Social Issues
The economy of Bam was resuscitated back to life through the impact of post-earthquake
reconstruction activities. The presence of a large number of government officials, contractors,
NGOs, and social workers increased the demand for labor and services in an unprecedented way.
Yet, an economic downturn set in when the major part of reconstruction came to an end starting
about two years ago. The issue of Bam's economic future and employment generation needs does
not seem to have been taken up by any agency as a major part of reconstruction activities. Also,
many respondents interviewed for the purpose of the BA are worried about paying back their
reconstruction loans against the background of a faltering economy.
A significant number of people have been disabled as a result of the earthquake in Bam. Many of
them are facing serious difficulties outside their homes. Streets and sidewalks have not been fully
constructed. Nor are there adequate provisions for disabled persons in the urban design and in
public buildings (even the welfare organization).
An impact of the earthquake and the subsequent assistance provided by the government and other
organizations seem to be the loss of self-confidence among the population, an overreliance on
outside help, and some sense of injustice. This is while many of the expectations of the
population are beyond the capacities of the service organizations.




                                                32
Annex 6. Stakeholder Analysis and Workshop Report and Results

Introduction
Stakeholder mini-workshops and interviews focused on implementation achievements and
problems, reasons for delays (if any), reasons for and effects of changes in project components,
suggestions for future operations, and stakeholder reactions to the results of the beneficiary
assessment. Summaries of discussions are organized according to project components below.41
Component A: Provision of Construction Material and Equipment for Housing and
Commercial Buildings
The price of construction materials rose drastically during the course of reconstruction which
affected the delivery schedule and required some adjustments. Despite this, all targets were
achieved under this component of the project. In fact, 20% more urban and rural housing units
have been constructed while the number of commercial units constructed by the end of the project
period was 90 percent more than the original plan. Funds other than those from BEERP were
used to achieve these higher counts (from HF/government).
Rural Housing
Rural reconstruction went forward in a speedy manner. Most people accepted the standard design
offered by the HF (mostly in 40+ and 60+ square meter configuration with bolted beam skeleton).
Furthermore, people's participation in reconstruction in rural areas was at a good level which
helped the outcome. In fact, streets have also been completed in the villages (Bank funds for this
purpose were dropped as HF/governments funds became available). The reconstruction has in
fact gone far beyond what rural households had before, according to our interviews. Overall,
stakeholders interviewed for the purpose of this report are proud of their construction activities in
rural areas.
Urban Housing
In the initial phases, reconstruction activities were delayed in anticipation of a revised master plan
for the city of Bam. The master plan called for road widening in several areas. Yet, it was
exceedingly difficult to both plan for reconstruction of buildings and have owners of remaining or
damaged homes cede land for the purpose of widening -- which resulted in some compromises.
Furthermore, the initial stages of reconstruction were slowed down due to cement shortages,
which were alleviated after a short period. Minimal steel shortages were faced however, since HF
managed to provide steel from its own sources before receiving shipments through World Bank
funds.




41
  The following stakeholders were engaged in the mini-workshops and interviews: Mr. Derafshi (BRO
head and a Deputy of HF), Mr. Mirzadeh (BRO Senior Strategic Planning Officer), Mr. Soltanieh (Senior
Technical Officer at BRO, in charge of contracts and Components B, C, D), , Mr. Keshavarz (HF Deputy
for Reconstruction in Bam), Mr. Shoja'yan (Officer, Roads and Transport Organization), Mr. Espahangizi
(BRO officer in charge of supervision of the road project), Mr. Fuladi (Member of the Board, Telecom
Company), Mr. Qavam (Head of Engineering Development, Telecom Company), Mr. Shojai (Head of
Switch Supervision, Telecom Comapny), Mr. Hoseyni (Head of Switch Design, Telecom Company), Mr.
Shafii (Board Member, Telecom Company), Mr. Qaseminejad (NGN Officer, Telecom Company), and Mr.
Ani (in charge of the Technical Office in Kerman Governorate General).



                                                  33
The HF offered standard housing designs (bolted beam skeleton) in several configurations of 60+,
and 80+ square meters for urban areas. However, in the city of Bam, more people opted for
alternative designs. Reasons included owners' desire to build larger units, as well as the
incompatibility of the standard designs with the available land parcels.
Due to the impact of the earthquake, many owners could not produce any ownership documents.
The HF personnel had to verify ownerships through other means in many cases and this resulted
in delays.
The stakeholder interviewed believed that construction standards had been adequate. They
believe the main reason for the existence of unfinished houses was that some households had
been too ambitious about the size of their dwelling, were subsequently caught in the spiral of
rising prices for construction materials, and/or had homes elsewhere. Since the main aim was to
recreate permanent shelter for the affected population, the issue of home façades was not
considered a priority.
Commercial Units
Interviewed stakeholders in charge of reconstruction highlight the difficulty of clarifying
ownership concerning commercial units. They not only had to deal with owners but also those
with goodwill titles. In particular, they believe that finishing the Yek-Tafafeh Bazaar was an
achievement considering the multitude of obstacles and conflicting claims. They also think that
the design was the best they could achieve under the circumstances and the unfinished parts of the
bazaar (façade, etc.) were best left to the owners. Furthermore, the dissatisfaction of shop owners
was thought to be only a byproduct of the difficulty of the situation, rising expectations, and
attempts by some claimants to get more than what they deserved.
Equipment
A total of 508 pieces of machinery and equipments were delivered to the HF. While there were
some delays and obstacles in the procurement of the items (for example due to low quality of
bidders or non-participation), the achievements of this part of the project are considered very
satisfactory by the interviewed stakeholders. In particular, they believe that the procured
equipments has enhanced the capacity of the HF to respond to future disaster situations.
Component B: Repair of the Transport Infrastructure
Overall, the fact that the Iranian line agency, contractors and consultants were not acquainted
with the World Bank procedures in the initial stages of the project was an important factor
causing the delays. For example, the insistence of the World Bank Senior Highway Specialist on
a particular road test not available in Iran took a long time to address. At the closure of BEERP,
roadside signs have been removed and pavement repairs have been completed for the original
carriageway (crack-sealing, etc.), but the asphalt overlay for the repaired road is remaining.
Unfortunately, without the new pavement all the repairs will be undone quickly due to the
climatic conditions. Furthermore, removal of the signs has made the road less safe. Unfortunately,
new funds for the completion of this project will only become available gradually and cannot
cover the whole length of the highway at once. Stakeholders believe that the above delays could
have been avoided if instead of insistence over the required tests and the prolonged impact study,
engineering judgment and larger safety factors had been used. While this would have potentially
increased the cost of pavement, in light of the high rate of inflation (as well as the high rate of
accidents on the road), a quicker assessment period would have saved a great deal of money in
the long run. According to them, if the project had been extended, it would have been finished in
a very short period of time due to the capacity built during the course of operations.


                                                34
The widening part of the project was added to Component B in observation of the high number of
accidents and traffic on the original narrow highway. Subsequent project preparations went
forward as planned. However, as the time extension requests were not approved, the project was
not completed. This is deemed quite unfortunate since government budget for the purpose of this
project will not become available in the foreseeable future. Stakeholders interviewed for this
report contrast the stringent requirements for beneficiary satisfaction at the start of the project
with the lack of commitment to beneficiaries to see the project completed.
Component C: Repair of the Telecommunications Infrastructure
Due to high-tech requirements for the Telecom Company and limited funds, this component was
reduced to the reconstruction of the cable and radio transmission networks and switching sites in
Bam and Bavarat became. A main reason for certain delays, confusions, and criticisms
highlighted by some of the stakeholders is most likely the unfamiliarity of responsible officers in
the line agency with the World Bank procedures. In retrosepct, more efforts to make sure all
stakeholders were knowledgeable about the project and its procedures would have sped up the
project.
Component D: Improved Emergency Preparedness in the Province of Kerman and the
District of Bam
This component originally entailed retrofitting works concerning vital public and emergency
buildings in the province as well as the procurement of emergency response vehicles in the
District of Bam. The vehicles were subsequently purchased using other funds. Due to the
weakness of the Technical Office in Kerman Governorate General (in technical and human
resources terms) a local consultant was hired to supervise the project. Unfortunately, the three-
way relationship (international consultant, local supervisory consultant, and the Technical Office
of the Governorate General) did not develop in a productive way and the component was not
completed. Discussions with the stakeholders indicate that the Governorate General is a political
rather than an executive agency and does not have the technical capacity to carry out such
projects. Conversely, if such projects are to be carried out by the Governorate General, the
required capacity needs to be created a priori.
Component E: Project Management
Two problems should have been addressed prior to the start of the project. The BRO was never
able to hire all the quality personnel it needed or to fill all of its positions due to salary restrictions
and non-permanency of jobs. Furthermore, a few critical months were spent on the issue of who
would bear the cost of cancelled steel subsidies.
In retrospect, a much more focused effort would have been required to familiarize Iranian firms
with World Bank procedures and to avoid misunderstandings and delays. The need to familiarize
project stakeholders with project requirements and procedures is also acute in the case of the HF
management in the initiation stages of the project as well as the line agencies and financial
comptrollers. The unfamiliarity of line agencies with the Bank procedures and guidelines could
have been addressed with training and information dissemination on the bidding process, hiring
consultants, contracts, and financial management. Yet, the case of financial comptrollers is more
difficult to address since the problem comprises both unfamiliarity and lack of compatibility
between Iranian and World Bank financial regulations. The lack of compatibility between Iranian
and World Bank regulations also caused problems with the opening of L/Cs (which are already
very time-consuming) as the Ministry of Commerce required purchase of insurance from Iranian
insurance firms.



                                                   35
The BRO staff believes that performance targets had not been set properly at the project
formulation stage. For example, mid-term performance targets for Component A of the project
which included only procurement of goods were set lower as compared to those of Component B
which entailed works comprising consulting, design, etc. Subprojects such as those under
Component B require around two years to reach actual implementation stage ­ something
overlooked at the formulation stage ­ according to BRO project staff.
Finally, whereas BEERP was formulated as an emergency project, coordination among various
line agencies responsible for the implementation of different project components required long-
term capacity building. Without the required authority in the Iranian context, BRO was not able
to achieve this within the project timeframe in many instances. Said differently, the explicit and
implicit goals of the project concerning adherence to a set emergency timetable and capacity
building respectively have been in conflict, in the opinion of the interviewed stakeholders.
Whereas a great deal of capacity has been built in the involved agencies over time, adherence to
time tables for the more difficult components of the project was compromised.




                                               36
      Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1.    Implementation Status of Project's Components

Component A- Reconstruction Program: The reconstruction strategy supported by the project was based on
rebuilding the housing and commercial units "in-situ" in line with the high rate of resident ownership (about
80%). The Government policy, implemented by the HF was to achieve both efficient reconstructions while
securing an appropriate level of quality control. This combined objective was achieved through: (i) training of
local engineers and contractors; (ii) close supervision and monitoring of the reconstruction activities by the HF
and the Engineering Association of Iran; and (iii) the provision of basic construction material and equipment.
As such, Component A financed: (i) the provision of basic construction material for housing and commercial
buildings (US$110 million); and (ii) the provision of construction equipment (US$40 million).

Procurement of construction materials and equipment: Through five contracts BRO purchased 350,000
metric tons of Cement Type II and 112,500 metric tons of steel through 4 contracts. However, during the course
of construction material experienced price variations of the exceptional amplitude all over the world. The
fluctuations were especially large in the international steel markets and the quantities and the delivery schedules
had to be adjusted to these very particular circumstances. The main steel supplier, Ascotec International
Company, was unable to meet its contractual obligations, even after extending the initial contract by more than
three years. Finally, the HF was able to overcome the difficulties by utilizing its strategic stock of construction
material.
Urban and rural housing: As per the Technical Annex (TA) of the BEERP it was agreed that under the
project 24,715 rural housing units and 24,598 of urban housing units will be totally rebuild. The total number
houses reconstructed are 35,866 and 29,594 respectively as per latest survey.
Commercial units: As per the Technical Annex 3,346 Commercial units would be reconstructed. The actual
quantity of units completed by the HF reached 5,250 units and far more than the number initially planned.
Construction Equipment: The constitutional mandate of the HF is to carry out emergency interventions
following natural calamities (like major snow falls, floods, etc.) and reconstruction of rural and urban
settlements following earthquakes. To be most responsive the HF relies on a fleet of heavy and medium
construction equipment strategically distributed in the 30 provinces of Iran. At times of heavy equipment
demand, for debris removal or emergency reconstruction, the fleet supplements the services provided by the
private sector.
To fulfill its national responsibilities the HF operates a large fleet of about 1,015 pieces of equipment, more
than half of which are dump trucks. About 90% of the equipment was more than 10 years old and more than
500 pieces are beyond their economic useful life. The World Bank had already started assisting the HF with the
renewal of the equipment fleet (under another emergency operation) and agreed to finance the purchase of an
additional 440 pieces of equipment. This number was later increased to 508 in response to the HF urgent needs.
The main items purchased under the BEERP include wheel loaders, excavators, motor graders and crawler
dozers used for debris removal. The detailed listing is summarized below.

                                                No. of          No. of equipment      Equipment      % achievement
              Type of equipment              equipment as        revised during        procured
                                             per technical      Implementation
                                                annex
      Wheel loaders                                36                                      36              100
      Dump trucks 6x4                             204                  235                235              115
      Dump trucks 4x2                              96                  110                110              115
      Transit mixers 6x4                           29                   36                 36              124
      Wheel excavators                             11                   15                 15              136


                                                       37
      Motor graders                                7                    40                 40              571
      Pickup trucks                                54                    0                  0               0
      Stone crushing plant                          2                    0                  0               0
      Concrete batching plant                       1                    0                                  0
      Quality control and testing equipment         155                155                155              100
      Crawler dozers                               0                     6                 6               100
      Vibratory drum rollers                       0                    30                30               100
      Truck tractors                               0                    30                 0                0
      Drilling equipment                            0                    7                 0                0

2.    Road and Transport - Component B:



Because of the emergency nature of the BEERP, the transport infrastructure activities were restricted to the
most urgent works. The top priority was given to the physical rehabilitation of the Kerman-Bam highway and
the consulting services required for the detailed design and construction supervision of these works. At a later
stage (Mid-Term Review) the widening of the highway was added to the scope of work as the prime investment
necessary to fully implement the GOI disaster preparedness strategy and improve the country's ability to better
respond to future earthquakes in one of the highest disaster risk area. From a budget perspective, the cost of this
additional scope of work was partially offset by the cancelation of (i) the repair of the civil aviation airport of
Bam, (ii) the rehabilitation work on damaged village roads funded respectively by the GOI and the HF, and (iii)
savings from procurement of construction materials . After this adjustment the initial cost estimate went from
US$30 million to a revised amount of US$90 million (of which US$55 million are for the widening of the
Mahan- Bam highway). Under Component B, the BEERP has funded the following contracts:


 -Repairing the section Mahan to Abaregh of Kerman-Bam Highway (Lot 1).


 The contract was signed with Jahad Nasr Kerman Contracting Co. on June 17, 2008 for a total value
 of US$12 million and the works started in July 2008. The rehabilitation works covers 102 km stretch
 (of which 4.6 km is a 4 lane highway) with the completion planned on October 2009. The salient
 features of road widening and repair undertaken under lot 1 are as follow:



      Sr.No.             Description of major items for Lot-1                 Unit        Quantity
         1     Site clearance and grubbing                                   Sq. m         530,400
         2     Earthworks in excavation                                      Cu. m         197,700
         3     Embankment                                                    Cu. m         108,800
         4     Sub grade and earthen shoulder                                Cu. m          2,000
         5     Granular sub base course                                      Cu. m         119,400
         6     Granular base course                                          Cu. m         102,500
         7     Prime coat and granular surface                               Sq. m         256,400
         8     Tack coat on bituminous surface                               Sq. m        1,548,500
         9     Asphalt concrete regulating layer                             Cu. m          29,100
        10     Asphalt concrete binder course                                Cu. m          13,900
        11     Asphalt concrete wearing course                               Cu. m           200
        12     Stress absorbing membrane interlayer (SAMI)                   Sq. m         659,500
        13     Stone Matrix Asphalt (SMA)                                    Cu. m          31,200
        14     Pavement Marking                                              Lin. m        320,500


                                                       38
       15     W section Metal Beam Crash Barrier                        Lin. m          5,100

- After a slow start and clear evidence of weak management, and inadequate professional expertise of the
team involved in implementation of the works, the contractor's replaced the project manager and technical
staff. These measures resulted in improved performance and increased the speed of contract execution.


- Repairing the section Abaregh to Rostamabad of Kerman-Bam Highway (Lot 2): After re-bidding,
the Lot 2 contract was finally awarded to Paz Construction Co. and signed on October 22, 2008 for a total
value of US$18 million. The construction period is 15 months and the works commenced on November 18,
2008. The scope of the works on this 87 km long section (of which 15.07 km is a 4 lane highway) and
characteristics of the existing road are as follow:


     Sr.No.            Description of major items for Lot-2             Unit          Quantity
        1     Site clearance and grubbing                              Sq. m           414,700
        2     Earthworks in excavation                                 Cu. m           173,100
        3     Embankment                                               Cu. m            60,500
        4     Sub grade and earthen shoulder                           Cu. m            2,000
        5     Granular sub base course                                 Cu. m            98,000
        6     Granular base course                                     Cu. m            90,500
        7     Prime coat and granular surface                          Sq. m           245,900
        8     Tack coat on bituminous surface                          Sq. m          1,681,300
        9     Asphalt concrete regulating layer                        Cu. m            36,200
       10     Asphalt concrete binder course                           Cu. m            12,300
       11     Asphalt concrete wearing course                          Cu. m             200
       12     Stress absorbing membrane interlayer (SAMI)              Sq. m           500,000
       13     Stone Matrix Asphalt (SMA)                               Cu. m            29,900
       14     Pavement Marking                                         Lin. m          307,400
       15     W section Metal Beam Crash Barrier                       Lin. m            500

- Widening the section between Rayen Junction to Darzin of Kerman-Bam Highway (Segments 1 &
2): Form early stages of the project widening of the whole stretch of the highway was paid special
attention by Ministry of Road and Transportation (MORT) mainly due to increase in traffic volume that
had resulted in a plethora of accidents and number of fatalities and injuries. This was brought to the
attention of Bank's missions which was considered not necessary based on traffic data available at the time.
Supervision consultant of Lot 1 & 2, MSV International, was assigned to conduct a feasibility study and the
final report was transmitted to the Bank for further considerations and advice, meanwhile the general office
of MORT in Kerman initiated steps to widen the two sections of highway from two lane to four lane,
Mahan to Rayen intersection about 40Km and Darzin to Bam about 11Km. Consequently the Bank mission
was convinced to consider funding of the stretch, the portion from Rayen Intersection to Darzin for
widening, during the Mid Term Review provided an amendment to the loan agreement. The general office
of MORT in Kerman selected a design consultant, Haraz Rah consulting engineers, thru MPO procedures
right after decision was made and the consultant initiated rapid steps to conduct the design of the highway.
Throughout the design period the Bank supported the project and deployed its Sr. highway engineer Mr.
Wolden to perform design review and checks, at certain stages, in order to expedite the process and avoid
delays which could have been occurred due to back and forth transmittal of documents. In parallel the
general office of MORT in Kerman with assistance of BRO and consultant took immediate action to
prequalify contractors and prepare bidding documents which was cleared by the Bank. Bids were opened
for both segments on March 10th 2009 and bid evaluation reports were sent to the Bank on April 20th 2009
and the No-Objections were received on May 11th 2009 3:38 AM to award both contracts to Abadrahan



                                                     39
Pars Co. for Segment-1 IRR 303,444,537,030 and for Segment-2 IRR 200,898,911,700. The No-Objections
were later withdrawn due to closing of the loan.

      Sr.
             Description of major items for Segment 1 and 2   Unit      Quantity
      No.
       1     Site clearance and grubbing                      Sq.m      2,000,000
       2     Earthworks in excavation                         Cu.m      720,000
       3     Embankment                                       Cu.m      1,655,000
       4     Sub grade and earthen shoulder                   Cu.m      382,000
       5     Granular sub base course                         Cu.m      220,000
       6     Granular base course                             Cu.m      205,000
       7     Granular base shoulders                          Cu.m       20,500
       8     Prime coat and granular surface                  Sq.m      1,150,000
       9     Tack coat on bituminous surface                  Sq.m      2,250,000
      10     Asphalt concrete binder course                   Cu.m      135,000
      11     Asphalt concrete wearing course (PMB)            Cu.m       56,000
      12     Non-Reinforce concrete                           Cu.m       45,060
      13     Precast concrete                                 Cu.m       13,600
      14     Furnishing steel reinforcement                    Kg       1,530,000
      15     Steel frame works                                Sq.m       93,900
      16     Box culverts                                      No.        182
      17     Small bridges                                     No.         24
      18     Pavement Marking                                 Lin.m     221,500
      19     W section Metal Beam Crash Barrier               Lin.m      21,000

Note: This sub project received much technical support by deployment of Bank's Sr. Road Engineer in
three periods, to examine the design at BRO and Consulting Engineers offices in order to expedite the
design process as the widening of Kerman Bam highway was considered an essential task to decrease
number of accidents, save travel time and consequently be well prepared for faster relief emergency works
if unforeseen calamities happen in future.
Though right decision was made by the Bank's mission during midterm review and all efforts were made
by concerned parties, Bank and Government of Iran, to achieve this life-preserving goal within a
reasonable time, this important task was however aborted as the Bank did not provide extension of the
project closing date.
Major reasons resulted in delays in Implementation of Component-B: At very early stages of the
project a design consultant namely Faradid Consulting Engineers (FCE) was hired by the general office of
MORT in Kerman to carry out the design studies for rehabilitation of Lot 1 & 2, the design was reviewed
by World Bank's Sr. road engineer on October 2005. The Sr. road engineer instructed the Benkelman test
to be carried out, since this type of test was not common in the country it was assigned to an Austrian
Consultant by name of Nivelt. The process of selection of Benkelman test consultant and execution of test
took almost a year to be completed by September 2006 and the final outcome did not make any difference
in thickness of Asphalt layer as it was expected. Therefore one year of postponement was experienced due
to Benkelman test conducted.
-Supervision consultant MSV International was selected thru Bank's procedures and contract was signed
on January 2007. As the design review was a part of supervision consultant's assignment, the consultant


                                                     40
failed to review the design and prepare the bidding documents as it was planned on Mid June 2007. Owing
to the fact that MSV ceased to mobilize the staff at the beginning stage, on the pretext of safety and
insecurity of its employees in Iran. Meanwhile because of MSV failure to deploy staff in timely manner,
for about one year, BRO entered into negotiation with 2nd and 3rd rank evaluated supervision consultants to
sign contract. Unfortunately the Ital consult express its apology for nonparticipation in negotiation due to
overloading of assignments in hand and negotiations with SNC Lavalen did not emerged to a suitable
consensus. In the interim BRO prompted preparation of bidding documents for lot 1 and 2 and received
No-Objection on Jan. 9th 2008.
- Subsequent to failure of negotiation with SNC Lavalen MSV was asked to mobilize its team under
constraints and compelling circumstances and the project suffered further delays about one year due to
MSV's lack of commitment.
 - Rehabilitation of Lot-1 and Lot-2 could have been accomplished if the Supervision consultant was
committed enough to its obligations. ­
However, considering the mentioned delays up to now the progress is satisfactory.
Note: BRO suggests for future Design and Supervision Contracts a performance guarantee equivalent to
20% of contract amount to be obtained prior to contract signature.

Telecommunication Infrastructure - Component C: Prior to the earthquake, there were 16,745
subscribers in Bam and 2,300 in Baravat. The earthquake heavily damaged the telecommunication lines in
Bam (350km), Baravat (35km) and the rural area in the Bam district (70km). The damage was also
considerable at the three switching centers in Bam (2) and Baravat (1) and at the microwave station in
Bam. Soon after the earthquake, less than 1,500 lines were restored and the local phone services were
offered free of charge by the Kerman Telecommunications Company (KTC) as part of the emergency relief
to ensure essential communication systems.
Because KTC is accountable for maintenance, operation and expansion of the telecommunications
networks (including fixed lines, mobile phones, microwave, fiber optic, data and any other infrastructure
networks), the GOI requested financial support (for an estimated amount of US$12.1 million) to carry out
the following rehabilitation and upgrading work.
C-1 ­ Development of New Generation Network (NGN) System: The contract for supply and
installation of NGN was signed with ZTE Corporation of China on October 15, 2007, consisting of two
main parts namely: (i) supply and installation of NGN equipment; and (ii) providing connectivity through
fiber cable. In addition to the intrinsic complexity associate to the procurement of the most advanced
telecommunication technology, it took almost one year to open the Letter of Credit (L/C) to pay for the
equipment. Finally the L/C was opened on August 2008 allowing for the equipment to be tested in the
manufacturing premises of the supplier by a team of experts from TCK. Unfortunately, once imported from
China to Bam the equipment remained under Custom custody for 6 months waiting for the availability of
sufficient local counterpart funds to pay the custom duties and clear the goods.
NGN equipment is now installed on the designated sites, moreover, the designs of OCDF and ODF for all
the phases have been approved by KTC and the expert consultants and the ZTE has completed the
integration.
- Installation of Fiber Optic Cable: The installation of FOC is vital to the implementation of the
telecommunication component. The phases 1, 2 and 3(about 200 km) of laying Fiber Optic Cable (FOC)
were terminated and handed over to KTC who has commissioned both (Old and new FOC) networks. For
phase 3, the required FOC was purchased during winter of 2008-2009 and installation of about 60 Km has
completed after overcoming last difficulties related to the geology of the area and crossing of several
villages.




                                                    41
Despite the some momentum observed at the beginning, the commissioning of the NGN network
encountered many difficulties which affected the performance of the project. In addition to the
technological challenges of importing modern electronic components to Iran and the physical constraints
associated to any work in Bam District, other reasons explain the slow implementation:
  - Technically, the decision made by KTC to change the FOC specifications (moving from 72 cores to 12
    and 24 cores) without adequate anticipation of the consequences of such measures has caused
    significant delays;
  - Financially, Delay in L/C opening for about one year, caused by obtaining different permits from
    concern authorities and struggles for finding proper transaction rout due to international sanctions and
    the lack of timely counterpart funds considerably delayed the delivery of the goods and hindered
    ZTE's progress; and
  - Administratively, inadequate planning, deficient coordination among all parties involved and delayed
    responses by the World Bank Telecom expert, (TCK, Expert Consultants, Contractor, BRO and the
    World Bank) seriously compromised the adherence to the work schedule.
Note: Even though the project received suggestions for improvement for the design and advice in regard to
Separation of NGN and WLL packages from Bank's Telecom expert, the project faced a delay of seven
months due to late responses and clearances. BRO sent the first Technical package of NGN on May 9
2006 and after a few follow up emails finally Bank's expert requested site and path survey for the system.
On August 1 2006 a CD containing all technical design of NGN including Path survey was couriered to
Bank and the clearance was received on December 20, 2006 and after two time extension of bid
submissions requested by interested bidders, finally bid opening took place on May 15, 2007. On July 16,
2007 the bid evaluation report was transmitted to the Bank on no-objection for award of contract was
received on July 20, 2007. Draft contract was sent after no-objection and on August 12, 2007 a two page
procurement queries containing many questions in regard to evaluation were asked by Bank and the
response was given on August 27, 2007. Another no-objection was received on September 11, 2007.
C-2) Wireless Local Loop (WLL) system based on GSM for Bam and Baravat ­ After a lengthy
process, the Bank issued its no-objection on Sept. 03, 2008 for awarding the contract to ZTE for the bid
price Euro 1,942,113 and Iranian Rials 23,237,411,888. However, as the technical specifications were
prepared more than one year before the contract and the provision of Performance and Advance Payment
Guarantees by ZTE took six additional months due to the international restrictions imposed on the financial
transactions with Iranian banks, KTC decided to further improve the initially proposed WLL system. The
intention was to procure a system entirely integrated in general telecommunication framework. Such
adjustments were also warranted because in the meantime KTC had completed the upgrading of several
technical installations through its own local funds. Therefore, the investments made by KTC (such as
telecommunication towers, buildings and support systems including alarm control, power supplies for BTS
and air-conditioning) in Bam and Baravat were deducted from ZTE's contract in exchange of high-tech
equipments (such as billing and Intelligent Network systems able to provide conference calls, service
charging, MMS services, prepaid calling, etc.) for an equal amount. The updates of the WLL technical
specifications and the variations in the exchange rates justified an amendment to the initial contract on
December 30, 2008, for an amount of Euro 3,364,660.69 and IRls 4,795,649,699.
Opening of L/C for importation of the equipment from China has been postponed till the alternative
financing arrangements of this contract is in place.
Major reasons resulted in delays in Implementation of Component-C: (i) Complexity of the project in
regard to design a New Generation System compatible to the existing telecommunication system of Bam;
(ii) Preparation of tender document for supply and installation of intricate package; (iii) Profound
bureaucracy to obtaining permits from Atomic Energy Organization, Department of Frequency Control;


                                                    42
(iv) Delays due to obtaining permit of import from Ministry of Commerce; (v) Delays in opening L/C due
to international sanctions for which the project had to fine alternative route and intermediary bank; (vi)
Delays in Bank's responses.
Component D- Retrofitting Program: The effects of the Bam earthquake and destruction of key public
buildings and facilities in the district has confirmed the urgent need to retrofit and strengthen key
emergency response buildings throughout Iran. This component aimed to improve the earthquake
emergency preparedness in the Province of Kerman and the city of Bam through the risk assessment and
retrofitting of strategically important buildings in the Province of Kerman on a pilot basis. The experience
acquired from the pilot phase would then be replicated by the GOI in the remaining 30 Provinces of Iran.
The total cost was estimated at US$10.00 million, to be implemented by BRO through close coordination
with the Governorate of Kerman (GOK) and concerned entities. Initially, the component also included the
procurement of emergency response vehicles for the city of Bam but these expenses were canceled from
the project and funded through the Governorate of Kerman's budget as the required vehicles were procured
thru Government funds.
Because of the intensity of the emergency work, this component was initiated in 2006. During the
following two years the whole retrofitting approach was not understood correctly by the implementing
agency officials. The lack of ownership resulted in substantial delays in appointing the international expert
consultant indispensable for the design phase. Moreover, the nature of retrofitting was far away from the
traditional development routine strongly inclined to construct new facilities. Another exacerbating factor
was the absence of local experts with the advanced professional skills to manage retrofitting programs.
Finally, the confusion on the payment modalities of the contractors and consultants remained unresolved
for more than two years. Despite numerous meetings and countless explanations, the GOK never accepted
that the Financial Controller of the HF was the only official entitled to process the foreign currency
payments. It was with the arrival of the new Governor and Deputy Governor of the Kerman Province that
allowed the signing of the design contract (with DRM on May 2008), the appointment of the supervision
consultant (Iman Sazeh Fadak Engineering Company) and the creation of the provincial coordination unit.
Over the year of 2008, the Design Consultant organized training seminars on retrofitting in the Governorate
of Kerman and submitted the preliminary assessment of the buildings in the specific Inception Reports, the
as-built drawings related to the selected hospitals buildings and to the fire-fighting building. The design
consultant also prepared the proposal on prioritizing the buildings and substitution of some of the buildings
listed in the contract with other options and prepared the Architectural drawings for the hospitals.
Though the ongoing design phase is moving forward, the progress remains slow for the following objective
reasons:
- Contrary to what was initially anticipated, there were no documents (drawings, codes used for static and
  seismic calculation, geotechnical parameters, etc.) or any other useful technical information
  (geotechnical data of the project sites, structures, foundations, etc) able to guide the consultant to find
  out structural and architectural details of the different buildings. As a result, the first step for retrofitting
  was surveying of the buildings and assessing the earthquake resistance and the structures bearing
  capacity through sounds and inspection of the walls, roofs, decks and foundations.


- Because the hospitals are running their daily business (like surgery, X-Ray, etc.) and most of the rooms
  are occupied by patients a very close coordination with the hospital managers becomes an absolute
  necessity. In some cases the restrictions for building inspections were such that it will not allow to
  realistically assessing the earthquake safety.




                                                        43
- The findings of the design consultant has led to complex alternatives (some buildings are unfit for
  retrofitting or strengthening costs would be excessive). The final decision often required additional
  information to envisage all the possible options (including the conversion of the buildings for storage)
  to minimize the risk and the cost.
Major reasons and grounds resulted in delays in Implementation of Component-D: During the
contract negotiations DRM insisted on receiving the full amount of contract in USD, despite the bid data
sheet indicated that all local expenditures should be stated in national currency. BRO and GOK got the
feeling that DRM is trying to buy time due to its other commitments. BRO is in the opinion that a 5 months
delay inflicted to the project by DRM.
-GOK took no action in preparation of TOR and RFP for a period of 5 months after submission of Bank's
Guidelines and inflicted delays of 5 months in this respect.
-GOK declined to sign the contract without any reasonable grounds and after many follow ups by BRO
finally signed inflicting 14 months of delay to the project
-In total 24 months of postponement of the project is on the shoulder of GOK owing to lack of knowledge
of WB guidelines, uncertainty in ownership and lack of dedicated technical staff.

Component E -Project Management: The Project implemented by Housing Foundation. In order to
speed up the reconstruction activities, the World the Bank emphasized on establishment of an office with
qualified staff so that they can efficiently collaborate with the Bank, therefore on May 1, 2004, BRO (Bam
Reconstruction Office), was officially established to coordinate all technical and project management
aspects of project implementation. The BRO is headed by a Project Director (PD) supported by a staff of
technical specialists in different disciplines, relevant to reconstruction activities, and has been operational
from a central office in Tehran and a field office located in Bam.
BRO was and still is responsible for the monitoring of implementation progress as well as financial and
contract management and procurement assistance to all implementation agencies involved and has played
an oversight function to ensure the adherence of the implementing agencies to the safeguard policies under
the project. Also BRO acted as the main counterpart to the World Bank.
This component supported BRO through the provision of consultants for Procurement, Monitoring and
Technical Advisory Services. The initial cost for this Component was estimated at US$7.80 million.
During the project BRO handled all the necessary coordination tasks required for the BEERP
implementation. With a total amount committed about US$195 Million or almost 90 percent of the total
loan amount BRO, and more generally the HF, have achieved a good performance in light of the
challenging work environment, mainly related to the change in project currency, replacement of
commercial bank accounts, difficulties faced in opening Letters of Credit and identifying suitable
intermediary banks, additional clearance processes, and delays in providing counterpart funds in due
course.
The Monitoring and Evaluation Consultant of the project rated this component as one of the most
successful as it achieved the main objectives defined in project documents. After 6 years, BRO has clearly
demonstrated its capacity to deal even with the most complex procurement packages like the selection of
the contractors for the widening of the Kerman­Bam Highway between Rayen and Darzin (for a contract
value of US$51 million).
Lessons Learned
Component `A' - procurement of construction materials and construction equipment



                                                      44
1. Normally, the Bank's procurement policies don't allow price adjustment formula for procurement of
goods with delivery periods of less than 18 months. When prices spiraled up in the markets, either this
would lead to stretching of the delivery periods or to cancellations of contracts and consequent contractual
disputes with suppliers. Our project did go through these tribulations during procurement of steel for our
construction activities in the light of unprecedented escalation in steel prices a few years ago and
fortunately, though it elongated the delivery period and supplies were completed when market prices for
these products eased a bit. In light of our experience, the Bank may consider or suggest on its own the
inclusion of price adjustment formula in bidding document even the delivery period is less than 18 months
in future. The procurement wing may consider eliciting some inputs on this issue from the economic
analysis wing of the Bank to advise the bank funded projects.
2. According to the Bank's procurement policies, technical specifications for procurement of all
equipments and materials require to be prepared in generic terms in order to provide equal opportunities to
all bidders from all countries. Whereas our experience shows that these procurement procedures may be
reasonable for goods that are generally available in markets of all countries but not adequate when the
borrowers attempt to do with the same procedures for procurement of specialty goods such as heavy earth
moving equipments. These procedures when we attempted to procure specialty equipments had steered us
to end up having bidders from countries with low quality manufacturing base who quoted low prices to
capture the supply orders. A few times, this resulted in procurement of low quality equipment, poor after
sales services and as a result caused problems namely frequent breakdowns, multitude of repairs, and
finally incurring higher life cycle costs than what was estimated at the time of procurement. Whereas
procurement of equipment from reputable manufacturers may seem to be expensive in the beginning, but
cost effective and highly reliable in the long run. The unique procurement requirements of projects may be
given creditable considerations while finalizing the procurement plans for the emergency rehabilitation
projects.
3. In case of Emergency Rehabilitation projects, with the application of existing procurement procedures
that are protracted, the pressing needs of immediate construction materials might not reach the construction
sites in early stages of requirement / reconstruction. In case of our project, the first delivery of construction
materials procured thru the loan reached construction sites almost 18 months after the occurrence of killer
earthquake. But for the foresight of the `Housing Foundation", the nodal agency identified by Government
to undertake the reconstruction activity, which had procured the steel and cement in the beginning, the
reconstruction activity of housing in urban and rural areas would not have been completed on time as
scheduled. It is recommended special exemption shall be considered to procure at least 25 % of overall
project's needed materials thru `Shopping' in early stages of the project that focuses in meeting emergency
requirements.
Component `B': Rehabilitation of Road Infrastructure: (i) Rehabilitation of Mahan-Bam-
Rostamabad highway
In response to the suggestion of the Bank on the design submitted for rehabilitation of Mahan ­ Bam ­
Rostamabad highway, the general office of Ministry of Road Transport (MORT) in Kerman province spent
seven months to locate and sign a contract with a foreign consultant to conduct Benkelman and FWD test
as a prelude to firm up the design. The foreign consultant took three more months to submit its report
followed by a period of four months for the local consultant to review and finalize the design that
facilitated the floating of bids for rehabilitation. In parallel, the process of hiring a consultant for the
supervision of rehabilitation work was undertaken. After appointment of supervision consultants, they
were unable to mobilize their staff to review the detailed drawings prepared citing country's perilous
conditions and the consultants inflicted another 9 months' delay on this activity.
After going through the process of pre-qualification and bidding, the contract for rehabilitation of Lot-1 of
rehabilitation of highway was signed on June 17, 2008 with a contractor who delayed the project for about



                                                       45
5 months due to various factors. For Lot-2 of rehabilitation of highway, after going through the process of
pre-qualification and re-bidding, the contract was signed on October 22, 2008 with another contractor who
delayed the work for 3 months due to various factors.
Bearing in mind the following factors such as unavailability of certain test equipment or operator to
perform a test, continued deterioration of the road condition because of the usage for the traffic movement
and consequential road accidental casualties in the interim period, and very high inflation in the country
(used to be around 24% per annum), the consideration to take up the work should have been on the basis of
national economic and need analysis rather than the normal cost and benefit analysis and utilizing the local
expertise available on emergency basis by shortening of lead times for procurement through national
competitive bidding.
ii) Widening of Mahan-Bam-Rostamabad highway
The contract was signed with an international technical consultant utilizing funds provided by the
Government for feasibility impact study for undertaking widening of highway in May of 2007 and the
completion and subsequent submission of report was delayed. All together, the project took almost 10
months to receive the Bank's no objection for the report and a good portion of this time period was due to
the fact that the Bank had asked technical issues to be covered in the impact study at different periods. The
final design was made ready within 11 months after signing the contract by another technical consultant,
who was selected based on procedures of the Government of Iran (similar to QCBS of the Bank) and was
cleared by the Bank. To facilitate the expedition of completion of the design of widening of highway, the
Bank had deputed, at the intervention of the Task Team Leader, its senior road expert to visit Iran to check
and review the design three times.
Component `C': Rehabilitation of Telecommunication Infrastructure
i) New Generation Networks (NGN): Though the work was initiated in beginning of 2006, a host factors
namely clearances, authorizations and approvals from various government departments, and no objection
from the Bank at various stages of this prior-review contract belated the completion of this important link
in the telecom infrastructure. In the initial stages, the segregation of telecom comprehensive plan in two
separate packages intertwining the telecom infrastructure took a considerable six months time for the
project to achieve on the lines suggested by the Bank. After substantial detailed communication on the
proposed technical specifications which took more than one year for the technical consultant to provide all
clarifications to the Bank for it's no objection. Also a significant time in 2008 was lost due to imposition of
UN sanctions and regulations on banking with the country and finally the Bank issued to special
commitment. The same restrictions also triggered loss of 4 months time for the supplier to provide the
performance and advance payment securities and Proforma Invoice after signing the contract. Further, in
order to obtain different permits and approvals from Atomic Energy organization, Radio frequency control
department, and Ministry of commerce (for L/C opening), sizeable time of 7 months was expended due to
excessive bureaucratic regulations within the country.
Bountiful efforts and energies were spent by the implementing agency along with Bam Reconstruction
Office to arrange for the counter-part funds towards payment of custom duties which was the result of
changes to custom duties in the interim period and inability of the management of implementing agency for
making adequate provision for this in its budget. Further the tardiness in progress was added to the fact
that the laying of cable required necessary permission and approvals from various departments of
provincial government. Also failure of the implementing agency to monitor the progress and its internal
squabbles added ambiguity to the implementation of the project.
The project authorities were of the opinion that had there been adequate support and assistance from the
technical team of the Bank, this system would have been completed at least one year in advance even in the
face of external constraints forced on the project from time-to-time, imposition of UN sanctions on


                                                      46
banking, and elapsed time in mobilizing counter-part funds and receiving the necessary approvals and
clearances from various provincial government agencies.
b) Wireless Local Loop (WLL) Based on GSM: After preparing the segregation plan of NGN and GSM
systems, it was decided to go ahead with implementation of NGN system first and then to take up WLL
system based on GSM later. This decision delayed the implementation of the WLL system by almost a
couple of years. As it happened with NGN system, a considerable time of almost 18 months at various
stages of the system procurement was spent on fine tuning of the technical specifications with the
comments of the Bank such as addition of high performance sub-systems, deletion of locally procurable
sub-systems, and receiving the Bank's no objection on the revised technical design of the system. Further
there was almost three months overdue to the fact that the Bank's no objection was received on bid
evaluation report. After signing the contract, the supplier took up 3 months to provide performance,
advance payment securities and Performa invoice in the light of imposition of UN sanctions on banking.
Also failure of the implementing agency to monitor the progress and its internal squabbles added ambiguity
to the implementation of the project. The problem faced by the implementing agency in managing the
counter-part funds towards its contribution to the system procurement contributed to the non-completion of
this system implementation and consequent stoppage of the work on this system.
The project authorities were of the opinion that had there been adequate support and assistance from the
technical team of the Bank, this system would have been completed at least nine months in advance even in
the face of external constraints forced on the project from time-to-time, imposition of UN sanctions on
banking, and elapsed time in mobilizing counter-part funds and receiving the necessary approvals and
clearances from various provincial government agencies.
Component `D': Improved Earthquake Preparedness in Kerman Province & Bam District: The
implementing agency namely Government of Kerman province didn't evince interest in this component
though it was agreed initially that they would take all necessary steps to extend support. Almost there was
no action on the part of the implementing agency to firm up the ToR for completion of RFP and didn't act
timely on the evaluation of proposals after receipt, and these two in-actions contributed almost 10 months
of delay to the implementation. Added to this there was only one response to the RFP for providing
consultancy services to retro-fitting of public buildings in Kerman province and further the consultant's
rigidity and inflexibility to accept the local expenditures in local currency (as per RFP) contributed another
six months delay to the implementation period. The contract agreement was signed finally with the
consultant by the implementing agency after a period of 14 months' holdup with continual persuasion by
BRO. The design of retrofitting activity of public buildings gained momentum in December 2008 when a
new deputy of civil affairs was appointed by provincial government, nevertheless the lost time of two years
due to the non-cooperation of the implementing agency couldn't be salvaged.
Conclusions:
1- When a project of this type is defined and designed, there should be more clarity on the overall
objective of meeting the emergency requirement of the project or to increase the implementation capacity
of implementing agency (ies) or both. Taking into consideration that these as a datum line, the progress
achievable must have been worked in the form of a workable plan by the nodal agency identified for the
project implementation in consultation with the Bank. But, however, the focus was mostly on achieving the
objectives with clearly defined time lines for implementation and with fewer spotlights on organizational
arrangements. Though a reconstruction office was envisaged and created for coordination with various
implementing agencies, it was perceived at the end that issues of non-cooperation of implementing
agencies were not addressed to meet the objectives and goals of project, and there could have been a
contingency proviso in the legal agreement to take over or transfer of the implementation of components /
contracts if the required cooperation was not forthcoming from the identified implementing agencies.




                                                     47
Instead of having many implementing agencies, a single agency with multi-disciplinary teams on
deputation of specialists could have been a better option of implementing the emergency projects.


2- Considering the Bank's guidelines and procedures for procurement of goods, works and consultancy
and the reasonable time required for each procurement type with the proposed organizational arrangements,
a higher percentage of progress was expected for procurement of goods and lower level of progress for
procurement of works that required design and consultancy as evaluated in the midterm review, and those
expectations were almost achieved.


3- When the overall objective of the project was specified as making the people to return and assist them
in restoration of living conditions, there was no allocation of funds in the project for making them
available to restart their affected businesses.


4- However, when the ToR were being firmed up for the social and environmental assessment study of
widening of highway, it was emphasized that all intruders and encroachers of public road should be
treated in a humanitarian manner and be resettled in a way that their business opportunities would be at
the same level as before even though everybody knew that they did set up their shops and kiosks within
the limits of public road.


5- A question arose in the minds of implementing agency officials that how come that the same level of
scrutiny and concern was not shown for people who traversed on the damaged road, getting killed or
wounded when the decision was taken by the Bank for not extending the loan. This imperious action,
according to the officials of road rehabilitation implementing agency, was not well received by the people
of Kerman Province and they were dejected that the required extension was not provided for, though there
was a genuine need of rehabilitation and widening of highway (a life line connecting the south- west
provinces with south-east provinces of the country). Many perceived that this denial of extension was
contorted due to extraneous considerations without any concern or care for views and needs of affected
people who were all given high hopes with high profile visits of officials of various implementing
agencies along with members of the Bank's mission to the project area in the last five years.




                                                   48
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders




                                         49
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1.   Project Technical Annex (Report No.: T7637-IR), October 5, 2004
2.   Back to Office Reports and Aide-Memoires April 2004 through Oct 2009
3.   Implementation Status Reports April 2005 through October 2009
4.   Mid Term Review Report, March 3-16, 2007
5.   Loan Agreement Report No. 4755-IRN), November 16, 2004
6.   Operational Status Report, October 2009
7.   Bam First Monitoring & Evaluation Report, Derakht-e-Danesh Gostar,
8.   Survey on Public Opinion Various Aspects of Bam and Surrounding Villages,
     Dr. Mehdi Montazar Ghaem, PhD, December 2006




                                             50
51
