Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8348-MAG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
ENVIRONMENT PROGRAMt
MARCH 19, 1990
Agriculture Sector Operations Division
South Central and Indian Ocena Department
IAfrica Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the perfohmsooe of
|         ' a 4  ' 4 <Its Co  may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autlorzado



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit         =         Malagasy Franc (FMG)
US$1.00                  FMG 1,650
FMG 1,000         =        US$ .61
(as of December 1989)
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
metric                                         British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                                       3 3.3 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                        =          .62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer  km2)                            .39 square mile (sq.m.)
1 hectare (ha)                          =         2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)                                   2.20 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m.ton)                    -         2,205 pounds (lb)
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Madagascar.                          January 1 - December 31
its ministries and agencies
l



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
ENVIRONMENT PROGRAM
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:      Democratic Republic of Madagascar
Amount:        USS 26.0 million (SDR 19.8 million)
Termst         Standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity
Beneficiaries: About 100,000 rural families through soil conservation,
improved watershed management, reforestation and other
community-level priority projects. About 702 of these
families would be located in the buffer zones surrounding
parks and reserves; and about 302 in erosion-prone priority
areas.
Implementing
Agencies:      Ministry of Economy and Plan, through the National Office
for the Environment; Ministry of Livestock, Fisheries and
Forests, through the Forestry Department and the
Association for the Management of Protected Areas; the
National Association for Environmental Actions; the
National Mapping Agency; the Ministry of Agriculture
through the Cadastral Department; and the Ministry of
Scientific Research through the agricultural, oceanographic
and environmental research centers.
Financing
Plan:          Cofinanciers are UNDP, UNESCO, USAID, Frerch, German,
Norwegian and Swiss Aid, KFW (Federal Republic of Germany),
Worldwide Fund for Nature (WWF) and Conservation
International. Japan, Great Britain, the European Economic
Community, and the International Association against Hunger
have also expressed interest in financing. Several foreign
scientific agencies and environmental NGOs are also
expected to provide financing and to participate in
implementation.
Program
Description:   (i) Objectives and Content
The Environment Program will represent the first five-year
segment of a fifteen-year Environmental Action Plan (EAP)
whose aim is to assist the Malagasy population in
protecting and improving its environment for a more
sustainable development. The proposed Environment Program
(first slice of EAP) will consist of seven components: (i)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only :.a the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii- 
protecting and managing unique ecological systems together
with development of peripheral zones; (ii) promoting soil
cor.servation, agroforestry, reforestation and other rural
development activities in priority zones, including seveTai
large watershed areas; (iii) developing maps and
geographic information for Program-related areas; (iv)
improving land security through titling; (v) training
environmental specialists and promoting environmental
awareness and education at all levels of Halagasy society;
(vi) launching environmental research programs on land,
coastal and marine ecosystems; and (vii) developing support
activities, composed of institution building, the adoption
of environmental assessment procedures (and funding for
environmental assessments), strengthening the environmental
data base, monitoring and evaluation, and studies. This
component in particular will include studies and pilot
operations to prepare a new Zive-year slice of the EAP.
(ii) Benefits
The Program will help Madagascar to put in place the legal
and institutional framework and the skills and tools needed
to manage its environmental heritage. Sites of world
renowned biodiversity will be conserved. Soil loss will be
stemmed and environmentally sound programs of rural
development will begin.
(iii) Risks:
As this is Madagascar's first national Program in
environment, it inevitably starts with a number of risks.
Several new institutions have to be established, new laws
have to be passed, staff with new skills have to be found,
and the public at large, and farmers in particular, have to
be convinced. The Program has been designed in a flexible
manner so as to build institutions progressively on the
basis of information and experience gained as
implementation proceeds. To that end, the Program includes
mechanisms for careful monitoring and regular review of
progress (including a formal mid-term review) so that
problems can be identified and solutions found at an early
stage.



- iii-
Estimated Project Cost
Local       Foreign      Total
USS million -
Biodiversity (protection,assistance
to DEF & devel't of buffer zones)  11.19          10.36       21.55
Soil conservation, Agroforestry/
Rural Development                     5.83         3.52        9.35
Mapping and Geographic Information         4.23          5.91      10.14
Cadastral Surveys and Titling              3.46          3.48       6.94
Environmental Research                     1.63          2.61       4.24
Support Activities                         9.20          6.54      15.74
Total Baseline Costs                      35.54        32.42       67.96
Physical Contingencies                  2.26         1.56        3.82
Price Contingencies                     9.83         3.94       13.76
Total Program Costs                       47.62        37.91       85.53
Financing Plan
IDA 1/                                                             26.0
Other Donors  2/                                                   42.3
Government 3/                                                      17.2
TOTAL                                                              85.5
Estimated IDA Disbursements (US$ million)
IDA FY             1991      1992       1993      1994       1995     1996
Annual             3.43      6.72       5.47      4.26       4.12     2.02
Cumulative         3.43     10.15      15.62     19.88      24.00    26.02
Staff Appraisal Report    No 8348-HAG
Maps   Vegetation
Location of Endangered Species
Priority Areas for Watershed Management
Biodiversity Protected Areas (IBRD No 21799)
1/   Including an advance of US$ 1.5 million from the Project Preparation
Facility.
2/   UNDP, UNESCO, USAID, French, German, Norwegian and Swiss Aids, KFW
(the Federal Republic of Germany), World Wide Fund for Nature, Conservation
International.
3/   Including customs, duties and taxes estimated at USS 13.23 million.



- iv -
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
ENVIRONMENT PROGRAM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page
Credit and Program Summary                ........................               i
I.    BACKGROUND .        .................................................. 1
A. Introduction .       ......................................... 1
B. Geographic and Economic Context .....             ................. 2
C. IDA and Donor Role in the Environment .....             ........... 3
II.  THE ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION PLAN             .......................           4
A. Environmental Issues ........            ......................... 4
B. The Environmental Action Plan Process .....             ........... 6
C. EAP Objectives and Strategy ......             .................... 7
D. Policy Changes ............          ........................... 7
E. Six EAP Priority Programs ............................ 10
III. THE ENVIRONMENT PROGRAM ...................................... 11
A. Objectives and Strategy .............................. 11
B. Summary Description .................................. 12
C. Detailed Description                       .          .             13
(1)  Protection and Management of Biodiversity ....... 13
(2)  Soil Conservation and Agroforestry ............... 16
(3)  Mapping and Geographic Information ............... 18
(4)  Cadastral Surveys and Titling .................... 19
(5)  Training, Educatioxn and Communication ........... 21
(6)  Environmental Research .......................... 23
(7)  Support Activities .............................. 24
IV.  COST, FINANCING, AND PROCUREMENT .............................. 27
A. Program Costs ......................................  27
B. Rrogram Financing ................................... 28
C. Procurement ......................................     31
D. Disbursements ......................................  33
E. Accounts and Audits ....... .      ......................... 34
V.  ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .................................... 34
A. Institutional Framework and Main Agencies               . .   34
(1)  National Office for the Environment (ONE) ....... 35
(2) National Association for the Management
of Protected Areas (ANGAP) ...................... 37
(3)  Forestry Department (DEF) ....................... 39



(4) National Association for Environmental
Actions   (ANAE)  .................................. 40
(5) Mapping and Remote Sensing Agency (FTM) ......... 42
(5)  Department of Land and Agrarian Reform (DPRA) ..... 43
(7) Environmental Research Agencies ................. 44
(8) NGO Participation               . .              45
B. Honitoring, Evaluation, and Annual Planning    ..  46
C. Enrironmental Data Systems            .       .       47
D. Technical Assistance               . . .   48
E. Supervision ........................................... 48
VI.  COST RECOVERY AND FISCAL IMPACT ............................... 48
A. Cost Recovery ....................................    48
(1) Biod4versity Protection and Management ........... 48
(2) Mapping Activities .......................... .. 49
B. Fiscal Impact        ........................ 49
VII. BENEFITS, ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION, AND RISK        ...  51
A. Benefits ............................................. 51
(i) Employment ....................................... 52
B. Economic Analyis ................... 52
C. Program Risks        ..               ............... 55
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS, CONDITIONS AND                       F
RECOMMENDATIONS ...................................         56
TABLES IN THE MAIN TEXT
Table 4.1 Program Cost Summary .28
Table 4.2 Donors' Specific Interests in Program Financing.   29
Table 4.3 Program Financing Plan .                           30
Table 4.4 Procurement Procedures .                           31
ANNEXES
1.  OVERVIEW OF MALAGASY BIODIVERSITY .                      59
2.   PROTECTION AND MANAGEMENT OF BIODIVERSITY
A. List of priority protected areas .                   61
B. List of protected areaq under implementation .       63
C. Proposed Organization of ANGAP .                     64
D.  Profile of ANGAP's Director .                       65
E.  Norms for investment and operating costs in parks
and reserves .                                      66
F.  Norms for development in buffer zones .             68
G. Model contract between ANGAP and field operators .... 70
3.   SOIL CONSERVATION, AGROFORESTRY AND MINIPROJECTS
A. Organization of ANAE  .                              71
B. Terms of reference for the ANAE Director General .. ..72



- vi -
4.   S'JPPORT ACTIVITIES
A. ONE's orgasnization chart ....................  7
B. Profile of the ONE Director General ...*... o.....74
5.   PROGRAM FINANCING STR.UCTORE       7
6.  SMhOLARY COST TABLES  o      0..00... oo..000*0 *.,......... o*v 9.76
7.  MONITORING, EVALUATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
SYSTEMS ... .....,.. ..o...oo.. 000000000000000000**
8.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .98000..........
9.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS  1..... ......*....... oo.*..o
10. DISBURSEMENT TABLES .......... ......116
11.  GENERAL IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE .........117o.........o117
12.  LIST OF BACKGROUND DOCUMENTS ON FILE ................ ..118
mAPS
A. Vegetation
B. Location of endangered species
C. Priority areas for watershed management
D.  Protected areas for biodiversity (IBRD nb: 21799)



- vii -
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
ENVIRONMENT PROGRAM
GLOSSARY OF ACRONr  AND ABBREVIATIONS
AICF      Association Internationale contre la Faim
International Association against Hunger
ANAE      Association Nationale d Actions Environnementales
National Association for Environmental Actions
ANGAP     Association Nationale pour la Gestion des Aires Protegees
National Association for the Management of Protected Areas
BDE       Banque des DonnCes de l'Etat
State Data Bank (under MEP)
CCCE      Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
CIDST     Centre dlInformacion et de Documentation Scientifiques et
Techniques
Center for Scientific and Technical Information and
Documentation
CNCD      Commissior Nationale de la Conservation pour le D4veloppemesnt
National Commission on Conservation for Developm-nt
CNRE      Centre National de Recherche Environnementale
National Center for Environmental Research
CNRO      Centre National de Recherche Oceanographique
National Center for Oceanographic Research
CNRP      Centre National de Recherche Pharmaceutique
National Center for Pharmaceutical Research
CTP       Comite Technique Permanent
Permanent Technical Committee
DEF       See MPAEF
DPRA      Direction du Patrimoine et de la Reforme Agraire
National Cadastral Agency
EA        Environmental Assessment
EAP       Environmental Action Plan
EEC       Eu-opean Economic Community



I
- viii -
EPA       Etablissement Public & caractbre Administratif
Public Agency
ESSA      Ecole Superieure des Sciences Agronomiques
National College for Agronomic Sciences
PAC       Ponds d'Aide et de Cooperation
French Aid Fund
FOFIFA    Foibem Pirenena Momba ny Fykarohana Aipiharina amin'ny
Agricultural Research Center
FPMP      Forests Protection and Management Project
Projet de Gestion et Protection des Forgts
FTM       Foiben-Taosarintanin i Madagasikara
National Cartography Institute (Under Ministry of Public Works'
auspices)
GIS       Geographic Information System
Syst6me d'Information Geographique
GOM       Gouvernement de la Republique D4mocratique de Madagascar
Government of the Democratic Republic of Madagascar
ICB       International Competitive BidUing
IUNC      International Union for the Conservation of Nature
LCB       Local Competitive Bidding
LNT       Laboratoire National de TOlXddtection
National Laboratorv for Remote Sensing
MDS       Multidonor Seretariat
Secr4tariat des Bailleurs de fonds
MEP       Ministere de l'Economie et du Plan
Ministry of Economy and Plan
MIEM      M.nistere de l'Industrie, de l'Energie et des Mines
Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mines
MINAGRI   Minist%re de la Production Agricole et du Patrimoine Foncl;:
Ministry of Agriculture and Land Patrimony
MINESEB   Ministare de lEducation de Base
Ministry of Basic Education
MINESUP   Ministare de l'Education Superieure
Ministry of Higher Education



- ix -
MINFIN    Ministere des Finances et du Budget
Ministry of Finance and Budget
MPAEF     MinistOre de la Production Animale et des Eaux et Forets
Ministry of Livestock, Fisheries, and Foreatty
Includes the Direction des Eaux et Forets (DEF - Forestry
Department) and the Service de la Protection de la Nature (SPN -              rn
Nature Protection Service)
MRSTD     Ministare de la Recherche Scientifique et Technologique po-ar le
Divelcppement
Ministry of Scientific and Technological Research for
Development
MTMT      Ministere du Transport, de la M4teorologie, et du Tourisme
Ministry of Transport, Meteorology, and Tourism
MTP       Ministere des Travaux Publics
Ministry of Public Works
NARP      Projet National de Recherche Agricole
National Agricultural Research Project
NGO       Non-Governmental Organization
Organisation Non Gouvernementale (ONG)
ONE       Office National de l'Environnement
National Office for the Environment
ORSTOM    Office de Recherche Scientifique et Technique d'Outre-Mer
(France)
Office of Overseas Scientific and Technical Research
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
PPNVA     Projet Pilote National de Vulgarisation Agricole
Pilot National Agricultural Extension Project
SPN       See MPAEF
TFAP      Tropical Forest Action Plan
Plan d'Action Forestier Tropical (PAPT)
UNDP      United Nations Development Program
UNESCO    United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural
Organization
USAID     United States Agency for International Development
WWF       World Wide Fund for Nature



DENOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
Environment program
I. BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.01      Madagascar has been singled out by the international
conservation community as one of the ecologically richest ,untries of this
planet where the heritage of biological diversity is the most at risk. At
the same time, Madagascar is one of the economically pqorest. This
contrast, probably more than everywhere else, has built up m tension
between the proponents of conservation and those of development. In this
report, it is argued that one cannot be obtained without the other. Their
integration is the key principle recommended by the UN Commission for the
Environment (Our Common Future) and by UNESCO (Man and Biosphere). It is
also the principle that has guid1d the preparation of the Program proposed
in this repurt and the major rationale for IDA involvement.
1.02      Madagascar is locked 'n a spiral o: environmental degradation
that increasingly threatens sustainable development and what remains of the
country's unique ecological heritage. The protection of Madagascar's
biodiversity is commanding increasing international attention and support
and galvanizing, it, the process, growing recognition of the fundamental
causes of the environmental degradation.  As in most of Africa,
environmental issues indeed cannot be addressed in isolation of the impact                L
of demographic pressure and inadequate farming methods -Ahich lead to an
unsustainable exploitation of available resources.
1.03      The Government of Madagascar has prepared a 15-year
Environmental Action Plan (EAP) with the support of a consortium of donors
to address the pressing environmental problems that threaten Madagascar's
heritage of biodiversity and its prospects for sustainable development.
The EAP is designed to support Madagascar's overall development. In its
focus on a sustainable environment, the EAP complements programs in
agriculture and infrastructure designed to stimulate the productivity of
the country, as well as the structural adjustment and social programs,
which focus, respectively, on economic reforms to correct structural
distortions and emergency actions for the most disadvantaged and vulnerable
groups in Madagascar.
1.04      The Environment Program (called hereafter the Program) is the
first 5-year slice of the EAP. Its objectives will be to establish solid
foundations for the implementation of the overall EAP and deals with the
most urgent environmental problems. ;'lexibility will be essential during
implementation since it will be the first national program for the
environment in Madagascar, or indeed anywhere in Africa. The appraisal of



the Program took place in June 1989; it was followed by a post appraisal in
December 198k. 4/
B. Geographic and Economic Corntext
1.05      Madagascar still enjoys very good potential for development.  It
is a vast country with a range of climates that allows for all kinds of
agriculture. It still has a relatively light overall population density of
17.5 inhabitants/km2, although the population is distributed very unevenly.
The high population growth rate (32 per annum) places a great deal of
stress on the environment, particularly in the densely populated highlands.
The agricultural sector is predominant, employing 852 of the active labor
force and accounting for 42Z of GDP and 802 of foreign exchange earnings.
Madagascar has the most developed irvigation infrastructure in Africa
(about one million ha), and an additional 200,000-300,000 ha could still be
developed for irrigation. Land reserves are still extens:ve, though
difficult to put into production because of the mountainous terrain.  In                  w
addition, Madagascar has considerable energy and mining potential. The
level of education is particularly high for the African context and is an
advantage in terms of diversifying the economy and continuing to develop
agriculture. Finally, Madagascar has excellent potential for the
development of tourism due to its extraordinary heritage of biological
diversity and its beautiful landscapes.
1.06      Despite its resources, Madagascar, with a per capita income of
US$ 225 in 1987, has become one of the poorest countries in the world in
the last two decades.  Government, in the 1970s, took a series of decisions
which quite quickly eroded incentives and ran up external debt. In the
1980s, its main problems have included a deterioration of terms of trade, a
low level of utilization of productive capacity (especially in agriculture,
because of lack of producer incentives), and sluggishness of domestic
revenue. Necessary cuts in real public expenditures have entailed sharp
declines in the real wages of the civil service, in development
expenditures, and in goods and services needed for Government operations.
'.07      Government was successful in stabilizing public expenditures and
curtailing inflation in the first half of the 1980's. GDP began to grow
again in 1983, but per capita GDP continued to uecline because of rapid
population growth. Per capita real income today is about 20 per cent lower
than in 1975, and social conditions have continued to worsen. The
preliminary 1989 economic indicators suggest a real increase in per capita
income for the first time in many years.
41   The appraisal mission consisted of F. Falloux, B. Ribon, J. Post, F.                 U
Peloschek (IDA); F. Convery, D. Cremont, JR. Mercier, A. Jolly, H.
Hurni, K. Schlaefli, K. Richman (consultants). The post appraisal
mission consisted of F. Falloux, B. Ribon and J.L. Sarbib (IDA).



1.08      These positive results are encouraging, but the negative impact
of environmental degradation on the economy remains very high. The
economic cost of lower agricultural productivity due to soil loss, damaged
infrastructure, and the need to build new infrastructure to higher
standards is estimated to equal between 5 and 15Z of Madagascar's GNP
annually. Some attempts to institute sustainable management of the
renewable resource base have been made, but not on a significant scale. A
more broadly-based effort is needed to protect natural resources and at the
same *ime foster ecologically and economically sustainable development.
C. IDA and Donor Role in the Environment
1.09      In Madagascar, IDA has taken an increasingly active role in the
environment as reflected in its lending and sector work prior to the EAP.
In agriculture, it has paid increasing attertion to natural resources. An
inventory of natural resources is being prepared under the Second
Agricultural Institutions Project (Credit No. 1709-MAG). Under the Titanium
Mining Engineering Credit (No. 1928-HAG), an environmental assessment (EA)
study is being carried out, the first of its kind in Madagascar. Three
other proj.'ts reflect the renewed environmental concern of IDA. The first
one in energy (Energy I, Credit No. 1787-MAG), the second in forestry
(Forests Protection and Management Project [FPMP], Credit No. 1878-MAG),
and the third in agricultural research (National Agricultural Research
Project - NARP - Credit No. 2041-MAG).
1.10      Energy I aims to help the Government of Madagascar strengthen
energy policy formulation, planning and investment programming, and
institutional development. Its environmental features include fuel-saving
strategies to reduce deforestation -- increas!ng the efficiency of charcoal
production, developing substitutes for charcoal, and improving cooking
stove efficiency -- all of which aim to reduce pressure on woodlands.
1.11      The environmental features of the FPMP include conserving
natural forests; initiating the protection and management of biodiversity;
and promoting private sector involvement in reforestation and wood
processing. Energy I and FPMP thus complete each other and show how work
on forest conservation and reforestation requires action at many levels
from overall policy to user incentives and technologies. This lesson of a
matrix of complementary actions has been incorporated in Lhe Program.
1.12      NARP, approved by IDA in 1989, supports the National
Agricultural Research Agency (FOPIFA) in the execution of its long term
research master plan. This plan includes a substantial research program on
soil conservation and watershed management, and a component to develop
technologies for sustainable exploitation of natural forests.
1.13      Oth>-: donors cosponsoring the EAP are also focusing more and
more on the environment. For example, USAID and UNDP/UNESCO supoort the
protection and management of some national parks and reserves. evaeral
pilot projects are being implemented with technical assistance from WWF and
various US universities, and with the involvement of foreign and local



- 4 -
NGOs. The early lessons drawn from these projects laid the foundations of
the Biodiversity Component proposed under the Program (para 3.06). Swiss
Aid is heavily involved in assistance programs for community reforestation,
agroforestry, and soil conservation, also in conjunction with local NGOs.
These programs provide solid foundations for the Soil Conservation and
Agroforestry component under the Program (para 3.13).
II. ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION PLAN
A. Environmental Issues
2.01      Severe erosion in Madagascar decreases agricultural productivity
and threatens major infrastructure. Erosion varies in intensity according
to land management practice and ecological conditions; the worst areas
resemble lunar landscapes. Burning of pasture, cultivation of unprotected
hill slopes and slash-and-burn are among the common practices. A
substantial amount of top soil 5/ is washed away annually, and soil
fertility as well as agricultural productivity are declining. The cost of
lost agricultural production due to erosion is estimated at between US$15
and $45 million per year (paras 1.01-1.08). Because watersheds are not
protected, thousands of acres of irrigated land are lost every year due to
excessive siltation. The cost of maintaining irrigated areas, such as
those surrounding Lac Alaotra, has increased by an estimated US$10-15/ha,
ft,r a total of US$ 8 million per year country wide. Siltation in the
reservoirs of hydropower stations such as those at Mandraka and Andekaleka
seriously reduces their lifespan and increases annual maintenance costs by
US$1.5 million nationally. Erosion also increases the investment and
maintenance costs of roads by about US$1.5 million. Erosion and resulting
sedimentation threaten the capacity of Madagascar's harbors as well:
sedimentation has reduced the freight handling capacity at Mahajanga, the
second port of Madagascar, to a quarter of its level a decade ago. The
port may soon be closed entirely.
2.02      Madagascar's national heritage of biodiversity, which is agreed
to be of global significance, is threatened by deforestation, burning and
erosion. The country is losing unique species and essential ecosystems of
environmental, genetic, and medical importance. If nothing is done, the
primary natural forest will disappear within thirty years.  Conservation is
also necessary for the development of "ecological tourism", a significant
potential source of revenue and foreign exchange (see Annex 1).
2.03      There is currently no operative institutional framework that
deals specifically with environmental matters. One current structure, the
Commission Nationale de la Conservation pour le Developpement (CNCD --
National Conservation Commission for Development), which meets yearly, and
5/ Loss of top soil may reach more than lOOt/ha/year in the case of
deforestation on steep slopis.



its Comit4 Technique Permanent (CTP -- Permanent Technical Committee) are
only consultative bodies. There is a lack of coordination as well as of a
coherent approach to channel and build on the interest generated in the
international communit, by the Malagasy rich environment. Ministries that
are responsible for aspects of the environment are weak in policy analysis,
lack systematic information on natural resources and do not have the
administrative capacity to implement even existing laws and programs.
2.04      This is pa-ticularly the case for the Ministere de la Production
Animale, des Eaux et For@ts (MPAEF - Ministry of Livestock, Fisheries and
Forestry), and its Forestry Department (DEF) which is technically
responsible for the rural environment including biodiversity and forestry
pelicies, forest management, reforestation, soil conservation and the
management of protected areas. DEF has not been able to cope with all
these responsibilities. Recognizing its limited capacity, DEF intends to
concentrate its efforts on policies and the forestry sector while
delegating the management of protected areas. For the former, DEF is
receiving substantial institution-building support under FPMP (para 1.11).
For the latter, DEF has pragmatically contracted with various operators
including international agencies, universities and NGOs to help it manage
the parks and reserves. However, the present patchwork of ad hoc
arrangements cani.ot be expanded indefinitely, and DEF sees the need for a
flexible agency capable of coordinating these operators, ensuring
integration of conservation with development and eventually replacing
foreign operators once the national capacity is built up (para 3.11).
2.05      Madagascar lacks the tools to protect and manage the
environment. There are no EA procedures for screening investments. Maps
are outdated, and there are no reliable data on forest, hydrology and other
environmental issues. The Malagasy mapping agency (FTM), once one of the
best in Africa, has reduced its activities to a low level due to lack of
resources.
2.06      Poor security of land tenure provides little incentive to
farmers and landowners to invest in their land, particularly in soil
conservation measures. Furthermore, boundaries of protected areas and
gazetted forests are not defined, which allows encroachment.
2.07      Madagascar is one of the few African countries with coherent
land laws and registration, a tradition of land titling (first land titles
in the 1930's) and an existing land taxation system. Currently about 15?
of cultivated land is titled. The pace of new titling is, however, very
slow. As for land taxation, the Government has recently tried to turn it
into an incentive for productivity by penalizing land idleness; it has also                -
attempted to increase tax collection by improving cadastral records.
However, tax collection has remained low. This is due to the unreliability
of cadastral records and a weak capacity to assess and collect taxes.
2.08      Lack of concern about the environment among the Malagasy is
general and the population not well-informed. Access to information on
specific problems and solutions is very difficult at all levels from
farmers through to tertiary education and decision makers. Few schools



- 6 -
have programs to raise consciousness and there Is no teaching of
environment sciences at universities. Only a pilot program by WWF has
begun to create public awareness of envirormental issues.
2.09      Environmental management requires good research. Government is
aware of this and has emphasized soil conservation and sustainable farming
systems in agricultural research (para 1.12). In 1988, Government created
a new environment research center (Centre National pour la Recherche
Environnementale, CNRE). Some aspects of environmental research, however,
require strengthening. The knowledge of terrestrial biodiversity and its
dynamics is still very limited. Soil conservation and watershed management
technologies need to be better defined for the various ecological regions
of the country. The management of vast western pasturelands needs to be
extensively researched to provide keys to controlling the huge annual fires
and to establish more sustainable grazing systems. Coastal and marine
stocks (particularly shrimps and lobsters) are an Important economic
reserve whose exploitation needs to be monitored.
B. The Environmental Action Plan Process
2.10      Aware of the degradation of the country's natural resources, the
Government prepared an Environmental Action Plan (RAP) in 1987/88 with the
support of a group of donors led by IDA, and including USAID, Swiss Aid,
UNDP, UNESCO, and the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF). The RAP sets out
the Government's environmental policy and includes the key programs to
implement it. A coordinating unit was set up at the Planning Department
(now Ministry of Economy and Plan - NEP) to coordinate EAP preparation.  A
small fund was also established to finance feasibility studies and pilot
prcjects.
2.11      The EAP was conceived as a process with the following features:
(i) Political commitment and policy focus: the cabinet, under
the Prime Minister's auspices, has supported the EAP. The main
points of the EAP have been put into a National Charter for the
Environment, which will soon be presented to the National
Assembly for approval. The draft Charter has been discussed at
negotiations and approved by Cabinet. Publication of its
legislative text will be a condition of effectiveness.
(ii) Participation and communication: The motto of EAP
preparation was "listen to the grassroots". In practice, this
process has been only partially successful as the means to
articulate grassroots opinions are weak. However, as a first
proxy, EAP preparation mobilized about 150 local specialists
from a wide range of disciplines. Eight interministerial
working groups have been established to deal with major
environmental issues. During preparation, the coordinating unit
began regional workshops with wide participation of local
authorities and local interest groups, notably from the
education sector. Interest in developing channels for
communicating on the environment is evident at all levels and
the first experiences are being extended nationwide.



- 7 -
(iii) Balance between studies and action: During EAP
preparation, several dozen studies of specific issues were
undertaken. Many of these prepared the Program, and many led to
pilot actions in the field. The coordinating unit selected one
region where environmental problems are great, and has tested
many of the study recommendations there, working closely with
local people. This process of linking studies to action at
different stages of implementation has been successful in
developing practical proposals in areas where experience in
Madagascar has been limited and where solutions need to be
worked out together with the intended beneficiaries. The
approach will continue to be used under the Program, with
exchange between field experience and project design.
(iv) Strong international support: the Government has been keen
to attract the international community's financial and
scientific cooperation for preparing its EAP. This cooperation
is growing and is an important element in the Program design.
C. EAP Obiectives and Strategy
2.12      Government policy over the next fifteen years, as set out in the
EAP, is to protect and improve the environment while working toward
sustainable development. The four specific objectives are: 1) to conserve
and manage the heritage of biological diversity; 2) to promote sustainable
development by better management of natural resources; 3) to improve rural
and urban living conditions; and 4) to develop human resources and
institutional capacity.
2.13      The EAP strategy emphasizes: (i) approaching problems and
implementing their solutions in an integrated way; (ii) ensuring a long-
term vision as well as coordination and continuity in the international
support received by Madagascar; (iii) stressing communication and dialogue
rather than the hierarchical transmission of information and commands; (iv)
presenting EAP programs to local communities as sources of benefit rather
than constraint; (v) involving local people in community-level projects
related to the environment; and (vi) involving NGOs and others in the
private sector.
D. Policy changes
2.14      Under the EAP process, environment-related policies have been
analysed and modifications have been proposed. Some of them, however, need
more analysis and research before elaborating final proposals for changes.
This will be continued under the Program and the institutional capacity for
policy analysis will be developed. The current status of policy work is
described below.



- 8 -
2.15      Land policy has been extensively reviewed in light of
conservation and sustainable development. As a result, changes are being
prepared in the following areas:
(i) Land titling and cadastral records: the objective is to
set up appropriate mechanisms to meet the demand for titles and
ensure that cadastral records are updated. In the future, the
law will require that, once land in an area has been properlv
titled and registered, all future land transactions be
registered. This legal amendment will be a condition of
disbursement for the cadastral and titling component under the
Progr.m (para 3.26);
(ii) Land leases: the objective is to establish a land leasing
system that protects the rights of both landowners and tenants
and provides enough security to stimulate conservation practices
and medium- to long-term investment in land. More analytical
work is still needed. Hence a study will be financed under the
Program to prepare appropriate amendments to improve current
land legislation (para 3.43); and
(iii) I.and taxation: the objective is to improve the current
system in such a way that it provides clear and substantial
incentives for land conservation and long-term investment. A
study will be financed to examine the feasibility and
consequences of changes in land taxation (para 3.43).
2.16      Progress has been made on environmental legislation and will
continue, particularly in the following areas:
(i) Environmental Assessments (EAs): The objective is to
establish sound EA procedures and investment screening to ensure
environmentally sound projects (as is being done under the
Titanium Engineering Credit, para 1.09). A proposal for EA
legislation is being prepared (para 3.43); a first draft was
presented and commented during negotiations. This legislation
is expected to be promulgated by decree before the end of 1990;
(ii) Land laws and registration: Although Malagasy land law :.s
generally good, it is not clear how it protects traditional
rights in common-property systems (para 3.25). Furthermore there
is a need to merge the various laws into a comprehensive and
consistent land code and to produce updated booklets to inform
the public (para 3.43);
(iii) Environmental Code: Although Madagascar has a good base
of legal texts on the environment, they need to be revised and
synthesized in a booklet for public information (para 3.43); and
(iv' Flora and fauna Protection: Madagascar is a member of the
Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild
Flora and Fauna (CITES). The official list of Malagasy
l



- 9 -
endangered species, however, needs to be updated and the
economic utilization of flora and fauna needs to be studied
(para 3.43).
2.17      The EAP process has also been instrumental in preparing the
foundations of a national biodiversity policy in association with the
development of "ecological tourism". This policy has been elaborated under
MPAEF's responsibility, with special assistance from WWF. It has also drawn
from the Man-and-Biosphere concept developed by UNESCO (para 1.01). This
policy aims:
(i) to establish a national network of about 50 protected areas that
will cover most Malagasy biodiversity;
(ii) to strengthen the protection and management of zazetted natural
forests, particularly those adjacent to protected areas. These
forests are rich in terms of biodiversity and provide natural buffer
zones for the protected areas; they also have a critical ecological
function in protecting watersheds and regulating water cycle; and
they represent an economic potential under sustainable exploitation;
(iii) to systematically associate conservation with the development
of communities surrounding the protected areas;
(iv) to mobilize national and foreign donors and operators to assist
in equiping and managing protected areas;
(v) to establish a structure to cooroi,.ate conservation and
development activities in the field (para 2.04)
(vi) to levy entrance and concession fees to contribute to the
recurrent costs of conservation activities;
(vii) to enforce rules for tour organization in the protected areas;
and
(viii) to establish norms for the construction of small tourism
facilities iust outside the protected areas.
This policy will be implemented and refined under the Program (para 5.02).
2.18      Finally under EAP, work has been done on drafting guidelines for
the development of ecological tourism. This is expected to have an impact
on hotel development, particularly in the following areas:
(a) site selection and development control: EAs will be required for
all hotel development proposals, particularly those near parks;
(b) synergy with small tourism facilities: Large hotels and
international tour operators are expected to work with small local
hotels, linking them to international reservation networks and
providing technical assistance and logistical support. Encouraging



- 10 -
discussions have been Initiated with large international groups that
intend to develop tourism activities in Madagascar; and
(c) contribution to support biodiversity conservations a biodiversity
fee to be collected by hotels, on behalf of ANGAP, from foreign
tourists is being considered. This fee would support part of the
operation and maintenance costs of the network of protected areas.
Implementation of these guidelines will be monitored by the ONE, with
technical support from the Ministry of Tourism and ANGAP.
E. Six EAP priority proarams
2.19      To translate its objectives and strategy (paras 2.12-13) into
action, the EAP is made up of six long-term programs that will be
implemented over the next 15 years. They are:
(a) protecting and managing the national heritage of
biodiversity, with a special. emphasis on parks, reserves and
gasetted natural forests, in conjunction with the sustainable
development of their surrounding areas;
(b) improving the living conditions of the population. This will
be done In rural areas by improving the protection and
management of natural resources. Particular attention will be
paid to watershed protection, reforestation, and agroforestry.
In urban areas, this will involve improving water supply and
sanitation, waste management and pollution control in general;
(c) promoting environmental education, training, and
communication;
(d) developing mapping and remote sensing tools to meet the
demand for natural resources and land management
(e) developing environmental research on terrestrial, coastal
and marine ecosystems; and
(f) establishing mechanisms for managing and monitoring the
environment.
2.20      Some of these programs have already started on a pilot basis.
Seven protected areas are being equipped and managed, and development
activities have been started in the surrounding areas (Annex 2 - B).
Watershed protection and management have begun in the Antananarivo plain,
with Swiss Aid support. A new pilot soil conservation program has been
launched in the lac Alaotra watershed. A national pilot campaign has been
initiated to raise environmental awareness.



- 11 -
III. THE ENVIRONMENT PROGRAM
A. Oblectives and Strategy
3.01      The Program, as the first five-year slice of the EAP, will
continue and expand the implementation of the above six priority programs.
As this is the start of a complex, long-term process for which local
experience and capacity need to be developed, not everything can be done
immediately. Criteria have been used to identify priorities for this first
slice of the EAP. These ares
(i) developing operations of an urgent nature, namely: (a) protecting
the heritage of biodiversity in the parks, reserves and gazetted
forests currently at risk, in conjunction with the development of the
surrounding communities; and (b) fighting deforestation and erosion
in priority watersheds where the negative economic impact is
currently the highest; and
(ii) establishinz foundations for environmental management through
institution building, studies, and human resource development.
3.02      The Program design and implementation proposals are based on the
following principles:
(a) an innovative and flexible institutional framework that will
balance the public and private sectors and will associate a large
array of foreign institutions (international and bilateral agencies,
universities and NGOs) while providing for an efficient national
coordination and the strengthening of national capacity;
(b) a progressive implementation rhythm to take the novel nature of
this environmental program into account and to match the expected
Institutional development. The Program will be evolutive by combining
activities at different level of maturity, some being tested on a
small scale, while others, already tested, will be extended to large
areas. For this reason, the Program will be implemented in two
phases: the first phase, of about two years, will focus on
institutional strengthening, training and progressive launching of
field operations; a mid-term review will evaluate the experience and
reorient the Program accordingly; and the second phase, of about
three years, will expand these operations. As a consequence, the
Program's quantitative objectives and corresponding costs are an
estimate. They will have to be adjusted on a yearly basis during
implementation.
(c) monitoring and evaluation and data systems are indispensable
tools for managing the Program as an evolutive process. The
monitoring and evaluation system will provide information for the
annual planning and mid-term review processes, which in turn will
contribute to the evolution of program design. Natural resource data
bases and geographic information systems will be developed in
response to demand;



- 12 -
(d) policy reform and incentives for sustainable development: new
environmental policies which have been defined under the EAP (paras
2.14-2.17) will be implemented under the Program. These policies will
also continue to be developed and refined. For this purpose,
Government's capacity to analyse and define policy will be supported
(para 3.40); and
(e) continuity in EAP implementation. During program implementation,
the second five-year slice of the EAP, will be prepared on the basis
of experience and the results of studies and pilot operations.
3.03      This will be the first comprehensive environmental Program to be
implemented in Africa. The novelty of its proposed activities, combined
with the establishement of new institutions and the expected large number
of national, bilateral and international agencies and NGOs involved, calls
for special international coordination and close supervision. Accordingly,
a Multi-Donor Secretariat (MDS) has been established at World Bank
Headquarters for a three-year period to disseminate information among the
participating agencies, strengthen coordination and supervision, and
capitalize experience for guiding the Program implementation and preparing
further envirormental programs in Madagascar as well as elsewhere in
Africa. In Madagascar, a Steering Committee will guide overall Program
implementation (para 5.05).
B. Summary Description
3.04      The Program will consist of seven components:
(i) protection and management of biodiversity and main natural
ecosystems where they are most threatened, together with the
development of surrounding areas. The strengthened network of
parks and reserves will constitute an indispensable basis for
the development of "ecological tourism", a promising source of
foreign exchange earnings;
(ii) soil conservation, agroforestry, reforestation and other
rural development activities ir. the Program priority areas. The
component will be carried out with the full participation of
local communities;
(iii) mapping and progressive establishment of a geographic
information system (GIS) in the Program priority areas;
(iv) establishing clear boundaries for protected areas and
improving land security through titling in the Program priority
areas;
(v) environmental training, education, and awareness;
(vi) environmental research on land, coastal and marine
ecosystems; and



- 13 -
Wm
(vii) support activities, including institution building,
establishing EA procedures, strengthening the environmental data
base, monitoring and evaluation, and studies. This component
will include the preparation of a second five-year slice of the
EAP through studies and pilot operations.
3.05      The seven components are highly interdependent.  They call for a
special coordination effort to ensure their implementation in a logical
sequence. For example, biodiversity conservation depends on cartographic
and cadastral activities, development activities in peripheral areas,
results of environmental research, the strengthening of data systems, and,
finally, efforts in environmental awareness, training and education.
Managing this interdependence during implementation will be the
responsibility of the Office National de l'Environnement (ONE - National
Office for the Environment).
C. Detailed Description
(1) Protection and Management of Biodiversity in Conjunction with
Development
3.06      This component will have three main objectives: (i) to establish
and equip a network of 50 protected areas 6/, covering about 1.4 million
ha. This network will provide the basis for eco-tourism (para 3.10).  36 of
these areas already exist legally and 14 will be established; (ii) to
assist surrounding communities, in developing sustainable agriculture and
improving their living conditions, and to associate them in conservation
activities. About 70,000 families are expected to benefit from this
component, in a total area covering about 0.3 million ha; and (iii) to
improve the protection and sustainable exploitation of gazetted natutal
forests, particularly those adjacent to the protected areas. About 0.3
million ha are expected to be covered under this activity.
3.07      Implementation will be in accordance with the national
biodiversity policy (para 2.17). This policy will be refined and
consolidated, under MPAEF's responsibility, to incorporate lessons and
experience that come from the Program implementation. MPAEF's policy
capacity will be reinforced to do so (para 3.12).
3.08      Invectment will be concentrated in areas where biodiversity is
the richest and the risk of encroachment the highest. Three levels of
priority have been defined:
(i) Level 1 corresponds to the highest priority areas where there is
an urgent need of substantial investment for both conservation and
6/ Of the original 50 protected areas, some are being regrouped to
facilitate management. The resulting number of protected areas will be 45,
including 14 in Level 1; 20 in Level 2; and 11 in Level 3, as reflected in
paragraph 3.08.



- 14 -
development. 14 protected areas belong to this category and are
located in relatively densely populated zones. Infrastructure
investments will include: (a) a clear definition of boandaries
through cadastral surveys (pars 3.23) and, where necessary, the
marking of these boundaries with a band of planted trees to separate
protected areas fom private lands; (b) rehabilitation and contruction
of service roads including access roads and a path network; (c)
rehabilitation and construction of small facilities including
offices, stores, workshops, housing for resident staff and tourism
facilities; and (d) equipement and vehicles. Conservation teams will
be built up through additional hiring, training and equipment.
Research will be increased particularly through the launching of
flora and fauna inventories. Farming communities in the surrounding
areas will be the target of a special development effort (para 3.09).
Simultaneously, awareness and education programs will be carried out
to raise environmental consciousness and associate people in
conservation.
(ii) Level 2 corresponds to medium priority areas where the risk,
although building up, is not yet as serious as in level 1. There is a                 I
need for investment ir both conservatior- and development but part of
it could be postponed to follow-up environment programs. 20 protected
areas belong to this category and are t )ically located in less
densely populated zones. While the same boundary delimitation may be
undertaken as in level 1, infrastructure investment will be reduced
in terms of road and path network, and service facilities.
Conservation teams, however, will be upgraded as for level 1. Flora
and fauna inventories will be initiated and comprehensive
conservation programs, srecific to each area, will be prepared for
the implementation of the second five-year slice of the EAP.
Development activities in the surrounding areas will be initiated but
their volume is oxpected to be substantially smaller than in level. i
because of the more scattered population.
(iii) Level 3 corresponds to the lowest priority areas where the risk
of encroachment is not yet apparent. 11 protected areas belong to
this category and are located in extremely-low populated areas.                        E
Boundary delimitation will be undertaken as in the other two
categories, but infrastructure investment will be limited to a bare
minimum. An extremely light conservation team will be established.
Activities will focus on building up knowledge on these areas and
preparing comprehensive plans for further implementation in follow-up
environment programs.
The above ranking of protected areas in priority levels with corresponding
investment plan should, however, remain flexible during the Program
implementation for the following two reasons: (1) some of these areas in
levels 2 and 3 might have to be upgraded if risks prove to be higher than
expected; and (b) investment programs, larger than planned above, could be
envisaged for level 2, and level 3, insofar as the international community
would provide more substantial support than expected. A list of protected
areas per level of priority as well as norms used to plan conservation
activities are provided in Annex 2 (A and E). Their location is shown in



- 1S -
map (D). At negotiations, an agreemeat was reached on a calendar for the
legal establishment of all parks and reserves (para 8.03) 71.
3.09      The local communities around the protected areas will be both
partners in conservation and beneficiaries of rural development programs.
These programs will aim to improve their production activ'ities and living
conditions so as to discourage further encroachment. With regard to
conservation, communities will benefit from new jobs created in park and
reserve infrastructure, operation and maintenance, policing and tourism.
With regard to rural development, field operators (para 5.11) will work
witi farm families to interpret their priority needs and help them prepare
and implement miniprojects. These miniprojects are expected: (i) to improve
and stabilize agricultural production (small irrigation schemes, soil
conservation, reforestation, tree crops, fish ponds...);  Ai) to develop
village infrastructure (feeder roads, culverts, small bridges..); and (iii)
to improve social conditions (small health facilities, wells, family
planning..). These miniprojects will be processed according to the same
approach as that designed for component (2) of the Program (para 3.16).
They will be financed either by the ANAE (para 5.18) or directly by donors
specifically involved in particular protected areas(s). Annex 2 (F) shows
norms used to plan activities in the buffer zones of parks and reserves.
3.10      Conservation programs will be closely linked to the development
of "ecological tourism'. Visitor centers will be set up, particularly in
level-l areas. The Program will finance buildings and equipment, or the
rehabilitation of existing facilities where feasible, and their operating
costs. Tourists will use the centers to familiarize themselves with
ecosystems through slide shows and exhibits; and tours will be
systematically guided by a corps of professional guides recruited from the
surrounding communities. Some simple tourism facilities may spring up
spontaneously in the surrounding areas and could qualify as miniprojects.
These facilities could be linked to the national tourism network (para
2.18). Blueprints of all new constructions and rehabilitations in or near
the parks and reserves will require EA before implementation (para 2.18).
A study will be carried out to assess the development of eco-tourism (para
3.43).
3.11      The Forestry Department (DEF), while keeping the overall policy
responsibility on biodiversity, has decided to delegate the field
management of the protected areas to autonomous 'operators' and their
coordination to a new agency, the National Association for the Management
of Protected Areas (Association Nationale pour la Gestion des Aires
Protegees - ANGAP - para 2.04). Some of these operators are already in the
field (see list in Annex 2 (B)) and will continue to provide support, each
to one or several protected areas. Other operators (e.g. Conservation
International) are prepared to offer similar support. ANGAP will be
7/ Among the existing parks and reserves, some have been established by
decree but without proper titling. This will be done under the Program.
Others will have to be both created by decree and properly titled. This
will also be done under the Program.



- 16 -
responsible for negotiating and contracting with these operators,
mobilizing and allocating funds and monitoring and evaluation (see type of
conetract in Annex 2 - G). ANGAP, while remaining under MPAEF's auspices
(the Minister chairing ANGAP's Board), is expected to attract support from
the international conservation community, to ensure a close integration of
conservation and development, and to provide entrepreneurship in
stimulating the development of ecological tourism. ANGAP's
responsibilities, organization and management, relationship and transition
arrangements, with DEF, and the role of operators are described in Chapter
V (para 5.08 ft).                                                                          Iwu
3.12      DEF will concentrate its efforts to protect and manage gazetted
forests 8/ and to improve its policy capacity in tFe forestry sector and in
biodiversity. With regard to gazetted forests, DEF, under the Program,
will receive support to help it protect and manage about 300,000 ha of the
best gazetted forests, of which about two thirds are adjacent to protected
areas. The specific actions to be financed are: (i) training of 150
guards, including about 100 to be hired, and training of field supervisors;
(ii) equipment and vehicles at the local and provincial levels; and (iii)
infrastructure and service facilities in these forests and in DEF
provincial agencies. Boundary delimitation will be initiated, as for the
protected areas, particularly where the risk of encroachment is the
highest.  DEF will prepare management plans for these forests on the basis
of current use and inventory. With regard to policy, DEF, under the
Program, will also receive support: (a) to prepare a Tropical Forestry
Action Plan (TFAP) in accordance with the international approach 9/; this
will complement the EAP in the forestry sector (para 3.43); and (b) to
manage studies on biodiversity (para 3.43) and to refine the national
biodiversity policy (para 2.17). This policy work will be carried out by a
team attached to DEF management (para 5.15). This team will receive support
in terms of equipment, operating costs, training and technical assistance.
(2) Soil conservation, Agroforestry and Other Community-level Projects
3.13      This component will help rural communities protect their
watersheds, conserve their soils, develop their productive capacity and
improve their living conditions through miniprojects in areas where erosion
has the worst impact on the economy. About 30,000 families are expected to
benefit from this component, in a total area covering about 150,000 ha.
3.14      Miniprojects will relate to: (i) watershed management including
soil conservation, agroforestry and reforestation; (ii) productive
infrastructure including the creation and rehabilitation of small
irrigation schemes; (iii) support to production including storage
8/ Gazetted forests cover about 6 million hectares in Madagascar.
9/ TFAPs are coordinated worldwide by a secretariat located at FAO. A
detailed methodology has been worked out. Several TFAPs have already been
prepared in Africa.



- 17 -
facilities and rehabilitation of feeder roads, small bridges and culverts;
and (iv) social programs including water supply, small health facilities,
family planning activities. Priority, however, will remain on categories
(i) and (ii) which are expected to attract most of the financing while
(iii) and (iv) will be implemented only when they represent a bottleneck
for the communities involved. Cadastral surveys and land titling will be
carried out to improve land security and stimulate conservation practices
(para 3.24).
3.15      This component will be implemented in five priority regions
(Antananarivo, lac Alaotra, Fianarantsoa, Mahajanga, and Manakara) which
have been selected for their high rural population density, their
considerable agricultural potential and the highly negative erosion impact
on their economy (see map C). In the Fianarantsoa and Antananarivo regions,
miniprojects will particularly focus on watershed protection through anti-
erosion techniques and reforestation in close coordination with existing
programs under implementation (FPMP and Swiss-supported reforestation).
These will complement major civil works in flood-control, sanitation and
irrigation to be undertaken in the particular case of the Antananarivo
urban and peri-urban areas under a project that has just been appraised. In
the Lac Alaotra region, where intense erosion is threatening the largest
irrigated area of Madagascar (about 65,000 ha), miniprojects will also
focus on watershed protection. A pilot soil conservation program is being
successfully implemented in the area, under PPF financing, based on the
low-cost establishment of vegetative strips 101 along contours. This will
be continued under the Program in close coordination with other soil
conservation programs in the area, particularly those financed by the
French Caisse Centrale. In the Mahajanga and Manakara regions, miniprojects
will mostly concern watershed management, agroforestry and reforestation
together with the protection of existing natural forests. Finally, studies
and pilot watershed protection will be carried out in the Toliary and
Antalaha regions as well as in the upstream watersheds of the Andekaleka
and Mandraka hydropower dams (para 3.43).
3.16      The National Association for Environmental Actions (Association
Nationale d'Actions Environnementales - ANAE) will manage this component.
It has been recently created as a private agency to finance the
preparation, appraisal and implementation of miniprojects. Eligible
beneficiaries will be exclusively collective bodies (rural associations and
village communities) of at least five families. To benefit from ANAE
financing, they will have: (i) to be organized with authorized
representatives (president, secretary and treasurer); (ii) to participate
in the preparation of their miniprojects and collectively approve their
design; (iii) to participate in the financing of their miniprojects in cash
or in kind (such as materials and labor); this participation will be at
least 0l of the initial investment; and (iv) to commit themselves for the
full cost of operation and maintenance as well as investment renewal; to
10/ These involve vetiver, among other grass species. Vetiver has been
successfully used for soil conservation in Asia. First farmers' reaction
are very promising in Madagascar.
!



- 18 -
that effect, annual contribution will be computed per family. Points (iii)
and (iv) will be stipulated in an agreement to be signed by ANAE and a
given beneficiary before implementation. At negotiations, an agreement was
reached on eligibility criteria which would be revised, from time to time
with IDA, on the basis of acquired experience. Field operators, either
public of private (para 5.21), will assist beneficiaries in formulating,
submitting and implementing their projects. As a matching fund, the ANAE
will proviae grants to finance part of the cost of approved miniprojects,
to complement beneficiaries' contribution. This miniproject approach draws
from the experience of Rural Development Funds (RDFs) which have been
successfully Implemented, under IDA support, in various African countries
as well as elsewhere 111. The same approach will be applied in the zones
surrounding the protected areas (para 3.09). Implementation arrangements
are further described in Chapter V (para 5.18 ft).
3.17      The first two years of implementation (Program phase one) will
be dedicated to running in technical and financial mechanisms through a
limited number of miniprojects. This number will gradually expand during
the Program phase two. About 150 miniprojects are 'xpected to be carried
out under the Program. Each year, ANAE, on the basis of annual plans
proposed by operators, will prepare a consolidated annual plan to be
submitted to donors. This plan will estimate the number and types of
miniprojects that will be prepared, appraised and implemented. During
negotiations, it was agreed with the Borrower that, as a condition of
disbursement for this component expected to be partly financed by the
Norwegian Aid, the Borrower shall take necessary step for ANAE to submit
the first-year plan of operations.
3.18      The ANAE will establish a solid monitoring and evaluation system
to capitalize its experience and refine its approach. Technical assistance
and studies will be financed: (i) to help ANAE establish its operations;
(ii) to develop the capacity of field operators; and (iii) to evaluate _ne
ecological, economic and social impact of miniprojects, particularly those
regarding soil conservation, watershed management and reforestation (para
3.43).
(3) Mapping, Remote Sensing and Geographic Information
3.19      This component will aim to develop mapping and remote sensing
tools required for the implementation of other components. Actions are:
(i) improving the geodetic network over about 6 million ha; (ii) carrying
out aerial surveys and producing conventional maps for priority areas
(parks, reserves, gazetted natural forests, major infrastructure) - about
6 million ha will be covered at different scales according to user demand;
(iii) producing orthophotomaps for both watershed management and cadastral
surveys - about 2 million ha will be covered; and (iv) setting up a                       E
11/ Countries where RDFs have been supported include, among others,
Burkina Faso, Senegal, Niger and Cameroon in Africa, and Mexico and South
Korea in other continents.



- 19 -
national laboratory for remote sensing (Laboratoire National de
Teledetection, LNT - para 3.21).
3.20      This component will be implemented by FTM, the national mapping
and remote sensing agency, under the auspices of the Ministry of Public
Works (para 2.05). Under the Program, FTM will be strengthened through
training, the acquisition of equipment including a map production system,
and operating costs. Regarding technical assistance, FTM has just signed a
twinning agreement with Institut Geographique National (IGN, France). Under
this agreement, IGN will help FTM establish its new equipment, plan its
activities, train its staff, and develop its technologies. FTM's
organization and management are described in chapter V (paras 5.24 ft).
3.21      LNT will be set up under FTM's management. LNT will provide
services to customers, both public and private, in analyzing aerial and
satellite information. It will be equipped with a cost-effective
computerized system and archives of geographic information in digital form
from various types of surveys. The LNT will be staffed by an FTM team that
will serve customers, maintain the equipment, and establish and build up a
GIS. LNT's organization and management is further described in Chapter V
(paras 5.25 ft).
3.22      Map production will follow the demand from the Program
implementing agencies. During the Program phase one, FTM will rely heavily
on its IGN partner (for example through renting equipment) while focusing
on training and methodology and on procurement. During the Program phase
two, FTM will progressively meet the demand by itself, using its own
equipment. Aerial surveys will be contracted under international
competitive bidding. FTM, however, is expected to develop its photo
equipment and laboratory so that bidding would progressively be reduced to
aircraft renting.
(4) Cadastral Surveys and Pilot Land Titling
3.23      This component will aim to: (a) define the boundaries between
public and private lands for the protected areas and the gazetted forest-;
about 2 millions ha of public lands will be surveyed and titled; and (b)
improve private land security through pilot titling in the priority
watersheds and village lands around protected areas; about 200,000 ha of
private lands are expected to be surveyed and titled (para 3.25). In order
to fulfill these objectives, the strategy will be based on: (i) using cost-
effective technologies; (ii) streamlining cadastral and titling procedures;
(iii) ensuring the protection of the traditional rights of resource users;
and (iv) focusing on priority areas where encroachment on public lands is
highest and/or the lack of land security creates a strong disincentive for
conservation practices.
3.24      The technical and legal process will include the following
steps: (i) informing rural communities about the land legislation including
the cadastral and legal process for land titling; the Malagasy land laws
and registration are coherent (para 2.07) but insufficiently known by
resource users; (ii) running cadastral surveys to clarify land rights and



l
- 20 -
to separate the public from the private domain; these surveys will be
carried out with orthophotomaps, a technology already used in Madagascar,
which greatly reduces the costs compared to traditional topographic
surveys; (iii) establishing and delivering land titles, for both the public
and private domains; and (iv) establishing a modern land property record
system allowing easy and cheap retrieval and updating. The cadastral
operations under the Program will be carried out primarily in rural areas.
They will be closely coordinated with cadastral operations in urban areas
to ensure a consistent cadastral policy and institutional framework. This
coordination will be particularly close with the urban cadastral program
that will be implemented in the IDA-supported Antananarivo Plain project.
3.25      The first two years of implementation (the Program phase one)
will be devoted to training, institution building, procuring equipment and
refining methods. Then operations will be progressively expanded during the
Program phase two. This two-phase approacn is particularly indicated to
test the proposed procedures under different conditions around the country.
This test will be carried out on about 40,000 ha over the first two
years 12/ with close monitoring; results will be evaluated during the mid-
tem review and the phase two program defined. A study of the impact of
land titling on conservation practices will also be prepared for the mid-
term review (para 3.43). Assuming this review is reasonably positive,
cadastral rhythm could be progressively increased to reach about 60,000
ha/year 13/ during the Program year 5. This means that about 200,000 ha of
private lands could be titled under the Program. Most of these 200,000 ha
will be located in the highlands where private ownership has been a
tradition for decades.  In forest and coastal zones where most of the
protected areas are located, the Program will finance: (i) an inventory of
areas where customary land rights, based on common property, still prevail;
and (ii) a study to define approaches aiming at protecting these rights and
to ensure their integration in the national land legislation (para 3.43).
Then, small tests of land titling will be conducted under strong
monitoring. These tests will be carried out only in areas where land
tenure appears to be a major bottleneck for development and/or an incentive
for further encroachment in natural forests. During negotiations,
Government presented a draft proposal for cadastral surveys and titling in
common-property areas (para 8.01). Furthenmore, Government has agreed to
prepare an action plan to deal with priority areas under common-property
systems. This plan will include both the inventory of these areas and
possible amendments to be made in the land legislation regarding them (para
8.03). Within this plan, work programs for land titling will be reviewed
with, and approved by IDA each year around October. This approval will be a
yearly condition of disbursement for the cadastral component (para 8.04).
12/ The current cadastral and titling rhythm is about 10,000 ha/year.
13/ The governmental target for cadastral surveys and titling has been set
up at 200,000 ha/year. This could be achieved in the second five-year slice
of the EAP, assuming that Program implementation is conclusive in this
field.



- 21 -
3.26      In areas where titling is complete, registration of changes wiil
become compulsory. Legal amendments to this effect are a condition of
disbursement for this component (paras 2.15 and P.04).
3.27      This component will be implemented by the Direction du
Patrimoine et de la Reforme Agraire (DPRA, the Malagasy cadastral agency,
now attached to MinAgri). To fulfill its mandate, DPRA will be strengthened
through: (i) intensive training and technical assistance; (ii) acquisition
of vehicles and equipment for its cadastral teams; (iii) equipment of its
regional and national offices with simple computerized systems for
delivering titles and establishing cadastral records; and (iv) related
operating costs. DPRA will procure orthophotomaps and corresponding digital
files from FTM, according to a recent Government decision that establishes
a clear-cut cost-effective distribution of responsibilities between these
two agencies. While progressively contracting with private surveyors for
topographic works for individual land registration and transfer, DPRA will
focus on large cadastral operations for systematic land titling. This
distribution of responsibilities is expected to increase DPRA efficiency
and, at the same time, to stimulate the development of small surveying
companies. At negotiations, agreement was reached on the transfer of
individual topographical surveys for private properties to private
surveyors. This will be enacted by the publication of a regulation no
later than June 30, 1991 (para 8.03). The exemption for registration,
topographic services and other charges for collective cadastral surveys
will be a condition for disbursement for the cadastral component.
Cadastral surveys and land titling will be closely monitored (para 3.25).
In addition, a series of studies will be carried out: (i) an inventory of
priority areas under common-property land rights and a study on legal ways
to protect them (paras 2.16 and 3.25); (ii) a study for establishing
computerized cadastral records (Program year 1); (iii) an evaluation of the
impact of titling on conservation practices and farm investment (para
3.25); (iv) a study on land renting, legal amendment required and
appropriate procedures for registration; (v) merging land laws into a
consistent land code; and (vi) land taxation review.
(5) Training, Education and Communication
3.28      This component is at the heart of the Program. It will aim: (i)
to provide training for the implementation of the other components; (ii) to
build up the human resources to match the job creation expected during the
overall EAP implementation; (iii) to introduce environment in the curricula
of primary education; and (iv) to increase resource users' and decision-
makers' awareness of the main key environmental problems and of ways to
deal with them. The ONE will coordinate the execution of this component
(para 5.03).
3.29      In view of the general lack of environmental knowledge and
skills in Madagascar, intensive training will be a priority, particularly
during phase one. For that purpose, all executing agencies will have a
specific training program. Most training will be on-the-job and take place
in Mladagascar. Scholarships and study visits abroad will be limited to
specific training that cannot be delivered in the country. Technical
assistance contracts will systematically include training obligations. For



- 22 -
example, foreign operators that will assist in the management of the
protected areas will develop training programs leading to a phased
elimination of their direct operational involvement.
3.30      At the university level, new degrees will be developed to meet
the demand generated by the EAP. Initial investment and operating costs
will be financed under the Program. In this domain, the Ecole Superieure
des Sciences Agronomiques (ESSA, National College for Agronomic Sciences)
will develop special diplomas for biodiversity protection and for soil
conservation and watershed management. The acquisition of these diplomas
will involve intensive field work that will prepare students for their
future jobs. For this purpose, ESSA will take over the management of a
protected area, under the Program, including management of actions in the
surrounding area.
3.31      Environment will be introduced in primary education on the basis
of the experience acquired by WWF and the Ministry of Basic Education
(MINESEB) in the production of environmental books and the training of
teachers (para 2.08). This action will be expanded to about 202 of the
primary schools in Madagascar under the Program. Activities to be financed
will include: (i) production and distribution of environmental text books;
(ii) training of teachers; and (iii) support for environmental activities
to be undertaken by the schools (visits to protected areas, soil
conservation miniprojects in school backyards). These activities will be
closely coordinated with the National Education Project (CRESED), which has
been approved by the Board on February 13, 1990.
3.32      The Program will also include environmental training,
information and awareness campaigns s (i) to inform resource users of the
activities in the various Program components; and (ii) to build
environmental awareness of the various layers of Halagasy society. These
campaigns will be based on a combination of media that will depend on the
target groups to be reached; they will includet (a) the organization of
seminars and training programs; (b) the production and distribution of
small environmental manuals, bulletins and posters; (c) the production &Ad
broadcasting of radio programs; and (d) the production and distributior. of
videocassettes. These campaigns will be coordinated with extension
programs carried out by public and private operators in the Program
priority areas. A close coordination will particularly be established with
the Pilot National Agricultural Extension Project (PKAEP), soon to be
submitted to the Board.
3.33      Specific trairing related to the implementation of the various
Program components will be directly handled by the respective executing
agencies. Other activities (support to primary, secondary and higher
education, and awareness campaigns) will be coordinated by the ONE, through
a small team of high level professionals (para 5.03).  However, they will
be carried out by various public and private agencies: (i) support to
education will be under MINISEB's responsibility for primary and secondary
schools, and MINESUP for universities; (ii) media production will be
contracted to specialized public agencies (e.g. Malagasy Radio and TV
agency), private companies and NGOss and (iii) the technical content of
messages will be defined by the corresponding executing agencies (e.g.



- 23 -
ANGAP and DEF for biodiversity, ANAE for community ininiprojects, DPRA for
cadastral and titling operations). Regular surveys will be carried out to
monitor implementation, measure the impact on the target groups and get
feedback from resource users on the Program activities. Before the mid-
term review, a special study will be carried out to assess this impact
(para 3.43).
3.34      Special attention will be paid to the environment/population
problem by disseminating the excellent audio-visual materials prepared by
the Government with the technical assistance of the Futures Group (a
Washington-based consultant) and USAID financial support. Large scale
campaigns, consistent with the national population policy, will be
organized in association with family planning activities in the Program
priority areas.
(6) Environmental Research
3.35      This component will aim to improve technologies that preserve
natural resources while developing production potential in a sustainable
manner. The strategy for implementation will be based on the following
principles: (i) coordination of all environmental research in Madagascar to
avoid redundancy and improve efficiency; (ii) priority given to applied
research; (iii) flexible funding on the basis of annual planning; (iv)
selection of research agencies on the basis of their experience and
comparative advantage; (v) mobilization of foreign support and liaison with
international environmental research networks; and (vi) quick application
of results in pilot operations within the EAP framework. Two programs are
planned: one on marine and coastal research; and the other on land-based
environmental research.
3.36      The marine and coastal research program will aim to develop
practical approaches to protect marine resources and allow their
sustainable development. It will include the following activities: (i) a
feasibility study and on-site pilot project for extensive shrimp farming;
(ii) a feasibility stutdy on the use of secondary fish catches during
shrimping (about 20,000 tons/year of fish are thrown away); (iii) a study
of inshore lobster stocks to work out guidelines for sustainE.ble
exploitation; (iv) a study of mangrove crab; and (v) an inventory of marine
biodiversity and a development program for marine parks with an eye on
touristic development. This list is not restrictive in the sense that other
priority research themes may appear during Program implementation.
Mechanisms for annual planning and flexible funding will allow their
inclusion (para 5.05).
3.37      Within the long-term agricultural research masterplan (para
1.12), substantial land-based environmental research is already underway.
This on-going research will be complemented, under the Program, by the
following activities: (i) inventory of the flora and fauna of Madagascar in
the protected areas, with the progressive establishment of a national
biodiversity data system and vegetation mapping; this will be progressively
integrated into the geographic information system (para 3.21); (ii)



- 24 -
inventory of the large range areas, particularly in the west, through
mapping and light ground surveys with a view  ) defining improved
technologies for better management, particularly including better control
of bush fires; (iii) regeneration and propagation of endemic plant species,
especially wood species; and (iv) propagation of threatened animal species.
This list, as for marine research, could be amended on the basis of new
priorities emerging during Program implementation.
3.38      Environmental research programs will be reviewed and approved by
the ONE Scientific Committee, the ONE being responsible for coordinating
environmental research (para 5.33). These programs will be implemented by
various national research agencies, selected on the basis of their
experience and comparative advantage. The MRSTD national research centers
will continue to play an important role, namely FOFIFA for soil
conservation and natural forest management; the Centre National pour la
Recherche Oc4anographique (CNRO, National Center for Oceanographic
Research) for coastal and marine research; and the Centre National pour la
Recherche Ervironnementale (CNRE, National Center for Environmental
Research) for other land-based research not covered by FOFIFA 14/.
Utniversities will also be involved in environmental research, in
association with the new environmental training to be supported under the
Program (para 3.30).
3.39      In support of the above specific research programs, the Program
will also finance basic equipment, institution building, data management,
training and technical assistance for the research centers involved.
Regarding technical assistance, a special effort will be made to mobilize
foreign research agencies and universities to support environmental
research programs and help Madagascar establish its national research
institutions. This has already been initiated by CNRO and CNRE which have
both signed partnership agreements with the Office de Recherche
Scientifique et Technique d'Outre-Mer (ORSTOM), a French research
institute. Other similar agreements have been established between Malagasy
and foreign universities. This will be enhanced under the Program.
(7) Support Activities
3.40      This component will aim: (i) to ensure coordination of the other
six components; and (ii) to develop the national environmental policy and
establish the tools and procedures for its impltmentation. ONE, the
Malagasy environmental agency, will be responsible for fulfilling these two
objectives. In the short term, during the Program launching, the
coordination role will be the priority; subsequently, the second will
progressively become ONE's main task. ONE will not be involved in
controlling day-to-day operations. The implementing agencies will be fully
14/ Besides FOFIFA, CNRO and CNRE, the Centre National de Recherche
Pharmaceutique (CNRP, National Center for Pharmaceutical Research) will
have a role, although of a lesser extent, for research on medicinal flora.
l



- 25 -
responsible for the management of th}eir respective components. ONE will
rather be the Program promoter, coordinator and communicator, providing the
various executing agencies with information and feed back on the overall
program while building up its policy capacity.
9'R
3.41      In its coordination role, ONE will concentrate on: (a) annual
planning and corresponding allocation of funds (para 5.39); (b) monitoring
and evaluation (para 5.37); (c) studies (para 3.43); (d) training,
education and awareness (para 3.28); and (e) accounting consolidation (para
4.10) and procurement (para 4.12). ONE will also be responsible for liaison
with donors and further mobilization of funds. To facilitate its role, ONE
will have a seat on the boards of ANGAP and ANAE; it will also participate
in reviewing and approving annual work plans prepared by the other
implementing agencies (CNRO, CNRE, FTM and DPRA). Finally, ONE will provide
the secretariat to the Steering Committee for Program implementation (para
5.05). During negotiations, the functions of this Committee were agreed
upon, as well as its annual meeting date (each December during program
implementation - para 8.03).
3.42      In its policy and procedures role, ONE will be responsible for:
(a) developing environmental policies and corresponding legislation, rules
and regulations; (b) establishing EA procedures and controlling their
application; (c) monitoring and evaluating the implementation of
environmental policies; (d) establishing an environmental data management
system as part of a environmental data network (para 5.41); and (e)
representing Madagascar in international fora. There will be a strong
synergy between the two roles of the ONE, the former providing the field
experience to develop the latter.
3.43      The ONE, in association with the other executing agencies, -will
coordinate the launching of Program studies (preparation of terms of
reference, selection of consultants, and contracting), monitor their
execution and disseminate their results. In some cases, ONE will directly
manage the execution of these studies while, in others, it will be the
executing agencies. Local consultants will be involved as much as possible
(para 4.12). The number of these studies will be fairly large because of
the Program's novel nature, its policy content, its process feature and the
need to capitalize early experience. These studies will concern five
themes:
(i) Organization, management and data system. This category will
include six studies: three will deal with the first establishment of
the three new institutions (ONE - para 5.03; ANGAP - para 5.09; and
ANAE - para 5.19). They will require consultants to assist the new
managers in the practical launching of their operations, on the basis
of already-prepared general O&M proposals. These studies will be
managed by the concerned agencies and carried out during 1990. With
regard to ANGAP, the study will particularly include the
establishment of the national biodiversity data system (para 5.42).
With regard to ONE, the study, while focusing on ONE's start up
activities, will also deal with data systems including: (a) an



- 26 _
assessment of the priority demand for data under the Program; (b) a
clarification of institutional responsibilities for data management;
(c) a proposal for low-cost networking; and (d) a proposal for ONE's
proper data system and a detailed definition of ONE's role in data
coordination. The other three studies will concern: (a) a management
audit of CNRE (1990, para 5.34) under MRSTD's responsibility; (b)
establishment of the LNT (1990/91, para 5.25) under FTM's
responsibility; ano (c) establishment of a computerized system for
cadastral records  (1991, para 5.30), under DPRA's responsibility;
(ii) Land and environmental policy. This category will include eight
studies. Four will concern land policy and will be executed under
MinAgri's responsibility: (a) inventory of priority areas under
common-property land rights and legal ways to protect them (1990,
paras 2.16 and 3.25); (b) land renting and sharecropping review,
legal implications and registration (1992, para 2.15); (c) land
taxation review, impact on conservation and proposed modifications
(1993, para 2.15); and (d) merging land laws into a consistent land
code (1993, para 2.16). Four other studies will deal with
biodiversity and environment; two under DEF responsibility: (e)
review of the list of endangered species and updating system (1992,
para 2.16); (f) economic utilization of flora and fauna, fees and
taxation (1991, para 2.16); and the other two under ONE's
responsibility: (g) review of environmental legislation and
production of a booklet for public information (1994, para 2.16); and
(h) establishment of EA procedures (1990, para 2.16). The Program
also includes a provision for financing EAs to be carried out under
ONE's coordination during Program implementation;
(iii) Forestry sector. Under the Program, DEF, with consultant
support, will be responsible for preparing the Tropical Forestry
Action Plan (TFAP - 1990/91, para 3.12). The TFAP will aim to refine
the national policy in terms of priorities for the conservation,
regeneration and sustainable use of the forest resources and to
define further investment programs. The TFAP will take stock of what
has been done in on-going projects (FPMP, Energy I...) and will build
on the EAP. The TFAP will pay particular attention to institutional
aspects and current forestry legislation. The ONE will be closely
associated to TFAP; it will particularly help DEF mobilize support
from the other agencies in the agricultural and energy sectors;
(iv) Operational review. This category will include a baseline
survey to be carried out in 1990 (para 5.37), and four studies in
1992/93 in order to prepare for the 1993 mid-term review. These
studies will include: (a) impact of land titling on conservation
practices (para 3.25) under ONE's respornsibility; (b) ecological,
economic and social impact of ANAE miniprojects (para 3.18) under
ANAE's responsibility; (c) development of eco-tourism (para 3.10)
under ONE's responsibility; and (d) impact of environmental education
and awareness (para 3.33) under ONE's responsiblity. The same
studies will be repeated in 1995 in order to prepare the second five-



- 27 -
year slice of the ZAP, as well as the completion report and the ex-
post evaluation; and
(v) Preparation of new activities for the second five-year slice of
the ZAP. This category wi'll include four studies under ONE's
responsibility: (a) soil conservation and watershed mariagement plans
for the Antalaha and Toliary regions (1994, para 3.15); (b) watershed
management plans for Andekaleka and Mandraka hydropower dams
(1990191, para 3.15); (c) protection of infrastructure in coastal
areas damaged by cyclones; and (d) preparation of the second five-
year slice of the EAP. The implementation of some of the watershed
management plans coming from (a) and (b), and protection activities
from (c) could be initiated during Program implementation.
Contingency funds are also planned to finance other studies that could
prove important during Program implementation.
3.44      Besides the above studies, the Program will finance ONE's
building, equipment, training, operating costs, data management system and
technical assistance. With regard to ONE staff, the Program will finance
newly-created positions. Regarding non-civil servants i.e. national and
international specialists contracted on the private market, the Program
will support 1002 of their costs. ONE will be physically established in an
old building that is part of the Antananarivo cultural heritage. This
building will be rehabilitated and fully equipped under the Program.
IV. COST, FINANCING AND PROCUREMENT
4.01      The Program cost estimates are tentative. The process nature of
the Program and its novelty will call for annual adjustment and possible
reallocation as some activities develop faster than expected, while other
slower. The proposed financing plan accomodates the relatively large number
and diverse nature of participating donors, the different types of
financing agreements (cofinancing, parallel financing) and the likely
mobilization of additional funds in the course of implementation.
A. Program Costs
4.02      The Program cost has been estimated at US$ 85.5 million, or 154
billion FMG, including taxes, physical and price contingencies. The
following inflation assumptions have been used:
1989   1990   1991   1992 and after
Local annual inflation         9.5Z   8.52   8.02        7.02
Foreign annual inflation       3.6Z   4.3Z   4.3Z        4.32
Exchange rate at post-appraisal: 1650 FMG per dollar
Expected date of effectiveness: January 1991



- 28 -
Of this amount, the biodiversity component, including protection of parks
and reserves, assistance to DEF and peripherai zone development, will
represent 322; soil conservation, agroforestty and rural development mini-
projects 152; mapping and geographic information 152; cadastral surveys and
titling 11Z; research 62; and support, including awareness, education and
communication, 21Z. The cost of on-the-job training to be carried out by
implementing agencies plus that of formal training &t university level
represent US$7.2 i.e. about 9% of total Program cost and about 70% of
incremental staff cost. The cost in foreign exchange of the program has
been estimated at around US$37.9 million (44Z of total costs), and taxes
and duties at about US$13.2 million (152). Table 4.1 below shows the
breakdown of Program costs.
TABLE 4.1: Program Cost SunLary
Component                                           $Million      z
Biodiversity                                            27.7     32
. conservation ($13.5 M'n, 16%)
. development of buffer zones ($9.2, 11%)
. assistance DEF ($5.0 Ml'n, 6%)
Soil conservation/Agroforestry                         12.7      15
Happing and geographic information                      12.7     15
Cadastral surveys and titling                            9.0     11
Research                                                 5.1      6
Education/awareness                                      3.3      4
Support Activities                                     15.1      17
ONE ($4.4 M'n, 5%)
Studies ($10.7 M'n, 12%)
Total                                                  85.5    100
14.03     All costs have been estimated on an incremental basis in excess
of existing financing. With regard to staffing, the cost of new civil
service posts created under the Program and the cost of contract staff and
consultants have been incorporated. Annex 15 shows project cost summaries.
B. Program financing
4.04      The Program provides a consistent framework within which do z-rs
will intervene either on joint or parallel financing according to both
Malagasy interest and their own. Following a donors meeting on February 14
and 15, 1990 in Paris, a financing plan has been worked out to cover all
the Program costs. Participating donors would include IDA, UNDP, UNESCO,
EEC, USAID, the Swiss, Japanese, Canadian, and Norwegian Aids, GTZ and KFW
from Germany, Caisse Centrale and FAC from France, ODA, WWF, AICF and
Conservation International. Table 4.2 indicates the donors' respective



- 29 -
1
interests in financing the Program per component, aixaough some of the
donors have not yet indicated the component(s) they would like to finance
(ODA, Japanese and Canad'an Aids)
Table 4.2 - Donors Specific Interests in ProRram Financing
(!IS$ million)
PROCRAM COMPONENTS
1   1   2        a       4       5         6        7
B10-     SOIL  MAPPING  SURVEYS  ENVIRON- TRAINING,  SUPPORT
DIVERS1TY CONSER-           AND   MENTAL  EDUCATION, ACTIVITIES
VATION          TITLING  RESEARCH AWARENESS
COFINANCING
IDA                                  X        X         X                 X
NORWAY                X   X                             X
XFW (GERMANY)                        X
PARAULEL FINANCINK
USAID                 X        X                                  X        X
SWITZERLAND           X        X                                  x        x
UNDP                  x        x                                           x
UNESCO                X                                  X        X
GERMANY               X                                  x        X
WWF                   X                                           X         X
EEC                   X        X                X        X        X         X
FRANCE                X        X       X        X        X        X
CONSERVATION
INTERNATIONAL      X                X                 X        X
4.05      Some of the Program components (e.g. biodiversity, education and
training) could be over funded. Those components, as well as others, if
other future donors are interested, could be expanded in the future as the
Program develops. This possibility will be annually reviewed by the
Steering Committee (para 5.05) according to results and capacity of
involved agencies and field operators.
4.06      The financing plan has been worked out on the assumption that
conservation activities will be financed by grant aid, in recognition of
the global interest and benefit from preserving Madagascar's biodiversity
patrimony, as part of the world heritage. Other components will be financed
by grants or soft credit conditions, with priority given to grants if
available. IDA will take the role of financier of last resort for all
components. The allocation of IDA funds will be reviewed during the annual
planning process (para 5.05) and during the mid-term review (para 5.37).
4.07      Following negotiations and further consultations with other
donors, the financing plan has been concluded as pr-sented below:



- 30 -
Table 4.3 - Program Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Component               Total    Government      IDA       Other Donors
Biodiversity              27.7         5.3                         22.4
Soil Conservation         12.7         2.7          -              10.0
Cartography               12.7         4.2         8.6               -
Land Titling               9.0         2.9         6.1               -
Research                   5.1         0.9         2.3              1.9
Education and
Awareness                  3.3         0.3          -               3.0
Support                   15.1         1.1         9.0              5.0
Total:               85.5       17.2         26.0             42.3
According to this plan, IDA would finance 27X of the total Program cost and
be associated with Norwegian Aid (52 of total Program cost). Other donors
would intervene in parallel financing to cover about 482 of total Program
cost.  About two thirds of external financing would be in grant.  Norwegian
funds will be administered by IDA. As mentioned above, this plan may
evolve during Program implementation.
4.08      Government contribution will represent 5.52 of the Program cost
net of taxes, and will include for all components of the first slice of the
EAP, 202 of salaries and indemnities (net of taxes) and 202 of maintenance
costs (net of taxes). Given the above hypothesis, Table 4.3 indicates the
financing plan for the Program.
4.09      Each of the major participating donors is taking the lead not
only in the financing b t also in finalizing component J'esign and in
subsequent supervision of one of more specific component(s) in order to
simplify disbursement and better focus supervision (para 5.45). IDA will be
the main financier and technical agency for three components: mapping and
geographic information; cadastral surveys and titling; and support
activities (establishment of the ONE, environmental policy and
coordination). USAID is taking the lead for biodiversity and Swiss Aid for
soil conservation, agroforestry and community-level mini-projects.
4.10      Annex 5 presents the financing mechanism that has been agreed by
Government (para 8.03) by which funds for the Program will be directly
channeled to the six main implementing agencies (ANGAP, ANAE, FTM, DPRA,
ONE, and DEF) for their respective components. Each of these agencies will
set up financing and accounting systems for its component, at both the
central and local levels. ONE will help set up these systems on a standard



- 31 -
model and then will be in charge of consolidating accounts for the overall
the Program. ONE will also commission the audit fo- the various components
(para 4.17.
4.11      In keeping with the process nature of the Program, some
preparation studies have already been translated into action (e.g. the Lac
Alaotra pilot conservation project para 2.20). These actions and many of
the preparatory studies were financed by Government (as USAID counterpart
funds), by the Swiss Cooperation and by IDA/PPF.
C. Procurement
4.12      The Program preparation was carried out by national agencies,
supported by consultants, often through joint venture between national and
foreign consultants. This type of arrangement will continue to be
encouraged in order to stimulate technology transfer and develop Malagasy
capacity both in terms of studies and implementation. To the extent
possible, consultant contracts will include both design and implementation
responsibilities to keep these studies down to earth and make their
recommendations more implementable. Each of the seven main implementing
agencies will handle its own procurement in accordance with donors' rules.
Table 4.4 - Procurement Procedures
(US$ million)
ICB       LCB       ILS      OTHER       TOTAL
I.  Civil Works                         0.64               10.20      10.84
(0.56)              (0.00)     (0.56)
II. Vehicles and             7.57       1.54                9.41      18.52
Equipment               (5.26)    '1.32)               (0.00)     (6.58)
III.Consultants,
Training and                                          29.57       29.57
Studies                                               (10.29)    (10.29)
IV. Salaries, Allowances                                   22.61      22.61
and Maintenance                                        (6.47)     (6.47)
V.  Documents and Supplies                       2.1-5      1.54       3.99
(2.13)    (0.00)      (2.13)
TOTAL                      7.57       2.18     2.45      73.33      85.53
(5.26)    (1.88)   (2.13)   (16.56)    (26.02)
ILS       International or Local Shopping
OTHER     Other Procurement Procedures, or Financed by Government or Other
Donors following own Procedures
Figures in parenthesis represent IDA financing



- 32 -
The ONE, however, will play a special role in assisting, advising, and
monitoring procurement. Comparable equipment to be used by the different
components of the project (computers, vehicles, etc...) will be grouped,
when possible, in order to benefit from lower prices through large bids.
Table 4.4 above summarizes procurement procedures for categories financed
by IDA. Figures are indicative as financing will be adjusted each year in
the light of annual work programs and reviewed by the Steering Committee
(para 5.05).
4.13      For procurement of goods, works and services financed directly
or jointly by IDA, procedures and conditions will follow Worid Bank
Guidelines for procurement. In particular:
..
a) Procurement for equipment and vehicles will be grouped as much as
possible.  For amounts over US$ 100,000 (for a total amount of about
US$7.57 million), they will be procured under International
Competitive Bidding (ICB). For amounts under US$ 100,000 (for a total
amount of US$1.54 million), they will be procured under Local
Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the Association.
Foreign bidders will not be excluded. Insofar as possible, goods and
services will be grouped in homogenous packages to reduce the number
of LCBs. For low-cost items to be delivered rapidly and costing less
than US$30,000 per contract (for a total amount of about US$2.45
million), International or Local Shopping will be authorized on a
short list of at least three suppliers without excluding foreign
bidders. Shopping will be managed by the Borrower or by procurement
agents selected in accordance with IDA Consultants' Guidelines;
b) Contracts for buildings, which will be small and scattered
throughout the country, may not interest international contractors;
they will be let under LCB without excluding foreign bidders;
c) IDA, for the components it will finance, will review bid
documents, evaluation and contract award proposals for works,
equipment and vehicle contracts over US$100,000;
d) Recruitement of consultants fiDanced by IDA will follow IDA
guidelines; and
e) Contracts for civil works and goods under LCB procedures will be
subject to conditions previously agreed upon with the Government
concerning registration of bidders, public bid opening and local
preference.



- 33 -
D. Disbursements
4.14      Disbursements of the IDA credit will be over five years.  There
is no standard disbursement profile for environment credits. The
disbursement forecast is based on the fact that; (i) major investments will
take place during the first three years; and (ii) the Program design
provides for annual and mid-term review and reallocation. In the event of
underdisbursement during the five-year Program period, the lessons learned
will be incorporated in the second five-year slice of the EAP and any
credit balance cancelled. ONE will advise the main implementing agencies on
donors' procedures for disbursement, these agencies being responsible to
prepare their own disbursement requests. The disbursement schedule, for IDA
credit, is shown in Annex 10 - A.
4.15      Special Account: to expedite disbursement of funds, a Special
Account in the name of the Central Bank of Madagascar, will be set up in a
bank acceptable to IDA, into which IDA would make an initial deposit of
US$1,6 million from the proposed credit immediately after credit
effectiveness. This amount represents an estimated average disbursement of
funds over a four-month period. Six Caisses d'Avance will be established
for use by ANGAP, DEF, ANAE, FTM, DPRA and ONE. The maximum of any caisse
d'avance will not exceed US$250.000. Application for replenishment of the
special account would be submitted on a monthly basis. The special account
would be audited annually by independant auditors (para 4.17). During
negotiations, an agreement was reached on the establishment of this special
account and of the six caisses d'avance. This agreement also includes the
establishment of separate accounts for DPRA, DEF and ONE respectively to
receive deposits of Government contribution (para 8.03).
4.16      For activities directly financed, or cofinanced, by IDA,
disbursements for all items will be based on full documentation unless
authorized for disbursement against Statements of Expenditures (SOE).
Disbursements against SOE will be used to reduce the volume of
documentation between the Borrower and IDA and the length of the review
process for expenditures on single items under US$30,000, on local
technical assistance and all operating and training costs. SOEs, for a
given component, will be certified by the financial manager of the
corresponding executing agency and approved by the Ministry of Finance and
Budget. The ONE will assist the executing agencies in establishing
consistent SOE Drocedures. Supporting documents for SOEs will be retained
by the Borrower and made available for examination by IDA supervision
missions. To ensure availability of funds at the local level, public
implementing agencies will have a provision of advance money ("comptes
locaux") on their bank or treasury accounts, close to the fields where they
operate as it is practiced under IDA-supported FPMP 14/. An agreement was
reached at negotiations for the establishment of those 'comptes locaux"
(para 8.03).
14/ This has been authorized by interministerial decree No. 6498-89.



- 34 -
E. Accounts anC Audits
4.17      Each institution involved in program implementation will be
responsible for its own accounts concerning the Program; ONE will provide
support and coordination, will review component accounts and consolidate
them into the program accounts. During negotiations, an agreement was
reached that each i;ntitution will: (i) maintain its accounts related to
the Program in a satisfactory way; (ii) have its accounts and statements of
expenses audited each year by external auditors proposed by ONE and
approved by IDA and the other donors; and (iii) submit its audited accounts
to IDA and the donors not later than six months after the end of the fiscal
year. The ONE will be responsible for recruiting a single audit firm for
all components, following IDA guidelines. The preparation of terms of
reference, acceptable to IDA, and recruitment of this firm will be a
condition of effectiveness. As its first task, this firm, in association
with ONE, will help implementing agencies set up their accounting systems
according to common standards. This will be financed by the Program.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Institutional Framework and Main Agencies
5.01      Institutions responsible for carrying out this large and diverse
set of components will need to be set up or reinforced. In view of the
inexperience of national institutions in carrying out a program of this
nature and size, and in view of the need to simply create those new
institutions, preparation and appraisal devoted considerable time and
resources to the institutional framework and its development for the
seven 15/ implementing agencies. All participants are aware of the
challenge - and the risk- of such a massive institutional development
effort.  The following guidelines were adopted in order to maxim. e chances
of success and to reduce risks:
(a) build on existing agencies where possible, through training,
equipment and technical assistance on management and operational
procedures;
(b) Set up three new agencies but keep them small, flexible, and
under review (ONE, ANGAP and ANAE);
(c) tap the private sector and the international community to
complement the public capacity where they have a comparative
advantage; both national and international NGOs, particularly those
already involved in Madagascar, will have a key role to play;
15! They include: ONE, ANGAP, ANAE, FTH, DPRA, DEF and MRSTD; within the
latter, two agencies are expected to play a key role: CNRE and CNRO.



- 35 -
(d) decentralize management while maintaining coordination;
(e) establish a flexible annual planning process based on solid
monitoring and evaluation (para 5.37);
(f) mwtch the implementation rhythm with the progressive
institutional development; this will be particularly important during
the Program phase one (para 3.02); and
(g) keep touching base with the grassroots in the decision-making
process, particularly in the miniprojects.
With these guidelines, development programs were set up for eachp
agency, as set out below.  Performance will be the subject of annual review             ,=
and institutional successes and failures will be the major theme of the
Mid-Term Review.
(1) The National Office for the Environment (ONE)
5.02      To coordinate environmental policy and actions, Government has
decided to create the ONE, a small but powerful environmental agency,
directly attached to the Ministry of Economy and Plan. ONE, which is the
continuation of the EAP coordinating Unit (para 2.10), will be a public
agency (EPA); it has been conceived as a center of excellence, able to
attract competent staff and characterized by flexible organization and
management.
5.03      Organization.  ONE will have two responsibilities: to launch and
coordinate the Program implementation; and to provide leadership for
developing environmental policy and establishing the tools and procedures
for its implementation, monitoring aud evaluation (para 3.40). To fulfill
these responsibilities, ONE will comprise a group of high-level
professionals plus support staff, organized in six teams with the following
mandates: (i) environmental policy (policy analysis, planning and
environmental legislation - para 3.42); (ii) EA procedures (enforcement
monitoring, assistance to the preparation of EA studies, follow-up of their
implementation and statutory review - para 3.42); (iii) accounting,
procurement and disbursement (accounting assistance, accounts
consolidation, commissioning and review of audits, procurement advice,
assistance for disbursement procedures - para 4.10); (iv) coordination of
training, education and awareness (para 3.41); (v) coordination of
environmental studies and management of some of them (para 3.43), as well
as coordination of environmental research; and (vi) environmental data
management (monitoring, and evaluation, and information systems - para
3.42).
5.04      Management. ONE would be managed by a Director General.  He will
be responsible for: (i) advising on environmental policy: he will attend
cabinet meetings on environment, and, with ONE policy team, conceive and
promote environment-related policy and legislation; (ii) participating in
operational decision making regarding environment: he will sit on the



- 36 -
boards of ANAE (para 5.19) and ANGAP (para 5.10); (iii) participating in
international environmental fora: he will liaise with the donor community
and play a major role in mobilizing additional funds; and (iv) being the
spokesman on environment. The Director General will be assisted by a deputy
who will supervise day-to-day operations and monitor Program
implementation.
5.05      Board and Steering Committee.  ONE's board of directors will be
chaired by the Minister of Economy and Plan; its other members will include
high-ranking officials from the various ministries (Prime Minister's
office, MINFIN, MPAEF, MINAGRI, MTP, MRSTD, MINESUP, MINESEB,...). ONE's
Director General will be the Board's Secretary with voting power. There
will be a Steering Committee for Program implementation. Government and
donors have agreed on the need for this Committee which will provide a
joint forum for coordinating the Program. The Committee will: (i) review
past operations and draw the lessons; (ii) review proposed annual plans for
the Program; arnd (iii) review and adjust annual financing plans. This
Committee will be headed by the Minister of Economy and Plan who will be
assisted by ONE Director General as Secretary of the Committee. Other
members will include high-level representatives of the Program executing
agencies; world-reknown environment scientists; and duly authorized donor
representatives. This Committee will meet once a year in December, as
agreed during negotiations (para 8.03). Finally, ONE will have a
Scientific Committee in charge of reviewing and approving environmental
researc1h programs (para 5.33).
5.06      Staffing and Technical Assistance. ONE will recruit its staff
from two sources: (a) the public sector: civil servants would be seconded
to ONE; and (b) the private sector: either by hiring individuals directly
or by contracting with consulting firms. Under the Program, most ONE staff
are expected to come from the private sector, which has the best expertise
on environment. Regarding technical assistance, ONE will contract with
consultants to help it establish its operations and procedures (para 3.43).
UNDP has just recruited a permanent high-level local consultant to be
seconded to ONE. UNDP would also finance temporary consultants to assist
ONE (para 5.45). Possible partnership with the US Environmental Protection
Agency is being discussed and could materialize during the Program
implementation.
5.07      ONE's statutes have been studied by MaLagasy and international
consultants whose report is on project file. On this basis, Government has
prepared a draft legal statute for ONE, which was presented and discussed
at negotiations (para 8.01). A proposed organization and terms of reference
for ONE's Director are presented in Annex 4 (A-B). The formal creation of
ONE (including the nomination of members of the Board and the appointment
of the Director General) will be a condition of effectiveness (8.02).



- 37 -
(2) The National Association for the Management of Protected Areas
(ANGAP) and field operators
5.08      MPAEF, while keeping the overall responsibility for biodiversity
policy, will delegate the coordination of the biodiversity component to a
new institution, the National Association for the Management of the
Protected Areas (ANGAP) (para 3.11); and the execution to competent field
operators 16/. This delegation will be officialized in an agreement to be
signed between MPAEF and ANGAP.  ANGAP will be a small highly-geared
agency, to be established under private law (para 5.10). ANGAP's possible
future capacity to manage protected areas directly in the field will be
reviewed during the preparation of the second five-year slice of the EAP.
5.09      Organization. ANGAP will be responsible for: (i) helping DEF
refine the national policy on biodiversity in collaboration with ONE; (ii)
negotiating and contrac-ing with field operators (para 3.11 and proposed
contracts in Annex 2 (H)); (iii) mobilizing additional funds for
biodiversity; (iv) coordinating staff training; (v) monitoring and
evaluating field operations; disseminating information and organizing
meetings and workshops with the field operators; and (vi) establishing a
national biodiversity data system (para 3.43). To fulfill these
responsibilities, ANGAP will be made up of a small group of high-level
professionals, organized progressively in 5 teams: (a) policy and planning
(liaison with MPAEF, participation in policy making, liaison with
international agencies on biodiversity); (b) administration and finances
(contracting field operators, collecting and allocating biodiversity                       L
revenues); (c) training and ommunication; (d) monitoring and evaluation;
and (e) national biodiversi,y data system (para 5.42).
5.10      Legal statute an.i management. ANGAP will be a private
association with a board of directors balancing the representation of the
public and private sectors. The board will be chaired by the Minister of
MPAEF and will include ex-officio members from public entities (Prime
Minister's office, ONE. MINAGRI, MINESUP, MRSTD); it will also include
members from national and international environmental NGOs and from th^
national tourism industry.   ANGAP, as a private agency, will enjoy
flexibility and autonomy in financial and staff management, including staff
recruitement. Staff will be largely recruited on the market. The proposed
legal statute was discussed during negotiations and Government confirmed
ANGAP will be an Association under private law (para 8.01) and declared of
public interest. The organization chart and terms of reference of its
Director General are presented in Annex 2 (C-D). The nomination of members
of the Board and the appointment of the Director General will be a
condition of effectiveness (para 8.02).
16/ ANGAP, once fully operational, might directly manage one or several
particular protected area, as a test and learning process.



- 38 -
5.11      Field operators. ANGAP will contract with national and foreign
operators to prepare detailed conservation and development plans for the
proposed protected areas and their surroundings; and to implement them,
once approved. Seven such plans have already been approved and operators,
including international agencies, foreign NGOs and universities, are in the
field to implement them (Annex 2 (B)). Other operators, both national and
foreign are expected to join the program and progressively cover most
protected areas. An outline of this type of contract is presented in Annex
2 (G). ANGAP will ensure that contracts are in accordance with national
biodiversity policy. Special attention will be paid to: (i) training and
local staff development; (ii) cost-effective infrastructure that fits in
well with natural landscapes and local traditions; (iii) proposed
development programs for surrounding areas; and (iv) proposed development
for tourism.  Regarding transition arrangements between DEF, ANGAP and
field operators, it is expected that: (a) current contracts between field
operators and MPAEFIDEF would be amended in accordance with the delegation
of responsibility to ANGAP; (b) one DEF guard will be kept in each
protected area, to be responsible for security and police; his equipment
and operational costs will be supported by corresponding operator while his
salary will continue to be paid by DEF; (c) other DEF civil servants
currently posted in protected areas will have the choice of either
resigning from civil service and be employed by operators or being assigned
to other DEF activities; and (d) DEF contractual staff also posted in parks
and reserves would be rehired by operators. These arrangements were agreed
at negotiations (para 8.03).
5.12      Finances.  During the Program phase one, ANGAP will be mostly
financed by donor grants. It will manage its own investment and operating
costs and monitor the funds allocated under donor contracts to field
operators for conservation and development. ANGAP will also be responsible
for collecting revenues (entrance fees, concession sales, other fees from
the tourism industry). These revenues will be used for priority activities
in the protected areas not yet covered. These revenues are currently
collected by MPAEF and transfered to the Public Treasury. It was agreed
with the Borrow2r during negotiations, that, as a condition of disbursement
for this component expected to be partly financed by the Norwegian Aid, the
Borrower shall have anabled ANGAP to collect directly those revenues.
During the Program phase two, ANGAP will progressively develop its
financial capacity by mobilizing funds from donors and allocating them to
field operators, although some of the latter may continue to be directly
financed by donors. During this phase, revenues from tourism shouild begin
to cover part of the conservation recurrent costs, complementing donors'
contribution (para 6.02). With ANGAP, Government will sign an
implementation agreement, satisfactory to the Association, specifying
ANGAP's responsibilities for carrying out this component. This will be a
condition of effectiveness. In this agreement the on lending of the IDA
credit to ANGAP will be on a grant basis but this will be reassessed during
the mid-term review.
5.13      Coordination with other implementing agencies.  ANGAP will
maintain a close working relationship with: (i) ONE, for general
coordination purposes, data management, training, education and awareness,



- 39 -
and mon'toring and evaluation; ONE will have a seat on ANGAP's board (para
5.04 ); (ii) ANAE, for the financing of development mini-projects in the
buffer zones and priority areas (para 3.16); (iii) DEF for the refining of
national biodiversity policy (para 3.12), police in the parks and reserves
(para 5.11), and the coordination of activities in the protected areas with
those in the adjacent gazetted forests (para 3.12); (iv) FTM for the
production of maps and setting up of a GIS on some protected areas (para
3.19); (v) DPRA for the demarcation of legal boundaries of the protected
areas (para 3.23); and research institutions for flora and fauna
inventories (para 3.37).
5.14      Technical assistance.  ANGAP will receive technical assistance:
(i) to establish its procedures and operations; a special study will be
carried out to that effect including tile setting up of its biodiversity
data management system (para 3.43); and (ii) to help it coordinate actions
in the protected areas. To ensure continuity, a partnership contract
between ANGAP and an international entity, is being envisaged.
(3) The Forestry Department (DEF)
5.15      Under the Program, DEF will: (i) improve its field management on
gazetted natural forests; (ii) prepare the TFAP; and (iii) refine the
national biodiversity policy (para 3.12). To fulfill these objectives, DEF
will:
(a) establish, at its headquarters, a small unit of high-level
professionals directly attached to the Director General. This unit
will be made up of a senior forester, a soil conservation specialist
and an economist plus support staff. It will manage the above three
activities, the management of gazetted forests providing the field
experience for the other two;
(b) decentralize and strengthen 6 regional branches. Each branch will
be made up of one senior forester and district forestry officers; and
(c) establish about 30 field teams in the gazetted forests. Teams
have been sized on the basis of one guard per 2000 ha of forest.
5.16      In preparing the TFAP, DEF will be assisted by consultants with
backstopping from the FAO international secretariat for TFAPs, the World
Bank and possibly other donors. DEP, in preparing the TFAP, will start from
what has already been done within the EAP framework and current project
implementation (para 3.43).
5.17      During Program implementation, DEF will maintain a close working
relationship with (i) ONE which will participate in the elaboration of the
TFAP, as an essential component of the EAP (para 3.12); (ii) ANGAP which
will participate in the refining of biodiversity policy (para 3.12); this
will be facilitate!d by the fact that the Minister of MPAEF will chair
ANGAP's board (para 5.10); (iii) FTM for the production of maps (para
3.19); (iv) DPRA for the demarcation of legal boundaries of the gazetted



40 -
forests (para 3.23); and (v) FOFIFA which is about to launch a research
program on the sustainable exploitation of natural forests (para 3.38).
(4) The National Association for Environmental Actions (ANAE)
5.18      ANAE will contribute to financing the preparation, appraisal and
implementation of community-level miniprojects for watershed management,
reforestation and other rural development activities (paras 3.13-3.18). The
rural communities will be assisted by field operators, financed by ANAE,
to identify, prepare, submit and implement their projects (para 3.16). To
fulfill its mandate, ANAE will be a small and flexible agency, made up of
high-level professionals, based in Antananarivo. It has been established as
a private foundation under Malagasy law. The ANAE founding members include
national and international NGOs, religious groups, representatives of
private businesses and consultants and the EAP coordinating unit (future
ONE). Proposals for organization and management have been prepared by
consultants and are likely to be adopted shortly. ANAE proposed
organization chart well as terms of reference of its Director General are
presented in Annex 3.
5.19      Management and Staffing. ANAE's Board of directors has been
established with the large majority to the private sector, mostly
represented by NGOs (11 seats). Government will have 3 seats (MEP, ONE and
FOFIFA). The Board will recruit a Director General by open competition
early in 1990. His first task will be to establish the organizational
structure and procedures on the basis of the consultants' proposal. He will
build up his staff progressively as the portfolio grows. Staff will be
hired by open competition, although some fixed-term secondments of civil
servants may be made. He will hire consultants to help him establish ANAE
and launch start-up activities (para 3.43). ANAE's formal establishment,
including the final nomination of members of the Board and the appointment
of the Director General will be a condition of effectiveness (para 8.03).
5.20      Organization. ANAE will be organized in four teams: the first
will supervise miniproject preparation, submission and implementation. It
will be made up of project officers, each responsible for a specialized
portfolio (watershed management, infrastructure, social programs..). These
officers will follow up on miniproject preparation, plan the development of
their respective "pipeline" on an annual basis, appraise miniprojects, and
supervise their implementation. This team will be headed by a senior
economist; the second will manage the funds, including mobilization and
disbursement, and will supervise procurement; this team will also handle
the contracting of field operators; the third will be in charge of
assisting field operators in training; and the fourth will be responsible
for mini-project monitoring and evaluation, an important role for refining
ANAE's practices in the light of experience.
5.21      Field operators. ANAE will finance miniprojects in five priority
regions (para 3.15) as well as in the surroundings of protected areas (para
3.08). ANAE will contract and finance field operators, either public or
private, to help the communities identify, prepare, submit and implement



- 41 -
their mini-projects (para 3.16). Operators will include public services,
particularly the agricultural extension service, the forestry service, and
the health service; NGOs; and private firms. Some of these operators
including pubic services and NGOs are already itnvolved in pilot
miniprojects 171. In the first instance, ANAE is likely to contract with
five operators, each responsible for one priority region, or part of it,
including the surroundings of the protected areas. These operators will
have a network of field agents and, possibly, subcontractors that will
evolve according to the development of the miniproject portfolio. The
operators will prepare annual plans to be discussed with, and approved by,
the ANAE (and with ANGAP when operating in buffer zones near parks and
reserves). During the implementation of these plans, the operators will
keep ANAE's officers fully informed about the evolution of miniproject
preparation; they will prepare the miniproject dossiers for submission to
ANAE Projects Committee (para 5.22); and they will provide short quarterly
progress reports on implementation. In the early years, the cost of
technical assistance provided by the operators will be relatively high
compared to the actual investment in the field. This ratio, however, is
expected to decrease substantially with the progressive development of
miniproject pipelinrs.
5.22      Financial management. ANAE will receive grants from a number of
donors, (para 4.06). It will finance part of the cost of approved mini-
projects and its partners, village communities and local associations, will
finance tne balance in cash or in kind. The latter will also commit
themselves in supporting further operating costs and investment renewal
(para 3.16). This will be stipulated in a signed agreement between ANAE and
its partners. The miniprojects will be presented to ANAE Project Committee
(Comite d'Octroi), made up of the Director General, the senior economist, a
representative from ANGAP and representatives from participating donors.
ANAE financing will be channelled to its field operators and clients
through local bank accounts. This will be closely monitored and compared
with the annual plans by ANAE. ANAE, as well as the field operators, will
be audited annually by auditors selected by ONE (para 4.17). At this stage,
the pace of development is difficult to predict. ANAE will seek extra
funding as its activities develop. ANAE could be a good way of channeling
local currency arising from debt swaps for conservation. Several such
plans are being discussed with bilateral agencies. With ANAE, Government
will sign an implementation agreement, satisfactory to the Association,
specifying ANAE's responsibilities for carrying out this component. This
will be a condition of effectiveness. In this agreement, the on lending of
the IDA credit to ANAE will be on a grant basis, but this clause will be
reassessed during the mid-term review.
17/ Agricultural extension and forestry services in a pilot soil
conservation project in Lac Alaotra area; NGOs such as SAFAFI (Lutheran
Church) and ORIMPAKA in reforestation, agroforestry and rural development
miniprojects.



- 42 -
5.23      Coordination with other implementing agencies. ANAE will
maintain close working relations withs (i) ONE for general coordination;
this will be facilitated by ONE's membership in ANAE's board; (ii) ANGAP
for miniprojects in the surroundings of the protected areas; this will be
racilitated by ANGAP's membership in the ANAE's Project Committee; and
(iii) MPAEF and MINAGRI for technical aspects regarding forestry, watershed
management and agriculture (the field branches of these two agencies are
likely to be involved as field operators in some areas).
(5) The Mapping and Remote Sensing Agency (FTM)
5.24      FTM will be in charge of producing maps and geographic
information required by the other components (para 3.20). FTM is a public
entreprise (EPIC) with more than 30 years of experience in mapping. Once
one of the best mapping agencies in Africa, FTM has deteriorated in the
last decade largely due to lack of funds (para 2.05). However, FTM still
has a core of high-level specialists, and good geodetic and map archives.
Its capacity can thus be rebuilt quickly. During preparation, careful
financial and technical audits of FTM were carried out and the
recommendations of these audits will constitute the basis for the Program
activities.
5.25      Organization and Management. Although its main departments will
remain the same, FTM will be restructured around a cost-effective map
production system that will be fully modernized with the introduction of
computerized technology. For operational and accounting purposes, FTM's
public mandate (maintenance of the geodetic network, digital files, base
map archives and nautical charts) will be treated separately from its
client-related activities (para 5.27). FTM will also manage the LNT (para
3.21), a national facility that is being set up for remote sensing and GIS.
LNT will maintain the national archives of satellite data, in printed and
digital form. It will have a team of high level specialists able to guide
and assist customers in the processing of geographically-based data. A
study will be carried out to assist FTM in the launching of LNT's
operations (para 3.43). The National Committee for Geographic Information
(Comite National des Travaux Geographiques) will be revived. Its membership
includes the technical ministries and the Prime Minister's Office. This
Committee will: (a) review annual plans for aerial surveys, mapping and
remote sensing activities undertaken by all agencies to check their
priority, to avoid possible redundancy, and to ensure that FTM
systematically receives a copy of all the geographic outputs produced by
other agencies; and (b) review LNT activities and annual plans. FTM is ex-
officio the secretary of this Committee.
5.26      Private operators. Under the Program, aerial surveys (para 3.22)
will be carried out by private contractors selected under international
competitive bidding (for IDA and other multilateral donors) and bilateral
arrangements (for other donors). Cooperation agreements will be worked out
between FTM and the selected contractors regarding the employment and
training of FTM staff and use of its equipment (FTM has cameras and will
develop its photo laboratory under the Program). Private operators will                     J



- 43 -
also be involved in map production to complement FTM capacity, particularly
in the early stages.
5.27      Financial management.  Government has adopted audit
recommendations that FTM become a cost-effective, client-oriented agency.
For this purpose, FTH is adopting commercial accounting and audit
procedures. It will have separate cost centers for its public service
activities, which will initially be fully subsidized, and for its
commercial activities. In the long run, FTM is expected to become
profitable. This is not expected during the Program period as the agency
will be investing heavily in training and will be running in new equipment
and procedures. With FTM, Government will sign an implementation
agreement, satisfactory to the Association, specifying FTM's
responsibilities for carrying out the mapping component. This will be a
condition of effectiveness. In this agreement, the on-lending of the IDA
credit to FTM will be on a grant basis, but this clause will be reassessed
at mid-term review (para 8.03).
5.28      Technical assistance. FTM has just signed a partnership
agreement with IGNIFI (the private branch of Institut National
Geographique, the French national mapping agency). Under this agreement,
IGN/FI will help PTM launch its program, train its staff, and hire
equipment that FTM does not need to buy (e.g. for establishing the geodetic
network). IGN/PI will provide adapted software and technical assistance.
This agreement is being financed by FAC. on a grant basis.
(6) The Department of Lands and Agrarian Reform (DPRA)
5.29      DPRA will carry out cadastral surveys and launch a pilot
operation for titling private lands (paras 3.23 and 3.27). DPRA has
recently become a department of MinAgri (it was formerly part of MinFin).
It has a long experience in cadastral surveys and titling but its current
annual rhythm (about 10,000 ha) nowhere meets the need. DPRA's operations
have been reviewed by both national and international cons_.l.tants. Their
recommendations will be the basis for the implementation of the Program
cadastral component.
5.30      Organization and Management. DPRA will concentrate its
activities on carrying out systematic large-scale cadastral surveys;
accelerating the process to resolve disputes; speeding up public and
private titling; and establishing cost-effective cadastral records. FTM and
other contractors will supply photo-cartographic products. Private
surveyors will do the topographic works related to individual titling and
land transactions. A great deal of attention will be paid to informing
rural coumunities in advance, explaining the cadastral and titling process
and associating them in actual surveying works 18/. Under the Program, DPRA
will increase the number of its cadastral teams and equip them better. It
18/ This information campaign for cadastral surveys is required by law; it
will be enhanced under the Program.



- 44 -
will also increase the effectiveness of its mobile land courts (Tribunaux
Terriers Ambulants); and will computerize its cadastral offices in Program
priority areas to speed up title delivery and improve cadastral records.
The latter will be progressively computerized with a central system in
Antananarivo and microcomputers in the field. Exchange of information
between the head office and the provinces will be through diskettes. A
special study will be carried out to help DPRA establish its computerized
systems (para 3.43).
5.31      Financial aspects.  In order to encourage acceptance of large-
scale cadastral surveys and land titling, Government has decided to suspend
the application of fees for these services. This suspension will be a
condition of disbursement for the land titling component (para 8.04). This
loss of fiscal revenue will be made up by the expected improvement in land
tax collection (para 6.05).
5.32      Coordination with other im,lementing agencies. DPRA will keep a
close working relationship with: (i) ONE for general coordination and for
land-related studies; (ii) ANGAP and field operators for the demarcation of
protected area boundaries ; (iii) ANAE and field operators for cadastral
surveys and pilot titling in mini-projects; and (iv) FTM as its main
supplier of photo-cartographic products.
(7) Environmental research and main implementing agencies (CNRO and CNRE)
5.33      ONE Scientific Committee. This Committee will have the following
functions: (a) to review and approve proposed annual plans for
environmerntal research; (b) to select research agencies that will implement
the plans and fund them accordingly; (c) to mobilize funds; and (d) to
assess the research results and their readiness for practical application.
The Committee will be chaired by the ONE Director General; it will comprise
representatives of national research institutions, members of the
international scientific community (with qualifications acceptable to IDA
and other participating donors), and duly authorized donor representatives.
The Committee will meet at least once a year; ONE will ensure its
permanent Secretary.



- 45 -
5.34      FOFIFA, CNRE and CNRO 191. These three research centers,
attached to MRSTD, will be involved in environmental research in
association with the national universities and with external support from
various foreign research agencies (para 3.39). The three centers have the
same legal statute as public enterprises (EPIC). FOFIFA, the largest and
best established of these institutes, already has full funding for its
program of research in soil conservation and forestry under the IDA-
financed National Agricultural Research Project (NARP) 20/. Its inclusion
is therefore for coordination purposes. The same organization and
management improvements brought to FOFIFA under NARP, will be introduced to
CNRO and CNRE under the Program. CNRO has-recently been audited from a
financial and technical viewpoint; it has also prepared a master plan for
oceanographic research. CNRE is about to follow the same process. It has
initiated: (i) a study to review its current programs and organization
(para 3.43); (ii) the preparation of a master plan for environnemental
research in association with the national universities; and (iii) the
preparation of its own priority research programs in accordance with its
existing capacity and comparative advantage. These studies are expected to
be completed by the end of 3990, and will be the basis for financing
research by CNRE under the Program.
5.35      Technical assistance. CNRO and CNRE have already signed a
partnership agreement with the Office de Recherche Scientifique et
Technique d'Outre Her (ORSTOM), a French research institute. Under this
agreement ORSTOM will help these centers train staff, establish data
management systems, particularly on water resources, and plan their
research programs; ORSTOM will also participate in joint research programs.
This agreement is financed by FAC and by ORSTOM itself. Other foreign
research agencies have already signed cooperation agreements with CNRE,
CNRO and Malagasy universities for environmental research. If these
agreements prove productive, their scope could be extended under the
Program with possible mobilization of additional funds.
(8) NGO Participation.
5.36      One striking characteristic of the environment scene in
Madagascar is the involvement of both national and foreign NGOs, both at
the level of biodiversity and of rural development. About 20 NGOs are
already active and effective, and NGOs have played a leading role in
setting up the ANAE (para 5.19 ). The capacity of these NGOs will grow
19/ CNRP will also have a role, although to a lesser extent.
201 KARP ha8 a Steering Committee which meets once a year. ONE will
ensure coordination between this Committee and its own Scientific Committee
for Environmental Research.
!



- 46 -
with their participation in the biodiversity and soil conservation
components, and other NGOs are expected to get involved. A special effort
will be made to develop the capacity of local NGOs. Large international
and foreign NGOs will be requested to participate in this effort. The
performance of NGOs will be carefully monitored by ONE, as their structures
are sometimes fragile and they must not be overstretched.
B. Monitoring, Evaluation and Annual Planning
5.37      Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) will be a key instrument for the
Program, as an evolutive process, to adjust operations. M&E will
particularly aim:
(i) to identify institutional, technical and financial
bottlenecks in order to remedy them quickly;
(ii) to support annual planning for annual adjustment (para
5.39);
(iii) to check consistency between the various components; and
(iv) to evaluate operations in order to plan medium-term
development.
Before Program implementation, a baseline survey will be carried out in the
buffer zones as well as in the priority areas for miniprojects, to
establish a benchmark of pre-program situation (para 3.43). This survey,
managed by ONE, will be carried out by consultants. Then, a thorough
evaluation of the Program phase one as well as specific studies will be
conducted to support the mid-term review. The same evaluation and the same
studies will be repeated before the end of phase two to prepare for the
second five-year slice of the EAP as well as the completion report (para
3.43).
5.38      M&E systems will be established within the implementing
agencies, each having specific indicators in terms of inputs, outputs and
impact. ONE will be responsible for advising these agencies, consolidating
the results and ensuring consistency. ONE will also prepare detailed terms
of reference, acceptable to the donors, for the evaluations preceding the
mid term review and the Program completion. M&E, as well as data management
systems, are detailed in Annex 7. During negotiations, it was agreed that
the mid-term review will take place no later than September 15, 1993, on
the basis of a progress report to be sent to IDA no later than June 30,
1993.
5.39      Annual planning, based on M&E results, will be done by the
implementing agencies. ONE will advise them, consolidate their plans and
submit them to the Steering Committee (para 5.05). These plans will then be
presented to the boards of the various agencies for final approval. A
general five-year plan for the Program components is shown in Annex 11.



- 47 -
5.40      Progress reports will be prepared and provided in a form
satisfactory to IDA twice a year. A midyear progress report will be
submitted by April 30. It will provide the basis for preparing the annual
plan for the following year. The project completion report would be
completed by ONE six months after the c.losing date.
C. Environmental Data Systems
5.41      The Program will support the development of environmental data
systems according to the following principles:
(i) Priority demand: proposed systems will only include priority
data required by the Program. A study is about to be launched to
identify the various users and the priority data they need
within each component (para 3.43);
(ii) Networking: each agency will be responsible for its own
data system. The ONE will advise on standards to ensure
consistency. Data transfer will be done by exchange of
diskettes;
(iii) Progressive build-up on existing systems; and
(iv) Training and technical assistance.
5.42      Four agencies will play key roles in data management: (a) the
ONE will be the coordinator of environmental data management systems (para
5.03); (b) FTM, through LNT, will help other agencies deal with remote
sensing information and progd.essively set up simple GIS (para 5.25); (c)
ANGAP will develop a biodiversity data system which will be progressively
integrated into a GIS, with LNT support (para 5.09); (d) DPRA will develop
cadastral records that will constitute another file in the GIS. Finally
data systems developed under the Program will be coordinated with MRSTD
which, under separate financing, is developing a Centre d'Information et de
Documentation Scientifiques et Techniques (CIDST - Center for Technical and
Scientific Information); a water resources data base; and an inventory of
natural resources (para 1.08).
D. Technical Assistance
5.43      Technical assistance will play an important role in Program
implementation with a special focus on institution building, training,
environmental data management, planning and policy. In order to maximize
its effectiveness, the following principles have been adopted for technical
assistance: (a) developing national consulting capacity by favoring joint
ventures between national and foreign firms; (b) building national
agencies, particularly the new ones, through long-term partnership
agreements with similar agencies in the developed countries; (c) preferring
short-term non-resident experts, to long-term resident ones whenever



- 48 -
possible; and (d) systematically linking technical assistance to training.
5.44      The application of the above principles has already started.
Several consultant joint ventures have been set up for the execution of the
Program preparation studies and pilot operations. Some long-term
institutional partnerships have been signed (FTM - para 5.28, CNRO and CNRE
- para 5.35). Similar agreements are being discussed for the ONE (para
5.06) and ANGAP (para 5.14); others could be initiated for DEF and DP.
Foreign partners would generally provide a package including training,
technology tranfer, assistance to planning, monitoring and data management,
and linkage to international networks.
E. Supervision
5.45      The Program, because of its novel and complex nature, will need
a substantially higher supervision than traditional IDA projects.
Accordingly, special mechanisms have been established at both international
and national levels. At the international level, a Multi-Donor Secretariat
(MDS) is being established for 3 years at the World Bank Headquarters (para
3.03); MDS is directly supported by USAID and the World Bank. At the
national level, a Malagasy expert, financed by UNDP and supervised by IDA,
has been hired and seconded to ONE. This expert will act on behalf of the
donors and will be responsible for coordinating foreign technical
assistance and donor interventions. The expert, for example, will be
responsible for programming and preparing supervision missions, and for
preparing periodic donor meetings and consultations. The expert is already
in the field to help coordinate the Program start-up activities. In
addition, UNDP has agreed to finance a provision of consultancy (10
consultant-months a year) to backstop the national expert, and particularly
strengthen the ONE. Finally, each of the major participating donors will
take the lead for the supervision of one or several components, e.g. USAID
for biodiversity; Swiss Aid for soil conservation, agroforestry and mini-
projects; and IDA for support activiti_s, mapping and geographic
information; and cadastral surveys (para 4.09)
VI. COST RECOVERY AND FISCAL IMPACT
A. Cost Recovery
6.01      Cost recovery has not been the first criterion for Program
activities since most expenditures will generate large externalities for
the nation or, in some cases, for the rest of the world as well.
Nonetheless, in order to test sustainability, we have analyzed cost
recovery mechanisms for selected components. Given the novel nature of many
activities, detailed projections have been unfeasible in most cases and the
following analysis remains mostly indicative, as set out below.
(1) Biodiversity Protection and Management



- 49 -
6.02      The improved management of reserves will generate revenue from
entry fees, royalties and - possibly - from a tourist fee (para 2.18).
ANGAP will collect these revenues which, together with other income (e.g.
from the sale of rare species), are expected to cover about 302 cf its
recurrent costs by the end of the Program, and about 802 by the year 2010.
These estimates are based on conservative assumptions in terms of hotel
development and growth of ecological tourism (see Annex 8). Since there is
very little experience in this area, particularly in Madagascar, this
forecast of financial recovery may still prove optimistic. This will be
carefully monitored and evaluated (para 3.43). In particular, ANGAP
together with ONE will ensure that parks and reserves can sustain the
actual increase of ecologi6al tourism.
6.03      ANGAP may also have fringe revenues, such as the sale of tourist
and biological maps, and camping fees in controlled areas of parks and
reserves. These have not been taken into account.
(2) Mapping Activities
6.04      As already mentioned (para 5.09), FTM's mapping activities are
expected to become self-sustaining in the long run. Substantial income is
particularly expected from the production of tourist maps related to the
protected parks and reserves. However, by Program year 5, only 202 of
recurrent mapping costs are expected to be covered.
B. Fiscal Impact
6.05      The direct fiscal impact of the Program is expected to be
neutral in the short term as increasing Program-generated public revenues
would offset increased public recurrent costs. In the long term, assuming
that the EAP continues to be implemented as scheduled, the fiscal impact
should become positive as tax collection and other public revenues build up
beyond expected recurrent costs. Some public savings could occur from EAP
implementation and would thus reinforce this positive impact. As
importantly, Madagascar should be able to continue mobilizing substantial
support from the international community, 'argely in grant, particularly
for conservation-related expenditures. A cursory review of the fiscal
impact per component is presented below.
6.06      Biodiversity. The increasing tax revenue generated by the
expected development of ecological tourism, even under conservative
assumptions 21/ should largely cover operating costs not already offset by
ANGAP's direct revenues (para 6.02).
21/  Total number of tourists reached almost 30,000 in 1589; it is expected
to increase to 100,000 in 1995; and to about 200,000 in year 2000. With
regard to ecological tourism, cost recovery and fiscal impact have been
computed on the conservative assumption that only 252 of the expected
tourists would visit only one park per year i.e a revenue of FMG 20,000 per
eco-tourist/year for ANGAP (about US$12) through entrance fee.



- 50 -
6.07      ANAE and mini-projects. ANAE, as a private agency, is not
expected to have a significant fiscal impact. With regard to public
agencies (extension and forestry services) which are expected to help the
rural communities prepare and implement their miniprojects, no additional
public expenditure should be incurred since related operating costs will be
supported by ANAE and no hiring of additional staff is expected in those
agencies.
6.08      Mapping and Geographic Information. FTM is expected to become
eventually a profitable agency by selling its products and services to its
public and private clientele (para 5.27). At the same time, changing map
production from supply- to demand-driven together with better monitoring of
aerial surveys to avoid redundancy (para 5.25) should result in more cost-
effective use of public resources. Finally, FTM might eventually develop
operations outside Madagascar and become a competitor to reckon with on the
international market because of its low labor cost.
6.09      Cadastral surveys and titling. In the short term, the fiscal
impact of this component is expected to be neutral. The present land
registration dues will be suppressed in large titling operations (para
5.31) but will be compensated by an increased land tax collection due to
improved cadastral records. In the long term, however, the fiscal impact is
expected to be positive because of further increase in land tax collection.
This additional fiscal revenues, while covering the operating costs of the
land registry, could contribute to the financing of local services. At
present, only 3Z of the land tax collected finances local services, but the
issue will be reviewed under the land tax study (para 3.43).
6.10      Apart from land tax collection described above, another source
of income related to cadastral activities will be the development of
private topographic companies (para 3.31). Government will collect taxes
from new land registration as well as fiscal revenue from these companies.
Government will also collect additional revenue through registration dues
as registration of land transactions become compulsory (para 2.15). The
magnitude of these revenues remains, however, very difficult to estimate at
this stage.
6.11      Environmental research. The impact on Government-incurred
recurrent costs is expected to be limited as the component will focus on
relatively small applied research programs with a limited lifespan and
mostly managed by existing staff. Furthermore, a substantial input (as
grants) is expected from bilaterally-financed foreign research agencies.
6.12      Training, education and awareness campaigns. The fiscal impact
of this component will be neutral for the following reasons: (i) training,
while requiring a major effort during the Program, will eventually return
to current level; (ii) education will not entail new hiring in the public
sector; and (iii) awareness campaigns will mainly involve private firms.



- 51 -
6.13      ONE will be the only institution without any capacity to
generate public revenue. It will add to the executive structure of the
Government. Its fiscal impact will however decrease over time as it becomes
a policy body, its direct operational involvement being progressively
phased out. ONE's role in implementing EAs' procedures is also expected to
result in public savings as environment-damaging, non-sustainable
investments are expected to be progressively eliminated; this effect will
be more economic than fiscal.
VII. BENEFITS, ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION, AND RISKS
7.01      The annual cost of environment degradation is between US$100 and
290 million in Madagascar. i.e. between 5 and 152 of current GNP 22/,
according to a rough estimate made during the preparation of EAP. About
752 of this cost comes from deforestation; about 152 from decreasing
productivity in agricultural and pasture lands due to erosion; and about
102 from increasing operating costs and reduced lifespan of infrastructure.
The order of magnitude of this degradation underscores the urgency to stop
it, or at least to slow it down. It also provides an indicative benchmark
against which the benefits, the economic impact and the risks of the
Program can be assessed.
7.02      This assessment, however, is more qualitative than quantitative
due to lack of solid data and experience on proposed activities. As the
Program develops, so will monitoring and evaluation systems to provide
planners and decision-makers with data and to help them refine
environmental policies, assess their economic impact in more quantitative
terms, reset priorities and better guide implementation.
A. Benefits
7.03      The Program will set the following processes in motion:
Madagascar should have a legal, financial and institutional framework in
place, together with the necessary skills and tools, to provide effective
environmental management; the incentives facing farmers in key locations
should encourage conservation rather than the opposite; and decision-makers
and the public should be aware of the key environmental problems and what
needs to be done about them.
7.04      These processes in turn are expected to yield the following
benefits:
22/ In OECD countries, the annual cost of environmental degradation has
been estimated at 4 to 52 of the GNP, according to recent OECD studies.
This cost is however more related to pollution than to degradation of
natural resources.



- 52 -
- The now threatened sites of world-renowned biodiversity should
be conserved. This will give Madagascar the option of
developing an ecologically-based tourist industry, and will give
the world community access to genetic stock, use of biota for
medicinal purposes, material for basic research, etc. We have
not attempted to value such access.
- A beginning will be made at slowing down, in an economically
efficient manner, the rate of deforestation and that of soil
loss.   This will maintain the patrimony of natural forests,
improve agricultural production and reduce damage to roads and
other infrastructure.
- A basis will have been provided for an economic development
program -- involving tourism, the use of the natural forest
products, park development, food processing based on increased
output, the export of services in mapping, and techniques of
rural development -- which uses and manages resources in an
environmentally positive fashion. This will boost rural income
and employment.
Employment
7.05      The Program will directly create about 1100 jobs of which 552 in
the public sector and 452 in the private sector. Out of this total number
of jobs, about 30Z will be for professionals and about 702 for support
staff and low-level technicians.  Conservation in conjunction with
development will be the main generators of new jobs (39%); then
miniprojects (282); cadastral surveys (18Z); mapping (62); ONE (42); and
the rest for environmental research, education and awareness campaigns.
The fiscal impact of this job creation is expected to be globally neutral
(para 6.05).
7.06      Indirect employment creation as a result of the Program (in
tourism, agriculture, handicrafts, transport, etc.) is roughly estimated at
5,000 to 6,000 new jobs during the five-year program period.
B. Economic Analysis
7.07      Demographic pressures, archaic cultivation methods, and weak
institutions are at the root of Madagascar environment degradation. These
basic causes are compounded by the lack of proper mechanisms for economic
valuation and exchanges, especially in the face of large and imperfectly
urderstood externalities.
7.08      The economic causes of environmental degradation in Madagascar
fall into three main categories: (i) insecurity of land tenure, resulting
in a lack of incentives to invest in conservation measures; (ii) non-
tradable outputs in the form of unique but monetarily unvalued flora and
fauna, which provide no obvious economic incentives to conserve; and (iii)
lack of information among (a) Malagasy farmers, about soil conservation
choices, as well as among (b) the general population about the



- 53 -
extraordinary international significance of Madagascar's biological
endowment, the extent to which it is threatened, and the choices available
to conserve it. In additon, the immediate economic interests of poor
farmers for survival do not always coincide with the longer-term
perspective of environment protection and there is no proper economic
mechanism at work to bridge this gap.
7.09      The economic philosorhly underpinning the EAP is to increase the
incentives for the adoption of resource-conserving practices in ways which
are mutually reinforcing, ensuring thereby that the prospects of success
are enhanced and the costs are reduced, since each component reinforces the
other.
7.10      (a) Biodiversity -- Conservation and Management.  This component
is designed to adjust the fact that the outputs and benefits of
biodiversity are not traded and "captured" by the people of Madagascar.
7.11      Evaluation: The average annual cost -- capital + operating, +
investments in the peripheral zones -- per protected area is $134,000. The
global significance of the endowment is universally recognized, and donors
appear to be willing to fumd this component. The key question is: Will it
"produce" conservation? The World Wide Fund for Nature reports that, for
very modest investment in the peripheral zones of Andringitra Strict Nature
Reserve (no. 5) and Beza Mahafaly Special Reserve, a high level of
commitment has been secured from the local community, exemplified in the
former case by the local people putting out a fire which threatened the
reserve. This type of commitment is expected to be enhanced under the
Program by ensuring that part of the increased revenues generated by
tourism do accrue to the local communities as an incentive to participate
in conservation efforts. Thus there is reason for (very cautious) optimism.
7.12      (b) Soil Conservation and Agroforestry: Soil erosion from
cultivated fields, from burnt over grazing land, and from lavakas is
pervasive in Madagascar, and imposes very substantial costs in terms of
reduced soil productivity and downstream effects such as siltation of
irrigation systems, dams and hydroschemes. At present, farmers do not have
available to them "on the shelf' a soil conservation system which is
simple, cheap, effective and with low maintenance costs. The market has
yet to produce an affordable solution. This component is designed to
identify such a system. Two approaches will be used: small projects
developed by communities and funded by the ANAE, and assistance with
planting vegetative strips along the contours, particularly with vetiver
for soil stabilization.
7.13      Evaluation:  The criteria applied in the evaluation of project
proposals will include, in addition to environmental impacts,
considerations such as cost-effectiveness, replicability, technical                         U
simplicity, ease and cost of maintenance, and community impacts. The
vetiver project is justified in that the projected benefits are great
relative to the costs. However, the soil erosion problem is very
extensive, has been around for a long time, and has thus far resisted
solution.  This is a high-risk program.  However, cautious optimism is



- 54 -
called for, if one refers to current soil conservation programs in Africa
and elsewhere, which have yielded economic IRR between 10 and 20X.
7.14      (c) Cartography and Cadastre -- the assigRnment of property
rights. This component will directly address the land tenure problem by
gearing up the relevant Malagasy agencies technically, administratively,
and legislatively to map, survey and assign property rights. Assignment of
property rights is the sine qua non for economically efficient use of
environmental resources. These components will provide maps for the
reserve areas, and assign property rights in the peripheral zones of the
reserves, thereby reinforcing the biodiversity component. It will likewise
facilitate and reinforce the soil conservation and agroforestry component,
because the assignment of property rights provides an incentive to invest
for the future.
7.15      Evaluation: About half the costs of this component are fixed:
once the equipment and trained personnel are in place, the marginal cost
per hectare to which property rights are assigned are expected to be
US$1-3. Experience from other countries indicates that assigning property
rights yields a very high rate of return, based only on the resulting
increase in net output. For example, in Thailand, it has been estimated
that the assignment of property rights has yielded an economic IRR of about
70Z. In terms of international comparisons, the marginal costs for this
component are low.
7.16      The Environmental Action Plan and Development.  Implementation
of the EAP provides the people of Madagascar -- especially those remote
from the capital -- with a unique opportunity to achieve economic
development which is consistent with, and indeed depends on, conserving the
environment. These opportunities can be grouped as follows:
(i) Increased Agricultural Output: This should result from
three actions: providing security of tenure will encourage
investment and increased output and investment in perennial
crops; the mini-projects will first slow the rate of decline in
output, and, if some of them prove to be successful, output will
be diversified and will increase in value over time; the vetiver
project, if successful, will have similar effects; the
de7elopments in the peripheral zones will likewise result in
diversification and increased output. It will be about 5 years
before the benefits begin to be realized. It is important to
bear in mind that production is only one link in the chain;
transport, processing and marketing are at least as important in
determining return to the farmer and to the community.
(ii) Increased Tourism Expenditure: Special interest tourism is
a growing proportion of the total tourism business, and, within
that, "ecological" tourism is among the fastest growing sub-
sectors. It is estimated that, in Madagascar, the number of
visitors coming specifically to enjoy nature has increased from
4000 to 8000 in two years, with a minimum of promotion, and with
very high access costs, poor infrastructure, etc. The total



- 55 -
market for this type of tourist needs to be assessed, and then
Madagascar in general, and the managers and communities in the
vicinity of the most promising reserves in particular, need to
pursue it actively. The key macro-constraints are access costs
and marketing. On the supply side, the guiding principles
should be maximization of local value added, and con3ervation of
the integrity of the reserves and the communities. It will take
3-5 years to bring substantial benefits, and these are likely to
be concentrated on a few reserves.
(iii) Export Services from Centers of Excellence: As a result
of the EAP, agencies in Madagascar are being given the
opportunity to become leaders in Africa in specific fields. FTM
will have outstanding equipment and staff, with the capability
to offer cartographic and related services which are very
competitive internationally. If the programs to manage
reserves, to develop locally-based tourism, to stimulate
conservationist-oriented economic activity, and to conserve soil
in a cost-effective way succeed, this knowledge could be
'packaged" and exported via consulting services.
The economic analysis is further detailed in Annex 9.
C. Program Risks
7.17      This is a high risk rrogram.  It is the first coherent effort in
Madagascar to tackle environmental problems and inevitably starts with a
number of unknowns - institutional, technical, sociological. There are
several new institutions to be established, new legislation has to be
passed, staff with rare skills have to be found, and - most importantly -
the heat   and minds of people have to be reached.  The program has been
conceived on positive assumptions, but with safeguards built in. The
implementation strategy (para 3.02) provides for a flexible institutional
framework, balancing responsible initiative with coordination; a
progressive implementation rhythm punctuated by periodic reviews; good
feedback from monitoring and evaluation; and a supportive policy
environment. Not all questions can be answered in advance, some are not
even formulated, but the implementation strategy should ensure that
problems are rapidly identified and tackled as implementation proceeds.
7.18      Perhaps the greatest risk is that the range, complexity, and
interdependence of the actions will make effective management difficult. In
order to better manage that complexity: (i) the ONE, staffed with high
level and motivated people, will be the coordinating body for all the the
Program; (ii) the external donors will have a Donors' Secretariat to
coordinate donors'plans and actions and to diffuse informations among them;
and (iii) there will be one technical assistant, financed by UNDP, living
in Antananarivo to follow Program progress (para 5.45).
7.19      Given the scale and nature of Madagascar's environmental and
human problems, the logic of a comprehensive approach, along mutually



- 56 -
reinforcing lines, is compelling. In conservation projects, "small is
beautiful"; small-scale, locally-based initiatives which mature over a
number of years appear to have the best track record. The two perspectives
are reconciled in the Program by:
(i) dividing it into discretely managed "packages," which are
individually not too large;
(ii) proceeding slowly, using pilot projects, in the early
stages;
(iii) analyzing each increment before proceeding, ensuring that
there is unambiguous responsibility assigned for success and
failure, and having intensive follow-up and evaluation.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AT NEGOTIATIONS, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      At negotiations, the Government of Madagascar presented:
(a) a final draft of the National Charter on the Environment
(para 2.11).
(b) draft legislation on EA procedures (para 2.16);
(c) a draft proposal for cadastral surveys and land titling in
common property areas (para 3.25);
(d) a draft decree for the creation of ONE (para 5.07); and
(e) a draft statute for ANGAP (para 5.10);
8.02      Conditions of effectiveness will be:
(a) recruitment of an audit firm for the whole Program and
preparation of terms of reference acceptable to IDA (para 4.17);
(b) an operational ONE (nomination of members of the Board and
appointment of the Director General) (para 5.07);
(c) an operational ANGAP (approval of legal statute, nomination
of members of the Board and appointment of the Director General)
(para 5.10);
(d) an operational ANAE (appointment of the Director General)
(para 5.19); and



- 57 _
(e) the signature of implementation agreements, satisfactory to
the Association, between Government and respectively ANGAP (para
5.12), ANAE (para 5.22), and FTM (para 5.27).
8.03      Agreements reached at negotiations include:
(a) publication of a decree by the end of 1990 specifying
environmental assessment procedures (para 2.16);
(b) a calendar for the legal establishment of all parks and
reserves (para 3.08);
(c) criteria for eligibility for financing mini-projects by ANAE
(para 3.16);
(d) an action plan for titling in priority areas where common
property systems prevail. This plan will be reviewed annualiy
with the Association, particularly the results of both the
inventory of these areas and amendments to be made in the land
legislation regarding them (para 3.25);
(e) publication of a regulation, no later than -.ae 30, 1991, in
order to transfer the execution of individual topographic
surveys to private surveyors (para 3.27);
(f) opening of a special account and six "caisses d'avance"
(para 4.15);
(g) establishment of "comptes locaux' for timely availability of
funds for public agencies involved in Program implementation
(para 4.16);
(h) maintenance of accounts and annual audits (para 4.17);
(i) determination of an annual date (December) for the meetings
of the Steering Committee (para 5.05);
(j) the legal statute of ANGAP (para 5.10); and
(k) transition arrangements between MPAEF/DEF, ANGAP and
operators cor the implementation of the biodiversity component
(para 5.11).
8.04      Conditions for disbursement will be:
(a) approval by the Association of the annual work plans for
land titling for the cadastral component (para 3.25);
(b) the mandatory registration of all land transfers for the
cadastral component (para 3.26); and



- 58 -
lc) the fee exemption for registration, topographic services and
other charges for systematic cadastral surveys, for the
cadastral component (para 3.27).
8.05      With the indicated agreements and conditions, the proposed
Program will be suitable for a Credit on standard terms of SDR 19.8 million
equivalent to the Government of Madagascar.
I



- .59 -
Annex 1
Page 1
MADAGASCAR
ENVIRONMENT PROGRAM
Biodiversity in Madagascar
Introduction
An Island scarcely bigger than France whose variety of climates,
landscapes and organisms qualify it as a continent in its own right,
Madagascar lies a short 350 km off the southeast African coast.  Geologic
forces separated Madagascar from the African continent some 165 million
years ago and this isolation has resulted in the evolution of unique biotic
forms there which occur in greater numbers than perhaps anywhere else on
earth
Unprecedented levels of endemism can be found in nearly all of
Madagascar's faunal and floral groups; 982 of the palm species for instance
(110 out of 112 species), are found nowhere else, as are 93% of Madagascar's
primates, approximately 802 of all the flowering plants, 233 of 245 species
of reptiles (952 endemism), all but two of the country's 144 species of
frogs, 29 of the country's 30 species of tenrecs and eight of its nine
species of carnivores. It is estimated overall that some 150,000 of
Madagascar's 200,000 species of living things are found nowhere else and                  -
this remarkable endemism is accompanied by very high diversity in most
groups.  The number of Malagasy plants alone accounts for one quarter of all
the plant species for the entire African region and Madagascar's 13 primate
genera nearly match the 14-15 genera found on the African continent. There
are more species of chameleons in Madagascar than in all the other countries
where they occur combined, and more orchid species than can be found on
mainland Africa. The number of unique and endangered species in Madagascar
increases with each new inventory, as well; a recent botanical expedition to
the virtually unstudied Masoala Peninsula discovered two new genera and
seven new species of palms alone, and three new taxa of lemurs have been
documented in Madagascar during the last two years.
Madagascar's high endemism and high number of species coupled with
its small size make it an extremely important global reservoir for
biological diversity and thus a high priority for conservation. Madagascar
is one of the world's 13 megadiversity countries, which by themselves
account for at least 70X of the world's biological diversity. Along with
Australia, Madagascar is especially noteworthy because of high endemism at
the higher taxonomic levels (e.g. genera, families). For instance,
Madagascar has five endemic plant families and five endemic primate
families, compared to no endemic families in Brazil, the world's largest
tropical country.



- 60 -
Annex 1
Page 2
Madagascar has also been identified as one of ten "threatened
hotspots', a series of tropical areas identified by Dr. Norman Myers as
being critical to the conservation of global plant diversity. These ten
areas cover only 0.2% of the world's land area and 3.5% of the world's
tropical forest, but have within their borders some 34,000 endemic plant
species or 27% of all tropical plants. Because of its high levels of
diversity and endemism, Madagascar has on many occasions been termed 'the
single highest major conservation priority in the world."
As ie the case throughout the world, biological diversity in
Madagascar is highest in the tropical forests. There are three major forest
ecosystems in Madagascar: the dry deciduous forests of the west, the wet
forests of the eastern escarpment and the southern spiny desert which is
characterized by its distinctive Euphorbiaceae and Didieraceae forest. All
three of these formations and their indigenous wildlife face any of a wide
variety of threats from slash and burn agriculture, clearing of forest for
cultivation, uncontrolled ranging of livestock, timber exploitation,
charcoal burning, hunting and ornamental plant collection. Deforestation
has made erosion a sericus problem....
Estimates of forest destruction indicate that PR much as 80% of
Madagascar's original forest cover has disappeared in the 1,500-2,000 years
since the arrival of man and this continues at a vertiginous pace (possibly
exceeding 25,000 acres of forest loss per year). The extinctions that have
occurred during this period include at least two species of giant tortoises,
an aardvark, a pygmy hippopotamus, the largest birds ever to walk the earth
(genus Aepyornis), and an incredible six genera and fourteen species of
lemurs.
While the reasons for this continued loss of biological diversity
are largely economic and may result from ill-conceived investment policies,
external debt pressures or misguided agricultural policies, certainly at the
roots of the destruction is the burgeoning population growth and the
pressures of rural poor who depend upon natural resource extraction and
small scale agriculture and livestock production for their survival. While
the current human population is around 11 million, about half that of
California in an area 40% larger, Madagascar is already over populated in
some of its aras, particularly the central higlands, in respect to usable
and arable land, and its growth rate of 3% is among Africa's highest. Thus,
to be successful, conservation of biological diversity in Madagascar must
integrate rural development goals by focusing on programs which enhance the
ability of the Malagasy people to sustainably meet their development needs
through rational use of available natural resources. Efforts to undertake
ecological inventory, species level research, environmental education and
training and to bolster the nation's protected area network must parallel
work on agriculture, forestry, utilization of secondary forest products and
useful plants, fisheries, health and hygiene and other rural development-
oriented aspects of resource use and preservation.



Annex 2
61                           A - page 1
MADAGASCAR
ENVIRONMENT PROGRAM
BIODIVERSITY COMPONENT
A - List of Priority Protected Areas
Acronyms for planned activities include: C (conservation/protection); RD
(rural development in buffer zones; T (tourism); EE (environment
education); S (studies and research).
Level 1 (highest priority)   (C - RD - T - EE - S)
1. Complex of Montagne d'Ambre (Ambre, Analamera, Ankarana)
2.   Masoala/Nosy Mangabe
3.   Mananara
4.   Marojejy/Anjanaharibe Sud
5.  Ranomafana
6.   Andasibe/Mantadia
7.  Andringitra/Pic d'Ivohibe
8.   Andohahela
9.   Ankarafantsika
10. Complex Manombolo/Bemaraha/Tsimembo/Nosy Barren
11. Morondava/Cate Ouest, Forets basse Tsiribihina
12. Beza-Mahafaly
13. Betampona
14. Zahamena
Level 2 (C - (T) - EE - S)
1.   Complex Lac Ihotry/Morombe
2.   Midongy
3.   Kalambatritra
4.   Zombitsy/Vohibasia
5.   Isalo
6.   Complex Plateau Mahafaly
7.   Complex Karimbola (Cap Sainte Marie)
8.   Kassijy/Causse du Kelifely
9.   Tsingy de Namoroka
10. Complexe Lac Kinkony/Tsiombikibo
11. Tsaratanana/Manongarivo
12. Lokobe/Nosy Tanikely/Nosy Mitsio
13. Anbohitantely
14.  Bemar:Lvo/Manangoza
15. Bora
16. Manombo
17. Betampona/Marotandrano
18. Anbatovaky/Marotandrano
19. Ambohijanahary
20.  Complexe Toliary (Recifs, Forets, Mangroves)



- 62 -
Annex 2
A - page 2
Level 3 (S)
1.  Tampoketsa d'Analamaitso
2.   Itremo
3.   Daraina/Lac Sahaka
4.  Marais de Didy
5.  Makay
6.   Isalo Sud
7.  Baie de Baly/Katsepy
8.   Complexe de Belo-sur-Mer
9.  Mangoky
10. Chakui Anosyenne
11. Mangroves
Total Protected Areas Levels 1. 2 and 3: 45 (not all of them have proper
legal status)



- 63 -
Annex 2
-B-
MADAGASCAR
ENVIRONMENT PROGRAM
BIODIVERSITY COMPONENT
B - List of Financed Protected Areas of Level 1
Level of      Financing         Implementation
biological
richness
A) Active implementation
1. Mananara          B          GPF, UNESCO       GPF, UNESCO
2. Andasibe          B          GPF, UNESCO        GPF, UNESCO
3. Andahohela        A          USAID              MPAEF, SAFAFI,
Yale/Washingt. Univ'y
4. Beza-Mahafaly     B          WWF, USAID         WWF, Tana Univ'y
Yale/Washingt. Univ'y
5. Morondava/Ouest   A          Swiss Cooper.      Intercooperation
6. Ankarafantaika    A          GPF, UNESCO        GPF, UNESCO
7. Betampona         B          MPAEF             MPAEF
B) Financing being negotiated
1. Complexe Ambre    A          USAID, WWF        WWF
2. Marojejy/Anjana.  A          WWF, FED          WWF
3. Cap Masoala       A          USAID, MBG         SAFAFI, MPAEF
Duke Univ'y
4. Andringitra       B          WWF               WWF
6. Bemaraha          A          UNESCO             UNESCO
Biological richness is superior in A than in B.
GPF (Forests Management and Protection Project); MBG (Missouri Botanical
Garden), SAFAFI (local NGO); FED (European Development Fund)



- 64 -
Annexe 2
c
MADAGASCAR
ENVIRONMENT PROGRAM
C - Organization Chart of A.N.G.A.P.
(Association Nationale pour la Gestion des Aires Protegees)
(National Association for the Management of Protected Areas)
Board of Directors
________________________
Conseil d'Administration
Director General
!------_-_________
Directeur General
Coordina-     Administration    Training and    Monitoring    Data Bank
nation         & Finance       Communication    & Evaluat.    in Biodiv.
Formation et     Suivi/Eval.  Banque
Communication                  donnees en
biodivers.



- 65 -
Annex 2
-D -
MADAGASCAR
ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
D - Profile of the Director of A.N.G.A.P.
(Association Nationale pour la Gestion des Aires Protegees)
Training: at least a Master Degree in forestry and/or in ecology from a
university or a "Grande Ecole" of international reputation in forestry
management
Experience:
. at least ten years of experience as an executive in forest and/or
park management, in the public and/or private sector
. known qualities of dynamism in management innovativeness and as a
leader of ideas and human resources
. if possible, having done consultancy works in foreign countries in
the area of protection management of forest areas, parks and reserves
. good knowledge of the main regions of Madagascar, from an
ecological and sociological viewpoint
. positive experience of collaboration with government agencies
. experience in dealing with donors, and good understanding of
financial management
Other: a good knowledge of Malagasy and French. A knowledge of English
would be an asset.



- 66 -
Annex 2
E - Page 1
MADAGASCAR
ENVIRONMENT PROGRAM
BIODIVERSITY COMPONENT
Norms used for budget planning
for the protection of Parcs and Reserves
Niveau de Priorite                 Priorite 1      Priorite  2   Priorite  3
Niveau de richesse biologique        A      B       A   B   C
Nombre de PIR                        8      6       7   8   4             12
Chef de Site (4x4) (Nb)              1      1          -   -        -
Chef P/R (motocyclette) (Nb)         1      1        1   1   1             1
Gardes (bicyclette) (Nb)            20    10       10   5   2              2
Chef de gite (bicyclette)            2      1        - -   -        -
Guides (Nb)                          4      2       -   -   -
Secretaire/comptable (Nb)            1      1        - -   -        -
Ouvrier (h x Jr/an)                400   200      100  50  25             25
Batiments (m2)
. Annie 1                        100    70       25  10  10             10
. Annie 2                        150   100       25  10  10             10
. Annee 3                        150   100       25  10  10             10
. 9nnee 4                        100    70       25  10  10             10
. Annee 5                          -     _       25  10  10             10
Infrastructure
. puits (Nb)                       3     2        1   1   1              1
. creat. sentiers (km)
Annee 1                         10    10       10   5   5              5
Annie 2                         10    10       10   5   5              5
Annee 3                         10      -       -   _   _
. rehab. sentiers (km)
Annie 1                         20    10       10   5   5              5
Annee 2                         20    10       10   5   5              5
. Bornage (nombre)
Anne 1                          20    10       10  10  10             10
Annie 2                         20    10       10  10  10             10



- 67 -
Annex 2
E - Page 2
Niveau de Priorite                 Priorite 1      Priorite  2   Priorite  3
Niveau de richesse biologique        A     B        A   B   C
. balisage (km)
Annie 1                         S0    25        -   -   -
Annie 2                         50    25        -   -   -
Annae 3                         50    25        -   -   -             _
. panneaux (nombre)
par an, 3 ans                   10     5        5   5   5             5
Equipements
. groupe/solaire (Nb)              1     1          -   -        -
000 FMGIan                   3000  2000    2000 2000 2000          1000
.radio (Nb)                       1     1        - -   -        -
Transport avionlan (Nb)              2     1        - -   -        -
Formation (h x Jr/an)
. Annie 1
Chef Site, PIR                2xl5  2x15       15  15  15            15
Gardes, Guides                 2xl5  2x15      15  15  15            15
. Annie 2
Chef Site, PIR                  15    15       15  15  15            15
Gardes, Guides                  15    15       15  15  15            15
. Annees 3 et 4
Chef Site, PIR                  15    15        - -   -        -
Gardes, Guides                  15    15        -   -   -             _
. Annie 5
Chef Site, PIR                  15    15       15  15  15            15
Gardes, Guides
tous les 2 ans



- 6.8-
Annex 2
F - Page 1
MADAGASCAR
ENVIRONMENT PROGRAM
BIODIVERSITY COMPONENT
Estimated means for development activities
of an "averape" buffer zone
Total
Unit;    1     2      3     4     5      unit;
Investissements
A) Infrastructures
1) CAT 1/
Logements               mZ     600                               600
Entrepot                m2     100                               100
Salle formation         m2      60                                60
Bureaux                 m2     100                               100
2) Village Ecole
Salle formation         m2            100   100                  200
B) Travaux terrains
*piste                     km       6      6    12    12    12       48
* irrigation               ha              4    12    24    36       76
* agrof. tavy              ha              8    16    32    48      104
* reboisement              ha              4    16    32    48      100
* gestion massif           ha             10    40    40    40      130
*verger                    ha              2     8    16    24       50
*alvinage                  Nb              1     4     8    12       25
*ruche (12)                Nb              1     4     8    12       25
*pepinieres                Nb        1     3     4     4             12
*appui levage              Nb        1     3     4     4      4      16
C) Equipement
1) CAT
Bureau                  Nb       4      1     1                    6
Stereoscope             Nb       1                                 1
Machine ecrire          Nb       1                                 1
Video                   Nb       1                                 1
Ecran TV                Nb       1                                 1
App. photo              Nb        1                                1
Projecteur              Nb              1     1                    3
Ecran photo             Nb       1      1     1                    3
Mat dessein             Nb        1                                1
Roneo                   Nb       1                                 1
Generateur              Nb                                         1
Autres                  Nb        1          -                     1
1/ Centre d'Appui Technique (Technical Support Center)



- 69 -
Annex 2
F - Page 2
Total
Unit;    1     2      3     4     5      unito
Investissements
2) Production
* pepiniere             Nb       1      3     4     4      4      16
* gestion massif        ff              1     4     4      4      13
* reboisement           ff              1     4     8    12       25
* sociaux               ff       1      3     4     4             12
D) Vehicules
* bachee                   Nb        1                                1
* mobylette                Nht       3                 3              6
E) Formation
* cadres CAT             h x Jr   120   120   120   120   120       600
* villageois             h x Jr   300   900  1200  1200  1200    4800
F) Assistance technique
* Expat. LT 1/           h x an      1     1                          2
* Expat. CT 2/           h x m       2     1   0.5                  1.5
* Local CT               h x m       4     3     2      1     1      11
* voyages Europe           Nb        3     2     1                    6
locaux          Nb        4     4     2      2     2       14
G) Couats recurrents
1) Salaireq
*forestier            h x an     1      1     1     1      1       5
*agronome             h x an     1      1     1     1      1       5
* communications      h x an     1      1     1     1      1       5
*secret./comp.        h x an     1      1     1     1      1       5
2) Alloc. transp.        h x Jr   600   600   600   600   600    3000
3) Entretien
batiment                m2            860   960   960  1060    3940
bachee                  Nb       1      1     1     1      1       5
mobylette               Nb       3      3     3     3      3      15
aquipement              ff       1      1     1     1      1       5
4) Autres
publication             ff       1      3     4     4      4      16
concours/prix           ff       1      3     4     4      4      16
fournitures             ff       1      3     4     4      4      16
1/ LT: Long Terme (Long Term)
2/ CT: Court Terme (Short Term)



- 70 -
Annex 2
-0-
MADAGASCAR
ENVIRONMENT PROGRAM
BIODIVERSITY COMPONENT
G - Program and Annual Contracts
between A.N.G.A.P. and Operators
I - Program contracts (for the duration of the operator's intervention)
. length of the program contract (about 3 to 5 years)
. description of main caracteristica of operator's methods of
assistance to help local communities to define their need, Identify
and propose projects and implement them (in particular community
financial and/or physical contribution in the implementation)
* quantitative and qualitative objectives proposed to be reached
during the period of the program
. agreements (ii necessary) with Government agencies (HPAEF,
MINAGRI...) to be reached before the program contract is signed with
ANGAP
o methods and timing of monitoring and evaluation done by ANGAP
. type and amount of technical assistance expected from ANGAP
. type and amount of technical assistance (local and foreign) to be
provided to the local community during the contract
. type of scientific data (on flora, fauna, climatic...) to be given
to ANGAP for building up an information system
. financing plan for the contract period
o plan for phasing out foreign technical assistance
. training program for local agents and communities in the buffer
zones
. auditing operator's accounts by an independant auditor and a copy
to be sent to ANGAP not later than four month after closure of the
accounts
II - Annual Working Plans (AWP)
. before the start of each year, the operator will present to ANGAP
an AWP within the framework of the program contract (the program
contract could be revised in the light of experience, but then, a new
program contract would be signed)
. presentation of activities (types and quantities) to be undertaken
and detailed corresponding budgets, including contributions from the
operator and from the community
. specific training programs for local agents and communities
. planning of procurement



- 71 -
Annexe 3
-A-
MADAGASCAR
ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
A - Organization Chart of A.N.A.E.
(Association Nationale d'Actions Environnementales)
(National Association for Environmental Actions)
Board of Directors
________________________
Conseil d'Administration
Director General
Directeur General
Mini-projects                        Training        Monitor. & Eval.
Formation       Suivi & Evaluat.
5 Field Operators
________________________________
5 Agences d'execution de terrain
Field Agents                   Field Agents
Agents de terrain              Agents de terrain



_ 72 -
Annex 3
B_ 
MADAGASCAR
ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
. - Profile of the Director of A.N.A.E.
(Association Nationale d'Actions Environnementales)
Training: a high level diploma (at least a Master Degree) as agro-economist
from a university or a "Grande Ecole" of international reputation, with, if
possible, a complementary training in management and planning in the area
of environment protection.
Experience:
* at least ten years of experience in a bank or in a ministry where
he/she was responsible for managing a portfolio of projects dealing
with forestry and/or agricultural development andlor agroindustries
. known qualities as an effective manager and leader of ideas and
human resources
* if possible, having an experience in international consulting in
management and monitoring or agricultural development or agro-
forestry projects
. good economic and human knowledge of several regions of Madagascar
. good experience in dealing with governmental agencies
Other- good knowledge of Malagasy and French languages, the knowledge of
English would be an asset



- 73 -                         Annexe 4
^A-
MADAGASCAR
ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
A - Organization Chart of O.N.E.
(Office National pour l'Environnement
(National Office for the Environment)
Orientation Council
________________________
Conseil d'orientation
Scientific Committee                           Steering Committee
Comite Scientifique                            Comite de Gestion
Director General
Directeur General
Deputy Director
Directeur Adjoint
environment policy/legislation                   environmental studies
politique environ'tt/lgislation                  etudes environnementales
environ't assessment                             data bank management
etudes impact environnement                      gestion banques de donnees
administrationrprocur't/finance                  coordination with FTAP
administration/marches/finance                   coordination avec PAFT
coordination of awareness
training, education
coordination de la sensibilisa'n,
formation et education



- 74 -
Annex 4
-B -
MADAGASCAR
ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
B - Profile of the Director of the O.N.E.
(National Office for the Environment)
Training: Economist (at least a Master Degree) from a university or a
"Grande Ecole" of international reputation, with, if possible, a
complementary training in management, planning and legislation of
environment protection.
Experience:
. at least ten years of high level experience in a ministry or an
international organization in rural development (agriculture,
livestock, forestry) in which he was involved in planning and could
show his/her qualifications of dynamism and negociations with
governmental agencies, private enterprises and financial
international organizations.
known qualities as a manager and a leader in ideas and human
resources
. good human and economic knowledge of several regions of Madagascar
Others good knowledge of Malagasy and French languages. A good knowledge of
English is also necessary.



Annex 5
O                      MfiADAGASCAR
ENVIRONMENT PROGRAM
PROPOSED FINANCING STRUCTURE
Donors: international                      Govertment
NOG and private                  (counterpart funds)
Separate          Component            Management responsibilities
account
A  -.-fiive~it1---------ANGAP coordination for conser-
vation of parks and re-
serves and development
in buffer zones implemen-
ted by executing agencies
BdCartography         FTM   remote sensing, cartogra-
phy, geographic informat.
IC  Land Titlin        PRA  surveys and land titling
SoilDConservation           financing development of
actions in buffer zones
and in soil conservation/
agroforestry in priority
areas executed by
executing agencies
_   E          Coordination and      ONE   direct management for
Studies                     support activities and
coordination for educa-
tion, awareness and
environmental research
implemented by
executing agencies
p  Forestry          DEF   assistance to protect
Department                  gazetted forests, and
TFAP
Notes ONE will be responsible for the general coordination of accounting,
disbursement, procurement and monitoring systems as well as for ensuring
auditing for the whole Program.



-76-                           Annex 6
Page 1 of 5
4.C
- I ~
(FM  '000)                  (USO '000)                  2 Totl
Z Foreign   um
L, ld     Fof#        Totl       Local Fomrig Total   Exchane   Costs
A. BlODIUERSITY
an  SIEDE                          2.4467  6.379."91   9.9.946    1361  3.544  490                72       7
3. BIODIWRSITT
ASSItVAN  DF                       4m778ui    2MU.M   6,810.0D1   2,6SS  1,129  3,784             30       6
C. DIODIVM
ChEMTIUN P/8R                      7507U   25 2   10.061tO011   49171  1,419  5.59                25       0
B. BIODIVESITY
IJEWLNEiT P      nERI. z0         S39.1m 8    MOM. 13,09 2   3,000  49269  79266                  59      11
it CARTD    Y/TQW TI                  7121,203 10,7,95  1h,25.79    423   5,910 10144                58     1i
Fe CADASTUE                           6234,675  6254.73   12. 457   3,464  3475  6.M                 50      10
9. n     n                            2M940A014  46960       7661    1.33  2,69  4.242               61       6
N. CUNATION KS 905IWItOT             104.%122  6r337.116  16,927,m    5.829   34521  9,348           38      14
t. APUl NJ FEI                       16.6  11,74AM    283323,213   9,195  6.42  15,736               42      23
To*Il BAllQIIECUOT                     639709   M.3.396  12,2196  359   323416 67956                  48    1t
Umnical Catingenis                   4,03922    2W90712   6.7041   2.257  1,560  3.917              41       6
Price Cmntirumiw                    17,.,  705.22   24,770,M7    992   3,936 13.762                 29      29
tdl P9W                                O5,719.09 62161 11 ,961.394  47622 37,912 85.34                44      in
Ne                                 - _ _M- _m m2
1 15, 199 17126



am_    lewmntt by Test
Totas Includinr Cmntinimis                               Totals Inrludirs Contiromies
(f Rh  '000)                                              16 '000)
199        192        1"3        19          1995       Tol            1991   19    13   1"94   1995  Total
3==in  ~~~~~~~~  m   ~~~~        ====u=: 3===~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ===: =2~~~~~~~= = -32==-=   -.=X
1. IPo6n com
A. IATIEM                     3#220345  3.4243M  . 39W.31. 2,99115    667,661   13,891,954   1,769  1,902  1.993  1,663    371  7,718
B. RAAUI TEAIN                   91.75     WA0D12  13694S  1,492,56   245v7M           560,416        51    367    761    829  1,114  3,122
C. UENICULES                  492329059   9897,565  1,335,417    546,492    597,424  12699937   2,351  3.276    770    304    332  7.033
0. EUIP9wT                   10,175,M   67M3599  1.f85.495  1v262,979    673,149  20.6tlI.5   5.653  3.735  t1053    668    374 11.484
f. ASSISTANCE EOUIDE          5672,419  693669979  6,411.W   2W234W566  1,379,725  2'v35v566   3,151  39537  3,562  1225   1 044  12.520
F. TRAIlN                     2.629,473  2.0046524  2610,946  2.515,314  2,103#999  11.604,15    1.1l?  19114  1.473  1,397  1,335  6,447
9. ETUCES CINUENTWAUES        7,133M925  26916190  39225,73M  3,064,fS4   2.750A69    190979643   3,963  1'420   iM    1M703  19532 .10.10
Totl  tInS11T COSTS             32,555g947 27.99014 20,526,325  14,019,69 1003901 106,079958   19,067 15tS   11,404   7769  64102 589933
%:mm=c==c 21=                                                                                       ==m   :m u3U
11. IEWII   aM
A. $"MAe                     1397,196  2.012,k "4tK,212  4 6W*   S,176920   176U41012               m    1113  237    29669  2,76  9.813
3. _lhI1                        14,141     45.90      *9PS       5t2.        56.106     21.7          9      26     27      29      31    122
C. I am I        TRAN_U        303.484    47123      733966    ? 9          962,      3040.698    169    2         400    405    446  1.689
D.  _ -ii                    1.370.06O   2,957,91    n 4.77442    S.33 5   5,311707    9.7M3.70     761  1.6    2,452  2.978  2.951  I0.?85
E. cwlITn  NOhNI                   241        256        271        26          302         356       0       0      0       0      0       1
F. FOITUIES                    194.W      92,74  1609741  2b210.182  2.379070   71894,60            103    W    1.005  1,256  1,321  3,991
-__ -- -                                          -            -                 - _ --_
Total     ntCUN  CoSS            3,25P995  69040942 11.6M4 997               13,7509M    47.991.2S9    1.GI    3,356  6472  7.336  7.625 26,601
If ia2Umm U808m   mod                             uu3mem  minussi   ===a=='  mmm ana9= 3     2-- -z===
Totl PROSEIrT COST               3.915.942 34.04.1   32.176,29  27P#16lP24.MP9    153.961.39    19.99  1N.906  17.9876  15125  13,727 85534
-Num                                                                                                                  P C -    - _ ====  ==_ 32  -
*ath 15. 1990 17:29 8
I                               p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V



' _1
hevk t wpmmt by Yea
Mobal ae1ui1,d C"MImiu,                                   loUts I.t1wSird Contirenmies
M 1601)                                                   (USS 'OGG
l91       .1992       190         1 99       1995        Tot                1 9    am      199    19    Total
a    __    _ __**===- ==:-:ms                                                    =   S=== - - =_
cin SMEE                            23M9       'etpe    3,O3   17M2M3    .64173S   10.,t09   1.WM4  tiOt  1.742   q9                       91s  5,919
3. PJDIWAIT
AS3StAICE t ff                      2.24059    2,0l1,2   19313,497  1v53,9N   1t. 8           9.947448    1225  I,121    724    863  1.037  4,971
C. SIJOtImIN                                       ,o
COsVTION  P/U                         1.47   3,472#843  34#8425  2768246  3.016.635  137M3068                354  1929   24135  1.538   1,676  7.32
D. 9IODIWRSI?V                                              * 
GEELOPIENt FERIPIERAL Zl            1.tt44132  3.m,m    St.649S   2666#303  2.U0454   16t542M              1.00   2.166   3.158  1t481   t9381  1M94
C. TU9RA/MI.UCTJON                     6#161U,    6."l1,129  3e6019184  3.3,277  3.4224113  22t931#W          343    3,862  1.667  IVI  19901  120739
F. rAMsT                               3.516W126  5.4106.03  29601792            t 129l  2MUM       M I0   1,953  3.004   1.449  1419   1.87   9%012
Q. NECHEE                              3,00209   2,657,359  11032#067   .0983.424  1.164.7f9   9r142t47   1.170  1.143  1.018    602    647  5.079
NO CO    ATION K1 S   SUl$NINIFR S     49442#851  306038   WM075070  6h206795  3o929470  22s736.224   2,468  1.714   2P819  3.48  2.182 12.632
1 0 P111 of PEI                       11,471P039  5.324       5.493.074  5,360.258  35041.809  33,03419   6.48    2.956   3163  29945  2.801  t8.355
Tg4a PR0JEIT COSTS                      35.915.942 34.034.956  32176.298 27225192 24.708.99   153961.384  19.999 18.906  17.876 15,125 13,727 85.34
_ c ~~~~~~~             -s w  - --- _  =-  ------=   ------
NMarh 15.19   17128
0
Ph 



ENIRUW   I P9383
fimnird Plan by Smary kcoumts
fuss 1000)
3W8ERINT OF                     gm                     SPWII OF
NORIAT                    C(FINUIRS       1ID        IMMASM           Total                  Local
(Excl.   Mie  a
Amot                        Amount       Amount  2   Am_t   I   _mot  Z   For. Ewi.  Taxs)   Tis
___~=33  =    _=3                              := 3   e=  3= =             23=3        e:    33= a
1. t JNWES T COSTS
A BATIIDTS                        641   8                    4497664 U      55    7    1g544  20   7,718   9         39462   2.73       1.52
P. TRA A TERRAN                   223   7                    2,M 73          2  0        624  20   3,122   4           413   2,241        418
C. VEHICULES                      128   2                    291W   31   19712 24    2,994  U    73                  391        347    2.994
n. EAUJPEnT                       169   1                    29623 23   48668  42    3.se   33  11IM4   13            6.66      970   31826
E. ASSISTACE TECINIGIE            390   3                    9,675 77   29345  19        110    1  12p0   15         113e99     S11       1t0
F. TRAINING                       253   4                    5.497 85       697 11         -   -   64476                7 m    720          -
6. EtUMES COUtUE1INTAIRES           I   0                    3.194  30   7244 69         170   2  10.610  12          49591   5,849       170
Total IWNESTENWT COSTS             1,805   3                   30.436 52  17.424 30    9W268  16  538933  69           31,471   18371    9,091
It. RECRWNEIT COSTS
A. SALAIRES                      759   a                    2.673  27   3.437  35    29944  30   9.313  11              -   9.635    1.178
h. IP'IEMITES                      -   -                       85 70         -  -        36  30       122   0            -     122         -
C. INDENITES DE TRANSPORT        219  13                      320 49       143  9       507  30   1.689   2             2   1624          62
P. ENTRETIEN                     929    9                   3M874  35   2,388  26    3,296  30  10.935   13         3.978   4.634    2M323
r. ACOUSITION DWCUNEiS             0  23                        -  -         0  47        0  30         1   0           0        0         -
F. FOURtITJRES                    69   2                      599  IS    2.128 53    1,197  30   3.991    5          2.460     956       576
Total RECURRENT COSTS              1w975   7                    83050 30   8.596  32    7.930   30  26,601  31          6441   169021      4.139         0
lotal Disbur5esent                  3779   4                    38.487  45  269020 30   179248   20  05,534  100        37,912  34.392    139230          tn
-          ---       ---------------     ----.--- ----------------------------  -------- 
=:22-2=2  =2_:   2-222-2   _22    =_:22-2  222    222-:2=   =422    =-22G   22=    2=G==:222    =22====  = = =~~~~~~~~~1



EmRMw I PO
Finaifini Plan by Project Com ts
(US '00O1
flYURIUEIlT OF                  OTHER                   IO1ERNENT OF
hMY                       CUFDLIERS         IDA       NAASCA           1O1                    Local
-E- l.  Dutin a
bout  Z                     burtt  Z  b       t   Z   AmAt    Z   _wrnt   Z   For. Exch. Tms)   tans
=       ==        _      ~       zu         _          a       s -2    -      _                          =
A. 31011)11611
CIIPUSIE6E                            0lo8   1S                    494  69         -   -       768   13   5,919    7        4O61    1307         552
I). 31011)138111t
ASSISTAIEEE                               -   -                    3,774  76        -  -    1,197   24   49m         6       1,351    2.59      1,020
C. RIODIVERSITT
COEUTION P/R                              -   -                     5655  74        -         l 1o7    26   7.42    9        10731   4436       19414           0
D. UOIMWRStYr 
KUELOINT  PERIRL UES                      -   -                    7.001  S5        -   -    13       15     "19   It        4906   3.152       1136
E. CRt      Ctl TION                         -                             -   -   8946  67    4.153   33  12,73    I           7.19    2,224      3438
F. CA1 E                                     -                                     6t.17  de    295   32   9,62   11            49235   2,69       29,7
R.  OCE                                    623  12                     1316  26   2.272  45        f  17   S0i          6       29M      1.9         a
He ChIATIQh KES SLS/NINIROJiETS          2.098   17                   7,867  62        -   -    2967  -21  12=    15            4,344   6230    2.59
I* 0IJ1 AU FEt                               -    -                   7,93  43 9U 4O      1439     i          1, .     21       7.194   10.195      966
T43el  DIsbudusnt                          3J7      4                  344M 7  45   26.00  30    17M2M     h   *94  13           37#912  34M        134230
Heich 19. 1990  13:56
000D 
o o
0'



- 81 -
Annex 7
Page 1
MADAGASCAR
ENVIRONMENT PROGRAM
MONITORING, EVALUATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL DATA SYSTEMS
INTRODUCTION
1.        Monitoring, evaluation and environmental data systems will be
key instruments for managing and adjusting the Program as an evolutive
process. In the long term, they will also provide the basis for refining
the Environment Action Plan (EAP) and improving environmental policies in
general. While inter-related and complementary, these three instruments
will have different objectives. Monitoring will aim to provide the Program
managers with feedback on the nature and extent of progress achieved in
implementing their components and/or subcomponents, compared with what has
been planned. Evaluation will seek to explain and if possible measure the
level of efficiency of the Program implementation in relation to costs and
accrued benefits, to reassess the relevance of objectives and approaches.
Evaluation, while useful for managers, will be of greater use to planners,
decision-makers and funding agencies to prepare the EAP follow-up Programs.
Environmental data systems, while established or strengthened under the
Program, will have a wider and more permanent function in providing solid
data on the Malagasy environment. They would also provide a framework for
processing and storing data coming from monitoring and evaluation.
2.        This annex is an abstract of work done by international and
national consultants during Program preparation. Further cousultancy will
be required by the implementing agencies in 1990 to help them establish
their proper monitoring, evaluation, and environmental data systems (final
review of proposed indicators, terms of reference for studies and surveys,
hardware and software for data management). Also in 1990, consultant
support will be needed to orepare and carry out a baseline survey which
will set up a benchmark before implement'zg the Program (para 12).
A. MONITORING
3.        Monitoring will provide Program managers, at their different
levels (field, sectoral, inter-sectoral), with information on key
indicators regarding: (a) their own activities to alert them to problems
which might require immediate intervention by themselves and/or their
superiors; and (b) the overall Program implementation to highlight other
problems, of intersectoral nature, which would be corrected through the
ONE, as the Program coordinator. Program activities will be mornitored
through a three-pronged system; from the bottom up, it would include: (i)
monitoring and reporting by field operators; (ii) consolidation per
cor-onent and reporting by the main implementing agencies; and (iii)



- 82 -
Annex 7
P6ge 2
Program consolidation by the ONE. Each agency will be responsible for its
own monitoring. The ONE, besides consolidating monitoring results for the
overall Program, will be in charge of: (i) advising agencies in setting
their monitoring systems to ensure consistency; (ii) circulating
information between the agencies; and (iii) ensuring a two-way information
flow between the field and Antananarivo. The ONE will also provide
participating donors with implementation summaries and financial data
required under Program agreements.
4.        The monitoring system has been devised in the light of several
constraints which, by their very nature, are somewhat divergent or even
conflicting: (i) the monitoring system should be large enough to provide
managers with a complete overview on implementation; (ii) it should be
simple enough to be easy and cheap to administer, to deliver results with
minimal delays, and to prevent flooding managers with a volume of
information too large to be easily understood; (iii) it should incorporate
existing information flows to avoid redundancy; and (iv) it should be
flexible to respond to changing management needs or field conditions.
5.        Table 1 presents a set of indicators proposed for monitoring
Program components. Each of these indicators has been selected according to
the following criteria: (i) to measure a single variable; no composite
indicators are included; (ii) to be representative; each indicator should
directly reflect the progress achieved in one particular activity; and
(iii) to be predictive; each indicator, to the extent possible, should
foretell forthcoming problems as far in advance as possible.
B. EVALUATION
6.        The Program effects and impact will be evaluated through: (a) a
series of evaluation studies on specific themes; and (b) two major
evaluations including a mid-term review in Program year three and a final
evaluation year five. Studies under (a) will be conducted in two phases to
provide specific information to the two evaluations under (b). Evaluation
activities are not expected to begin during the first two years of the
Program, because it would be too early to assess effects and impact. The
ONE will coordinate evaluation activities, prepare their terms of reference
in association with concerned implementing agencies, plan and monitor their
execution and disseminate their results. The terms of reference will be
acceptable to IDA and the participating donors.
Evaluation studies on specific themes (para 3.43 in the main text)
7.        These studies will be carried out by consultants. Four studies
have already been identified on the following themes: (i) evaluation of
cadastral surveys and titling operations and their impact of land titling
on conservation pract'ces. The first phase of this study will focus more on
evaluating cadastral surveys and titling methodologies while the second
will concentrate on their impact on conservation practices; (ii)
ecological, economic and social effects and impact of ANAE miniprojects.



- 83 -
Annex 7
Page 3
The first phase will focus more on evaluating approaches for preparing and
implementing miniprojects and their direct effects, while the second will
concentrate on their impact; (iii) evaluation of the development of eco-
tourism; and (iv) evaluation of impact of environmental education and
awareness.
8.        Other evaluation studies on specific themes are likely to be
identified in the course of Program implementation. Contingency f-nds nave
been planned to finance them.
Maior evaluatiorns of the overall the Program
9.        These two major evaluations will be based on: (i) a thorough
review of all information already collected through monitoring systems;
(ii) the results of evaluation studies on specific themes (above para);
(iii) visits to field operations; and (iv) interviews with staff and
executives of the different implementing agencies. These evaluations will
be conducted by consultants in association with Government and
participating donors.
10.       The mid-term review will be the first major evaluation. It will
draw the lessons of Program phase one (the first two years) to enable the
planning and Programming of Program phase two.
11.       The second major evaluation will be done at the end of Program
Implementation to support the preparation of the second five-year slice of
the EAP. It should be carried out during Program year five, but not too
late to provide lessons for the second slice. It will also provide the
basis for preparing a completion report requested by IDA and other donors.
12.       In this evaluation process, there is a need to establish a
benchmark before implementation (para 2). Accordingly, a baseline survey
will be conducted in 1990, involving the rural communities surrounding the
protected areas as well as those in the five priority areas select-^ for
watershed management. This survey will be conducted by national consultants
with external backstopping.
C. ENVIRONMENTAL DATA SYSTEMS
13.       Under the Program, environmental data systems will be developed
according to the following principles:
(i) Priority demand: the existing and new data s&stems to be
developed will only focus on prior4.y needs required under the
Program by the resource users at the grassroots level and by the
implementing agencies, at the field, re-ional and national levels. A
Lirst survey of these priority needs was carried out during the EAP
preparation. A second survey is about to be launched to detail these
needs in practical terms and to phase their progressive inclusion in
data systerJs over time.



- 84 -
Annex 7
*                                                    >          *        Page 4
(ii) Networking: each agency will be responsible for its own data
system. In terms of hardware and software, agencies will use
microcomputers with standards software Programs procured on the
market 11. The ONE will advise on standards to ensure consistency
and enable agencies to communicate between themselves. Data will be
transferred through exchange of diskettes. The resulting Malagasy
network will also be linked to international networks and data banks
on the environment.
(iii) Progressive build-up: the first priority will be to build on
existing systems (e.g. CIDST in MRSTD, Banque des Donnees de l'Etat -               h
BDE - State Data Bank - in MEP). New data systems should be set up
only in new institutions or in those that have been deprived of such
systems until now. Each implementing agency will prepare a
pluriannual Program for the development of its environmental data
system, highlighting priorities and phasing, and defining hardware
and software accordingly. This building-up should be coordinated wfth
what is being done under the Economic Management and Social Action
Project (EMSAP).
(iv) Introduction of Geographic Information Systems (GIS). Under the
Program, a special effort will be made to develop GIS for all
geographically-based data. This will be orchestrated by the
Laboratoire National de Teledetection (LNT, National Lab for Remote
Sensing) which will provide implementing agencies with technical
assistance and equipment support to develop GIS.
(v) Continuity. Developing demand-driven environmental data systems
will have to continue beyond the Program, during the overall EAP
implementation. Ensuring this continuity will require the setting up
of adequate financial mechanisms (pay-per-use) to make data systems
sustainable. These mechanisms will be initiated and tested during the
Program.
(vi) TraininR and technical assistance. To ensuring consistency and
continuity, only one consultant will be selected to help implementing
agencies develop their respective data systems. This selection will
be done on the international market since national expertise is
limited in this field. Nonetheless, the selected foreign consultant
will be requested to make a joint venture with a national consultant
and to focus on training in order to develop the national capacity in
data systems.
l/The mapping agency (FTM) and the land department (DPRA) will however need
more sophisticated computers for processing and storing geodetic and
cadastral information.



- 85 -
Annex 7
rage 5
14. Four agencies will play key role in the development of data
management systems:
(i) The ONE will coordinate the setting up and strengthening of
environmental data systems. It will particularly: (a) organize
surveys to assess the priority needs of the implementing agencies;
(b) prepare terms of reference for, select, and contract with, a
foreign consultant; (c) advise the agencies during the development of
the data systems; and (d) orchestrate data exchange and networking
between the agencies. In order to do so, the ONE will have a team
specialized in monitoring, evaluation and environmental data systems.
Finally, the ONE will coordinate environmental data systems with BDE.
(ii) The LNT, as mentioned above, will orchestrate the development of
GIS. For this purpose, the LNT will have the geodetic and mapping
archives from FTM, its parent agency, as well as the archives of all
satellite information acquired by Madagascar. The LNT will also have
the equipment (hardware and software, to develop GIS). During the
Program implementation, the LNT, while serving implementing agencies,
is expected to centralize GIS development in its own facility, except
for the land agency (DP) which will develop its own system (see (iii)
below) and possibly ANGAP (see (iv)) and MRSTD (para 15). Beyond the
Program, other agencies could equip themselves with their own
facility. This possibility will be review duriL.g preparatien of the
second slice;
(iii) DPRA will be responsible for keeping cadastral and property
records in both digital and graphic forms. To fulfill its mandate,
DPRA will develop a computerized Land Information System (LIS) with
easy updating and retrieval. This LIS that will be developed
progre--fvely will constitute one of the key layer in GIS; and
(iv) AN'; will develop a national biodiversity data system, based on
flora and fauna inventories. ANGAP will also acquire maps and
geographic information on the protected areas and their buffer zones.
While relying on LNT's GIS capacity at the beginning, ANGAP mi6ht
develop its own GIS system. This possibility will be reviewed during
the Mid-Term Review.
15. Besides the above institutions, MRSTD already plays a key role in
data management in Madagascar: (a) it has developed a Center for Technical
and Scientific Information (CIDST); CIDST is about to be strengthened with
support from ORSTOM, a French research agency and hooked to international
r.search networks; (b) it is setting up an inventory of natural resources
under IDA financing, within CNRE; and (c) it is about to develop a water
resource data base with technical assist-nce from the World Bank and
financial support from UNDP, and the French FAC, also within CNRE. Under
the Program, MRSTD's capacity for environmental data systems will be
further developed in complement of current support.



- 86 -
TABLE 1
Page 1
MADAGASCAR
ENVIRONMENT PROGRPIM
KEY INDICATORS PROPOSED FOR MONITORING
1. PROTECTION AND MWNAGEMENT OF BIODIVERSITY
Agencies                   traior Oblectives            Key Indicators
Field Operators             (L) to protect the          -Nb of guards hired,
area considered             and in actual duty
-Boundariess Nb of
kmas of boundaries
legally established
and physically
demarcated (monuments
or tree bands)
-Infractions recorded
(ii) to equip the          -access road (Nb of
area                        kms)
-service road (Nb of
kms)
-path network (Nb of
kns)
-service facility
(Built or upgraded)
(iiM) to train staff       -Nb of guards trained
-Nb of park managers,
submanagers trained
(iv) to associate          -Nb of seminars run
communities in              and attendance
conservation                -Nb of workers,
guards and guides
from buffer zones
(v) to run flora and       -progress on
fauna inventories           inventories (S)



- 87 -
TABLE 1
Page 2
(vi) to promote eco-       -visitor center
tourism                     (built or upgraded)
-Nb of tourists
-fees collected on
CNGAP's behalf
-Tourism facilities
and Nb of tourists
ANGAP                       (i) to contract field       -Nb of contracts
operators                  under negotiation,
implementation
(ii) to monitor and        -consolidation of
evaluate field              indicators from field
operations                  operators
;
(iii) to set up            -completion initial
biodiversity data           study for setting up
system                      data system
-system operational
-Nb of protected
areas covered
(iv) to mobilize           -total amount of
additional funds for        funds mobilized for
conservation               biodiversity
-number of protected
areas under financing
(v) to help DEF in         -list of papers on
biodiversity policy         biodiversity policy
provided to DEF



- 88 -
TABLE 1
Page 3
(vi) to train staff        -Nb of staff trained
in different
expertises
-Nb of workshops
organized
DEF                         (i) to protect              -Nb of ha through new
gazetted forests           management under the
Program
-Nb of guards posted
in the Program
gazetted forests; of
whom, Nb of staff
newly-hired
-Nb of staff trained
(guards, supervisors)
(ii) to plan and           -progress on forest
eqaip gazetted              inventory (ha)
forests                     -Nb of management
plans initiated,
approved and under
implementation; area
covered for these
categories
-progress on
establishing
boundaries (Km)
-progress on
rehabilitationlereati
on of access and
services roads (Km)
-service facilities
rehabilitated and/or
newly-built
(iii) to prepare the       -progress on studies
TFAP                       within TFAP
-consultants hired
proposals made and
approved in the
forestry sector



- 89 -
TABLE 1
Page 4
(iv) to refine the          -list of studies
biodiversity policy         carried out on
biodiversity under
DEF supervision
-list of policy
proposals prepared by
DEF
-list of newly-
approved decisions in
biodiversity policy
2.   SOIL CONSERVATION, AGROFORESTRY AND RD MINIPROJECTS
Agencies                    Major Obiectives            Key Indicators
Field Operators             (i) to help                  -Nb of miniprojects
communities identify,       identified, prepared,
prepare and implement       under implementation,
miniprojects                and completed; per
types of miniprojects
-Nb of beneficiaries
per miniprojects
-investment per
miniprojects
-technical assistance
per miniprojects and
per phase
(identification,
preparation and
implementation)
-time recorded for
miniproject cycle
(ii) to train               -Nb of workshops
villagers in                organized at the
identifying,                village level and Nb
preparing and               of participants
implementing                -Nb of villagers
miniprojects                trained in different
expertises



- 90-
TABLE 1
Page 5
ANAE                        (i) to coatract field       -Nb of contracts
operators                   -cost of technical
assistance provided
by field operators
(ii) to monitor            -consolidated Nb of
miniproject                 miniprojects per
identification and          types in
preparation                 identification and
preparation
(lii) to appraise and      -consolidated number
finance miniprojects        of miniprojects
appraised per types,
per regions and per
field operators
-total investment;
breakdown per types
-Nb of beneficiaries
and breakdown per
types
-Nb of contracts with
village associations
-community
participation in the
financing of
miniprojects
(iv) to monitor            -Nb of miniprojects
miniprojects                under implementation
implementation             per types, per
regions and per field
operator
-duration of
miniproject
implementation per
types
-cost of supervision



- 91 -
TABiE 1
Page 6
3.  MAPPING AND REMOTE SENSING
ARencies                    ,Maior ObWectives           Key Indicators
FTM                         (i) to produce maps         -Nb of maps produced
for Program                 per type of clients,
activities                  per scale. United
cost of corresponding
maps. Types of
contracts with
clients
(ii) to upgrade and        -Nb of new geodetic
maintain geodetic           points
network and to keap         -cost per point
archives on                 including
geographic                  monumentation
information                 -progress on filing
system for archives
(iii) to coordinate        -Nb of meetings of
mapping and remote          the Nations Mapping
sensing activities in       and Remote Sensing
Madagascar                  Committee
(iv) to set up LNT         -Progress on LNT'
and its GIS capacity        setup
-Nb of -.ojects
involving satellite
in''rmation. Types of
clients
-Nb of projects
involving GIS



- 92 -
TABLE 1
Page 7
(i) to train staff          -Nb of FTH staff
trained per types of
expertises, in
country and abroad
-Nb of staff trained
in mapping, remote
sensing and GIS in
the other
implementing agencies
Private contractots         (i) to carry out            -Nb of contractors
aerial surveys and          per type of contracts
produce aerial photos       (scala, area covered)
-Unit cost per
contractor
(ii) to produce other       -Nb of contractors
photo-cartographic          per types of products
products                    -Unit cost
4.   CADASTRAL SURVEYS AND TIT-LIdG
AML4ncies                   Maior Obiectives            Key Indicators
DPRA                        (i) to carry out            -Nb of cadastral
cadastral surveys           operations undertaken
and area per
operations
-duration ior
demarcating
boundaries of
protected areas
(Kmlt)
-duration for
cadastral surveys in
different types of
private land;
duration of each
phase
-unit cost per type
of cadastral
operations



- 93 -
TABLE 1
Page 8
(ii) to deliver            -Nb of titles
titles                     delivered, public and
private.
Corresponding areas
-Nb of cases
requiring judicial
process (%)
-duration between
cadastral surveys and
title delivery
(iii) to set up a          -Nb of offices
computerized system        equipped
for cadastral records      -Nb of titles in
evolving toward a          computerized system
Land Information           per office
System (LIS)               -Nb of LIS in
operation
(iv) to train staff        -Nb of trained staff
and inform resource        per type of expertise
users                      -Nb of workshops with
village communities
-information campaign
through radio, video
cassettes...
Private contractors         (i) to carry out           -Nb of private
topographic work for       contractors involved
individual titling         -Nb of individual
and further land           surveys (per
transactions               contractor and total)
-surveying cost
-Nb of titles
del4vered



- 94 -
TABLE .1
Page 9
5. TRAINING, EDUCATION AND AWARENESS CAMPAIGNS
Agencies                    Maior Oblectives            Key indicators
ONE                         (i) to coordinate           -Annual plan for fund
training, education         allocetion to thft
and awareness               different activities
campaigns                   -Actual money spent
per activity
(ii) to manage            -'tb oZ workshops
awareness campaigns         organized at the
regional and local
levels
-Nb of participants
-Nb of radio and TV
broadcast ings
-Nb of videocassettes
produced
-Nb of contractors
involved
-Nb of booklets and
bulletins produced
MINESUP                     (i) to set up               -Nb of specific
environmental               curricula
graduate and                -Nb of students
undergraduate studies       registered
to meet the Program         -Nb of students
demand                      graduated and
undergraduated
-Cost for developing
new curricula
MINESEB                     (i) to introduce            -Nb of schools
environmental concern       affected
in primary schools          -Nb of training
workshops for
teachers
-Nb -f environmental
books distributed
-Nb of schools with a
specific
environmental project



- 95 -
TABLE 1
Page 10
6. ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH
Agencies                    Maior Objectives            Key indicators
Environmental               (i) to review and           -Nb of proposals and
Research Sub-               approve ann-*l              nb of agencies
Committee (MRSTD            proposals for               involved (national
Secretariat)                environmental               and foreign)
research                    -Ranking by priority
-Nb of proposal
approved
-Funds allocated
(ii) to review annual      -Nb of Pregrams
implementation of           completed
environmental               -results obtained
research Progrsms           -Comparison between
annual plan and
actual implementation
-qualitative
assessment of
environmental
research
Environmental               (i) to carry out            -Nb of environmental
Research Agencies           environmental               research Programs
research Programs          carried out
-Results obtained
-Costs per Program
(ii) to train staff        -Nb of staff trained
and inform potential       per type of expertise
users                       -Nb of workshops
carried out to
disseminate research
results to potential
users
(iii) to set up            -Progress on setting
environmental data          up environmental data
systems                     systems



- 96 -
TABLE 1
Page 11
7. SUPPORT Program
AgeneX                      Maior Objectives            Key indicators
ONE                        (l) to coordinate            -Nb of meetings with
annual planning and         implementing agencies
allocation of funds         for elaborating
annual planning
-Duration to prepare
annu.al plans for the
implementing agencies
and time required for
consolidation
(ii) to coordinate         -List of key
monitoring                  indicators and
progressive changes
-Monitoring of the
flow of information
-Duration for
collecting,
elaborating and
transferring data and
reports by the
different
implementing agencies
(iii) to coordinate        -comparison between
evaluation including        the planning of
evaluation studies          evaluation activities
and their actual
implementation
-Nb of studies,
duration for
execution, cost and
results
(iv) to coordinate         -comparison between
other studies               planning and actual
implementation
-costs and results
-dissemination
i



- 97 -
TABLE 1
Page 12
(v) to coordinate           -Nb of meetings with
procurement and             the implementing
accounting                  agencies on
procurement and
accounting
-Updating situation
regarding procurement
for the overall the
Program
-Planning for
auditing
-time recorded
between preparation
of bidding documents,
bids and
implementation
-time recorded
between bills,
disbursement requests
ane disbursements
(vi) to develop             -Nb of new proposals
environmenr.al              in environmental
policies and                policy and approvals
legislation                 -Planning of
environmental policy
work
-Comparison between
planning and actual
results
-Duration between
proposal and approval
(vii) to coordinate         -Nb of agencies
the development of          having an
environmental data          environmental data
systems                     system
-Nb of exchanges
between environmental
data system
-Nb of meetings about
the establishment and
strengthening of date
systems
-Cost of technical
assistance
-Cost of hardware and
software
-Recurrent costs



- 98 -
Annex 8
Financial Analvsis of ANGAP
Hypotheses:
1. Revenue-s Main revenues will come from parks and reserves entry fees from
eco-tourism. The number of eco-tourists is based on a recent study of tourism
in Madagascar that estimated the number of tourists coming to Madagascar up to
1995. It has been assumed here that only 25Z of touriwts coming to Madagascar
would visit parks and reserves. After 1995, the increase of eco-tourists has
been ostimated at 102 per year. Some other revenues will also be raised fr=m
royalties coming from local commercial activities linked to eco-tourism, like
local hotels, restaurants, gift shops, sales of maps and from royalties from
small businesses producing rare species taken from parks and reserves and
reproduced in buffer zones in particular for pharmaceutical use.
2. Expenses: Investments and recurrent costs of ANGAP Headquarters and
protection activities in parks and reserves have been taken into account.
After 1995, investments have been maintained at a constant level up to year
level 2 and 3 and also to consider the possibility to add other parks and
reserves non identified at this stage. Recurrent cost would increase by 102
per year between 1996 and 2000 and then remain constant.
3. All estimates are in constant FMG, value 1989.



mI13 15 FPDMcIa m     AC7ESVI   0 AlTe 1IH CE  VJCS Er CM=                (M    6r6GW)
1991     1992     lo"      1t94     19"8    to"       197      1996     1999     200o      2001     1002     2003     100      200      2006      1007     2004     1006    20150
(NiI IS Ies FM. yeS..r coneante 1969)
blissl P    1 j  1P       otW a
is    Oma               Sam       M        m _11            mern    80010070            407      4400    49        84         00     III=      7M0M     79400    ON00   JIII080    6110D
10900 MSJ. (2
M11i_ .A           tao     ai         ma      80       as       8        612  : 74          740      614       D               I=       a m       IC  1              10 11 44a uN
MillIe no            14       19       27        a7      W                  a1       87       74       61       w0                         1        1        144      at       17       m         19i
1*$"m 1' *
de ...e1s                                   ::::::::: P                                                                                                                                     t
Ni,eul rich A
lbdoro IVAR                            a        a        a        6         6        6        6        a        a        *        *         *        a        *        a        *        6
Mlsie-A O                              6        a                                                                                                                                          
1045     este OnS
NI SI I             164      21n      214      418       ma        1                749  a2              '      _      1w       119       1=      1480     18i      175         Is     041      U1l7
W  mP reseat -  des emliml- tEes par S_ edie e-vs pert            jmm  'm  1996. pole mlr om . 1Us per on Corte 196
_ea  tarife offisl-l- .1. .iqu t p    - Se tWI  ts.e _ta
AWt.SE F'JNMIBM CES A"IVI TE1S 0  FD0TWTZiN Cm  rs ET  Beiv6  (!NVTZSST S El CM11  SETS Ou SlEt eu oGA
17 CES ACTZvgS De pSSrTI0W OM pArs   ET VES   OE NW     1. 2 iET 3
Hilli ic A, F  a. ntants. veow 1969
En6trose  Pin       140      193      264      370      8        an38     812       674      740      614      6M        MS     gm6    120         132      1444     186      176      2030     10991
* Comrctouri          14       19       27       37       61                e1       67        74       el        0       9            1    2 M      132      144      U9       178      203     1"
.04vtee*pocm          a        0        a        a        6        6                  a        6        6        8        a        a        a        6         a        a        *        *        a
Total  me-tIs        184      21t      2        418      a         60       SU       749       Mn      90       084     1         11t"     iI       1460     186i   17M         1911    2l       2197
OVUM  (OIA               MSW U6 Er  _)
DUTI8S'TS         2363     847      8784     1494     1485     148       148      1488     1488     1488      M10      80       80       so0     a80       800       8D       80          
* iniU             844      670     1631      16"      1716     1666    207       24       512        6         A    26        276m     276       27U4     27       27"       764     2m7       2764
TOTA. C51         2707     4417     88       8196     0171  SSI          m1       89       8967     41q9     86       am       am       a6        an       1264        4 J 24         am4       a
teeotles maim s ..-m                                                                                                                        -4        lw      -is        w         M       -         U
bc gM  reCr ts      -190     .87    -182    -101    -1151    -16I1                          -I160    -19l    >1770    -U71        8      -1        *1304   -11S    -1C09       -1       -        -66        :1
n.o.lles miceo                                                                                                                                                                                               11311 
costW tat.         -218     -4204   -806      -2776   -20        27       200    -20         8146   -S16    -2270    -2171    -206                          IS12                       -U       -107 
be.lt..e.car't        0.48     0.24     0.18     0.24     0.8      0.J8    0.38      0.W    0"         0.8      0.1186   0.40     0.48     0.46     0.       0.88"    0.4       0.71     0.61     0.79       OD



- 100 -
Annex 9
Page 1
MADAGASCAR
ENVIRONMENT PROGRAM
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
The Costs of Environmental Degradation
In the draft Environmental Action Plan for Madagascar, the costs imposed by
environmental degradation wei.e estimated. These comprise the capitalized
losses of wood and future wood growth as a consequence of fire, the losses
in agricultural productivity which are a consequence of degradation and
soil loss, and the costs imposed by erosion and associated flooding,
including damage to roads and bridges, the silting of drainage systems,
irrigation schemes and harbors. It was estimated that these costs amounted
to between 5 and 15 per cent of Gross Domestic Product annually.
In addition to these losses, the process of environmental degradation is
resulting in the loss of Madagascar's unique biotic patrimony; if these
losses are not arrested, Madagascar will be precluded from capitalizing on
the potential for ecologically based tourism, and future options for
benefitting from the nation's unique gene pool will be foregone.
Causes of Environmental Destruction - An Economic Perspective
Elsewhere in this report, the demographic pressures, the institutional
weaknesses, and the educational and technological deficiencies which have
encouraged and facilitated environmental destruction have been outlined.
Underlying these negative influences has been the lack of proper economic
valuation and exchange mechanisms, especially in view of large and
imperfectly understood externalities.
In Madagascar, property rights have been officially registered for only 3
per cent of land. For some of the remaining cultivated land, customary
rights provide de facto ownership which can be enforced. For the balance,
property rights either don't exist, or are only partially effective. [In
the economic sense, an individual, family, community or government have
property rights when they have the willingness, the legal right and the
capability to preclude or manage access]. There is evidence from other
countries that, under the demographic and technological conditions
prevailing, the incentives facing farmers all encourage them to take a
short-term, exploitative view. A farmer is unlikely to invest in tree
planting and soil conservation techniques if security of tenure does not
ensure that he will reap the fruits thereof in future years.  If he can
move onto 'free' land when that which he is now cultivating is exhausted,
this enhances the exploitative tendency. Demographic pressures do not
allow the abandoned soil to lay fallow long enough to be uregenerated'.



- 101 -
Annex 9
Page 2
In addition, many of the "outputs" yielded by the native flora and
fauna - scientific value, potential medicinal and genetic stock value - are
not traded in well functioning markets, and benefits accrue mainly to the
world community; there is little local incentive to conserve biota so as to
produce these outputs.
The conclusion from the perspective of economics is that t'e EAP must
successfully begin to change economic incentives to favo. ustainable
development; if it does not, existing incentives will continue to favor
destruction, and the degradation of the environmen; will not be arrested.
The Farming Economy and the Environment
On cultivated lani, the area under the main crops in 1984 was as shown
below, by area, together with the coefficient of erosion potential. These
coefficients are derived from a study cited by Robert Repetto (1988). They
range from a high of 1.0 for bare land to a low of 0.0001 for dense forest.
Area (OOOs Ha)     Erosive Potential
Coefficient
Rice                           1170                  0.1 (Intensive Culture)
Manioc                          336                  0.2
Coffee                          223                  0.1
Maize                           132                  0.3
Sweet Potatoes                   97                  0.2
Cloves                           77                 N.A.
Sugar Cane                       59                N.A.
Beans                            44                N.A.
Potatoes                         40                 N.A.
Groundnuts                       33                  0.4
Vanilla                          26                 N.A.
Cotton                           20                  0.5
Rice dominates the cultivated erops and is produced in both irrigated and
in rain fed systems. Irrigated rice production is relatively
environmentally benign in Madagascar because the level of application of
fertilizer, herbicides and pesticides is generally not such as to cause
problems, and erosion potential is low. However, the expansion of rain-fed
rice production into hills Loth eliminates the native forest, and causes
erosion. Of the other staple crops, manioc, maize and sweet potatoes have
a relatively high erosion potential, and the area cultivated expanded
rapidly over the 1973-84 period - 77X for manioc, 25% for maize and 9% for
sweet potatoes. Coffee is a major cash crop, and is protective of soil.
Of the crops listed, cotton has the greatest erosion potential. Whether
this crop will continue to expand depends in part on the success or



- 102 -
Annex 9
Page 3
otherwise of a cotton using textile sector, and on the related price and
cost signals being received by producers.
The pasture lands (34 million hectares) support a cattle based economy. A
tradition of burning pasture towards the end of the dry season to encourage
early grass growth is very environmentally destructive, because it exposes
soil to erosion during torrential rains, it weakens the capacity of roots
to hold soil, induces flooding, the lowering of the water table in times of
drought, and the destruction of forests.
Structural Adiustment, Incentives in the Macro Economy
In cooperation with the World Bank and the IMF, Malagascar has embarked on
a process of structural adjustment; this involves removal of subsidies and
many price controls and the devaluation of the currency, all of which are
designed to give producers and consumers price signals which reflect
relative scarcities in the domestic and international economy. In so
doing, it is anticipated that output will be produced more cost
effectively, producers will concentrate on the production of commodities
where they have comparative advantage, and exports will be encouraged. The
efficiency with which State companies and financial services are managed
are to be improved; this likewise is designed to improve economic
performance.
What does structural adjustment imply for the environment? To answer that,
it is necessary to understand the dynamics of the rural economy, and then
to examine the environmental implications of the pre-structural adjustment
position. In Figures 1 through 4, the producer price for some farm crops
are plotted against the retail price index over the 1973-84 period. Only
for rice, vanilla, and sugar cane did the price farmers receive keep pace
with retail prices. For groundnuts, pepper, tobacco, cotton, sisal,
coffee, pois de cap, and cloves, the gap widens over the period.
Fertilizers were subsidized for part of the period, but they were often not
availabl- in the desired quantity, quality and location. These input and
output disincentives combined with increasing subsistence requirements
resulted in only a modest expansion of output over the period, most of
which was achieved by expanding the area cultivated, rather than by
intensifying production on existing farm land. Such expansion was made
easy by the property rights arrangements noted above. The spatial impact
of the combination of strong demographic pressure and pre-structural
adjustment prices was to expand the cultivated area by 35 per cent, with a
corresponding reduction of 20 per cent in the area of forest and woodland.
The expansion at the extensive margin was environmentally adverse in two
respects: it led to erosion where - as was frequently the case - soil
conserving farming techniques were not used - and it intensified the loss
of forest and woodland habitat and associated biota.
The increasing scarcity of firewood and charcoal in the vicinity of urban
areas manifests itself in rising real wood prices, exemplified by the trend
shown in Figure 5.



- 103 -
Annex 9
Page 4
It is still too early to say whether the incentive mix engendered by more
exposure to market forces will continue to encourage the destructive
process, or whether it will help slow it down (and the question of
externalities remains). If the price signals encourage the production of
irrigated rice, coffee and cover crops, soil will be conserved. If the
market encourages rapid expansion of single crops of cotton, tobacco and
groundnuts, then - other things being equal - soil losses will intensify.
Good up-tc-date farm budget data are not available, and up-to-date price
and cost data are likewise not available. These deficiencies, if not
corrected, will cripple attempts to understand the relationship between
economic incentives and environmental management.
The ability of producers to purchase inputs as required, and to respond to
market prices for output, should induce more intensification and
specialization, and this in turn will reduce pressure to expand the
cultivated area at the expense of the forest. In the long term, structural
adjustment is likely to change the character of environmental impact from
problems associated with extensive farming - habitat destruction, fire,
erosion, flooding - to those which characterize more intensive farming
systems - eutrophication, herbicide and pesticide damage, etc. However, to
take full advantage of the opportunities posed by structural adjustment
will require that farmers have security of tenure.
The very substantial currency devaluations have had the (intended) effects
of increasing the attractiveness of exports, and raising the local currency
costs of Imports. This export price effect has worked its way back to log
sales, and made exports of the latter, and of processed wood, much more
attractive then heretofore, although the volume of such exports remains
very small.
In the short-term, higher prices have an environmentally negative effect,
because they increase the pressure on the forests, at a time when
enforcement of the regulations and standards by DEF is very weak, a problem
attributable in part - but only in part - to a lack of budgetary resources.
For the long term, higher prices will justify additional investment in tree
growing.
The improvements in budgetary procedures will be environmentally positive
if they result in a systematic consideration of investment and incentive
requirements vis-a-vis the environment in the budgetary process.
Improvements in the availability and efficiency of financial services will
likewise help the environment, because they will facilitate the undertaking
of investment, the taking of the long view.
L.



- 104 -
Annex 9
Page 5
The Economic Essentials of the Environmental Challenge
The environmental challenge facing Madagascar is to redirect the incentives
facing users of the environment, so that they are encouraged to conserve
rather than to destroy. Specifically, the incentives must inhibit
encroachment and destruction of the rapidly diminishing natural forest
area, and they must encourage cultivation systems which conserve the soil.
In addition to programs of environmental communication/information/educa-
tion, and research, the EP proposes programs in three areas: land security,
mapping and remote sensing; protection and management of biodiversity; soil
conservation and agroforestry. These programs are designed to address the
economic incentives problems noted earlier, in a mutually reinforcing
manner.
Either because credible date do not exist, or cannot be derived, it was not
possible to estimate rates of return of the proposed investments. However,
it is possible to give a sense of cost-effectiveness and the economic logic
of what is proposed. Some suggestions for improving evaluative capability
in the future are made.
Table 1 shows the summary of the investment, recurrent and contingency
costs for the three main programs in OOOs of FMG and US$.
Land Owner Specific Benefits
The main benefit accruing to farmers who have improved security of tenure
is the increase in net revenue which can result if security of tenure
encourages farmers to make investments and manage their land such that net
revenue increases. Such increases are anticipated because with improved
security of tenure, farmers can justify investing in land improvement and
cropping systems which have a substantial payoff in the future. When
farmers are given title to forest-land, they have some incentive to manage
it rather than to mine it. (Under existing titling arrangements, one of
the ways of qualifying for ownership is to have cleared the land of trees].
Likewise, when a community is given title to land, it has an incentive to
manage it rather than destroy it.
The positive incentive to use land productively will be greatly enhanced if
at the same time the option of 'free land" is circumscribed and clear and
transparent procedures are put in place to determine who will/should get
such "free" land.
In urban areas, city property owners will be encouraged to invest in their
properties once title is secure.
What magnitude of increase is net output can be expected as a consequence
of the titling program ? There is near unanimity among agronomists and
foresters in Madagascar that improvement in security of tenure will



- 105 -
Annex 9
Page 6
increase productivity and net output. There are no data or studies
indicating the likely magnitude of the net gain.
The only comprehensive "with-without' evidence available comes from
Thailand, where the results of an on-going World Bank funded land-titling
project have been carefully studied (Angus-Leppan, 1989). The study
controls for variations in land quality location etc, and shows the annual
increase in productivity gain yielded by formal titling. Below are shown
the productivity gains achieved in Thailand as land moves from a given
tenure status to full security of tenure:
Status of Holding                  Production           X Annual
Increases
Bahtlrai            Yielded by Titling
Encroached State Land                  995                    18.9
Undocumented Land                     1020                    16.0
Certificate of Utilization            1122                    5.4
Title Deed                            2183                    0.0
If providing security of title on the targeted area of cultivated land of
200,000 hectares (which comprises about 72 of the total cultivated atea in
Madagascar) added even 5% to annual production on these hectares, this
would add a further 0.3% per annum to national food production, which has
been growing at only about 22 per annum over the past -decade.
Much of the buffer zone - 4,500,000 hectares - comprises forest land. We
would expect individuals and communities which have been given security of
tenure to forests, and have been precluded from access to other forests, to
manage the former more efficiently than heretofore, and increase output of
firewood and other benefits. Unfortunately, there is no experience from
Thailand or elsewhere indicating the benefits for forest management of
improved security of tenure. Likewise, we have little empirical evidence
of the effect of improving security of tenure on pasture land, or indeed
what forms of tenure are likely to be most effective in this regard.
Community and Environmental Benefits
These are as followst
* Because production is expanding at the intensive margin, there will be
less pressure to expand at the extensive margin, thereby reducing the
destruction of habitat and resultant species elimination. The most
destructive environmental agent at the extensive margin is fire. Better
assignment of property rights should improve the incentives to control
fire, to protect property from the destruction pressures of same.



- IUD -
Annex 9
Page 7
* Because farmers will have an incentive to invest for the future, they
will want to ensure that their productive base - their soil - is not washed
away. They will have an incentive to invest in soil conserving techniques
and crops, but only up to the point where the financial benefits yielded by
so doing exceed the costs. The reduced level of erosion should reduce the
intensity of flooding, the loss of roads, bridges and other infrastructure
and the silting of drains, irrigation schemes, hydro dams and ports. These
benefits will be 'joint products", produced in combination with the soil
conservation and agro-forestry program. [See discussion later on).
* The Keynesian multiplier effect will be weak, because 49S of th., initial
expenditure leaks out of the economy to pay from equipment imports.
However, after implementlng this program, the two agencies involved will be
leaders in this field in sub-Saharan Africa. Every African country will
sooner or later have to deal with the same problems of mapping and
assignment of tenure. Madagascar can be a leading source of expertise for
the Continent. Unless such expertise and experience is developed
ingeniously, African countries will continue to be dependent on the
developed world for expertise in this rapidly growing field.
* Mapping and assignment of property rights facilitates the capture of
property taxes, transfer fees, stamp duty and capital gains tax. In
Thailand, such tax collection increased by 30X as a result of land titling.
In Madagascar, it is estimated that the additional tax yielded will be an
average of 0.5 US dollars per hectare, or a total of $2.918 million (5.8366
million x 0.5) annually. This exceeds the estimated annual recurrent cost
of $1.47 million (7.35015), so that the additional tax yield should be
sufficient to cover operating costs. This is not an economic efficiency
benefit; it is a transfer of a portion of the productivity gain from the
landowner to the governmert.
In summary, there are a variety of individual and community benefits which
flow from improved tenure.  The assignment of effective property rights is
a sine qua non for effective management of tle environment; it follows that
enforceable tenure will have to be assigned to land in Madagascar if the
processes of environmental degradation are to be arrested.
Protection and Manaaement of Biodiversity
For protection purposes, three categories of area (1 is highest priority)
are recognized. It is planned to protect and manage 1.4 million ha in the
first 5 year period. The average total annual cost per ha will be $3.25
(from Table 2).
Expenditure will be devoted to three activities: a new agency will be
financed to manage the reserves, there will be direct investment in the
reserves to protect them, and the residents in the zones surrounding the
reserve areas will benefit from investment and education designed to ensure
that they can make a satisfactory living there without damaging the
reserves themselves. Thus the objective is to change the incentives facing



- 107 -
Annex 9
Page 8
people living in the vicinity of the areas needing protection - to provide
positive incentives to farm land which does not threaten the reserves, and
to provide negative incentives (in the form of more policing, etc) to
discourage encroachment thereon.
The benefits can be categorized as follows:
* Madagascar has the potential to become a significant tourist
destination, with two strands, the first being beach and coastal resort
oriented, the second being focussed on the visiting and interpretation of
the country's unique flora and fauna. It is estimated that in 1987, 28,000
visitors came to Madagascar, of whom about 8,000 (up from 4,000 two years
earlier) came specifically to enjoy nature. Since the average annual cost
of the biodiversity program is estimated at $4,5 million, and assuming a
net contribution by visitor of $500, 9,000 eco-tourists per annum would add
value to the economy sufficient to just exceed the capital and operating
costs of maintaining that which they are coming to enjoy. Given the recent
growth, this appears to be achievable in the long tern. Under the Program,
it is projected that eco-tourists will number 25,000 during the fifth year,
adding $12.5 million annually to the economy.
* In addition to tourism benefits, the conservation program will keep
Hadagascar's extraordinary biota in existence for posterity, thereby
keeping options open for the development of new medicines, the enrichment
of gene pools. It will help conserve water, and maintain the flow of
protein, fruits, medicines etc, which are availed of by the local people.
Although most of these latter benefits could be quantified, in the case of
Madagascar they have not been. An issue arises as to what would be likely
to be conserved if there were no EAP. Because of the inherent nature of
its unique biota, and its designation as an international 'hotspot",
Madagascar's environment already commands the attention of a variety of
international bodies and programs. Most recently, a 'debt for nature' swap
was concluded between WWF and the Government of Madagascar, with USAID
support.
* The program will generate additional activity in the zones surrounding
the reserves. To the extent that this is not tourist related, this will
add value to the economy which is additional to that generated by tourists.
* The biodiversity component can raise part of its running costs directly,
in the form of a levy on visitors to the various reserves. A charge per
visitor of $12 applied to 25,000 visitors will raise $300,000, whicl would
cover a third of annual recurrent costs. This is not an economic
efficiency gain; it is the "captureu of a small proportion of the value
added to the economy by tourists to help run the biodiversity program.
Soil Conserration and Apro-Forestry
This program will be demand driven, in that funds will be provided to
comunuities which develop acceptable projects in this area. It is expected



- 108 -
Annex 9
Page 9
that one million hectares will be treated over the period, with average
total costs per hectare amounting to about $12 (See Table 2) of which
recurrent costs per hectare only comprised $2.7. A large number of small
projects are envisaged. The rates of return estimated for soil
conservation investment in some other countries have been quite high [See
for example Anderson's analysis of soil conservation investments in N.
Nigeria, which showed returns above 20% - (Anderson - 1987) while Magrath
(1989) shows that the Vetiver grass approach dominates others economically
in India].
Unfortunately, we do not have field evidence of costs and returns for
Madagascar. This program is very incremental, and can be slowed down,
expanded or terminated depending on the quality of proposals being
submitted.  The benefits of this program to farmers themselves and to the
community have been enumerated already under the security of tenure
heading. The soil conservation program will provide the capital and
knowledge to take advantage of the better investment environment and
possibly by more secure tenure.
In particular, we will learn whether the use of Vetiver grass - a very low
cost soil conservation technique which has proved very successful in parts
of India - will work in Madagascar.
The foreign exchange component is lower (342), so that the domestic
multiplier effect of this expenditure in this program should be
correspondingly higher.
Issues in Implementation and Monitoring
Madagascar is pioneering the use of improved security of tenure as a key
environmental management strategy. Experience from a number of Asian
countries provides supportive evidence that this is a justified approach.
But is has never been explicitly used as an environmental management policy
in Africa. The program as proposed requires that, in addition to
cultivated land and urban land, the tenure arrangements of forest and
pasture be addressed. Ultimately almost every African country will have to
explicitly or implicitly tackle the tenure issue if they are to succeed
economically and environmentally; the lessons yielded by the Madagascar
program will be very valuable.
The methodology used In evaluating progress in Thailand provides an
excellent model in this regard.
Likewise, the array of initiatives proposed to conserve biodiversity
comprise a uniquely wide range of activities. It is essential that the
lessons learned be both internalized in Madagascar, and made available to
help other countries.
The environmental impacts of structural adjustment will be felt in part as
a result of the changes in relative prices engendered by the process. It



- 109 -
Annex 9
Page 10
is essential that price changes be monitored as they occur and linked to
changes at the intensive and the extensive margin. Unfortunately, as
prices have become more relevant, because they express scarcity, the
collection of price data has weakened. Case study farm and forest
enterprise budget analyses would also greatly enlighten us as to the real
incentives and options facing farmers, foresters, loggers.



- t10 -
Ar.nex 9
Page 11
Produoet PIC Inoog, T.bg.", Cotton, @tew4nW.
00,
i$7374 *8 Fb 77 T& *9 110   St   03 os14
or
rFIGuRr t_
Producor Prlco Index! Silsl
34
!; r-~                                          -
167374 7S 76 77  7 79 Gt 031 @l 3 164
Year
F IGURE  2



- llIt-
Annex 9
Page 12
Producer Prleo Indox, COt tO. Vanillo, Clov*s
5
I.
4 /
I
i -X
X ~~~~~~~~Cwo
C44
3 *~~~~~Ys
*?S74 75f 75 77 7o 79 00 1 #9 03 04
Year
FIGURE 3
Producer PMc IndoxpRl
6
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -
197T4t is r6 7 I$ *9 80 61 St $X ax
FIGURE 4



- 112 -
Annex 9
Page 13
PriceIn 400
IOUmFO
300        .
2900
ST*1e _  . -    .    .   .-    . X .  , P
setse etl    e s  'e tool  wsets  " foeo lste teoo see
Vlw
FIGURE S. Trend In Real (1988 MFG) price
of Charcoal (5 Kgs) an  Firwd (   K),
Antnanarivo,  193  '83.



- 113 -
Ciop A  ce                        -0ge 14
A                                 E 
2     _-               ... _.., __
1  |   -  , . _   S  ,.    . . _ ~~.     ~ . _.. .______ ._
4  .x2           Ate  i 1984 |rq0   in 1_73
L.. E  _................ _Cto.....X
_  .. ,.  ._  . _                       -.
~~~17                          .-    _ ._..  _
1.   4     .1 _77.?               l050$          
11s ._-__              .-      _,_ -a-ss'               s_
1 4  Matz.             13210 __  , gjjt _.            ___          4. 
II -9 l      I -                           - 8B.            _-4 
i Su'.9L...._-a ............L..P    -~ 46     $       -       2
44     -                                  63.2
T      ,   ,  _   ____, _,_._,___,,_
34                                          _    ... _ _  . . _ .33
Table 1.    Cro    AM$ fOr UI,eSt Area Crops  1984 -nd 1973. Madagascar
u  ,,_    ._ .._          .    .         _...             _.



- 114 -
Annex 9
Page 15
Table 1
Land Security,    Protection - Mgt.   Soil Conservation
Mapping &         of Biodiversity I/  and Agro-forestry
Remote sensing
Investment
Billion FMG           17.508              23.731                 11.986
Millions US$           9.727              13.184                  6.659
Recurrent
Billion FMG           13.240               8.242                  4.857
Millions USS           7.350               4.579                  2.69&
Contingency
Billion FMG           8.405                8.969                  5.878
Millions US$           4.674               4.982                  3.266
Total
Billion FMG          39.153               40.942                 22.721
Millions US$          21.751              22.745                 12.623
Foreign Exchange
as % of total          49%                  47Z                    34S
1/ Includes Parks and Reserves Conservation, development of buffer zones
and CNGAP.



- 115 -
Annex 9
Page 16
ANGUS-LEPPAN, Peter. 1989. Benefits of the Land Titling Project,
Thailand, presented at World Bank, Washington, D.C., August 15 [not cleared
for publication)
ANDERSON, Dennis. 1987. The Economics of Afforestation - A Case Study in
Africa. World Bank, Washington, D.C.
MAGRATH, William B. 1989. Ecoaomic Analysis of Soil Conservation
Strategies. Envirorment Division Working Paper No. 4, World Bank,
Washington, D.C., August
REPETTO, Robert. 1988. Economic Policy Reform for Natural Resource
Conservation. Environment Division Working Paper No. 4, World Bank,
Washington, D.C.



- 116 -
Annex 10
MADAGASCAR
ENVIRONMENT PROGRAM
IDA Disbursement Profile
(in US$ 000)
Annual           Cummulative      Cumulative as
IDA FY    Semester       Disbursement      Disbursement    % of Credit
91           2              3,428              3,428            13.2
92           1              3,428              6,856            26.3
2             3,295             10,151            39.0
93           1              3,295             13,446            51.7
2             2,172             15,618            60.0
94           1              2,172             17,790            68.4                      -
2             2,092             19,882            76.4
95           1              2,092             21,974            84.5
2             2,024             23,998            92.2
96           1              2,024             26.020           100.0
Utilisation of IDA proceeds
Amount of
IDA financing
Categories                 (US$ million)      2 of total expenditures
I.   Civil Works                0.44                   90%
II. Vehicles and
Equipments                 5.24                  100X
III. Consultants, training
and studies                6.91                  100%
IV.  Operating expenses         6.85                   80%
V.   Refinancing of PPF          1.50
VI.  Unallocated                5.08
Total:                         26.02



- 117 -
Annex 11
ENVIRONMENT PROGRAM 1
General schedule
General                   1990    199.    1992    1993    1994    1995
effectiveness
ONE set up
ANAE set up
ANGAP set up
Mid-term review
Biodiversity
ANGAP coordinat.
ANGAP managing
some parcs/reser.
training
construction ANGAP HQ
DEF assistance
TFAP                               _ _ _ _ __._       _   |   ._
devel't buffer zones
Soil erosion
execution                                                   .      _
Carto2traphy/iteoa. infor
equipments
training                                      _  _     _  _ _  _ 
operation
I
Cadastral componant
equipments
training                                       _  _ _  _ _ _      _  _
operation                                               .
Research________
ONE
sensitisation                             _
training/education
coordination Program                                           -
studies:
. land titling
. land renting
. land taxation
. land code
. endangered species
. utilization flora
and fauna
. environment code
i impact studies                                                -
. watershed manag't of
Andekaleka, Mandraka     .
. soil conservation of
Antala and Tulear



- 118 -
Annex 12
MADAGASCAR
ENVIRONMENT PROGRAM
LIST OF BACKGROUND DOCUMENTS ON FILE
Environmental Action Plan (EAP)s   Prellminary version prepared by the
Bank in association with Malagasy
working groups and cosponsoring donors
National Charter for Environment:  This will be the official EAP document
presented by Government. A draft has
been officially sent to the Bank
Working Papers for the Environmental Program:
N'1:      Biodiversity component (include Report 1 on Parks and Reserves
and Report 2 on Buffer Zones)
N'2t      Mapping, Geographic Information, Cadastral Surveys and Titling
N'3s      Soil Conservation, agroforestry, rural development
N'4t      Environmental Research
N-5,      Support Activities
N'6s      Communication, awareness, training
N'7s      Data Management Systems
N'-s      Environmental Assessment Procedures
N-9s      Draft Statutes for ANGAP
N*lO     Statutes for ANAE
Nlols     Draft Statutes for ONE



MADAGASCAR
Prlncipaux Types de Vegetation
0 0*'
.~~~.
C3            C
0__              w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0 1" _0t    4001m
m  e de^ _ .M-o.o0
fts"venes~I s           0
0{1Xfie*                *    0
.w"._ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  0000 0_
a~~~~~~~~~~



R6partitlon des esp6ces menacees
A.Gr&bb O uamlti'
3. Hron do Humbolt                     urt
C.Sar@ello do orRerni
O.milo@un, do MadagaGSCa
E.Pygargu malgache
F. Aiglo autour
Gj.M6*lte varille
H. M6hite unleotolof
V"J
D ~~~~~P Jow             .All de Water$
; Monis do                 K   ruhtt d'vi r
jL      o      l     ~~~~~L.Pluior I bnd.au noire
/        2    Y       Iti C~.Coa e 4 Oeialands
J            vstjO  /      Nxs  14.1ffrav cio Alumagne
lSv            */       O~~~~~~.111racypOrelle loptosome
P. I'm  hp&rl  cal
/  14*  .rayot&roii deCo
i^/ b  t     /            RIkarehyptirelle b longue qu*ue
J. *       .O ala dooSiters
3     K/. U uob O  d'Ao vtiI
*            L.PuV.hiO  & bansAt u rlso
F_  o~~~~    t~.V"a de Van Dam
X.VCoa do Pollen
Y.Mohtieolao doetonom
Z.OxylabeO  soredlle do nCs
I .Clobe-ouch.o A Foanova



MAP C
Priority Areas for Wtaccrshed Protection
1.  AMJ tunga
2. Lac Aleotra
3 Ancananarivo
4. Fianarantsoa
5. Htanakara
FPret dqnse
POrot claire  : L
Zone subd6sertqu.-
Plateau a prairies



I1RV 21799
420I o                                                                     Ambre [-cological C2omplex 1i 11 )
42                                                  le--                                                              120~
120                        MADAGASCAR                                       Iokobe                siranana
Nowy Thinik.A e            eian
LOCATION  OF PROTECTED AREAS                                     Nos) Mitsto
LEVELS 1, 2, AND 3 (LI, 2, 3)                                 1-2)
Natlonal ParksSatanar1a                                                               Vahlmar.ni
i]    Proposed NationsaP ark2    *                                      aa
*  Integ3ral N;ttural Reserves                         Hell-villei S                     Vahimarina
Speclal Reserves                            Tsaratanana          v
0     Proposed Spedal Reserves               Manongarivo (1-2140
-     Private Reserves
Q     Ecological Complexes                                                                    Sambava
Proposed Ecological Complexes                                       or Ir  Andapa    -  MaroleIN
_ _   P.A. Level 3                                             t             aAntalaha
Paved Roads                                                                      - 1  
Natilonal Capital   Katsep  (L-3)                               fandrana                  Masoala
ahalanga                          iF; Nosy ~~~mangabe
-  Railroads                          MahaJanga                    =         /        Maoai               j
Rivers                /4 S  a9 Ankdrafuntsi -  (I-i                                          L-16
1 ar lsmn  n\                          .
I 1,tombl,ikho ,                                  Mananarai (1-1i
I   ologKal         ,/
Tsingv detamoroka  C onplr\
Bemarivo *L2      *   ) 2                                                            St M.LriL (2-2:
Zahaen.  i.ik  AmlJbtovalO
$b h t.  i   Zahanna 1-1) NMarotandrano ([-2
-   Causse de 61teitv N                   *       tI
_180  t  .   . {'         tMaintirano               (L-2)   ^       Marais de_-               Betampona I.-))    t8
\               ~~~~~~~~Ambo(hijanahars  13         Q t o na
/                                    I                                      tMangerivola (L-2)
Manomoolo /   (    *4            <;Q-~~~~~~siroanornar>di \*   Anjooob 
Manombolo                                                           TA
Bemaraha ,/               *                    r                   T
Nosy Barren
Ecological Complex               Miandrivazo       Soavinandria                          Andsibe
(L1)                      Madiaodin
B2.se Tsiribihina                                                                           ( ) 
Ecological Cor le  L                       -   Antsirai                                                        20)
200                                                                                                                   0
Morondava        ahabo                    .       Fandriana
xfF                          jL  ~~~~~~~~~~Itre-mo i L-3)
Belo Surmer               Makav iL-3(
Bela Sur Mer                                  ~~~~~~~~Ranomafana
Erological Complex (L-3)
la ,s~~~~~~Mananjary
Mangoky                     Flanarantsoa
MorombeN                                              (
-2201ac Ihotry                                            An r                                                       22-
Moronbe  P----. ^ndriCgitr                                               Manakara
Ecological     S .,.                                  Pc diohb
Complex (L-2)                            isalo          -.-2;   t                                          r=
Sakaraha   0   5                                  Farafangana
__  isalo Sud
-'  (L-3)                     Manombo (L-2)
T Nary2S  )                 Kalambatritra              Vangaindrano                     I
Recifs Coralliens(-)                                    *Idf\ L)
de Toliara   \ v 
4aelogical Complex               iteza-Mahafalv                                   240-
Chaine                    AFRICA
~~-Anosvenne (L-3)
Plateau Mahafaly
Ecological Complex (L-2)                                      Andohahela (k-1)
mbe 0l'Td6anaro
i iM o,  Sp   IF0   ?-
L  ~ ~ ~ ~~~ LKarimnbola Cao Satinte mane48
LW 0                                                 g 0  Ecoiogical Complex (L-2)
OCTOBER 1989



IBRD 21799
4'2 0                    464                                                Ainbre ITrologli l (.ormple: (L-1k      21
120                       MADAGASCAR                                       Lokobe               sntiranana
LOCATION  OF PROTECTED AREAS                                   NosyTatnikely 
LEVELS 1, 2, AND 3 (Li, 2, 3)                               (1-2 
*     Natlonal Parks                                                                       la( . , shaka fl-i
U     Proposed Nationai Parka
*     Integral Natural Reserves                          Hell-villeW                       Vahimarina
*     Speclal Reserves                         Tsaratanana
o     Proposed Special Reserves             Manongarivo (L-2)_Ambanja
14                rpsdpdaRsna*'
10     Private Reserves                                                              *                             1
Q?    Ecological Complexes                                                                  Sambava
Proposed Ecological Complexes                       Antsohlhy   l    AndaPa                 ii.')
P A. Level 3                                                          12
-                                           t-19~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A111,11,in1,slm 1 mb  t vAntal.ha
Paved Roads                                                J         A     1-    t t
National Capital        Baly                  ,;andriana
Railroads                       Mahajanga'                                    tz         Masoala
Rivers                /               Ankaraf4ntsi                                    Nosy Mangabe
_16~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ;g   i  Kirk1,,y *                        ,               :  ]In!n 1 -3 6
_     1ljoml7ikbbo                                    Mananara (L- I
Tsingy detamoroka  (ompl6x                                        '
Bemarivo              (L-2)            i       f -2)
Manangoza (L-2)  *                                                            '          Point Ldrrit
st  /-   .                   ... z~~~/-St Nlarie (L-2e
Zahamena ti   Marotandrano tl-2)
Zh   Im-na     Fenoariva
KaAIijv        m  (L-2b                      Atsinanana
Causse dej keifel1
-t81 ii- !r' / .'i. -.   e Maintirano             (1)2    *       Marais de.                 Betampona (M-1)      18
Ambohianahar    (L 3)                     masina
/                                                                      <XS 7 Mangerivola (L-2)
Menombolo       *               ~~~~~~~~~Tsiroano,      Anjozoirobe
Benm3rala ,O% 2l                                                ATANANARIiici
Telmernbo                                           aMrmanu
Nosy BarrenAdab
Ecological Complex              Miandrivazo        Soavinandrlana                      Anda,-ibe
Basse Tsiribihina                                                                          ()t --
Ecological Co  plex (-1        )               Antsirabe
-200              Mrna                                                                                              200L
MorondavahOs      habo                    -    Fandrlana
@                             jW~~~~~~~~~ Itremo (L-31
Belo Sur Mer                X              Makay (L-3)         I
Ecological Complex (L-3)                  l                        Ranomafana
r31_   Manaana njary
Flanarantso-t
Mangoky-
Morombe          (L-3)
2201ac Ihotry         )z5                                                                                          220-
Morombe                  LornI*                       Andringitra      Manakara
Ecological             \ohiha,ia 1-2                 Pic dI!vL hibe    M
Complex (L-2)                          U  Isalo ([-2)   t   (1-il
SakarahaO         Isalo Sud       P- Farafangana
/  /   > w    (L-ll 2            Manombo (121
0                    ndr0no 
T tIlary,r,                 Kalambatritra  miVdoIng% d1-2)                          50
Recifs Corallien  n                          (1-2)      M         -.
de Tollara _
-t4e8logical Complex              Beza-Mahataly                                   240-
(L-2)1<                       (L-1;
Chamne                   A F R I C A
- w v Anosvenne (L-3)
Plateau Mahafaly                                                           (
Ecological Complex (L-2 1-Andohahela (1-1)
A.-
mbo  mbe   -          t1 O Tflanaro
Karimbola Cao Sainte Mane 480
iioIOEcological Complex (L-2198
OCTOBER 1989



