Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2125 MAG
                       (Environment Project)
                              between
                 DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         Dated May 1, 1990
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2125 MAG
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 1, 1990, between DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF
MADAGASCAR (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Borrower intends to contract from United Nations
Development Programme, the United Nations Educational, Scientific
and Cultural Organization, European Economic Community, US Agency
for International Development, the Swiss Development Cooperations
and Humanitarian Aide, the French Caisse Centrale and Fonds d'Aide
et de Coophungarumlautration, the Kingdom of Norway, the German Kreditanstalt
f\1ar Wiederaufbau and Gesellschaft f\1ar technische Zusammenarbeit, the
Overseas Development Agency of the United Kingdom, the World
Wildlife Fund, Conservation International, Association Inter-
nationale Contre la Faim, Resource Development Agency and other
donors loans or grants to assist in financing the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in agreements to be entered into
Page  2
between the Borrower and such cofinanciers; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a)   "MEP" means the Borrower's Ministry of Economy and
Planning;
      (b)   "MINAGRI" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture
and Land Patrimony;
      (c)   "MPAEF" means the Borrower's Ministry of Livestock,
Water and Forest;
      (d)   "MRSTD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Scientific and
Technological Development Research;
      (e)   "DEF" means the Direction des Eaux et For\1ats within the
Borrower's Ministry of Livestock, Fisheries and Forestry;
      (f)   "ONE" means the Office National de l'Environnement, to
be established pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01 (a) of
this Agreement;
      (g)   "DPRA" means the Direction du Patrimoine et de la
Rhungarumlautforme Agraire within MINAGRI;
      (h)   "ANGAP" means the Association Nationale pour la Gestion
des Aires Prothungarumlautghungarumlautes, to be established pursuant to the provisions of
Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement;
      (i)   "FTM" means the National Cartography Institute (Foiben-
Taosarintanins Madagasikara), an hungarumlauttablissement public 
 caract\1are
commercial, established pursuant to Decree No. 74-001 dated
January 4, 1974;
      (j)   "CNRE" means the Centre National de la Recherche
Environnementale;
      (k)   "CNRO" means the Centre National de Recherche
Ochungarumlautanographique;
      (l)   "ANAE" means the Association Nationale d'Actions
Environnementales, an association d'inthungarumlautr\1at public established under
the laws of Madagascar;
      (m)   "Protected Areas" means the areas which were classified
by Decree as aires prothungarumlautghungarumlautes or which are to be classified in
accordance with Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
      (n)   "Gazetted Forests" means the for\1ats classhungarumlautes which have
been classified by Decree as part of the domaine public;
      (o)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
Page  3
preparation advance granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to
an exchange of letters dated December 20, 1988 and January 31, 1989
between the Borrower and the Bank;
      (p)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (q)   "ANAE Implementation Agreement" means the agreement
referred to in Section 3.01 (a)(ii) of this Agreement;
      (r)   "FTM Implementation Agreement" means the agreement
referred to in Section 3.01 (a)(iii) of this Agreement;
      (s)   "ANGAP Implementation Agreement" means the agreement
referred to in Section 3.01 (a)(iv) of this Agreement;
      (t)   "Steering Committee" means the Steering Committee
referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
      (u)   "Priority Zones" means the zones specified in Part B.1
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to nineteen million eight hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 19,800,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall cause its Central Bank, for the
purposes of the Project, to open and maintain in dollars a special
account in a commercial bank in the name of the Central Bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to the Bank the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding
as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
Page  4
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each February 1 and August 1,
commencing August 1, 2000 and ending February 1, 2030. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on February 1,
2010 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end:
            (i)    shall carry out Parts A.3 and A.5 of the Project
                   through DEF, Part D of the Project through DPRA
                   and, Parts E and F of the Project through ONE,
                   with due diligence and efficiency and in
                   conformity with appropriate administrative,
                   research, agricultural, forestry and financial
Page  5
                   practices, and shall provide, promptly as
                   needed, the funds, facilities, services and
                   other resources required for such Parts of the
                   Project;
            (ii)   shall cause ANAE to carry out Part B of the
                   Project, with due diligence and efficiency and
                   in conformity with appropriate administrative,
                   technical and financial practices and in
                   accordance with the ANAE Implementation
                   Agreement to be entered into by the Borrower and
                   ANAE whose terms and conditions shall have been
                   approved by the Association;
            (iii)  shall cause FTM to carry out Part C of the
                   Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
                   conformity with appropriate administrative,
                   technical and financial practices and in
                   accordance with the FTM Implementation Agreement
                   to be entered into by the Borrower and FTM whose
                   terms and conditions shall have been approved by
                   the Association;
            (iv)   shall cause ANGAP to carry out Parts A.1, A.2,
                   A.4 and A.6 of the Project with due diligence
                   and efficiency and in conformity with
                   appropriate administrative, technical and
                   financial practices, and in accordance with the
                   ANGAP Implementation Agreement to be entered
                   into by the Borrower and ANGAP, whose terms and
                   conditions shall have been approved by the
                   Association;
            (v)    shall take or cause to be taken all action,
                   including the provision of funds, facilities,
                   services and other resources, necessary or
                   appropriate to enable ANGAP, ANAE and FTM to
                   carry out the respective Parts of the Project,
                   and shall not take or permit to be taken any
                   action which would prevent or interfere with the
                   carrying out of the respective Parts of the
                   Project by ANGAP, ANAE or FTM;
            (vi)   and without limitation upon the provisions of
                   this Section, the Borrower shall maintain
                   (A) caisses d'avance in the name of ANGAP, ONE,
                   DEF, DPRA, FTM and ANAE, and make funds
                   available for such caisses d'avance in a timely
                   fashion, and (B) separate accounts in the name
                   of DEF, DPRA, ONE, deposit into such accounts
                   its contribution to the Project on a regular
                   basis, and ensure that the directors of such
                   agencies are empowered to authorize payments out
                   of such accounts.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall establish Protected Areas in
accordance with the calendar set forth in Schedule 6 to this
Agreement. Such list and calendar shall be examined periodically by
the Borrower and the Association and, if necessary, shall be
modified in agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
Page  6
      Section 3.04. By June 30, 1991, the Borrower shall complete
the studies to be carried out under Parts D.3 (b) and (c) of the
Project and review their recommendations with the Association.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall not later than June 30, 1991,
publish a regulation in order to transfer the execution of
individual topographic surveys for private properties, for which
land titles have been issued previously, to private, sworn-in
surveyors.
      Section 3.06. By December 31, 1990 the Borrower shall publish
a decree specifying the Borrower's procedures to assess the
environmental impact of investments in Madagascar.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of
Parts A.3, A.5, D, E and F of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying them out.
      (b) The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than six
                   months after the end of each such year, a
                   certified copy of the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account for the Project were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal
                   year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                   Account or payment out of the Special Account
                   was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate opinion
                   by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
Page  7
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
      Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause ANAE, ANGAP and FTM
to maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations and financial
conditions of ANAE under Part B, ANGAP under Parts A.1, A.2, A.4 and
A.6, and FTM under Part C of the Project, respectively.
      (b)   The Borrower shall cause ANAE, ANGAP and FTM to:
            (i)    have its records, accounts and financial
                   statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                   and expenses and related statements) and the
                   records and accounts for the Special Account for
                   each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                   appropriate auditing principles consistently
                   applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                   the Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                   but in any case not later than six months after
                   the end of each such year (A) certified copies
                   of its financial statements for such year as so
                   audited, and (B) the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning such records, accounts,
                   financial statements and the audit thereof as
                   the Association shall from time to time
                   reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                          Other Covenants
      Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause ANAE, ANGAP and FTM:
      (a)   to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
to make other provision satisfactory to the Association for,
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice;
      (b)   to carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative and financial practices under
the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by
competent staff in adequate numbers; and
      (c)   at all times to operate and to maintain its plants,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering and financial
practices.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   ONE has been established, with responsibilities
acceptable to the Association, all its board members have been
nominated and a Director General has been employed;
      (b)   all board members of ANAE have been nominated and a
Director General has been employed;
Page  8
      (c)   ANGAP has been established with responsibilities
acceptable to the Association, all its board members have been
nominated and a Director General has been employed;
      (d)   the ANAE Implementation Agreement, the ANGAP
Implementation Agreement and the FTM Implementation Agreement have
been signed by the Borrower, on the one hand, and ANAE, ANGAP and
FTM, respectively, on the other;
      (e)   an audit firm, acceptable to the Association, has been
selected to perform auditing services during the first two years of
the Project; and
      (f)   the legislative text relating to the National Charter
for the Environment has been published.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister responsible for finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are hereby specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Minist\1are des Finances et du Budget
            B.P. 61
            Antananarivo
            Madagascar
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   MINFIN                    22489 MG
       Antananarivo
      For the Association:
            International Development
             Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   197688 (TRT),
                   Washington, D.C.          248423 (RCA)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
                         By /s/ Pierrot Rajaonarivel
                                         Authorized Representative
Page  9
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of
the Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for
items so to be financed in each Category:
                         Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated            % of
                         (Expressed in           Expenditures
      Category           SDR Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1)   Part C of
      the Project
      (a)   civil                190,000         90%
            works
      (b)   goods and          2,240,000         100%
            vehicles
      (c)   consultants'         360,000         100%
            services,
            studies and
            training
      (d)   operating          2,410,000         80%
            costs
(2)   Part D of
      the Project
      (a)   goods and          1,400,000         100%
            vehicles
      (b)   consultants'         330,000         100%
            services,
            studies and
            training
                         Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated            % of
                         (Expressed in           Expenditures
      Category           SDR Equivalent)         to be Financed
      (c)   operating          2,000,000         80%
            costs
(3)   Part E of the
      Project
      (a)   civil works          130,000         90%
      (b)   goods and            130,000         100%
            vehicles
      (c)   consultants'       3,890,000         100%
            services,
            studies and
Page  10
            training
      (d)   operating            410,000         80%
            costs
(4)   Part F of the
      Project
      (a)   civil works           10,000         90%
      (b)   goods and            200,000         100%
            vehicles
      (c)   consultants'         660,000         100%
            services,
            studies and
            training
      (d)   operating           370,000          80%
            costs
                         Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated            % of
                         (Expressed in           Expenditures
      Category           SDR Equivalent)         to be Financed
(5)   Refunding of             1,140,000         Amounts due
      Project                                    pursuant to
      Preparation                                Section 2.02 (c)
      Advance                                    of this Agreement
(6)   Unallocated              3,930,000
                               _________
            TOTAL             19,800,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule the term "operating cost"
means incremental cost related to personnel and operation and
maintenance of vehicles and equipment.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
      (b)   payments made, or to be made, for expenditures under
Category (2) above, unless the Borrower: (i) has amended its
legislation relating to land registration to make mandatory the
recording of any transfer of ownership of land; (ii) has exempted
beneficiaries of collective cadastral surveys from all fees
otherwise payable for registration and topographic services;
(iii) has taken all measures to comply with Section 3.05 of this
Agreement; (iv) has submitted the first work program acceptable to
the Association in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 5 of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (v) has submitted, during each
consecutive year of execution of the Project, the respective work
program acceptable to the Association in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
                           SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to assist the Malagasy
population in protecting and improving its environment for a more
sustainable development.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Page  11
Part A:
1.    Establishment and equipping of a network of about 50 Protected
Areas, including rehabilitation and construction of minor
facilities, coordination of development activities in buffer zones
and training, including training abroad, of ANGAP's staff.
2.    Organizational studies for ANGAP.
3.    Strengthening of DEF's capacity, including training of its
staff locally and abroad, to define biodiversity and forestry policy
and to improve the protection and sustainable exploitation of about
300,000 ha of Gazetted Forests.
4.    Studies to review and update the list of endangered species
and to evaluate the economic utilization of the flora and fauna.
5.    Preparation of the tropical forestry action plan.
6.    Construction and equipping of ANGAP's headquarters.
Part B:
1.    Mini-projects in environmental priority zones in Antananarivo,
Lac Alaotra, Fianarantsoa, Mahajanga, Manakara and in buffer zones
surrounding Protected Areas related to:
      (a)   watershed management, including soil conservation,
agroforestry and reforestation;
      (b)   productive infrastructure, including creation and
rehabilitation of small irrigation schemes;
      (c)   support to production, including storage facilities,
feeder road rehabilitation and bridges; and
      (d)   social programs.
2.    Studies to prepare mini-projects and to assess the ecological,
economic and social impact of mini-projects, carried out under Part
B.1 of the Project.
3.    Organizational studies for ANAE and training of its staff,
including training abroad.
Part C:
1.    Improvement of the geodetic network over about 6 million ha.
2.    Aerial surveys and production of base maps for Priority Zones
and Protected Areas.
3.    Production of orthophotomaps for watershed management and
cadastral surveys.
4.    Setting up a national laboratory for remote sensing and
geographic data bank and studies therefor.
5.    Strengthening of FTM and training of its staff, including
training abroad.
6.    Rehabilitation and expansion of FTM's facilities.
Part D:
1.    Definition of boundaries between public domaine constituted by
the Protected Areas and the Gazetted Forests and private lands.
2.    Pilot land-titling in Priority Zones and village lands around
Protected Areas.
Page  12
3.    Studies:
      (a)   to establish a computerized system of cadastral records;
      (b)   to make an inventory of land which is held in common
property in the buffer zones within Protected Areas and Priority
Zones;
      (c)   on the land tenure system in common property areas,
including the preparation of proposals for the modification of
cadastral and titling procedures and for the planning of the
implementation of such procedures;
      (d)   on rural land lease systems and for the preparation of
proposals to improve land security of both, landlord and tenant;
      (e)   to review the land taxation system and for the
preparation of proposals to provide more incentives for soil
conservation and sustainable development;
      (f)   for the preparation of a land code and for the
preparation of information material thereon.
4.    Strengthening of DPRA and training of its staff; including
training abroad.
Part E:
1.    Strengthening of the capacity of ONE to coordinate the Project
and to develop environmental policies and procedures for its
implementation.
2.    Rehabilitation of a building for ONE's headquarters.
3.    Training, including training abroad, of staff of ONE.
4.    Development of environmental curricula on the primary and
secondary school level and university level, production and
distribution of textbooks and provision of training, equipment and
vehicles needed therefor.
5.    Carrying out of information campaigns to build environmental
awareness among the Malagasy population.
6.    Establishment of an environmental data bank.
7.    Studies:
      (a)   on the organization of ONE;
      (b)   to review the environmental legislation, to propose
amendments, if necessary, and for the preparation of information
material thereon;
      (c)   for the establishment of environmental assessment
procedures;
      (d)   to evaluate the impact of land titling on land
improvement;
      (e)   for the development of eco-tourism;
      (f)   to evaluate the impact of environmental education and
awareness programs;
      (g)   to assess the feasibility of soil conservation and
watershed management plans in the Antalaha and Toliary regions;
      (h)   to assess the feasibility of the watershed management
plans for the Andekaleka and Mandraka hydropower dams;
      (i)   for the preparation of the next environment project.
Page  13
      (j)   for the environmental assessment of future, selected
projects.
      (k)   for the protection of infrastructure in coastal areas
damaged by cyclones.
Part F:
1.    Carrying out of a marine and coastal research program,
including a feasibility study and on-site pilot project for
extensive shrimp farming, a feasibility study on the use of
secondary fish catches during shrimping, a study of inshore lobster
stocks to work out guidelines for sustainable exploitation, a study
on the characteristics and reproductive features of the mangrove
crab for a sustainable exploitation and preparation of an inventory
of marine bio-diversity and a development program for marine parks.
2.    A management audit of CNRE.
3.    Preparation of inventories of the flora and fauna in the
Protected Areas to establish a national bio-diversity data system.
4.    Vegetation mapping of range areas, in particular in the west,
to define improved technologies for better management, including
better control of bush fires.
5.    Regeneration and propagation of endemic plant species and
propagation of threatened animal species.
6.    Construction and rehabilitation of minor facilities needed for
environmental research.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
      Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Madagascar may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items for goods and works estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of $100,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $2,180,000, may be procured under
Page  14
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association provided, however that:
      (a)   registration of bidders in the Borrower's Registry of
Commerce shall not be required for the acceptance of their bids;
      (b)   no procurement shall be made on the basis of selected
tendering or direct contracting except as a result of rejection of
all bids and negotiations with the lowest bidder following paragraph
2.60 of the Guidelines;
      (c)   bids shall be opened in public, i.e., bidders in their
representatives shall be allowed to be present; and
      (d)   no special preference shall be given to local bidders in
the evaluation of bids.
2.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of $30,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $2,450,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for goods and works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of
the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall
be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
Project Coordination and Monitoring
1.    ONE shall be responsible for coordinating the overall
implementation of the Project and, in particular, for:
Page  15
            (i)    developing environmental policy:
           (ii)    monitoring environmental assessment procedures
                   and studies;
          (iii)    coordinating and consolidating accounting,
                   procurement and disbursement procedures of the
                   various implementing agencies listed in Section
                   3.01 of this Agreement;
           (iv)    coordinating training, education and awareness;
            (v)    coordinating and, if need be, managing
                   environmental studies;
           (vi)    managing environmental data; and
          (vii)    coordinating the environmental research program.
2.    The Steering Committee shall:
      (a)   consist of:
            (i)    the Minister of Economy and Planning, who shall
                   be its chairman;
           (ii)    the Director General of ONE, who shall be its
                   secretary;
          (iii)    representatives of the various executing
                   agencies listed in Section 3.01 above;
           (iv)    representatives of donor agencies;
            (v)    world reknown environment scientists; and
      (b)   be responsible for:
            (i)    review and evaluation of past operations under
                   the Project;
           (ii)    review and comment upon the annual work programs
                   to be prepared by each executing agency; and
          (iii)    review the yearly funding plan of the Project
                   and necessary adjustments thereof; and
      (c)   be convened by the Borrower during December of each
year.
Part A of the Project
3.    ANGAP shall be responsible, upon delegation from MPAEF, for
the coordination of the execution of Parts A.1, A.2, A.4 and A.6 of
the Project. It will choose and contract operators (national or
foreign) to prepare detailed conservation and development plans for
the Protected Areas and to implement them. For that purpose the
existing arrangements with operators active in Protected Areas would
be amended, not later than June 30, 1991.
Part B of the Project
4.    ANAE will select mini-projects to be financed under Part B of
the Project in accordance with eligibility criteria acceptable to
the Association, as such criteria may be reviewed and amended from
time to time.
Part D.2 of the Project
5.    One month before the meeting of the Steering Committee
referred to in paragraph 2 (c) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall
Page  16
prepare and submit to the Association for approval a specific work
program for the land-titling activities to be carried out under Part
D.2 of the Project, which shall designate the proposed areas and any
common property rights, that exist in such areas.
Studies
6.    Before commencement of any study to be carried out under the
Project, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association for approval
the terms of reference, cost estimates and the arrangements to be
made for the carrying out of any such study.
Mid-Term Review
7.    The Borrower shall: (a) not later than February 28, 1993,
furnish to the Association for approval the draft terms of
reference, for the mid-term review; (b) not later than June 30,
1993, furnish to the Association, for review and comments, a report
on the progress of the Project, in such form and detail as may be
required for purposes of the preparation of the mid-term review; and
(c) not later than September 15, 1993 carry out, with the
Association the mid-term review.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures inrespect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount $1.6
million to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account and the six caisses d'avance specified in
Section 3.01 (a)(vi) have been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   requests for deposits into the Special Account
                   at such intervals as the Association shall
                   specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required
                   pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which
Page  17
                   replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
                   such request, the Association shall, on behalf
                   of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
                   Account and deposit into the Special Account
                   such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
                   and as shall have been shown by said documents
                   and other evidence to have been paid out of the
                   Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Page  18
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
                            SCHEDULE 6
              Protected Areas to be established under
                  Section 3.03 of this Agreement.
      1.    By June 30, 1991:
Level 1
1.    Complexe de Montagne d'Ambre (Ambre, Analamera, Ankarana)
2.    Masoala/Nosy Mangabe
3.    Mananara
4.    Marojejy/Anjanaharibe Sud
5.    Ranomafana
6.    Andasibhungarumlaut/Mantadia
7.    Andringitra/Pic d'Ivohibe
8.    Andohahela
9.    Ankarafantsika
10.   Complexe Manombolo/Bemaraha/Tsimembo/Nosy Barren
11.   Morondava/C\1ate Ouest, For\1ats basse Tsiribihina
12.   Beza-Mahafaly
13.   Betampona
14.   Zahamena
      2.    By June 30, 1992:
Level 2
1.    Complexe Lac Ihotry/Morombe
2.    Midongy
3.    Kalambatritra
4.    Sombitzy/Vohibasia
5.    Isalo
6.    Complexe Plateau Mahafaly
7.    Complexe Karimbola (Cap Sainte Marie)
8.    Kassigy/Causse du Kelifely
9.    Tsingy de Namoroka
10.   Complexe Lac Kinkony/Tsiombikibo
11.   Tsaratanana/Mananongarivo
12.   Lokobe/Nosy Tanikely/Nosy Mitsio
13.   Anbohitantely
14.   Bemarivo/Manangoza
15.   Bora
16.   Manombo
17.   Betampona/Marotandrano
18.   Anbatovaky/Marotandrano
19.   Ambohijanahary
20.   Complexe Toliary
      3.    By December 31, 1993:
Level 3
1.    Tampoketsa d'Analamaitso
2.    Itremo
3.    Daraina/Lac Sahaka
4.    Marais de Didy
5.    Makay
6.    Isalo Sud
7.    Baie de Baly/Katsepy
8.    Complexe de Belo-sur-Mer
9.    Mangoky
10.   Cha'ne Anosyenne
11.   Mangroves
Page  19
