Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4382a-PA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PARAGUAY
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
May 16, 1983
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional. Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Local Currency Unit   Guarani (G)
Official Exchange Rate US$1 = G 126
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AD              -  Agriculture Department (BNF)
BNF             -  National Development Bank
CAH             -  Small Farmer Rehabilitation Credit Agency
CB              -  Central Bank
CREDICOOP       -  National Credit Cooperative, Ltd.
DIAF            -  Department of Agricultural and Forestry Research
DRP             -  Debt Recovery Program
FECOPROD        -  Federation of Producers Cooperatives
FG              -  Livestock Fund
IBR             -  Rural Welfare Institute
KfW             -  Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MAC             -  Ministry of Agriculture
SEAG            -  Agricultural Extension Service
TAP             -  Technical Assistance Program
GOVERNMENT OF PARAGUAY
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PARAGUAY
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .......................................   1
II.  PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS.                      3
A.  Project Objectives ....................... . .........   3
B. Performance Indicators.                                          3
BNF's Performance Indicators and Goals.                         3
BNF's Agricultural Department Performance Indicators and
Goals.                                                         4
Agricultural Production Indicators.                             4
III. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ........................................   4
A.  General Characteristics ....................................   4
Agriculture in the Economy .................................   4
Land Tenure and Use.                                            5
Institutional Framework ....................................   6
Agricultural Credit.                                            7
Marketing and Prices.                                           7
B.  Bank Strategy and Previous Bank-financed Projects.              8
IV. THE PROJECT.                                                         8
Background ..                                                       8
Objectives and Description..                                        9
The Project Executing Agency        ..                              9
Project Execution ......................     .......................  12
Lending Terms and Conditions                 ..                    14
Project Cost and Financing                  ..                     15
Procurement and Disbursement                 ..                    15
Accounts and Auditing                    ..                        16
Monitoring and Evaluation ......................................  17
Financial and Economic Justification             ..                17
Project Justification .........................................   19
Project Risks ...............................................  19
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ......     ...................  19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Paraguay during November 1982. The mission comprised Messrs. J. Bazo
(Mission Leader), H. Floyd (Agriculturist), and R. Hanan (Ag. Economist)
(Bank) and G. Gomez (Consultant).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i~i -
Page No.
ANNEXES
1.   Agricultural Credit and BNF..........................   21
A.  Agricultural Credit ........................................   21
B.  Agricultural Lending of BNF ......................  ....            22
C.  Sources of Funds .................... a ........... .. . ..    26
D.  BNF's Portfolio Arrears and Collections    ....... 27
E.  BNF's Balance Sheets and Income Statements               ..         29
Table 1 - Loans Made by BNF's Agricultural Department . .33
Table 2 - BNF's Portfolio under A rrears.                               34
Table 3 - Consolidated Balance Sheets for Fiscal Years 1977-80.   35
Table 4 - BNF's Income Statements, 1977- 80.    36
Table 5 - Consolidated Financial Statements - BNF  .         .37
Table 6 - Historical and Projected Income Statements - BNF              38
Table 7 - BNF/Results and Profitability D a t a                         39
Table 8 - Income and Costs Statement Without Project. .                 40
Table 9 - Actual and Projected Income Statements With Project    41
2.   Farm Models and Financial and Economic Justification...........   42
Farm Budgets, Rates of Return and Cash Flow
Tables 1 and 2 - Model 1 (120 ha farm) .........................  47-48
Tables 3 and 4 - Model 2 (80 ha farm) ..........................  49-50
Tables 5 and 6 - Model 3 (40 ha farm) .........................  51-52
Tables 7 and 8 - Model 4 (15 ha farm) .................. .........  53-54
Table 9 - Farmgate Prices for Financial and Economic Analyses..   55
3.   BNF's Technical Assistance Program (TAP)           ......................   56
4.   Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures             .     .      64
5.   List of Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File 69
SUPPORTING TABLES
Table 1 - BNF's External Resources for Small-farmer Loans .......  70
Table 2 - Institution-Building Component ........................  71
Table 3 - BNF's Project Lending Program ....        ...............0.  72
MAP IBRD No. 16932



PARAGUAY
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
I. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       The Republic of Paraguay.
Beneficiaries: Government; National Development Bank (BNF). The ultimate
beneficiaries would be about 5,000 small- and medium-scale
crop farmers receiving project subloans from BNF.
Loan Amount:   US$40.0 million (including US$0.10 million front-end fee).
Loan Terms:    17 years, including four years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Relending
Terms:         The proceeds of the loan would be made available to BNF in
local currency under arrangements to be covered by a
subsidiary agreement between the Government and BNF.
Execution of the subsidiary agreement, satisfactory to the
Bank would be a condition of loan effectiveness. BNF, in
turn, would relend to project sub-borrowers at an effective
rate of interest of at least 18% per annum, with repayment
terms of up to 10 years, including a grace period of up to
three years.
Project
Description:  The project's main objectives would be to increase
agricultural output, including production of export crops for
which Paraguay enjoys a comparative advantage, and to help
small- and medium-scale farmers to increase their earnings and
thereby improve their living conditions. To attain these
objectives, the project would provide funds to BNF to
alleviate the scarcity of long-term resources for financing
such development.  It would also continue efforts initiated
under the Bank-financed Industrial Credit Projects (Loans
1419-PA and 1866-PA) to strengthen BNF's institutional
capability. The project would include two components. The
major one would consist of a lending program of long-term
credit for financing on-farm investments, as well as
short-term credit for incremental operating costs. The minor
component would finance a program to strengthen BNF's staff
capabilities and expand the office equipment and vehicles
used in its agricultural credit operations.
Benefits:       The project is expected to have a significant impact on
agricultural development, raising standards of living of the
rural population, increasing foreign exchange earnings and
savings, and improving the operational capacity of the
principal lending institution for the agricultural sector of
Paraguay.



-2
Risks:          Credit demand under the project is highly dependent on prices
paid at farm level for soybeans and cotton. Because of the
depressed international market, prices for these two crops
were, till recently, unattractive to the bulk of farmers in
Paraguay. However, according to the Bank's commodity price
forecasts, world prices for soybeans and cotton are expected
to improve in 1983 and beyond.
Estimated Costs:
Components                Local          Foreign       Total
…-----------------…(US$ million equivalent)-
Credit Program              31.0 a/        39.0         70.0 a/
(on-farm investment)
BNF's Institution            1.0            1.0          2.0
Building
Total                       32.0           40.0         72.0
Financing Plan:
Local         Foreign       Total
------------------…(US$ million equivalent)----
Bank loan                    -             40.0         40.0
BNF                         18.0            -           18.0
Project Beneficiaries       14.0            -           14.0
Total                       32.0           40.0         72.0
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY:        1984       1985       1986      1987   1988
Annual           4.0       12.0       10.0       10.0    4.0
Cumulative        -        16.0      26.0       36.0   40.0
Economic Rate of Return: not applicable.
Appraisal Report:           Report No.      -PA,         1983.
a/   Includes US$14.0 million of project beneficiaries' contribution.



II. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
A. Project Objectives
2.01      The project's main objective is to improve the income of small- and
medium-scale farmers, mainly through increased production of soybeans and
cotton. Most of the increased production would result from increasing the
area under cultivation, though some increase would also result from improved
yields. Much depends on farmers' investment and borrowing decisions. These,
in turn, will be influenced by international prices, exchange rate policy,
and marketing and climatic conditions. However, based on present price
exp~ectations, soybean and cotton production would be attractive enough to
stimulate on-farm investment in the foreseeable future. The other objective
of the project is to strengthen the National Development Bank (BNF) in its
financial and operational aspects, so that it may serve as an efficient and
expanding source of institutional credit for agricalture in Paraguay.
B. Performance Indicators
2.02      The indicators shown in the tables which follow are based on the
present situation in regard to BNF's agricultural lending and the
contemplated increase in its operations and improvement in aspects such as
loan recovery, cost reduction and financial strengthening.
BNF's Performance Indicators and Goals
Actual                 Projections
1981    1982    1983    1984   1985  1986
1. Annual growth of net loan
portfolio - %               26.4%   22.4%   19.6%   17.4%   15.4%  15.3%
2. Portfolio under arrears at
end of fiscal year - %    16.9%   15.5%   15.2%   14.7%   13.7%  13.5%
3. Earnings over net loan
portfolio - %               15.0%   16.0%   16.3%   16.4%   16.5%  16.5%
4. Operating costs over gross
portfolio ratio              7.8%    7.6%    7.4%    7.0%    6.7%   6.5%
5. Net growth of deposits from
private sector - %           9.6%   12.0%   12.0%   12.0%   12.0%  12.0%
6.  Liquidity ratio at year end  1.22    1.31    1.31    1.37    1.45   1.55



- 4 -
BNF's Agricultural Department Performance Indicators and Goals
Actual               Projections
1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
1. Annual growth of net loan
portfolio - %                     25.7%  20.3%  18.6%  16.5%  14.5%  14.5%
2. Portfolio under arrears at end
of fiscal year - %                16.6%  15.6%  15.3%  15.0%  14.0%  14.0%
3. Earnings over net loan
portfolio - %                     14.2%  15.2%  15.4%  15.6%  15.7%  15.7%
4. Operating costs over gross
portfolio ratio                    5.2%   5.1%   5.0%   4.8%   4.6%   4.5%
Agricultural Production Indicators
2.03      Estimated yields of main commodities developed under the project
are expected to increase as follows:
Incremental
Before Project    At Full Development   Production
(tons)
Soybeans           2.0                     2.2             60,000
Wheat              1.0                     1.4             12,000
Cotton             1.1                     1.5             10,000
III. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. General Characteristics
Agriculture in the Economy
3.01      Agriculture is the most important economic activity in Paraguay,
contributing about 31% of GDP, over 95% of the country's total exports, and
near half of the employment. In 1980, 70% of the total population lived in
rural areas. The sector supplies most of the products needed for domestic
consumption, except for wheat, dairy products and fruits, which are imported
from neighboring countries.  The country is divided by the Paraguay river
into two distinct areas: the Chaco to the west and the Eastern region.  The
Chaco, with about 25 million ha and approximately 3% of the country's
population of three million, is dry and short of water resources and
generates only about 1.5% of the agricultural production, mostly from
extensive livestock ranches. The Eastern region accounts for over 97% of the
population and of the GDP and comprises forested areas and plateaus, with
good soils and well distributed rainfall, Crop production is essentially
limited to this region.



- 5 -
3.02      During the decade of the 1970s, the value of agricultural
production grew in real terms at a cumulative annual average rate of 7.5%.
This increase resulted mostly from expansion of cropped areas in the eastern
part of the Eastern region. Area covered by the principal crops, mainly
cotton and soybeans, rose from about 500,000 ha in 1972 to approximately 1.5
million ha by the end of 1979. This development has been supported by a
large immigration of capable and aggressive farmers from Brazil, who have
made an important technological contribution, and by farmers who came from
the central areas of the country, characterized by eroded soils and
minifundia. Other important factors supporting this development are the
construction and improvement of roads in the Eastern region, attractive
international prices for cotton and soybeans, and the demand originating from
the construction of Itaipu dam. Future production expansion will depend on
farmgate prices, the availability of investment capital, and the public
sector's ability to improve roads and technical services. These are the main
factors which would facilitate and accelerate the transition from subsistence
to commercial agriculture. The Bank and other international agencies have
been helping this process by financing a number of integrated rural
development projects designed to upgrade the technological and economic
status of existing smallholder settlements and to support new settlers.
Land Tenure and Use
3.03      The number of farm units in Paraguay has increased by 53% over the
past 10 years, from about 162,000 in 1971 to about 249,000 in 1981.1/ Over
70% of the farms are exploited by owner-operators, another 12% by tenants,
and the remaining 18% by farmers, who, though lacking land titles, may have
established users' rights. As to farm size, for the 14 departments within
the Eastern region which account for 244,000 of the country's 249,000 farms,
over 40% had less than 5 ha, 24% had between 5 and 10 ha, 27% had 20 to 50
ha, and 4% were between 50 and 200 ha. Farms larger than 200 ha accounted
for about 1.5% of the total number. Of the total area included in the
census, the distribution is highly skewed, with 95% of the farms occupying
only 23% of the total farming area of about 10 million ha. These figures,
however, also reflect considerable variability in land productivity.
3.04      There is little reliable data on land use.  With land being
increasingly cleared for crops, the situation is changing rapidly. Of the
total 10 million ha of farming area in Eastern Paraguay, only 1.5 million ha
is cropped; the remainder is in pastures, woodlands and wasteland. Cotton
and soybeans occupy 50% of the crop area. According to the census, in the
strata of 5 to 50 ha, 25% of the farm area is cropped, while in the strata of
50 to 200 ha, the comparable figure rises to about 30%. Increase in crop
land is at the expense of forest land. In the majority of cases, farmers,
mainly small scale, manually cut down and burn the forest after removing the
most valuable timber. After some years of cropping among the stumps and
felled trees, many medium-scale farmers clear the stumps with heavy machinery
or animal power. Cotton is a typical non-mechanized activity of small-scale
farmers, who generally plant less than 5 ha, due to labor shortages. Wheat
and sorghum are about the only alternatives for cropping during the off
season.
1/   Source:  preliminary data from the 1981 agricultural census.



-6-
Institutional Framework
3.05      The Ministry of Agriculture (MAG) is responsible for policy
formulation and for administering support services for the sector. Its most
important activities are agricultural extension (through its Agri'eultural
Extension Service - SEAG), research (Department of Agricultural and Forestry
Research (DIAF)), marketing, collection of agricultural statistics, and land
reform. Various autonomous entities carry out related program3. The
National University of Asuncion provides most of the agricultural education
and some research, while the Rural Welfare Institute (IBR) is responsible for
land distribution, mainly through the establishment of settlements. There
are only two research centers and six substations for agricultural research
and three livestock research substations, with a total staff of 73 profes-
sionals, 14 of them working in the central office of the Ministry of
Agriculture. Though the national research program is handicapped by a
shortage of trained scientists and funding, there have been some successes.
For example, with the participation of French Government Technical
Assistance, DIAF has produced high-yielding varieties of cotton, which have
been widely adopted by farmers over the past 10 years. SEAG, with some
300 technicians, faces many of the same problems as DIAF. The staff that is
linked to specific development projects financed by the Bank and other
foreign sources work under much better conditions than their associates, but
the impact of their work is limited to the project areas. BNF, with 93 agri-
cultural technicians who at the 45 branch offices help farmers prepare
on-farm investment programs, also provides some extension services. More-
over, there is a joint SEAG/BNF program (PAC) under which extension staff
from SEAG assist BNF's small-scale farm customers in preparing farm plans and
credit applications in specified areas of the country. The Livestock Fund
(FG), strengthened by financial support from the Bank, maintains a task force
of professionals, which, besides helping ranchers prepare investment plans
and loan applications, provides technical assistance.
3.06      Suppliers of insecticides and other production inputs and the
merchants who purchase farm produce, are actively involved in technology
transfer. In the case of certain crops (cotton, tobacco), the buyers supply
seed and most also provide production credit, as well as participate in
extension programs organized by SEAG. This gives them considerable influence
with farmers. Some soybean merchants have agents who make production
contracts with farmers, arrange credit, supply inputs, observe and advise on
crop production problems and supervise harvesting. The role of private
intermediaries in technology transfer may thus be as important as that of
official agencies.
3.07      The IBR, established in 1963, has organized public settlements and
sponsored private ones, settling some 3,000 families per year, mostly from
the "minifundia" areas around Asuncion. It normally provides plots of about
15 to 20 ha of undeveloped land to each family, concentrating its efforts on
settling large numbers at low cost, basing its program essentially on the
self-reliance of the settlers. IBR also provides land titles, which are
required as collateral for agricultural credit from BNF.  In Bank-supported
rural development projects, specific titling targets have been laid dowrn and
generally achieved, though sometimes with delay.



-7-
Agricultural Credit
3.08      Institutional agricultural credit in Paraguay is provided by the
general banking system (except Central Bank (CB)) and certain specialized
entities. The banking system consists of the CB, the Government-owned BNF
and 22 private commercial banks, while the specialized public credit entities
comprise FG and the Small Farmer Rehabilitation Credit Agency (CAH). Farmer
associations and cooperatives which are affiliated either with the National
Credit Cooperative, Ltd. (CREDICOOP) or the Federation of Producers
Cooperatives (FECOPROD) also act as credit intermediaries. Non-institutional
sources are important in providing seasonal production credit and consumption
credit to smallholder producers of cash crops.
3.09      BNF is by far the main source of institutional credit to crop and
mixed crop/livestock farmers in Paraguay (paras 4.06 to 4.13 and Annex 1).
in 1981 BNF accounted for 51% of the US$200 million total agricultural
institutional lending in Paraguay, serving about 15% of the farmers and
financing 30% of the area under cash crops. Over 80% of the 30,000 to 40,000
borrowers served with such credit annually were small-scale farmers who
constituted the main target group of all its externally financed credit
programs. Significant numbers of small-scale farmers are provided with
credit in areas such as those covered by integrated rural development
projects where adequate support services are available and where farmers can
be reached with the services. Private banks finance mainly marketing of
crops and livestock, with funds channelled through middle men, cotton gins,
rice and sugar mills, and soybean exporters, but they also provide short-term
credit for cattle fattening and marketing. FG, established in 1969 as an
independent branch of CB, has developed into an expanding source of
investment credit for livestock, thanks to the financing and institution
building provided for under a series of Bank-financed projects. CAH's main
objective is to provide credit and other types of assistance to the poorer
small-scale farmers who lack land titles or other collateral, and, hence, do
not satisfy the criteria for credit from other institutional sources. It
aims at improving the economic and social status of these farmers, so that
they may eventually qualify as regular customers of the banking system.
Marketing and Prices
3.10      In general, the marketing of agricultural products in Paraguay has
been free from Government regulations, and the prices for most products are
determined by domestic supply and demand and market conditions abroad,
especially in Argentina and Brazil. The only exceptions are the guarantee
price for wheat payable at the mills and certain reference prices for sugar
and cotton payable at the refineries and gins, respectively. However, MAG's
limited institutional and financial capability does not permit it to exercise
effective control on the prices received by the farmers, which are usually
lower than these reference prices, especially at harvest. The policy of
supporting the wheat price has been in force for several years; it is
intended to shield the producer against competition from imports at the
official exchange rate. The guarantee price at present is about 50% above
import parity prices at the official exchange rate and about 20% below at the
free market rate. The Paraguayan authorities have attached importance to
domestic production of wheat on grounds of food security and the



-8-
complementarity of wheat to soya. The issue of maintaining a guaranteed
price for wheat in the context of the overall incentive system for
agricultural production will be discussed with the Government in the
forthcoming Bank sector study.
B. Bank Strategy and Previous Bank-financed Projects
3,11      The Bank's agricultural lending strategy is to help sustain and
broaden the growth process, begun in the 1970s. To this end, the Bank is
supporting efforts to: (a) expand the agricultural frontier, while protecting
the country's rich national resources, and (b) promote and support intensifi-
cation of production through the provision of credit and support services to
aid the use of modern inputs. At the same time, the Bank has endeavored in
these efforts to emphasize assistance to small-scale farmers so as to enable
them to participate in, and contribute to, agricultural development. This
strategy is in line with the Government's policy and constitutes a suitably
balanced effort to meet the economic and social objectives of the sector. It
is complemented by assistance from other lending institutions, notably the
iDB and USAID, and from the Governments of Japan and the Federal Republic of
Germany in the fields of agricultural marketing, research, extension, agri-
cultural statistics, and specific commodity programs.
3.12      The proposed project would be the twelfth Bank/IDA-supported agri-
cultural project in Paraguay.   These projects comprised a general-purpose
agricultural project in 1951, followed by five livestock projects, four rural
development projects, and a livestock and agricultural development project.
Experience with the execution of the agriculture projects in Paraguay under-
scores the importance of expanding credit and technical services for agri-
culture, including transport infrastructure, in order to accelerate the
realization of production potential and to meet the development needs of
lower income people. The bulk of recent Bank lending to Paraguay in this
sector has, accordingly, been directed to supporting small-scale farmers,
mostly through rural development projects which combine the provision of
services such as credit, land titling and extension to aid production, rural
roads, and community and health facilities. In general, the experience with
the rural development projects has been satisfactory, and, despite imple-
mentation delays, they have been contributing to increased agricultural
production and incomes and improved rural roads and comunity and health
facilities. The Project Performance Audit Reports available so far relate to
livestock projects except for the one recently issued on the Small Farmer
Credit and Rural Development Project (Credit 509-PA), completed in 1980. The
PPAR concludes that the project achieved most of its physical, economic and
social objectives and resulted in increased yields for cotton, maize and
soybeans but points out that delays encountered led to a cost overrun of 25%.
IV. THE PROJECT
Background
4.01      The proposed project was prepared by the Government and BNF,
assisted by an FAO/CP mission that visited Paraguay in August/September
1982. A Bank mission appraised the project in November 1982,



-9-
Objectives and Description
4.02      The project aims at increasing agricultural output--including
production of export crops for which Paraguay enjoys a comparative
advantage--and helping medium- and small-scale farmers to increase their
earnings and thus improve their living conditions. As the existing and
proposed external lines of credit available to BNF are all focussed on
small-scale farmers (Table 1), the proposed project would seek, especially,
to meet the credit needs of medium-scale farmers, for which funding is
inadequate. With a view to supporting progress toward these objectives, the
project would provide funds to increase the resources available to BNF for
financing on-farm development and to continue BNF's ongoing institution-
building program initiated with Bank/UNDP assistance in 1976.
4.03      The project would include two components.  The main one would
consist of a lending program for financing medium- and long-term credit for
on-farm investments and short-term credit for incremental operating costs.
The other would finance part of a program to strengthen and expand staff and-
physical facilities related to the broader institution-building effort for
streamlining BNF's agriculture credit operations (Table 2).
4.04      The Lending Program.  Over a three-year investment period, the
project would finance some 5,000 farmers throughout the country, a majority
of them being crop and mixed crop/livestock farmers in the Eastern region.
Project beneficiaries would include small-scale farmers located in areas of
the country not assisted under other Bank or internationally financed BNF
projects and medium-scale farmers with up to 200 ha of crop land. In both
cases, the conditions of eligibility for project financing would be that the
farm be operated by the farmer and his family and that his major source of
income be derived from farm production. Medium- and long-term credit for
on-farm investments would finance mainly mechanized destumping of fields;
farm machinery, mostly tractors, tilling implements and soybean harvesters;
farm installations; on-farm roads; and soil conservation practices.
Short-term credit would finance the production of annual crops, which would
be mainly soybeans, cotton and subsistence crops (mainly cassava, maize and
beans). The principal items financed by short-term credit would be seeds,
fertilizer, pesticides and equipment operating costs (Annex 2).
4.05      Institutional Development.  To help improve BNF's operational
efficiency and services to farmers, the project would provide financing for:
vehicles for field staff which would enhance mobility and frequency of
contact with farmers and office equipment which would expedite processing of
loan requests and supervision. This would be complementary to phase II of
the Technical Assistance Program (TAP) whicti BNF is implementing (Annex 3).
The program is designed to strengthen accounting and computing services,
financial management and the administration of its lending operations and is
presently being financed by BNF from various sources,including funds
available under the Bank's Second Industrial Credit Project.
The Project Executing Agency
4.06      BNF, which would be responsible for executing the project,
functions as an autonomous institution under the organizational structure of
the Ministry of Finance, with a mandate to promote and finance general



- 10 -
programs and specific projects for the development of agriculture, livestock,
forestry, industry and commerce. BNF provides credit and other banking
services through three departments--Agriculture (AD), Development
(Industrial) and Commercial--each with independent capital and sources of
funds and specific operating guidelines, and supported by BNF's general
administration, financial and service units. BNF operates in accordance with
the Statement of Policies and Procedures (SPP) issued by its Board of
Directors (Annex 4). Financing of agriculture is the most important role of
BNF, particularly its assistance to small-scale farmers.
4.07      Prior to 1976, BNF participated in a wide range of activities and
financed some unsound investments, which resulted in Large losses and a weak
financial position. However, under post-1976 management, an overall rehabil-
itation plan was worked out and implemented within the framework of two
Bank-supported industrial credit projects. Under the first project (Loan
1419-PA), BNF started implementation of a UNDP/Bank Technical Assistance
Program, called TAP, to strengthen BNF's institutional capability. The
program began in September 1977 and during the following three years assisted
BNF in improving its financial administration, industrial project appraisal
and supervision, programming of agricultural loans, computing activities,
telecommunications between headquarters and branches, loan portfolio manage-
ment, and human resources. Encouraged by its initial achievements, BNF
authorities, at the end of 1981, decided to continue and expand its TAP with
special emphasis on AD's operational efficiency. During the course of the
following year, BNF detached 20 professionals from its different departments
to work full time on the second phase of its TAP, which was institutionalized
as a permanent BNF office, headed by a Coordinating Committee assisted by an
expatriate consultant hired by BNF. The 1982-1985 TAP Second Phase (shown in
Annex 3), with an estimated cost of US$3 million, is financed largely by BNF,
and, to a small extent, with resources from Bank loans (Industrial and
Caazapa projects/loans), IDB and UNDP. As a result of these efforts, the
collaboration and interest of the Government and the assistance provided by
international agencies, BNF's overall financial situation and operational
performance have continued to improve from year to year.
4.08      Financial Situation. 2/ After incurring losses for 12 consecutive
years, BNF has since 1977 been making annual profits, which increased stead-
ily from about US$0.5 million to US$2.2 million in 1981. However, there has
been a setback since 1980, mainly as a result of higher operating and
financial costs (Annex 1, Tables 6 and 8).  The BNF had begun to make some
progress in reducing operational costs, following the commencement of the
first phase of TAP but the trend began to be reversed in 1981, mainly
reflecting staff expansion, salary increases and the general impact of
inflation. Considering that it is a multi-purpose development bank with a
large branch system and given the need to recruit and retain staff of good
quality, BNF has administrative costs that are not unduly high, compared with
similar banks in other countries. This is particularly true of its
agricultural lending, as it consists largely of small-scale farmer credits
which are admittedly costly to process and supervise. The situation would
2/   Annex 1 and supporting tables provide more detailed information.



- 11 -
improve as the volume of operations grows over the years and AD's operational
efficiency is raised as a result of the implementation of TAP in its various
aspects. However, BNF, at the Bank's request, has agreed to present to the
Bank an analysis of the causes for the recent increase in costs and an action
program for checking this trend. Financial costs, expressed as a proportion
of average liabilities, also increased from 6.2% to 7.4% between 1979 and
1981, mainly as a result of the increased cost of funds in the world market.
In order to offset this trend BNF increased the interest rate on loans for
agriculture from 13% to an effective annual rate of 18% in 1979. As a
consequence, BNF's interest income over total average portfolio grew from
13.8% in 1978 to 15% in 1981.
4.09      Portfolio Arrears.  In 1976, during the appraisal of the first Bank
Industrial Project/Loan (1419-PA), a major concern of the Bank, as well as of
the new administration of BNF, was the high proportion (22%) of arrears in
BNF's loan portfolio. Serious efforts made to deal with this problem in the
intervening years had led, by 1981, to a significant reduction of arrears (to
16.9%) and an expectation of further improvement in the following years.
Portfolio in arrears, from 30 days to over five years, amounted to US$35
million on December 31, 1981. Of this total, amounts overdue for over two
years amounted to US$14.9 million (43%), of which US$11.2 million
corresponded to old loans. Such loans had, in most cases, been made by the
Agricultural Department in support of Government-sponsored programs (such as
the National Wheat Program), under which lending decisions were based
predominantly on political rather than technical-economic grounds. Provision
for possible loan losses amounted to US$10.5 million, or 70% of the amount
under arrears for over two years at the end of December 1981. Debt recovery
for current dues of agricultural loans has improved from 82% in 1977 to 90%
in 1981 and under the total BNF portfolio, from 81% to 90%. Recovery of
loans in arrears also improved from 21% for agricultural loans and 25% for
all BNF loans in 1977 to 34% and 35%, respectively, in December 1981 (Annex
1).
4.10      The actual andcexpected improvement of BNF's portfolio quality is,
in large part, due to measures taken under the TAP (para 4.07). In compli-
ance with the first Industrial Project Loan Agreement, and within the
framework of the TAP, BNF adopted a debt recovery program (DRP) which
established debt collection goals based on the amount and length of arrears
as well as the procedures and schedules for achieving the goals. A Portfolio
Control Committee, composed of the directors of BNF's departments, was
established to supervise the DRP and to upgrade portfolio quality. BNF has
achieved debt recovery targets set in connection with the Bank's first and
second industrial loans.
4.11      BNF's agricultural lending is handled by its Agriculture
Department through three separate programs, identified by source of funds and
specific beneficiary targets. These are: (a) the Agricultural Promotion
Program, basically a countrywide small-scale farmer credit program financed
since the mid-1960s by five IDB loans already disbursed, as well as by BNF
funds and rediscounts from CB; (b) the Agricultural Enterprises Program,
which finances mainly mechanized medium- and large-scale farming enterprises
and is funded with limited BNF resources plus occasional loans from foreign
banks and suppliers' credits; and (c) the Regional Projects Program, which



- 12 -
handles mainly the small-scale farmer credit components of the rural and area
development projects and is financed by loans from the Bank, IDB and the
Federal Republic of Germany (KfW).
4.12      Volume of agricultural credits granted annually by BNF has risen
from about US$40 million in 1978 to about US$76 million in 1981, or at an
average annual rate of about 25% in current prices and 16% in real terms
(Annex 1 provides further information about BNF's operations). Over two-
thirds of these amounts were advanced under the two programs, which have
small-scale farmers as target groups. Credit for these farmers would be
further augmented by a countrywide credit program to be financed by a new
loan being proposed by IDB and by rural development projects being prepared
for external financing. Moreover, such farmers can be advanced credit on a
satisfactory basis only if there is in place an adequate system of support
services and facilities (extension and input supplies, and the like), as in
areas served by rural development projects, which would ensure the productive
use of such credit. The emerging credit requirements of small-scale farmers,
within the limits set by these constraints, can be expected to be adequately
met by the existing and proposed external lines of credit which are available
to BNF and almost wholly designated for such beneficiaries.
4.13      Statistics show that BNF's short-term lending for agriculture has
been growing at a faster rate (18%) than medium- and long-term lending (12%)
in real terms between 1978 and 1981. This has been caused mainly by the
scarcity of long-term funds for the Agricultural Enterprises Program, under
which investment loans grew at an annual rate of only 6%, compared with 38%
for short-term loans. BNF's existing lines of external credit are all
focussed on small-scale farmers throughout the country (as with the IDB's
existing and proposed Agricultural Promotion Program) or those covered by
area development projects under which the necessary supporting services,
extension, land titling, and such are being built up (as with credit lines
for rural and area development projects supported by the Bank, IDB, IFAD and
KfW (Table 1). Funds are, however, needed for meeting the credit require-
ments of the numerous medium-scale farmers who are also important from the
point of view of agricultural production, but can be assisted only under the
Agriculture Enterprises Program which depends almost entirely on limited BNF
resources. It is this group which the proposed project would principally aim
to help, along with certain small-scale farmers for whom other funds are not
available.
Project Execution
4.14      The Government of Paraguay would be the borrower and would assume
the foreign-exchange and the interest rate variability risks of the Bank
loan. The proceeds of the loan would be made available to BNF in local
currency under arrangements to be covered by a subsidiary agreement between
the Government and BNF. Execution of the subsidiary agreement between the
Government and BNF, satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of loan
effectiveness.
4.15      The lending program component of the project would be administered
by BNF's AD, while BNF's coordinating committee for its TAP would administer
the institution-building component, with support from an agricultural credit



- 13 -
consultant to be financed under the Caazapa Area Development Project (Loan
2087-PA). Under the Bank-financed Second Industrial Credit Project (Loan
1866-PA), BNF is to implement the second phase of its TAP (para 4.07) and is
required to draw up a second debt recovery program (the first has already
been implemented). At negotiations, assurances were obtained that both the
second phase of the TAP for further improvement and strengthening of BNF, as
well as the new debt recovery program, would be implemented, as reviewed and
agreed to between BNF and the Bank, not later than the end of June each
year.
4.16      BNF needs to augment its medium-term resources so as to be able to
increase its investment loans under programs financed from its own financial
resources, provide counterpart funds for externally financed credit projects,
and cushion the impact on its liquidity of agricultural loan arrears caused
by adverse crop conditions or declining commodity prices. Taking these
requirements arising from the steadily expanding volume of BNF's agricultural
credit operations into account, as well as the need to compensate BNF for
losses on its earlier lending in pursuance of Government agricultural
programs, Government has been contributing to BNF's equity over the last few
years, partly in compliance with conditions of the Bank's industrial credit
projects. As a result of such Government share capital contribution, amount-
ing to US$54.5 million since 1977, and its own increasing profitability, BNF
has improved its own funds position over the last few years and achieved a
comfortable debt-equity ratio of 3.1:1, in 1982 as compared with the
permitted maximum of 8:1 under the Second Industrial Credit Project.
However, the financial projections of BNF envisage a substantial expansion in
the level of its lending operations over the four-year period (1983-86) to be
covered by the proposed project, as is illustrated by the proposed increase
from US$68 million to US$130 million per annum of short-term lending and from
US$27 million to US$54.5 million per annum of medium/long-term loans. In
this situation, BNF's original projections for financing counterpart funds
for the lending program (about US$25 million) were based on the assumption
that the Government would continue contributing to BNF's equity at an annual
rate (10% over previous year's capital and reserves) as during the past five
years. However, during negotiations, the Paraguayan delegation indicated
that, because of recent growing budget deficits and restrictive monetary
policy, the Government could not assume the obligation to provide the
counterpart funds on this basis. Therefore, certain actions were agreed to
that would make it possible for the bulk of the counterpart funds to be
generated by the project itself, as follows:
(a) the farmers' contribution to the project cost under the on-farm
development component was increased from an estimated average 10%
to 20% (para 4.18) and, consequently, the lending program was
reduced from US$60 million to US$55 million; thus, the proportion
of Bank disbursement over the value of subloans increased from 62%
to 70%; and
(b) the Bank would front-load disbursements at the rate of 80% for the
first US$20 million of subloans made by BNF and falling to 64% for
the balance of US$35 million of subloans, a formula under which the
average Bank disbursement would remain at 70% of the total value of
subloans. Projections show that, under this arrangement, BNF would



- 14 -
have to contribute no more than US$4 million equivalent from its
own resources and that funds generated by the project would be
sufficient to sustain the project lending program over the
five-year implementation period (Table 3). Nevertheless, given the
sensitivity of projections, various uncertain factors, assurances
were obtained during negotiations that, no later than September 30
of each year, the Borrower would exchange views with the Bank and
BNF, on BNF's financial requirements for carrying out the project
in the following fiscal year.
Lending Terms and Conditions
4.17      Project subloans, as well as other similar loans made by the AD,
would bear interest and other charges at an initial effective rate of no less
than 18% per annum during the lifetime of the subloans. This rate is
positive in real terms and covers the AD's financial and operating costs
(inflation in 1982 was 5.1%). In line with the BNF policy statement
requiring that it conduct operations in a manner which would ensure a
reasonable return sufficient to maintain the real value of its capital,
assurances were obtained at negotiations that interest rates on new subloans
would be reviewed periodically. This review would be undertaken once a year
by BNF in consultation with CB and the Bank, and, if necessary, BNF would
modify the interest rate and commission charges on new project subloans and
all other medium- and long-term loans made by AD with funds from other
sources, so that (a) they would be sufficient to cover the operating costs of
BNF's loan portfolio, and (b) BNF would maintain a positive real interest
rate vis-a-vis the annual inflation rate, as measured by the variation of the
Consumer Price Index for the previous calendar year. If these consultations
fail to produce an agreement within the following 180 days, BNF would abstain
from making any further commitment out of the proceeds of the loan until such
agreement is reached. This approach concerning interest rates charged by BNF
is consistent with that adopted in previous agricultural and industrial
projects financed by the Bank in Paraguay. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that BNF would comply with the provisions described above in
regard to the interest rates to be charged on its subloans.
4.18      Subloans made to project beneficiaries would follow standard norms
and procedures currently applied by the AD. Investment subloans would be
processed and approved on the basis of farm plans demonstrating the
technical, financial (including cash flows) and economic feasibility of the
proposed investment and short-term production subloans on the basis of
projected cash flows. The subloans would finance up to 90% of the total cost
of farm investment/production plans approved for beneficiaries with farms of
up to 40 ha of cropping land, 80% irn cases of farms with more than 40 ha but
no more than 80 ha; and 70% in cases of farms with more than 80 ha and up to
200 ha. Subloans for on-farm investments would have repayment terms of up to
10 years, including grace periods of up to three   years; within these
limits, the amortization schedule would be established for each subloan on
the basis of the cash flow projections of the investment plan to be
financed. Similarly, short-term subloans for the production of annual crops
would have repayment terms in accordance with the crop cycle of the specific
crop, plus a reasonable time for harvest and marketing. In general, these
loans would be for a period of one year.



- 15 -
4.19      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that any subloan or
subloans made to any individual beneficiary would not exceed, in the
aggregate, US$150,000 equivalent. This covenant, as well as the other
lending terms and conditions specified in the previous paragraphs, would also
be incorporated into the subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into by the
Government and BNF (para 4.14).
Project Cost and Financing
4.20      Total project cost is estimated at US$72.0 million equivalent,
with a foreign exchange component of US$40.0 million, or about 55% of total
cost. The proposed Bank loan of US$40.0 million would finance the full
foreign exchange component which is net of taxes and duties. BNF would
provide US$18.0 million (25%). Project beneficiaries would contribute the
remaining US$14.0 million (20%).
4.21      The costs have been estimated and the financing proposed under the
following assumptions and considerations:
(a)  the core of the project would be the lending program, amounting to
US$56.0 million, to be financed with US$39.0 million (70%) from the
proceeds of the Bank loan and US$17.0 million (30%) by BNF;
(b) of the US$56.0 million, about US$40.0 million (70%) is expected to
be used for long-term investment subloans and US$16.0 million (30%)
for short-term subloans, which would be complementary to the
investment subloans;
(c) the estimated number of subloans and the estimated commitment
period are subject to variation, depending on the investment
climate during the period 1983 to 1986 (no price contingency is
included, in view of the possibility of a follow-up line of credit
after this is exhausted and additional funds are needed);
(d) the contribution of beneficiaries is estimated at US$14.0 million
(20% of the on-farm investment program) and represents an average
of the minimum contributions required from farmers seeking
subloans;
(e) the BNF institution-building component, amounting to US$2.0 mil-
lion, would be financed in equal parts by the Bank and BNF. It has
been budgeted to finance vehicles and office equipment (described
in Table 2) and includes price contingencies over a three-year
period on foreign and local costs, based on the following inflation
rates: 1983=8%, 1984=7.5% and 1985=7%; and
(f) project costs, in general, were estimated on the basis of November
1982 prices escalated to May 1983.
Procurement and Disbursement
4.22      Project beneficiaries (about 5,000), using the proceeds of sub-
loans, would purchase (over a four-year period) on-farm development inputs



- 16 -
(US$39.0 million) from established local agents, who represent a broad
spectrum of international and local suppliers. The use of international
competitive bidding would not be practicable. However, local agents for
tractors, farm machinery, fertilizer and chemicals represent Bank member
countries and provide satisfactory services. Vehicles and office equipment
for BNF (US$1.0 million) would be procured through locally advertised
competitive bidding procedures, which are satisfactory. However, as far as
possible, the requirements would be so grouped as to make the quantities
sufficiently large to attract bids from foreign firms.   Thore are nc fcr^zign
exchange or other restrictions on the procurement of any of the items to be
financed under the project.
4.23      The proceeds of the Bank loan are expected to be disbursed over a
period of five years. This estimate takes into account the past experience
with agricultural projects in the country, which indicates that, in general,
credit projects have not suffered disbursement delays as a result of the type
of constraints which have affected multicomponent rural development
projects.  The allocation of loan amounts and the percentage of expenditures
to be reimbursed by the Bank are as follows:
Amount Allocated
Category                         (US$)          % of Expenditures to be Financed
(1) Project Subloans
(a) First Phase           16,000,000        80% of amounts disbursed by BNF
(b) Second Phase          22,900,249        64% of amounts disbursed by BNF
(2) Vehicles and Office
Equipment                 1,000,000       100% of foreign expenditures and
for local expenditures, 70%
for vehicles, and 50% for
office equipment
(3) Front-end Fee                  99,751       amount due
40,000,000
Disbursements for subloans under the agricultural credit component would be
made against certified statements of expenditures. The internal audit and
control arrangements within the BNF are adequate for the adoption of this
procedure.  The loan is expected to be fully committed by December 31, 1987
and disbursed by June 30, 1988.
Accounts and Auditing
4.24      Separate project accounts, records and documentation would be kept
by BNF. Financial statements for BNF as a whole and those for the project
would be audited annually by independent auditors, satisfactory to the Bank.
The audit would include financial information supporting statements of
expenditures used to claim reimbursements from the Bank.  The auditor would



- 17 -
express an opinion on the adequacy of procedures underlying disbursements
against statements of expenditures and on the adequacy of internal control
relating to their preparation. Certified copies of the audited accounts,
together with the report of the auditors, would be sent to the Bank no later
than four months after the close of each fiscal year (December 31).
Assurances on these points were obtained at negotiations.
Monitoring and Evaluation
4.25      BNF would be responsible for monitoring the progress of the project
and evaluating the impact of the investments financed under the project. BNF
would also monitor and evaluate annually the impact of the TAP financed by
BNF from other sources. With the assistance of a consultant financed under
the IDB/IFAD ongoing agricultural credit project for small-scale farmers
(PPR), BNF is currently establishing a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit for
agriculture credit projects. This M&E Unit is expected to start evaluating
the IDB/IFAD project and subsequently monitor and evaluate all AD credit
projects. No la-ter than twelve months after loan effectiveness, BNF,
together with the Bank, would review the proposed system to ensure that it
would be satisfactory to the Bank. A draft project completion report would
be prepared by BNF's Evaluation Unit and submitted to the Bank no later than
six months after the closing date of the Bank loan. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations on these points.
Financial and Economic Justification
4.26      The financial and economic justification of the project has been
assessed, in part, through analyses of four farm models, each representing
typical farm sizes and production systems and incorporating on-farm
investment plans expected to be undertaken with the support of BNF subloans.
illustrative farm budgets, financial and economic rates of return and cash
flows, in constant 1982 prices, are in Annex 2, Tables 1 to 8. Cash benefits
and the financial and economic rates of return for the four models are
summarized in the following table:



- 18 -
Sub-borrowers' Benefits
(US$ '000)
Net Income at
Full Development b/            Finar-
Investment  Before a/   Without    With c/  Debt d/  cial  Economic
Model        Cost    Development  Project   Project  Service  ROR e/   ROR
1, 120 ha   71.4          19.2        28.7       46.7      12.1    16%      22%
2.  80 ha   29.2           4.2        10.6       25.7       4.9    44%      41%
3.  40 ha    3.2           2.6         6.8        7.8        .6    45%    100%
4.  15 ha    2.6           1.2         2.0        3.4        .5    50%      42%
a/  Net income (gross margin) is total revenue less operating costs
(excluding value of family labor).
b/  Year 10 of development plan (after investment loan repaid).
c/ The difference between net income before development and after 10
years without the project is due mainly to real price changes in
outputs and to small increases in cultivated areas.
d/ Year 7.
E/ Excluding value of family labor.
Note: The official exchange rate of US$1 = G 126 was used for the financial
analysis and the estimated real value of US$1 = G 200 for the economic
analysis.
4.27      A 10% increase in investment costs or operating costs, or a 10%
reduction in revenues, would reduce the financial rates of return for each
model as indicated below:
Model 1   Model 2   Model 3   Model 4
Best Estimate                 16%        44%        45%        50%
Investment Costs Up 10%       14%        40%        41%        45%
Operating Costs Up 10%        15%        43%        33%        47%
Revenues Down 10%             13%        39%        28%        41%
The above increases in net income and financial rates of return should
provide adequate incentives for farmers to undertake the proposed
investments, even in the event of cost increases or yield/price shortfalls of
10% vis-a-vis assumptions underlying the best estimates.
4.28      For the economic rates of return, adjustments to costs and benefits
were made for: (a) the estimated real value of foreign exchange (US$1 = G
200); (b) duties and taxes payable to the Government J/; (c) price changes
for cotton, soybeans and wheat according to the Bank's commodity price
projections; and (d) the import parity price of wheat from Argentina. The
value of family and hired labor was assumed to be the same as for the
financial analysis because unemployment and underemployment are not prevalent
in locations for which the models are representative. Finally, residual
values of equipment purchased under the project were added to net benefits in
Year 10. The economic rates of return (para 4.26) are satisfactory.
3/   Duties and sales taxes on imports and crop export taxes should provide
the Government with around US$1 million additional revenues annually at
full development.



- 19 -
Project Justification
4.29      The project would increase the availability of investment and pro-
duction credit to farmers, thereby enabling them to increase the area under
cultivation and increase farm production. Rural labor would be more produc-
tively utilized and farm incomes would be increased. It is estimated that at
full development, after six or seven years, production of soybeans, wheat and
cotton would be increased by 60,000 tons, 12,000 tons and 6,000 tons, 6%, 18%
and 4% of national production in 1982, respectively. Correspondingly,
exports of soybeans and cotton would be increased substantially. BNF's
capability to support agricultural development would also be strengthened as
a result of the institution-building aspects of the project.
Prqject Risks
4.30      The project's main risk relates to the levels and variability of
farm prices for two commodities to be produced under the project. Farmgate
prices for soybeans and cotton tend to follow world prices and, with a
relatively stable and large real marketing margin, price variability at the
Paraguayan farmer level is amplified. Low international prices for cotton
and soybeans during the agricultural years 1980/81 and 1981/82, and the
requirement that exporters surrender their foreign exchange receipts at the
official exchange rate, which began to fall increasingly behind the free
rate, had a negative impact on the profitability of these two crops.
Farmers' investment decisions and ability to repay bank loans were affected
accordingly. However, more recently, beginning in July 1982, the authorities
have introduced successively a series of measures designed to improve the
exchange rate for exporters. These measures have led to improved farmgate
prices. The Bank's commodity price forecasts, moreover, point to increasing
international prices for cotton and soybeans in 1983 and beyond. Thus,
assuming that the projected price increases continue to be reflected at
Paraguayan farmgate level and favorable adjustments in the exchange rate
continue to take place, farmers should have the incentive to expand
cultivated areas, financing additional investments in machinery and inputs
with credit under the project.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that:
(a)  the second DRP and TAP would be implemented during the period of
project execution, as reviewed and agreed to between BNF and the
Bank, no later than the end of June each year (para 4.15);
(b)  no later than September 30 of each year, the borrower will exchange
views with the Bank and BNF, on BNF's financial requirements for
carrying out the project in the following fiscal year (para 4.16);
(c)  BNF would comply with the provisions described in paragraph 4.17 in
regard to the interest rates to be charged on its subloans;
(d)  interest rates on subloans would be reviewed periodically (para
4.17);



- 20 -
(e)  any subloan or subloans made to any individual beneficiary would
not exceed, in the aggregate, US$150,000 equivalent (para 4.19);
(f) BNF's and project accounts would be audited as indicated in
paragraph 4.24 and the accounts and report of the auditors would be
sent to the Bank no later Than four months after each fiscal
year; and
(g)  BNF would be responsible for project monitoring under a system to
be elaborated by BNF and presented for Bank agreement no later than
twelve months after loan effectiveness and for the preparation of
the draft completion report to be submitted to the Bank no later
than six months after the closing of the Bank loan (para 4.25).
5.02      Execution of a subsidiary agreement between the Government and BNF,
satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of effectiveness of the loan
(para 4.14).
5.03      With the above assurances and condition, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for a Bank loan to the Government of Paraguay for
US$40 million for a term of 17 years, including four years of grace, with
interest at the rate prevailing at the time of loan approval.
May 16, 1983



- 21 -
PARAGUAY                             ANNEX 1
Page 1
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Agricultural Credit and BNF
A. Agricultural Credit
1.        In 1981, various financial entities in Paraguay granted
agricultural credit for G 25,699 million (US$204 million). /  Although there
was an average annual increase from 1978 to 1981 of 21.8%, the relative share
of agriculture in the total credit extended to all economic sectors declined
gradually in that period. The greatest drop was in crop loans, from 9.1% to
7.7%. Expressed in constant 1977 prices, agricultural credit rose between
1978 and 1981 at an average annual rate of 13.2%. The largest increase
(29.1%) occurred in the last year and accounted for about 14% of agricultural
GDP. These figures suggest that loans to agriculture are increasing faster
than agricultural GDP, but this is mainly due to the high volume of
short-term loans granted by private banks (maximum term, 180 days), which are
more in the nature of marketing finance.
2.        At the end of December 1981, the total lending portfolio of the
banking system was G 147,035 million (US$1,167 million), of which the
agricultural sector received G 33,909 million (US$269.1 million), or 23.1%.
This is low, given that agricultural GDP accounts for some 31% of total GDP.
Moreover, agricultural lending as a share of total lending has been
decreasing yearly, from 31.6% in 1978. By subsector, crop farming loans
declined fastest in terms of share of total loans, from 20.6% to 14% during
the period, while livestock credit decreased only from 11% to 9.1%.
3.        In constant 1977 prices, outstanding balance on agricultural
portfolio of the country's banking system grew from 1978 to 1981 at an
average annual rate of 6.3%, owing to the spurt in the last year, when the
increase was 14.5%, as compared with the annual average increase of only
1.4%.  Although the bulk of the 1981 increase was in crop farming loans
(17.5%), such credit. increased by only 3.7% annually on average over the
period as a result of a real decrease up to 1980. In contrast, livestock
credit has expanded each year, although at even slower rates, for an average
annual increase of 10.9%.
4.        The BNF is the largest agricultural lender.  In 1981 it provided
51% of total lending by the banking system (with 68% of crop farming loans
but 10% of livestock development loans). From 1978 to 1981, BNF's share of
agricultural lending rose gradually (from 45% to 51%), whereas that of the
Fondo Ganadero (Livestock Fund) remained more or less constant at about 11%
and that of the private banks declined year by year, from 45% in 1978 to 38%
in 1981. In constant terms, whereas agricultural lending during that period
by BNF increased at an average annual rate of 18.7% and that of the Fondo
Ganadero rose by 15.8%, private bank lending increased at an average of only
6.6% annually. BNF also accounts for the largest share of outstanding
agricultural credit portfolio but had the smallest average annual increase
over the period 1978-81, as shown by the following table:
1/ US$1 = G 126.



- 22 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
% Share of Outstanding    Average Annual %
Agricultural Portfolio    Increase (1978/81)
as of December 1981      at Constant Prices
Fondo                    Fondo
Gana-                    Gana-
Type of Credit                       BNF   dero    Banks       BNF   dero   Banks
Crop farming                          80     -        20       4.7     -       3.7
Livestock                             10      70      20       2.0    13.9   10.8
Total                                 52      28      20       4.5    13.9    6.3
B.  Agricultural Lending of BNF
5.        BNF lending to the agricultural sector is handled through its
Agriculture Department, under three programs:
(a) The Agricultural Promotion Program (Programa de Promocion
Agropecuaria (PPA)) provides assistance to small- and medium-scale
farmers. It is funded by four IDB loans plus its own funds and CB
resources.
(b) The Mechanized Agricultural Enterprises Program (Empresas Agricolas
Mecanizadas (EAM)), financed originally by USAID but now by CB,
BNF's own funds, IDB (353/SF-PR-B), and loans from foreign banks
and suppliers, provides assistance to agricultural entrepreneurs
and large-scale farmers (more than 200 ha under cultivation),
whether individuals, enterprises, companies or cooperatives.
(c) The Regional Projects Program administers lending under the
integrated rural development projects such as those financed by the
World Bank and IDA in Caaguazu (509-PA and 1674-PA) and Itapua
(1418-PA).
6.        The Agriculture Department finances all types of primary-sector
activities. However, agricultural loans for short-term working capital and
medium- and long-term capital investments predominate. There are no
operational regulations governing the EAM program, and the other two have the
same conditions as the PPA, which, generally speaking, are as follows:
(a) Beneficiaries: these are small- and medium-scale farmers who
personally manage and derive their primary source of income from
their holdings and have agricultural assets not exceeding G
4,284,000 (US$34,000). Also included are cooperatives or other
types of associations legally constituted by small- and/or
medium-scale farmers.
(b) Guarantees: even though the regulations permit collateral and
personal guarantees, at present only mortgages are accepted,
following the decision to that effect taken by the Board of



- 23 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
Directors in August 1981. Consequently, in all cases, the
applicant must hold title to and have possession of the land before
he can mortgage the holding, on which he can borrow up to 60% of
the assessed value, including improvements. Liens on animals,
machinery, equipment, implements and future harvests are accepted
as security additional to the miortgage, with a margin of 50% for
the first four categories and 10% for the last.
(c)  Limit on loans:  the maxium amounts that can be borrowed per,.
beneficiary are G 1,890,000 (US$15,000) for individual farmers;
G 37,800,000 (US$300,000) for cooperatives, and G 6,300,000
(US$50,000) for farmers' associations (provided that the ceiling
established for individual farmers is not exceeded per member).
(d)  Approval limits:  the apprcval limits were raised and set in
accordance with the amount of loans outstanding and the delinquency
rate of each branch office as of June 1981, in accordance with the
following table:
Loan Approval Limits of Branch Offices and Agencies
by Category and Delinquency Rate
(in US$'000)
Delinquency Rate
Loan Portfolio              0-10%    10+ to 15%    15+ to 20%    20+%
Up to 794                    2i.4         13.5            9.5        7.9
794,000-2,381                23.8         17.5           12.7        9.5
2,381,000-3,968              27,8         22s2           17.5       13.5
Over 3,968                   35.7         27.8           23,8       21.4
The previl-ous limits were US$9,000 for the branch offices and
US$5,556 for the agencies. The present limits are effective for
three months and can be changed only in accordance with the
delinquency percentage and volume of loan portfolio outstanding as
certified for each branch by the internal Auditing Office.
(e)  Interest rates and commissions:  te interest rate on loans made to
individual farmers, cooperatives and associations is 12% per annum
payable annually at maturity. In addition to interest, two types
of commissions are charged; (i) an initial processing fee of 0.05%
for every 30 days or fraction thereof, with a maximum of 2.4%; and
(ii) a commission on outstanding balance of 0.45% for every 30 days
or fraction thereof. The effective interest rate is therefore 18%
per annm,n.  Annual inrlation in Paraguay 'as 22.4% in 1980, 13% in
1981, and 5.1% in 1982,  In the event of arrears, the additional
monthly surcharge is 075% (9% per annum) on the total amount due.



- 24 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4
(f)  Loan terms:  amortization terms depend on the purpose of the
investment financed, the repayment capacity of the borrower and the
useful economic life of the item being financed. In general, they
are:
(i) short term: up to 18 months, including a minimum grace period
of 6 months, to finance working capital for crop farming,
livestock production, agroindustrial or marketing operations;
(ii)  medium term:  from 18 months to five years, including a
minimum grace period of one year, to finance the purchase of
small animals, equipment and tools of medium duration and
minor farm structures;
(iii)  long term:  from five years to a maximum of 12 years,
including a minimum grace period of two years, to finance the
purchase of breeding animals, tractors and on-farm capital
investments.
(g) Non-financeable investments: BNF does not normally finance
the purchase of land.
Lending Statistics
7.        For this analysis the figures of the Agriculture Department were
taken to be synonymous with total BNF operations in the agricultural sector,
since, although some loans made by other departments are classified as loans
made to agriculture, the great majority of them were granted to borrowers in
the secondary or tertiary sectors. The figures on loans granted by the
Agriculture Department are given in Table 1. In the last four years, lending
by BNF in constant 1977 values for all activities (agricultural, industrial
and commercial) has risen gradually. Lending by the Agriculture Department
increased more or less proportionally to that of BNF as a whole. The share
of the Agriculture Department was about 50% of total lending in the period
under study.
8.        The volume of credit granted by the Agriculture Department has
risen in recent years at an average annual rate of 24% in current prices and
16% in real terms; the 16% may be broken down as follows: Agricultural
Promotion up 19%, Mechanized Agricultural Enterprises up 18%, and IBRD
projects down 3% on average over the period. Lending for working capital
(short term) is growing faster than lending for capital investments (medium
and long term): the former increased during the period by an average of 18%
annually, and the latter, despite a strong impetus in 1981, by only 12% in
real terms. This is attributed to a shortage of funds for medium- and
long-term loans, which prompted BNF to shorten loan terms with a view to
faster turnover of funds. This even affected financing for capital
investment (primarily land preparation), since such loans were granted for
only three years on average and in some cases for only one year, although
regulations permit amortization from 5 to 12 years. By program, the PPA
traditionally accounts for the largest share of the lending by the
Agriculture Department, with 57%, followed by Mechanized Agricultural
Enterprises (EAM) with 33%, and IBRD projects with 10%.



- 25 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5
BNF Credit Beneficiaries
9.        An analysis covering the individual borrowers assisted by the PPA
and IBRD programs, based on a study of 5,571 loans granted in 1981 by 21 BNF
branch offices grouped into six regions'/ indicates that the main features of
the subloan beneficiaries are as summarized below2/:
(a) Farm-size distribution of borrowers: BNF's agricultural borrowers
are small and medium farmers; most (54%) are small, belonging to
the 10- to 31-ha group. Next follows the 31- to 100-ha group
(26%); only 5% have over 200 ha. This distribution is valid for
all regions
(b)  Total average farm size: the average size of farms in the group
that benefit most (between 10 and 31 ha) is 16 ha, while the
general average is 57 ha. In regions II and IV, which include the
BNF branch offices that the overall credit project will affect
most average farm size is 54 and 78 ha, respectively.
(c)  Average loan amount: the amounts lent per farmer are low, and
although they rise as holding size increases, financing per hectare
cultivated declines steadily. Overall, the average loan for
working capital is US$1,880 per borrower and US$79 per ha, and for
capital investment US$2,640 per borrower and US$111 per ha. In
regions II and IV, financing is somewhat higher but still
insufficient to cover production costs.
(d)  Sufficiency of credit: although BNF's credit manual permits the
granting of loans to cover up to 100% of the amount of the capital
investment and 70% of required working capital, the proportions
actually financed are only 43% for the country as a whole, 38% for
region II, and 44% for region IV.
(e)  Security required:  the primary security used at BNF is a first
mortgage on real estate, usually the farm. Consequently, in the
country as a whole, some 75% of borrowers being landowners, about
73% of the loans are backed by a mortgage.
1/   Region I:   San Lorenzo, Eusebio Ayala, Carapegua, Villarrica and
Caazapa.
Region II:  Hohenau, Coronel Bogado, Colonia Fram and Capitan Meza.
Region III: San Juan Bautista, San Ignacio and Pilar.
Region IV:  Pto. Pte. Stroessner, Hernandarias, Juan L. Mallorquin,
Pedro Juan Caballero and Saltos del Guaira.
Region V:   Concepcion and San Estanislao.
Region VI:  Coronel Oviedo and Caazagu.
2!   Detailed tables are in the project file.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
C. Sources of Funds
10.       BNF's funds come from (a) deposits by the public; (b) BCP loans and
discounts; (c) external loans; (d) capital, Government contributions and
accumulated reserves; and (e) accumulated earnings.
(a) Deposits: Deposits are subject to a legal reserve requirement of
42%, which is the same for private banks and BNF. In the last four
years, deposits have not increased in real terms and their share of
BNF's total funds has accordingly remained steady:
BNF: Deposits by the Public
(G million)
Current               Constant                % Share of Total
Year              Prices                1977 Prices                   BNF Funds
1978               6,875                   6,202                         27.2
1979               6,601                   5,379                         23.3
1980               7,871                   5,757                         24.4
1981               8,778                   5,917                         23.6
(b)  BCP loans and discounts:  The volume is decreasing annually, as is
also, therefore, the share they represent of BNF's total funds and
of its loan portfolio, as can be seen from the following table:
BCP Loans and Discounts to BNF
(G million)
Current       Constant                      % Share of
Year        Prices       1977 Prices       Total BNF Funds    BNF Loan Portfolio
1978         3,093          2,922               12.2                     19.2
1979         3,350          2,965               11.8                     18.7
1980         3,025          1,641                9.4                     15.4
1981         3,743          2,842               10.0                     14.4
(c)  External loans:  This source is very important in financing the
loan portfolio, although since 1979 it has declined in real terms
and its share of portfolio has fallen from 50% to 37%:
BNF: External Loans
(G million)
Current       Constant                      % Share of
Year        Prices       1977 Prices       Total BNF Funds    BNF Loan Portfolio
1978         8,358          7,895               33.0                     51.9
1979         9,017          7,980               31.8                     50.3
1980         9,137          7,403               28.3                     46.6
1981         9,657          7,334               25.9                     37.0



- 27 -
ANNEX 1
Page 7
(d)  Capital, Government contributions and accumulated reserves:  Up to
1980, the volume of capital, Government contributions and
accumulated reserves remained more or less stable in real terms, as
did, therefore, their share in BNF's total funds (18%) and loan
portfolio (29%). In 1981 funds from this source increased
substantially, by G 2,018 million, of which 81% (G 1,630 million)
came from a capital increase and the rest from an expansion of
reserves.
BNF: Capital and Accumulated Reserves
(G million)
Current      Constant                     % Share of
Year       Prices       1977 Prices      Total BNF Funds    BNF Loan Portfolio
1978        4,614          4,358              18.2                    28.6
1979        5,205          4,607              18.3                    29.1
1980        5,751          4,660              17.8                   29.4
1981        7,769          5,900              20.8                   29.8
(e)  Accumulated earnings:  From the standpoint of operational earnings,
BNF's financial position continues to improve year by year,
allowing it even to increase its reserve fund by G 514 million in
1981, to a cumulative total of G 1,549 million. In the last four
years, the profit and loss profile was as follows:
BNF: Profits and Losses
(G million)
Accumulated      Earnings for the       Total           % Share of
Year        Earnings          Fiscal Year          Earnings      Total BNF Funds
1978           13                   91               104                0.5
1979           35                  224               259                0.9
1980          259                  243               501                1.6
1981          284                  271               555                1.5
D.  BNF's Portfolio Arrears and Collections
Arrears
11.       Arrears continue to be one of BNF's problems.  In December 1981,
portfolio under arrears totaled G 4,418 million (US$35.1 million), or 16.9%
of all loans outstanding. These represent only the sums overdue, not the
total loans of which they form part). In the last four years, total loan
portfolio and total arrears, at current prices, have risen at average annual
rates of 14.1% and 8.6%, respectively. This has reduced the arrears rate
from 19.7% in 1978 to 16.9% in 1981. This reduction occurred in 1981, when
the upward trend of arrears (8.4% annually) slowed to only 0.4%, or G 17
million, and at the same time total loans outstanding increased markedly
(Table 2).



28 -
ANNEX I
Page 8
12.       By department. the problem measured by the arrears rate, is the
largest in the Commercial Department, with a general arrears rate of 25 .3%
(32% at headquarters). The Agriculture Department follows next with 16.6%
(headquarters, 17.8%, and branch offices, 16.0%). Lastly, the Development
Department had the lowest arrears rate of 10.9% (headquarters, 11.1%, branch
offices, 9.9%) (Table 2). Between December 1980 and 1981, the Agriculture
Department reduced its arrears notably, by G 466 million (US$3.7 million), or
15%; in the other departments arrears increased by G 50 million (8.8%) in the
Development Department and G 433 million (60%) in the Commercial Department.
The reduction in the Agriculture Department was due partly to curbing of
arrears growth in the branch offices and agencies (up only G 24 million) but
primarily to the settlement of a serious problem at headquarters involving a
long-standing overdue debt of some US$10 million, which was recovered through
foreclosure and adjudication to BNF of 190,000 ha (discussions are in
progress with the Government as to what action should be taken in respect of
the land thus acquired). This reduced arrears at headquarters relating to
the Agriculture Department from G 1,400 million in 1980 to G 910 million in
1981. The following table based on data in Table 2, shows the changes in
arrears rate for BNF loans, by department, branch office and headquarters:
BNF: Arrears Rates for BNF Loans, by Department and Branch Office
December 1980/81 %)
Agriculture    Development    Commercial
Department      Department      Department        Total BNF
Office           1980   1981    1980   1981    1980   1981    1980   1981
Branch Offices  19.6   16.0    11.2    9.9    20.0   19.2    19.4   16.3
Headquarters    34.7   17.8    13.7   11.1    18.4   32.0    23.2   17.7
Total            24.4   16.6    13.5   10.9    19.1   25.5    21.2   16.9
Collections
13.       BNF's total portfolio recovery has improved over the period, from
69.8% in 1977 to 78.4% in 1981. During the same period, repayment of loans
fallen due during the year was satisfactory (about 90%). Recovery of
loans under arrears, although improved in recent years, accounts for only
one-third of sums due, as is shown by the following table, prepared from data
supplied by BNF's Technical Assistance Unit:



- 29 -
ANNEX 1
Page 9
Loan Recovery, 1977/81
(G million)        Portfolio
under        Total
Current portfolio    Current portfolio        arrear         (current
disbursed before      disbursed during       beginning        plus
Amount   year in question       year in question        of year        arrears)
1981
Due             9,778                  6,292             4,401          20,471
Collected       8,778                  5,724             1,551          16,053
1980
Due             8,548                  4,228             3,821          16,597
Collected       7,300                  3,827             1,069          12,196
1979
Due             7,043                  2,919             3,454          13,416
Collected       6,100                  2,367             1,128           9,595
1978
Due             5,409                  2,799             3,413          11,621
Collected       4,600                  2,315             1,252           8,167
1977
Due             4,626                  3,495             3,170          11,291
Collected       4,000                  3,069               809           7,878
% recovery
1981             89.8                   91.0              35.2            78.4
1980             85.4                   90.5              28.0            73.5
1979             86.6                   81.1              32.7            71.5
1978             85.0                   82.7              36.7            70.3
1977             86.5                   87.8              25.5            69.8
E. BNF's Balance Sheets and Income Statements
14.       BNF historical balance sheets and income statements for the period
1977/81 and projected for the period 1982/86 are presented in Tables 3
and 4. The main conclusions emerging from an analysis of these statements
are as follows:
(a)  Financial costs (percentage ratio of interest and commission paid
to average financial liabilities). Up to 1980, BNF's
financial-cost ratio was declining annually, but in 1981 it again
rose, to 7.6%, as a result of higher interest rates on world
capital markets.



- 30 -
ANNEX I
Page 10
(b)  Administrative costs calculated as a percentage of the value cf
outstanding loans, increased annually, from 5.8% in 1977 to 7.6% in
1981. The present level is not unusual for a development
institution, and the increase is reasonable given the expansion in
the Bank's operations, which has called for employment of more
personnel, and inflation, which has made it more costly to preserve
the real value of the salaries of employees.
(c)  Operating income calculated as percentage ratio of interest and
commission collected to average value of total loans outstanding,
is satisfactory, since interest rose on average from 13.2% in 1977
to 16.2% in 1981.
(d)  Earnings/equity (ratio of fiscal-year earnings to capital plus
reserves). This is also satisfactory since, despite the large
increase in capital and reserves, total earnings have increased
more than proportionally, raising the ratio from 2.1% in 1977 to 4%
in 1981.
15.       According to BNF's balance sheet as of December 31, 1981, the
liquidity ratio is 1.50:1 (minimum required 1.1:1) and the debt-equity ratio
1.20:1 I/ (maximum allowable 4:1).  BNF's financial position, measured by the
above ratios regarding costs and income and liquidity and indebtedness
ratios, is satisfactory and represents an improvement over previous years as
a consequence of:
(a)  a 159% increase in "capital and reserves" from 1977 to 1981, of
G 4,770.9 million (US$37.9 million), as a result of the yearly
capital contributions made since 1978 by the Central Government;
and
(b)  establishment of the Finance Department, preparation of financial
budgets, and BNF's adjustment to them.
Financial Projections 1982/86
16.       Projected balance sheets and income statements for years 1982 to
1986 are shown in Tables 5 and 6. BNF's total assets would increase by 75%
during the period, from a projected G 42,542 million (US$337.6 million) in
1982 to G 74,542 million (US$591.7 million) in 1986. The portfolio of each
of BNF's three departments (commercial, development and agricultural) would
increase substantially during the period, and the total portfolio would
increase at an annual rate of 17.3%.
1/   Debt with over one year maturity; however, on the basis of total debt
(including short-term), it is 3.5 to 1.



- 31 -
ANNEX 1
Page 11
Projected Increase in Loan Portfolio
(G million)
Net Portfolio       Net Portfolio      Annual Rate of
Loan Portfolio                   1982                1986           Increase  %
Commercial                      5,803              11,825              19.5
Development (Industrial)        6,924              13,192              17.5
Agric.ultural                  19,282              35,505              16.4
Total                          32,009         -   60,522               17.3
Liabilities
17.       Liabilities would rise from G 32,030 million (US$254.2 million) to
G 56,873 million (US$451.4 million), an increase of 77% during the period.
Total deposits of the public would increase at an annual rate of 15%, from
G 7,810 million (US$69.1 million) to G 13,710 million (US$108.8 million).
The increase in deposits of the public subject to the 42% and 100% reserve
requirements averaged 9.4% per year during 1977-81. The net increase in
balances of loans received would be G 19,000 million (US$150.8 million), or
100% for the total period.
18.       BNF would finance a total of US$163.75 million of lending
operations with external resources during 1982/86. External resources
available on December 31, 1982 totaled US$71.7 million. These funds would be
augmented by US$112.94 million in new loans, of which US$20.84 million would
be pending disbursement at the end of 1986.  BNF would earmark US$82.68
million of the total external resources for agricultural credit to small
farmers; of that amount, US$54.6 million corresponds to resources already
available, and US$28.0 million to the proceeds of new loans to be
contracted (Supporting Table 2).
Net Worth
19.       Net worth would increase from G 10,512 million (US$83.4 million) to
G 17,679 million (US$140.3 million), a 68.2% rise for the period. The
increase in net worth would depend mainly on capital contributions to BNF
from the Government of Paraguay. BNF expects the Government to provide a
capital contribution of G 8,624 million (US$68.4 million), partly through the
capitalization of international loans (the necessary agreements have already
been formalized) and a contribution of new funds (to be transferred to BNF by
the Government from tax revenue). The new funds transferred would total G
5,329 million (US$42.3 million), of which a substantial part would depend on
the determination of priorities for the allocation of resources by the
Government in the context of the difficult fiscal situation that is beginning
to emerge.



- 32 -
ANNEX 1
Page 12
Profits
20.       Profits would increase steadily as compared with the projected
profits for 1982. Nonetheless, they would be less than the profit posted for
1981, which was G 272 million (US$2.16 million), and other income (not
generated by lending operations) would continue to make a significant
contribution to profits. Profit as a percentage of total assets declined
from 0.73% in 1981 to 0.3% in 1982, and would remain between 0.3% and 0.4%
during 1982-86, even though the ratio of net worth to total assets would
rise, owing to the continued capitalization of BNF. Profit as a percentage
of net worth shows a decrease from 3.4% in 1981 to 1.4% in 1982 and 1983, and
would fall to 1.1% in 1986.
Other Analysis
21.       BNF results and profitability data on a historical (1977-81) and
projected (1982-86) basis is detailed in Table 7. An analysis of income and
costs statements for the Agricultural Department of BNF is presented for 1981
(actual) and as projected for 1982-85 without project in Table 8 and with
project in Table 9.
April 4, 1983



PARAGUAY
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loans Made by BNF's Agriculture Department
By Programs and Type of Loans
Agricultural Promotion        Agricultural Enterprises          Regional Projects                      Total
Invest-   Short-               Invest-   Short-               Invest-   Short-              Invest-   Short-
Year       ment       term      Total    ment        term      Total    ment        term      Total   ment         term      Total
A. G Million in Current Prices
1978         1,057    1,513   2,570           639       921   1,560           603       258     861       2,299    2,692   4,991
1979           878    1,961   2,838           917    1,089   2,006            224       213      437      2,018     3,532   5,281
1980         1,279    2,990   4,369           768    2,097   2,865            385       140      525      2,532     5,227   7,758
1981         2,556    2,895   5,451           761    2,432   3,193            741       228      969      4,007     5,606   9,613
% Annual
Increase        34        24       28            6        38       27           7         4        4         21        34       24
B.  G Million in Constant Prices of 1977 a/
1978           998    1,429   2,427           604       870   1,474           570       244      814      2,172    2,543   4,715
1979           777    1,736   2,512           812       964   1,776           198       188      386      1,786    2,888   4,674
1980         1,117    2,423   3,540           622    1,699   2,321            312       113      425      2,051     4,235   6,286
1981         1,941    2,199   4,414 .         578    1,847   2,425            563       173      736      3,082    4,218   7,300
% Annual
Increase        25        15       19           (2)       29       18           -       (11)      (3)        12         18       16
mx
a/   Deflated by the price index implicit in agricultural GDP.
February 3, 1983



PARAGLJAY
A(GRICULURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BNF's Portfolio under Arrears
Classified by Departments - 1980/81
(G Million)
Agriculture Departnent       Industrial Departnent          Coimercial Department               Total BNF
1980           1981           1980           1981           1980           1981            1980           1981
Amixmnt   %    AisMunt   %   AmDunt   %   Amixt   %    Amount   %   Amimnt   %    Amnint   %    Amnnnt   %
Branches Portfolios
Loans not yet due       7,028          9,095            350            90            1,336          1,847          8,714         11,531
Loans overdue           1,712  19,6   1,736  16,0        44  11,2       65   9,9      334  20,0       440  19,2    2,091  19,4   2,242  16,3
Total Portfolio         8,740         10,831            394            655           1,670          2,287         10,805         13,773
Headquarters
Loans not yet due       2,639          4,195          3,2B8          4,424           1,722          1,519          7,649         10,138
Loans overlue           1,400  34,7      910  17,8      523  13,7      551  11,1      388  18,4       715  32,0    2,310  23,2    2,176  17,7
Total Portfolio         4,039          5,105          3,811          4,975           2,110          2,234          9,960         12,314
Country Total
Loans not yet due       9,667         13,290          3,638          5,014           3,05B          3,366         16,364         21,669
Loans overdue           3,112  24,4   2,646  16,6    _56  13,5         616  10,9      722  19,1   1,155  25,5   4,401  21,2   4,418  16,9
Total Portfolio        12,779         15,936          4,204          5,630          3,780          4,521          20,765         26,CB7
February 4, 1983



- 35 -
PARAGUAY                              ANNEX 1
Table 3
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Consolidated Balance Sheets for Fiscal Years 1977-80
(G Million)'/
1977           1978           1979           1980
Assets
Cash and Banks                        934.3          636.6          969.3          993.2
Legal Reserve                       3,026.1        3,722.0        4,060.2        4,523.8
Loan Portfolio
Agriculture Department            6,604.3        7,692.7        8,325.4        9,771.3
Industrial Department             3,357.4        3,295.5        3,673.2        4,394.6
Commercial Department             1,165.7        1,663.6        2,088.5        1,028.9
Under Legal Action                3,412.8        3,453.8        3,821.3        4,400.8
Sub-total                      14,540.3       16,105.5       17,908.3       19,595.5
Interest Receivable                 1,010.9        1,308.0        1,451.3        1,352.1
Fixed Assets                          226.3          242.4          265.4          311.6
Other Assets                        2,860.3        3,276.0        3,726.3        5,471.2
Total Assets            22,598.2       25,290.6       28,380.8       32,248.2
Liabilities
Current
Deposits                          6,139.5        6,875.2        6,601.4        7,871.2
Banks                                27.3          135.2          119.5          185.8
Central Bank                        725.0        1,328.9        1,878.8        1,828.8
Short-term loans                    945.3            -            378.0            -
Other Liabilities                 1,795.3        2,112.3        3,450.9        5,777.2
Sub-total                       9,632.4       10,451.6       12,428.6       15,663.0
Long Term
Central Bank                      2,959.5        1,764.0        1,471.2        1,195.7
Loan Agreements                   6,946.4        8,357.8        9,016.9        9,136.8
Sub-total                       9,905.9       10,121.8       10,488.1       10,332.5
Net Worth
Capital and Reserve               2,997.4        4,613.5        5,205.4        5,751.3
Accumulated Profits                   -             13.0           34.9          258.6
Profits Fiscal Year                  62.5           90.7          223.7          242.8
Sub-total                       3,059.9        4,717.2        5,464.0        6,252.7
Total Liabilities and Equity       22,598.2       25,290.6       28,380.8       32,248.2
=====s===   =======s   ========   ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ == = ==
a/ Figures rounded to one decimal.
February 4, 1983



- 36 --
PARAGUAY                             ANNEX 1
Table 4
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BNF's Income Statements, 1977-80
(G Million)
1977      1978      1979       1980
Income
Interest and Commission                     1,774.4    2,111.3  2,543.6   2,912.7
Foreign Exchange                                -         -         12.3      27.3
Other Income                                2,272.0        24,5     9 2.2    170.0
Total Income                      4,046.4   2,135.8   2,648.1   3,110.0
Expenditures
Interest and Commission                       855.1     869.9      926.6   1,021.6
Foreign Exchange                               25.7       56.9       -         -
Standby Reserve                             2,326.2     204.8      290.8     342.3
Salaries and Other                            776.9     913.5   1,207.0   1,503.3
Total Expenditures                3,983.9   2,045.1   2,424.4   2,867.2
Profit                                         62.5      90.7      223.7     242.8
Total                             4,046.4   2,135.8   2,648.1   3,110.0
February 4, 1983



- 37 -
PARAGUAY                              ANNEX 1
Table 5
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Consolidated Financial Statements - BNF
Actual and Projected Balance Sheets
Actual                Projection
1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
---…(_----------(G Million)…---------------
Assets
Cash and Banks                       2,053   2,000   2,100   2,200   2,400   2,600
Legal Reserve                         3,267   3,658   4,097   4,591   5,141   5,758
Total Loan Portfolio             26,087  32,009  38,391  45,215  52,352  60,522
(-) Provisions on Principal    (1,321) (1,697) (2,130) (2,630) (3,203) (3,869)
Net Loan Portfolio                  24,766  30,312  36,261  42,585  49,149  56,653
Receivable Interest               1,714   1,871   2,286   2,620   2,938   3,254
(-) Provisions on Interest         (228)   (286)   (303)   (313)   (321)   (332)
Net Receivable Interest               1,486   1,585   1,983   2,307   2,617   2,922
Gross Fixed Assets                  648      768   1,178   1,373   1,583   1,808
(-) Depreciation                   (251)   (286)   (343)   (403)   (466)   (531)
Net Fixed Assets                        397     482      835     970   1,117   1,277
Law no. 281, Art. no. 12          1,197   1,122   1,047       972      897      822
Accounts Receivable                  1,197   1,122   1,047       972      897      822
Other Assets                         3,111   3,383   3,620   3,920   4,220   4,520
Total Assets              36,277  42,542  49,943  57,545  65,541  74,552
Liabilities
Current Accounts                  3,113   3,450   3,820   4,230   4,700   5,260
Savings Deposits                  4,666   5,260   5,935   6,700   7,540   8,450
Total Private Sector Deposits        7,779   8,710   9,755  10,930  12,240  13,710
Ministry of Finance - CB
(Wheat Campaign)               1,532       -        -        -       -         -
Central Bank - Loans Account    3,743        906      577     248      129       73
Agroindustrial Bonds              1,500                 -       -        -        -
External Liabilities              9,657   7,271   6,274   5,138   3,928   2,663
Actual Liabilities                  16,432   8,177   6,851   5,386   4,057   2,736
Balance New Liabilities                  -  10,903  16,275  22,089  28,360  35,344
Other Liabilities                    4,026   4,240   4,469   4,633   4,833   5,083
Total Liabilities         28,237  32,030  37,350  43,038  49,490  56,873
Capital                              6,610   8,934  10,836  12,502  13,803  15,234
Reserves                              1,159   1,430   1,430   1,430   1,430   1,430
Profits and Losses                      271     148      327      575     818   1,015
Total Net Worth           8,040  10,512  12,593  14,507  16,051  17,679
February 3, 1983



- 38 -
PARAGUAY                                    ANNEX 1
Table 6
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Historical and Projected Income Statements - BNF
…------------…(In G Million)--------------
Actual                     Projection
1981     1982      1983      1984      1985     1986
Interests and Commissions on Loans 3,323    4,403    5,413    6,473    7,569    8,757
Charges on Foreign Exchange
Transactions                         118       155       180       200      210       215
Other Income                            589      320       420       435       450      495
Total Income               4,030    4,878    6,013    7,108    8,229    9,467
Salaries                             1,300    1,623    1,866    2,108    2,382    2,692
Services                                209      252       318       348       381      416
Materials and Supplies                  127       160      202       221       242      264
Maintenance of Equipment                 76       91       115       126       138      151
Other Expenses                          105       81       102       112       122      133
Total Operating Costs    1,817    2,207    2,603    2,915    3,265    3,656
Operating Profit                  2,213    2,671    3,410    4,193    4,964    5,811
Financial Costs                      1,399    2,054    2,724    3,375    4,077    4,872
Depreciation                             29       35        57        60        63       65
Profit (loss) during the Period    785         582       629       758      824       874
Adjustment for Provisions               514       434      450       510       581       677
Net Profit (loss) during the
Period                               271       148       179       248      243       197
February 3, 1983



- 39 -
PARAGUAY                                           A2NNT 1
Table 7
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BRF/Results andl Profitabi]lity Dataa/
(G Million)
Historical                Projections (TWithout Project)
1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
I. Profitability
A. Profit                            62     91    224    243    272    148    179    248    243    197
R.B Total Assets                 22,598 25,290 28,381 32,248 36,677 42,542 49,q43 57,545 65,541 74,552
C.  Equity                        3,060  4,717  5,464  6,252  8,040 10,512 12,593 14,507 16,051 17,679
D.  Profit/Total Assets:  X        0.27   0.36   0.79   0.75   0.75    0.3    0.3    0.4    0.4    0.3
E.  Profit/Equity:  %              2.03   1.93   4.10   3.09   3.4     1.4    1.4    1.7    1.5    1.1
II.  Miet Financial Incone (N.F.I.)
F.  Financial Income              1,174  2,113  2,543  2,912  3,323 4,403  5,413 6,473  7,569  8,757
G.  Financial Costs                 855    870    927  1,027  1,399  2,054  2,724  3,375 4,077  4,872
H. M.F.I.                           919  1,243  1,616  1,885  1,924  2,345  2,685  3,096  3,492  3,885
III.  Income from Portfolio
1.  kverage Net Portfolio (A.N.P.)  N.D.15,322 17,Q06 18,751 22,10 27,539 33,286 39,423 45,867 52,901
J.  Income/A.N.P.; F.I. - x         N.D.  13.8   14.9   15.5   L5.0   16.0   16.3   16.4   16.5   16.6
IV. Equity/Total Assets:  C.B. - %      13.5   18.6   19.3   19.4   21.6  24.7   25.2   25.2   24.5   23.7
V.  (N.F.I.)/(A.N.P.):11/I -            N.D.   8.1    9.5   10.1    8.6    8.5    8.1    7.9    7.6   7.3
VI.  Norn-financial Income               N.D.  24.5    104    107    707    475    600    635    660    710
VII. Operating Costs (O.C.)               777    914  1,207  1,503  1,846  2,242  2,660  2,975  3,328  3,721
K. Growth of O.C.: x                N.D. 17.6  32.1  24.5  22.8  19.6  17.9  12.0   12,0  12.0
L. O.C./Total Income:  %            N.D.  42.8   45.6  48.3  45.8  46.0  44.2  41.9  40.4   39.3
M. Increase in O.C./Increase
in Average Portfolio: %         N.D.  8.7  16.3  17.5    6.6    7.4    7.3    5.1    5.4    5.6
VIII. Consumer Price Index                 N.D.  !;.D  28.2  22.4  13.0        -      -      -       -      -
IS. Financial Cost/Liabilities
M. Total liability               19,537 20,573 22,916 25,995 28,951 32,03) 37,350 43,038 49,490 56,873
0. Financial Cost/Total Liab.    4.37   4.23   4.04   3.95   5.01    6.4    7.3    7.8    8.2    8.6
P. Average Financial Liab.       11,943 13,467 14,879 17,057 18,949 22,719 26,701 31,618 37,066 43,243
Q. Interest Rate over Average
Financial Liabilities:  %       7.2    6.5    6.2    6.0    7.4    9.0  10.2  10.7  11.0  11.3
a/   Based on balance sheets and income statements 1977 to 1980 presented in the FAO/CP
preparation report and 1981 to 1986 based on BNFs Financial Program.
February 3, 1983



- 40 -
PARAGUAY                                  ANNEX I
Table 8
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BNF's Agriculture Department (AD)
Income and Costs Statement Without Project
(G Million)
Historical      Financial Program Projections
1981       1982      1983      1984      1985
A.  Average Net Loan Portfolio (LP)            14,824      16,347   19,530   22,940   26,479
B.  Income
Financial (Interest and Commissions)        1,888       2,482    3,016    3,579    4,150
Percentage, Financial over LP               (12.7)      (15.2)   (15.4)   (15.6)   (15.7)
Other Income                                  152          57        65        70        75
Total Income                             2,040       2,539    3,081    3,649    4,225
C.  Costs
Operating Costs (OC)
Direct Costs under ACD                        302         367       433       485      543
Indirect Costs charged by BNF                 439         533       629      705       789
Total Operating Costs                         741         900    6,062    1,190    1,332
Percentage OC over LP                        (5.0)       (5.5)    (5.5)    (5.2)    (5.0)
Financial Costs (FC)
Interest on External Borrowing                512       1,045    1,485    1,876    2,296
Interest to BNF Commercial Department         243         102        23         -         -
Total Financial Cost                          755       1,147    1,508    1,876    2,296
Percentage FC over LP                        (5.0)       (7.0)    (7.7)    (8.2)    (8.7)
Other Costs
Provisions for bad loans                      405         350       358       406      456
Percentage over LP                           (2.7)       (2.1)    (1.8)    (1.7)    (1.7)
Depreciation                                    9          11        16        18        19
Total Costs                                 1,910       2,408    2,944    3,490    4,103
Profit during Year                            130         131       137       159      122
D.  Average Financial Liabilities (FL)         12,378      12,507   14,308   16,679   19,132
Percentage FC over FL                         6.1         9.2      10.5      11.2     12.0
February 5, 1983



- 41 -
PARAGUAY                                  ANNEX 1
Table 9
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BNF's Agricultural Department
Actual and Projected Income Statements With Project
--(G Million)-
Actual                  Projections
1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
Interest and Commissions on Loan
Portfolio                                1,888   2,482   3,105   3,897   4,778   5,618
Other Income                                 152       57       65       70       75       80
Total Income                    2,040   2,539   3,170   3,967   4,853   5,698
Direct Costs                                 302      367      460      565      684      771
Indirect Costs
(charged by BNF)                           439      533      629     705      789      885
Total Operating Costs             741      900   1,089   1,270   1,473   1,656
Operating Profit                        1,299   1,639   2,081   2,697   3,380   4,042
Financial Costs                              512   1,045   1,547   2,087   2,704   3,275
Interest paid to BNF's Commercial Dept.  243          102       23        -        -        -
Depreciation                                   9       11       16       18       21       22
Profit (loss) during the Period           535      481      495      592     655      745
Provisions Adjustment                        405      350      378      455      519      602
Net Profit during the Period              130      131      117      137      136      143
February 3, 1983



- 42 -
PARAGUAY                              Annex 2
Page I
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Farm Models and Financial and Economic Justification
A. Farm Models
1.        The agricultural credit component would be oriented mainly, but not
exclusively, to financing the credit needs of medium-scale farmers (40 to 200
ha of cultivated land) for on-farm development investments and related
incremental working capital. Farms receiving credit would be operated
directly by the farmer and his family and would grow commercial crops, mainly
soybeans, in addition to food crops for direct consumption. Small-scale
farmers who would ordinarily have between 10 and 40 ha and produce a mix of
crops and animals for family consumption and sale (mainly cotton) would also
be financed with project funds but only in those areas in which no other
funds were available for the purpose. Such sources could include the Bank,
IDB, or the Federal Republic of Germany (KfW), and be provided for under
specific projects, with credit components exclusively for small-scale
farmers.
2.        On-farm investments financed under the project are not limited to
specific crops or investment items, but the bulk of the investment is
expected to be for the development of soybeans and cotton, which, currently,
represent the most profitable alternatives open to farmers in the Eastern
region of the country. Four farm models have been prepared to illustrate the
most representative investments and development under typical farm sizes and
cropping patterns (Tables 1 to 8), which, in brief are as follows:
(a)  Model 1 - 120 ha, of which 50 ha are in cash crops (soybeans and
wheat); would bring an additional 35 ha into production; farmer,
already equipped with tractor and appropriate equipment, would buy
a combine harvester and perform custom services for other farmers;
(b)  Model 2 - 80 ha, of which 30 ha are in cash crop (soybeans); would
bring an additional 15 ha into production; farmer now using custom
services supplied by others, but would buy tractor and appropriate
equipment and use them to perform custom services for other
farmers;
(c)  Model 3 - 40 ha, of which 15 ha are in cash crop (soybeans); would
bring an additional 10 ha into production; now using animal
traction but would switch to custom services provided by other
farmers; and
(d)  Model 4 - 15 ha, of which 2 ha are in cash crop (cotton); would
bring an additional 2 ha into production; farmer is now using and
would continue to use only animal traction and hand labor; would
buy own yoke of oxen and set of appropriate implements and tools.
In every case, the area under crops would increase mainly as a result of
destumping fields and, to a lesser extent, from clearing existing forests. A
characteristic common to Model 4 farms is that, in addition to cash crops,
there is some limited production of beef, milk, and pigs and poultry products



- 43 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
for family consumption, with the surplus being sold on the local market.
Model 1, 2 and 3 farmers would use family labor for most of their operations,
while under Model 4 the farm would be worked exclusively with family labor.
Cropping Patterns and Yields
3.        Soybeans are the leading cash crop in Eastern Paraguay.  Area
planted under this crop, its total production, and exports all continue to
increase. The rapid increase in cotton acreage and production witnessed
during the 1970s has substantially slowed, but to many small-scale farmers it
is still the most important and sometimes the only cash crop. Cotton
cultivation is essentially limited to small, family operated farms. Wheat
production is being promoted by the Government in an effort to achieve
national self-sufficiency. In spite of past efforts at varietal introduction
and adaptation, there are still no varieties available which are well adapted
to the semi-tropical conditions under which the crop normally comes to
maturity. Wheat has the important advantage that it is grown in the
off-season, when fields would normally be idle, and requires little
additional land clearing and a minimum of soil preparation. It also offers
the considerable advantage of introducing a cereal in the cropping cycle when
grown alternately with soybeans. Wheat has, however, been profitable only
about one year out of four. The Government has, therefore, raised the
subsidized price with a view to providing the incentive to enable the farmer
to face up to these odds.   With increasing areas of cleared land available,
there is likely to be some modest expansion in fodder production with a
corresponding increase in production of cattle and pigs.
4.        Yields would increase only slightly for soybeans, somewhat more for
both wheat and cotton. An exception would be Model 3 farms which would
switch to the use of custom services provided by Model 1 and 2 farms. Since
Model 3 farmers would receive these services after custom operators had
completed field operations on their own farms first, soybean yields attained
by the Model 3 farmers would decline slightly. Present research and
extension activities are expected to provide higher yielding varieties of
both cotton and wheat within a few years. In the case of wheat, most farmers
not now obtaining satisfactory yields are expected to abandon this crop in
favor of farmers who are learning to grow it successfully. For financial and
economic analysis, models were prepared and yields estimated as follows:
Farm          Farm                           --- Estimated Yields (ton/ha)
Model         size          Crop             Before Project      Full Development
(ha)
1            120         Soybeans               2.0                  2.2
Wheat                 1.0                   1.4
2             80         Soybeans               2.0                  2.2
3             40         Soybeans               2.0                   1.9
4             15         Cotton                 1.1                   1.5
Marketing and Prices
5.        Marketing of agricultural products in Paraguay is undertaken by the
private sector and is, for the most part, free of Government interference or
regulations. Three crops are, however, subject to a form of Government price



- 44 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
control; a guaranteed price is established for wheat and reference prices are
established for cotton and sugarcane. These prices are payable at mills,
gins and refineries, respectively. Given MAG's limited institutional
capability, however, it is unable to control these prices effectively.
Hence, actual prices paid are frequently less, especially at harvest.  Prices
received by farmers, moreover, are not controlled and often are rather less
than those paid at the processing facilities.  For other crops, prices are
established by supply and demand and are strongly influenced by prices in
Argentina and Brazil.
6.        The absence of Government or producer-controlled marketing
arrangements has meant that farm prices are relatively volatile, particularly
for smallholders, who, with their small saleable quantities, are essentially
pricetakers in the face of well organized and well financed private
intermediaries. These intermediaries typically provide farmers with seasonal
credit, in kind and in cash, at the beginning of the crop season. The loans
are repaid through the contractual sale of crops to the same intermediaries.
Farmers participating in the proposed project should be able to strengthen
their marketing position through their association with BNF, reducing their
dependence on intermediaries for production credit. Additional measures are
being implemented by the Government to improve the level and stability of
farm prices. These include assistance to smallholders in the formation of
producer cooperatives and other groupings.
B. Financial and Economic Justification
7.        The major contribution of the project would be to increase the
availability of investment and production credit to farmers, thereby enabling
them to cultivate more land and increase farm production. Rural labor would
be more productively utilized and farm incomes would increase. At full
development, after seven years, it is expected that production of soybeans,
wheat and cotton would be increased, as a result of the project, by 60,000
tons, 12,000 tons and 6,000 tons per year, respectively. Additional exports
of soybeans and cotton would have a value of around US$ 15 million per year
(1982 prices).
8.        Estimation of the financial and economic benefits accruing to the
project is based on four farm models representing different farm sizes,
technologies and investment plans, and comparing their respective "with
project" and "without project" situations (Tables 1 to 8). Basic to each
model is clearing land of tree stumps, enabling the use of machinery for land
cultivation and seeding. In the case of Model 1, the purchase and use of a
combine harvester is anticipated. Model 2 farmers would purchase a tractor
and appropriate equipment. Both the financial and economic analyses have
been prepared in constant 1982 prices, adjusted for expected changes in real
prices according to international price forecasts published by the Bank's
Commodities and Export Projections Division. These prices are shown in
Table 9.



- 45 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
Financial Analysis
9.        This analysis is based on financial rates of return, including
sensitivity analyses, and cash flows over 10 years for each model. The
results are shown in the following table.
Financial ROR
at Exchange Rate
US$1 = G 126
Excl. Value of Incl. Value of
Family Labor    Family Labor
Model 1 (120 ha)                  16%             15%
Model 2  (80 ha)                  44%             37%
Model 3  (40 ha)                  45%           100%
Model 4  (15 ha)                  50%             12%
10.       The first column indicates, as may be expected, that where the
cost of family labor is excluded from the analysis, the financial rate of
return (FRR) becomes higher for those production systems employing a
greater relative input of family labor compared to total resources.
Similarly, when the imputed value of family labor is included as a cost
(column 2), the FRR may be expected to fall more for systems with a
relatively higher incidence of family labor.
11.       Model 3 represents a unique, though complementary development
plan. From undertaking most farm operations manually, the farmers turn to
mechanized custom services for all cultivation, seeding and harvesting
operations. They are the principal clientele for the farmers offering such
services, as represented by Models 1 and 2. The farmers and members of
their families would be expected to engage in other farm operations, which
are not included in the model, or in off-farm employment. For Model 3,
therefore, the imputed value of family labor would drop dramatically under
the project, compared to its value in the non-project situation where
farmers would continue with full-time manual operations. At the same time,
at the prices currently charged for custom services, the substitution of
these services for family labor would reduce unit production costs
significantly. For these reasons, the FRR (and the ERR) jumps from 45% to
over 100% when the imputed value of labor is included as a cost. The Net
Present Value for this model at 12% discount rate over 10 years was
estimated at G 1,975,000 (US$15,700).
12.       In the case of Model 4, the drop in the FRR by including an
imputed value for family labor is such that at the official exchange
rate 1/, there may be only marginal incentive for farmers to expand their
cotton production. 2/
1/   Until July 1982, the exchange rate applied to agricultural exports was
the official rate of US$1 = G 126. More recently, the authorities
have introduced successively a series of measures designed to improve
the exchange rate exporters receive for foreign currency. The
effective rate resulting from such measures is estimated to be about
G 160.
2/   This report discusses elsewhere the recent decline in demand by
farmers for production credit, following low cotton and soybean prices
in 1980 and 1981.



- 46 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5
13.       The cash flows indicate that for Models 1, 2 and 3, farmers
borrowing under the project should have no difficulty complying with the
terms and conditions to be established by BNF for its subloans. For
smaller farmers (Model 4), BNF should be careful to ensure that investments
are phased to fall within the cash generation capacity of these farms,
especially in the first two years.
Economic Analysis
14.       The rates of return for the economic analysis are as follows:
Model 1  -   22%
Model 2  -   41%
Model 3  - 2100%
Model 4  -   41%
For this analysis, prices of inputs and outputs were adjusted, where
appropriate, for the estimated real value of foreign exchange (US$1 = G
200). Duties and taxes payable to the Government were deducted from
costs; they include import duties and sales taxes on imported items and
export taxes on crops, and should provide around US$1 million per year in
additional revenues to the Government by Year 10 of the project. As in the
case of the financial analysis, the farm gate prices of soybeans and cotton
were adjusted in line with expected changes in their real value over the
life of the project, according to the Bank's international price
forecasts. In addition, the farm gate price of wheat was adjusted to the
import parity price of wheat from Argentina, and to expected changes in its
real value. The values of family and hired labor were not altered from
their nominal wage costs in the financial analysis, because unemployment,
or under-employment, are not prevalent in production areas for which the
models are representative.
April 1, 1983



- 47 -
PARAUAY                                           ANNEK 2
Table I
AGRICETUlPAL at)rr PFWEC1
Mdel 1 (120 ha): Earm Bldget and Pates of Return
(G '000)
Before    Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year
Davelojynt   1        2       3       4       5       6       7       8      9       10
Wrr PRSJECr
iwvestIent
Destuming a/                  2D)    200    200    250
Schirry bT                  8,200                                                                  (1,230)
Total investnert          8,400     200    200    200
Revemues
Soybeax             1,920   2,160   2,610   3,300   3,751   4,224   4,356   4,488   4,488   4,488  4,488
Wheat                 350    875    963   1,050   1,138   1,225   1,225   1,225   1,225   1,225   1,225
Livestock             120    130    145    160    175    190    205    220    220    220    220
Other c/              120    145      175    200    227    255    278    310    310    310    310
Custin Services d/   1,570   1,570   2,170   2,170   2,170   2,170   2,170   2,170   2,170   2,170   2,170
Total Revenues    4,080   4,880   6,063   6,880   7,461   8,064   8,234   8,413   8,413   8,413   8,413
Operating Eqxi tures e/
Crops amd Livestock  1,300   1,659   1,810   1,945   2,085   2,215   2,215   2,215   2,215   2,215   2,215
Quston Services       230    230    300    300    300    300    300    300    300    300    300
Total Op. Cost    1,530   1,889   2,110   2,245   2,385   2,515   2,515   2,515   2,515   2,515   2,515
Net Benefits        2,550  (5,409)  3,753   4,435   4,876   5,549   5,719   5,898   5,898   5,898   7,128
WITRUX PR_ECTf/
Investnmnt                                     80      80      80      80
Revenues            4,080   4,334   4,508   4,602   4,820   5,047   5,285   5,529   5,529   5,529   5,529
Op. Bbpenditures    1,530   1,536   1,548   1,560   1,618   1,672   1,721   1,767   1,767   1,767   1,767
Net Benefits        2,550   2,798   2,960   2,962   3,122   3,295   3,484   3,762   3,762   3,762   3,762
DER L   NEiT WI EFITS -    (8,207)    793   1,473   1,754   2,254   2,235   2,136   2,136   2,136   3,366
Financial Rates of Return             Econoic Rate of Return
Best Estimate               16%                     22%
Investnent Costs  10% -     14%
Operating Costs   10% -     15%
Revenres  10%               13%
a/ G 40,000/ha.
b/ Purchase comine harvester (G 8.2 million); estimatal life, 9 years; 15% residual value after 9 years.
c/ Forestry, food crops.
d/ Plowing, discing, sowing, cultivating and spraying on 100 ha of other farms (at G 15,700/ha) before
development; from year 2 adds services of combine harvester (at G 6,000/ha).
e/ Exucldling iTpited value of family labor.
f/ Includes -nalI increase of production of soybeans and other outputs and projected increases in real
prices for soybeans as for the "With Project situation.
January 31, 1983



- 48 -
PARAGUAY                                        AMEX 2
Table 2
ACRICIJTJLRAL CREDIT PROJJECT
Model 1 (120 ha): Cash Flow
(G -000)
Before    Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year
Development   1       2      3       4       5      6       7      8      9       10
Opening Cash Balance    389  1,750  2,314  2,615  3,061  2,533  2,496  2,506  2,473  2,467   2,489
Revenues              4,O80  4,880  6,063  6,880  7,461  8,064  8,234  8,413  8,413  8,413  8,413
Investment Loan a/     -    7,560    180    -         -      -       -      -       -       -      -
Seasonal Credit b/    1,290  2,060  1,500    560    -        -       -      -       -       -      -
Total Cash Inflow  5,759  16,260  10,057  10,055 10,522  10,597  10,730  10,919  10,886  10,880  10,902
OUTFLOW
Operating Expenditures 1,530  1,889   2,110   2,245  2,385   2,524   2,524  2,524  2,524  2,524  2,524
Investment             -    8,400    200    200    200    -          -      -       -       -      -
Debt Service
Invest.c/- Principal  -      -      -       -     1,290  1,290  1,290   1,290   1,290  1,290    -
- Interest   -       454    464    464    464    382    310    232    155          77    -
Seasonal - Principal 1,290  2,060  1,500    560    -       -       -      -       -       -      -
- Interest   129      93     68      25    -       -       -      -       -      -       -
Family Withdrawalsd/ 1,050  1,050  3,100  3,50(j  3,650  3,900  4,100  4,400  4,450  4,500   5,800
Total Cash Outflow 3,999  13,946  7,442  6,994  7,989  8,101  8,224  8,446  8,419  8,391  8,324
CASH BAlANCE YR7S END  1,760  2,314   2,615  3,061   2,533   2,496   2,506   2,473   2,467   2,489   2,578
a/ 90% of investment in years 1 and 2. Investment in years 3 and 4 financed fram cash flow.
b/ Before developnent 50C% of operating expenditures are family withdrauuls @ 10% interest.
Frmn year 1, 90% of operating expenditures and declining to zero in year 4 @ 4.5% interest
(for nine nnnths - 6% annual basis).
c/ Three years grace, six years repayment @ 6% interest.
d/ Residual, allowing for reasonable cash balance at year's end.
January 31, 1983



- 49 -
PARAGUAY                                          ANNEX  2
Table 3
ACRICJLTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Model II (80 ha): Farm Budget and Rates of Return
(G 000)
Before    Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year
Developnent   1        2       3      4       5       6       7       8      9       10
WIM PROJECT
Investnmnt
Destuping a/                  200    200      200
Machinery tT                 3,076                                                            200   (460)
Total lIvestment          3,276     200     200                                             200
Revenues
Soybeans            1,440   1,620   2,030   2,640   3,069   3,168   3,267   3,366   3,366   3,366   3,366
Livestock              90     100    115      130    145    160    170        180    180    180    180
Other C/              120    140    160    180    200    220    240           260    260    260    260
Custom Services d/    -       -       942    942    942    942    942    942    942    942    942
Total Revenues     1,650   1,860   3,247   3,892   4,356   4,490   4,619   474,8  4,748   4,748   4,748
Operating Expenditures e/
Crops and livestock  1,042   1,014   1,047   1,188   1,331   1,343   1,355   1,367   1,367   1,367   1,367
Custom Services       -       -       138    138    138    138    138         138    138    138    138
Total Op. Cost    1,042   1,014   1,185   1,326   1,469   1,481   1,493   1,505   1,505   1,505   1,505
Net Benefits           6C8  (2,430)  1,862   2,366   2,887   3,0C9   3,126   3,243   3,243   3,043   3,703
wiT1ouT PRDJECT_/
Investment                                             80      80      40
Revenues             1,650   1,844   1,976   2,047   2,119   2,324   2,520   2,656   2,656   2,656   2,656
Op. Expenditures     1,042   1,046   1,051   1,058   1,145   1,215   1,241   1,232   1,232   1,232   1,232
Net Benefits          6(8    798      925    989    974   1,1(C   1,279   1,424   1,424   1,424   1,424
INCR.EAL NET BENEFITS -    (3,228)   937   1,377   1,913   1,900   1,847   1,819   1,819   1,619   2,279
Financial Rates of Return             Economic Rate of Return
Best Estimate               44%                     41%
Investnent Costs  1HP-      4CK.
Operating Costs  10% -43%
Revenues  10 U.
a/ G 40,000/ha.
b/ Tractor (60 hp) plus disc harrow and sprayer, disc harrow replaced after 8 years, 15% residual value
after 9 years.
c/ Livestock, forestry, consumption crops.
d/ Before project no custom services. At full development cultivating, seeding and sprayirg for other
farmers on 60 ha @G 15,700/ha.
e/ Excluding inputed value of family labor.
f/ Includes small increase in production of soybeans and other crops, and projected increases in real
prices for soybeans as for the "With Project" situation.
January 31, 1983



- 50 -
PARAGUAY                                            ANNEX 2
Table 4
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECr
Model 2 (80 ha): Cash Flow
(G -000)
Before     Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year
Development    1        2       3       4        5       6       7       8      9        10
INFLCW
Opening Cash Balance      500     605     447   1,253   1,716   1,692   1,524   1,504   1,532   1,591   1,482
Revenues                1,650   1,860   3,247   3,892   4,356   4,490   4,619   4,748   4,748   4,748   4,748
Investment Loan a/       -      2,948     180     -       -        -       -       -        -       -       -
Seasonal Creditt_/        735   1,0B5   1,065     330    -         -       -       -        -       -       -
Total Cash Inflow  2,885   6,498   4,939   5,475   6,072   6,182   6,143   6,252   6,280   6,333   6,230
OLrELWW
Operating Expenditures 1,042   1,014   1,185   1,326   1,469   1,481   1,493   1,505   1,505   1,505   1,505
Investment               -      3,276     200     200    -         -       -       -        -       200    -
Debt Service
Invest.C/- Principal  -        -        -       -        523     521     521      521     521     521     -
- Interest    -        177     188     188      188     156     125      94       63      31    -
Seasonal - Principal   735   1,085   1,065      330    -         -       -       -        -       -       -
- Interest     73       49      48      15     -        -       -       -        -       -       -
Family Withdrawals d/  430      450   1,000   1,700   2,200   2,500   2,500   2,600   2,600   2,600   3,200
Total Cash Outflow 2,235   6,051      -     3,759   4,380   4,658   4,639   4,720   4,689   4,857   4,705
CASH BALANCE YEAIrS END  605      447   1,253   1,716   1,692   1,524   1,504   1,532   1,591   1,482   1,525
a/ 90% of investment in years 1 and 2. Investment in year 3 financed from cash flow.
bI Before development 56% of operatirg expenditures are family withdrawals @ 10% interest.
From year 1, 90% of operating expenditures and declining to zero in year 4 @ 4.5% interest
(for nine months - 6% annual basis).
c/  Three years grace, six years repayment @ 6% interest.
d/  Residual, allowing for reasonable cash balance at year's end.
January 31, 1983



- 51 -
PARAGUAY                                           ANEX 2
Table 5
AGRICULLRAL CFEDIT P1(XJECT
Model 3 (40 ha): Farm Budget and Rates of Return
(G '000)
Before     Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year
Dve1opent   1          2       3       4       5       6       7       8      9       10
WDI  PROJECr
Investnnt
Iestumping a/                  200     200
Total Rnvestment             200     200
Reverxies
Soybeans               720     810   1,160   1,425   1,473   1,520   1,567   1,615   1,615   1,615   1,615
Livestock               70      75      82      90      97     104     112     120      120     120     120
Other b/               100     110     125     145     160     180     200     220     220    220      220
Total Revenues       890     995   1,367   1,660   1,730   1,804   1,879   1,955   1,955   1,955   1,955
Op. Ekper citures /    518     528     765     945     960     970     970     970     970     970     970
Net Benefits           372     267     402     715     770     834     909    985      985     985     985
WII    PROJEC d/
Investment                                              80      80      40
Revemies               890     982   1,044   1,076   1,108   1,269   1,438   1,545   1,545   1,545   1,545
op. Expenditures       518     520     522     524     526     588     652     681     681     681     681
Net Benefits           372     462     522     552     502     601     746     864     864     864     864
I 1R4E?A  NMr BENEETIS          (195)  (120)    163    268       233     163     121     121     121     121
Financial Rates of Return           Econanic Rate of Return:   100%
Best Estimate                45%/       Net Present Value @ 12%: 1.975
nvesUaent Costs  10% -       41%
Operating Costs  10%         33%
Revenues  10%                28%
a/ G 40,000/ha.
b/ Forestry, food crops.
cl ERcluxlirg imputed value of family labor.
d/  Inlutdes small increase of production of soybeans anl other outputs and projected increases in real
prices for soybeans as for the "With Project" situation.
January 31, 1983



- 52 -
PARAGUAY                                          ANNEX 2
Table 6
A(RICULIURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Model 3 (40 ha): Cash Flow
(G 1000)
Before    Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year
Development   1       2       3       4       5       6       7       8      9       10
Opening Cash Blance    298    370    460    596    768    845    901    936             950    918    889
Revenues                890    995   1,367   1,660   1,730   1,804   1,879   1,955   1,955   1,955   1,955
Investment Loan a/      -       180    180    -         -       -       -       -       -      -       -
Seasonal Credit t/      390    475    535    470    240    -            -       -       -       -      -
Total Cash Inflow  1,578   2,020   2,542   2,726   2,738   2,649   2,780   2,891   2,905   2,873   2,844
OUrFLOW
Operating Expenditures   518    528     765    945    960    970    970    970    970    970    970
Investunmt              -       200    200    -         -       -       -       -       -      -       -
Debt Service
Invest.C/- Principal  -       -       -       -        60      60      60      60      60      60
- Interest   -         11      22     22      22      18      14      11       7       4
Seasonal - Principal  391     475    535    470    240    -
- I-nterest    39      21      24      21     11    -        -       -       -       -
Family Withdrawals d/ 260    325    400       500    600    700    800    900    950    950    950
Total Cash Outflow 1,2CB   1,560   1,946   1,958   1,893   1,748   1,844   1,941   1,98Z   1,984   1,920
CASH BAIANCE YEARS END3  370    460     596    768    845    901    936    950    918    889            924
a/ 9(T/. of investment.
b/ Before development 5(OV of operatirg expenditures are family withdrawals @ 1C% interest.
From year 1, 90%/. of operating expenditures and declining to zero in year 5 @ 4.5% interest
(for nine anths - S annual basis).
c/ Three years grace, six years repaymnt @ 6% interest.
d/ Residual, allowing for reasonable cash balance at year's end.
January 31, 1983



- 53 -
PARAG[UAY                                           ANNEK 2
Table 7
AGRICULThRAL CREDIT PECECT
YModel 4 (15 ha): Farm Budget and Rates of Return
(G '000)
Before     Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year   Year
Development    1       2        3       4       5        6       7       8      9        10
WIIH PEJECr
Investaent
::sumpg a/                       80
M    n     b/         _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __250  50
Total Irmees                  330                               50
Revenues
Cotton                 110      130     293     322     353      384     390     390      390     390     390
Livestock               40       50      60      70       80      90     100      100     100     100     100
Other c/                100     110     125     140      L50     160     170      170     170     170     170
Total Revenies       250      290     478     532     583      634     660     660      660     660     660
Operating Expenditures d/
Cotton                  52       60      80     100      115     128     128     128      128     128     128
Other                   43       53      65      76       86      96      96      96       96      96      96
Total Op. Cost        95      113     145     176      201     224     224     224      224     224     224
Net Benefits            155   (153)    333      356      382     360     436     436      436     436     436
WIT     muOCT e/
Inestment                                                         40
Reverwes               250      275     285     291      296     315     399     399      399     390I    399
Op. Expenditures        95       97     100     103      107     110     136      136     136     136     136
Net Benefits            155     178     185     188      189     165     263     263      263     263     263
INCREMENEAL NET BEFTS -          (331)    148     168      193     195     173     173      173     173     173
Financial Rates of Return               Econic Rate of Return
Best Estimate                 50%                     42%
Investnmnt Costs   10% -      45
Operating Costs  1C% -         47%
Revenues   10%                41%
a/ G 40,000/ha.
b/  Yoke of oxen (G 125,000) and implements (G 125,000).
c/ Forestry, food crops.
d/ Exbcluding imputed value of family labor.
e/  Inludes small increase in production of cotton and other outputs and projectei increases in real
prices for cotton as for tne "With Project" situation.
January 31, 1983



- 54 -
PARAGUAY                                           ANNEX 2
Table 8
AGRICJLTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Model 4 (15 ha): Cash Flow
(G '000)
Before     Year    Year    Year    Year   Year    Year    Year    Year   Year    Year
Development    1       2       3       4       5       6       7        8     9        10
Opening Cash Balance     120     155     164     193    231      236     222     247      234     224     217
Revenues                 250     290     478     532     583     634      660    660      660     660    660
Investment Loan a/       -       297    -        -       -
Seasonal CreditN/        103     155     130    -        -       -       -       -       -       -       -
Total Cash Inflow    473    897      772     725    814      870     882     907      894     884     877
OUTFLOW
Operating Expenditures    95     113     145     176     201     224     224      224     224     224     224
Investment               -       330    -        -       -        50    -        -       -       -       -
Debt Service
Invest.C/- Principal  -       -        -       -        49      49      49      50      50      50    -
-Interest   -          18      18      18      18      15      12       9        6       3    -
Seasonal - Principal   103     155     130    -        -       -       -       -       -       -       -
-Interest      10       7       6      15    -        -       -       -       -        -       -
Family Withdrawals dl  110     110     280     300     310     310     350      390     390     390     400
Total Cash Outflow   318     733     579     494     578     648     635      673     670    667      624
CASH BALANCE YEAR'S END  155     164     193     231     236     222     247     234     224      217     253
a/ 90% of investment in Year 1.  Investment in Year 5 fianered from cash flow.
b/ Before development 50% of operating expenditures are family withdrawals @ 10% interest.
Fron year 1, 90% of operating expenditures and declining to zero in year 3 @ 4.S% interest
(for nine nths -  W% arual lEsis).
c/ Three years grace, six years repaynmnt @ 6% interest.
d/ Residual, allowing for reasonable cash lalance at year's end.
January 31, 1983



- 55 -
PARAGUAY                                         ANEX 2
Table 9
ACRIClLlURAL CREDIT PROJECr
Farngte Prices for Financial and Economic Analyses a/
(G 000/ton)
1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
Soybeans- financial       24      27      29     30      31      32      33     34
econanic       38      43      46      48     49      51      52      54
Wheat   - financial       35      35      35     35      35      35      35      35
- economic       37.5   39       40      40.5   41      41.5   42       42
Cotton  - financial       50      59     61      62      63      64      65     65
- economic       79      94      97      98    100    102    103    103
a/ Financial prices for soybeans and cotton are based on forecasts of world prices prepared by the Bariks
Cammdities and Export Projections Division, using the current exchange rate of US$1 = 126. The econamic
prices are based on the estimated shadow value of the Guaranie (US$1 = G 200). For wheat, the financial
price is established by the Government - the G 35,000/ton comnpares with an import parity of
G 23,000/ton, calculated at the current excharge rate. The ecocanic price is based on import parity
(from Argentina) at an exchange rate of US$1 = G 200 and on the Barncs forecasts of changes in real
prices of wheat.
January 31, 1983



- 56 -
PARAGUAY                               ANNEX 3
Page 1
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BNF's Technical Assistance Program (TAP)
UNDP/IBRD Technical Assistance, Phase I.
1.        In May 1977, the Government of Paraguay, IBRD, UNDP and the
National Development Bank (Banco Nacional de Fomento-BNF) agreed on a
technical assistance program to strengthen BNF's institutional structure.
The program, called TAP PAR/77/005, began in September 1977 and included
activities and goals in the areas of financial administration, industrial
loan appraisal and supervision, agricultural loan programming, and human
resources. During program implementation, which spanned three and one-half
years, new activities were added in computing, telecommunications and loan
portfolio.
2.        The achievements were as follows:
(a) Financial administration
(i) establishment of the Finance Department;
(ii) preparation of operating manuals for planning and financial
budgeting; training of staff and start-up;
(iii) preparation of the financial program; and
(iv) evaluation of accounting procedures and proposal of a new
computerized system.
(b) Industrial project appraisal and supervision
(i) improvements in project appraisal methodology;
(ii) establishment of a supervision system for industrial projects;
and
(iii) training of personnel at headquarters and branch offices for
introduction of the industrial projects appraisal and
supervision system.
(c) Programming of agricultural loans
(i) review of current policies, procedures and methodologies in the
programming of agricultural loans;
(ii) determination of demand for agricultural credit;
(iii) development of a programming system for agricultural credit;
and
(iv) preparation of the 1981-84 agricultural credit program.



- 57 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
(d) Computing activities and telecommunications
(i) training of personnel of the Data Processing Center for new
equipment; and
(ii) improvement of communications between headquarters and branch
offices and agencies; installation of telex facilities at 27
branch offices.
(e) Loan portfolio
(i) establishment of the Loan Coordinating Committee;
(ii) diagnosis of the causes of loan delinquency;
(iii) analysis of BNF's loan portfolio;
(iv) definition of the system of information on portfolio status;
(v) streamlining of loan approval procedures;
(vi) establishment of a new bank services structure;
(vii) study of branch office lending approval limits;
(viii) establishment of management committees at BNF branch offices;
and
(ix) establishment of a system of periodic reporting on quality of
the loan portfolio at branch offices.
(f) Human resources
(i) appraisal of BNF's human resource situation as regards
policies, status, procedures and structures;
(ii) preparation of a method for determining staffing requirements;
(iii) recommendations on policies and procedures; and
(iv) preparation of a multiyear staff recruitment, training and
promotion program.
BNF Technical Assistance Program, Phase II
3.        To continue its institution-building program, BNF has entered on
phase III/ of the Technical Assistance Program.
1/ The program started in September 1981 and is scheduled to be completed in
late 1984.



- 58 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
4.        For phase II, UNDP was financially unable to assist BNF.  It was
therefore decided to continue the Technical Assistance Program with technical
and financial implementation by BNF, with the help of international experts
supervised by the World Bank.
5.        The following phase II objectives have been assigned priority by
BNF's Board of Directors:
(a) strengthening of accounting, computing, financial management, and
administration of BNF's lending operations; and
(b) supervision during implementation, under BNF's responsibility, of
the recommendations and changes made under TAP PAR/77/005 in
telecommunications, loan appraisal and supervision, and human
resources.
6.        It was considered vital to the Program that its activities be given
priority and that BNF strive to avoid duplication, overlapping or dilution of
efforts in tasks that may in themselves be very important but are not covered
by the pre-established priorities.
7.        The results achieved from phase II and progress to datel/ are as
follows:
(a) Accounting and financial administration
(i) design and introduction of a new computer-based accounting
system linking the branch offices and headquarters;
a. the policy and criteria governing BNF's accounting system
were established;
b. the general structure of the new accounting system was
designed and has already been accepted in principle by IBRD
and IDB. The system will be formally submitted in the near
future; and
c. a daily consolidated balance sheet, by major headings, for
headquarters and the branch offices is now being produced.
(ii) establishment of the financial budgeting and planning system at
headquarters and interior offices;
a. a system of quarterly reporting of financial and operations
indicators for headquarters and the branch offices has been
prepared and instituted; and
b. a short-term/cash-flow financial planning system has been
designed and introduced. The planning is done monthly on a
1/ As of August 31, 1982.



- 59 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4
consolidated basis for BNF. For headquarters it is done
daily. A similar system will soon be introduced in the
branch offices.
(iii) design and introduction of BNF's lending operations manual,
based on the methodology and procedures recommended in TAP
PAR/77/005;
a. directives have been prepared covering the purposes and
characteristics of BNF loans, lending operations, interest
and commissions, loan regulations and conditions,
guarantees, decision-making bodies, approval levels and
procedures, processing of approval loans, insurance and
taxes; and
b. a comprehensive survey has begun of all assignments,
responsibilities and tasks related to the loan portfolio,
with a view to proposing a reorganization of BNF's loan
portfolio administration structure.
(iv) implementation of the recommendations concerning the Treasury
and Budget Divisions of the Finance Department; data have
been compiled on the procedures, regulations, printed forms,
organization and processes associated with the current handling
of funds in local currency. The tasks relating to external
funds have been started.
(b) Data processing
(i) incorporation of the loan portfolio and the accounting system
into the data processing system;
a. IBM programming services have been contracted to adapt the
standard programs for current accounts, savings, loan
portfolio and accounting to BNF's needs; and
b. those involving current accounts and loan portfolio have
already been introduced.
(ii) providing the Data Processing Department with organization,
training and personnel to operate BNF's equipment and system;
(iii) acquisition, through purchase or lease, of all data processing
equipment and systems; the studies on alternatives for
computer equipment procurement were completed, the IBM 5-34
was selected, and procurement of the new equipment is under
way.
(c) Human resources
(i) implementation of the human-resources directives prepared by
TAP PAR/77/005;



- 60 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5
a. a work plan has been prepared for the implementation of the
suggestions of phase II of the Technical Assistance Program;
b. as part of that plan, the work on job descriptions and terms
of reference for BNF's functional units is being done with a
view to establishing a remuneration system based on
responsibilities; and
c. an intensive-training plan has been introduced for 1982/83
for those who will be responsible for implementing the
operational tasks and systems to be proposed under the
Technical Assistance Program.
(d) Industrial credit
(i) implementation of the recommendations in TAP PAR/77/005;
a. according to the TAP timetable, the activities will begin in
1983.
(e) Banking operations
design and introduction of streamlined policies, regulations and
procedures for domestic and international banking operations;
(i) the survey of current regulations, rules, printed forms and
procedures for proper banking operations to be used as the
basis for the new computer-based operations system to be
introduced has been completed; and
(ii) directives on current accounts, savings accounts, and rate
structure for domestic services have been prepared.
(f) Agricultural credit
implementation of the recommendations made by TAP PAR/77/005 on
the programming and management of agricultural credit for
suitably reorganizing the Agriculture Department will begin in
1983.
Agricultural Credit Component of the Technical Assistance Program, Phase II
8.        The purposes of the agricultural credit component of phase II of
the Technical Assistance Program are as follows:
(a) to identify the guidelines and manuals that will need to be
prepared over the medium term for agricultural credit;
(b) to establish a system of information on each borrower so that the
necessary data can be maintained and supplied for programming and
evaluating agricultural credit within BNF;



- 61 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6
(c) to improve BNF's systems of appraisal of agricultural credit as
regards standardization of criteria and printed forms and prompt
decision-making by Bank agencies;
(d) to improve the organization and distribution of functions relating
to agricultural credit in BNF branch offices;
(e) to improve personnel training in the technical and administrative
aspects of agricultual credit; and
(f) to improve the organization of the Agriculture Department.
9.        The specific results expected upon the completion of the scheduled
activities in the Agricultural Credit component of TAP phase II are as
follows:
(a) identification of the directives and operations manuals that will
need to be prepared for the various aspects of agricultural credit;
in addition, the table of contents of each manual will specify its
subject matter and the estimated timetable for implementation; and
(b) introduction of a new loan application form that makes it possible
to:
(i)  standardize the requirements of BNF's various lines of
agricultural credit;
(ii) put the information and data for each borrower into the
computer; and
(iii) accurately quantify the credit needs of each borrower and the
specific targets to be met though the loan.
(c)  introduction of a working system for rapid and proper
decision-making by BNF management, especially as regards project
presentation and means used (primarily telex);
(d) identification of various tasks or functions that are and should be
carried out in BNF branch offices for the proper administration of
agricultural credit and loan portfolio management; determination of
the most suitable organization and distribution of functions and
the corresponding posts and job descriptions; and
(e)  improvement of the structure of the Agriculture Department as
regards administration, functions', regulations and procedures
related to programming evaluation and supervision of agricultural
credit at both headquarters and other offices.
10.       Institution-building of BNF under the Project.  The foregoing
components of the second phase of the Technical Assistance Project need to be
supplemented by (i) expansion of the operating staff of the Agriculture
Department; (ii) strengthening of supervision at BNF branch offices and
agencies; and (iii) emphasis on technical training of technical assistance
officers (OATs). The cost and financing of these items is already
contemplated under the TAP.



- 62 -
ANNEX 3
Page 7
11.       Expansion of Operational Staff of the Agriculture Department.  For
the branch offices and agencies, it is planned to remedy the current shortage
of technical staff (OATs) and administrative personnel (OPs) and to provide
the additional staff for the project necessitated by the increase in clients,
depending on the progress of the TAP, more or less as follows:
(a) Technical Assistance Officers (Oficiales de Asistencia
Tecnica-OATs). BNF now has 72 OATs in its branch offices and
agencies, serving 25,000 clients. Earlier studies by BNF indicate
that one OAT can serve a maximum of 250 clients. There is thus an
apparent shortage at present in number of technicians, which the
project proposes to remedy. BNF and the M4AG (Ministry of Agricul-
ture) have entered into and are now carrying out a Joint Action
Program (Programa de Accion Conjunta-PAC), under which BNF agrees
to provide credit resources and the MAG to furnish the technical
assistance required to serve some 4,600 small-scale farmers. BNF's
shortage of OATs is therefore calculated at 16. Ten additional
OATs would be needed to serve the new clients brought in under the
credit project;
(b)   Loan Officers (Oficiales de Prestamos OPs).  The loan officers play
an important role in branch offices in the processing and approval
of loans. Their current number (50) also seems inadequate, in
light of the normal ratio of one OP per OAT. Sixteen OPs are
therefore estimated to be needed to cover part of the current
shortage and 10 more for the projected increase in clients.
12.       Expansion of Supervision at Branch Offices and Agencies.  In order
to improve the technical and administrative supervision -- now provided by
the Agriculture Department through the Administration and Supervision Section
of the PPA Division by only six staff (one professional and five assistants)
-- year 2 of the project includes tentative provision for eight additional
professionals (four technical supervisors and four administrative
supervisors). This figure will have to be adjusted in the light of the
evaluation of the Agriculture Department to be made by BNF in 1983. The
funding of an internationally recruited consultant is provided for in the
Bank-financed Caazapa project.
13.       It is proposed that the following be included among the activities
of the technical supervisors at the branch offices:
(a)  review of OAT-beneficiary relations;
(b) regulations, procedures and responsibilities regarding the prepara-
tion of investment plans;
(c) continuous analysis of results of investment plans (input-output
ratios);
(d) corrective action in offices preparing defective plans;



- 63 -
ANNEX 3
Page 8
(e) preparation of regulations and standards to establish or improve
the client's current situation and productive capacity (in simple
form);
(f) keeping the OATs continuously abreast of prices, unit costs,
availability of inputs and seeds, including details on their
procurement by the farmers;
(g) development of a system of technical and administrative monitoring
of the frequency and quality of the visits by OATs;
(h) keeping the OATs in contact with research, extension and innovative
farmers, through courses, lectures and field days; their
participation should be taken into account for purposes of
promotion and of adjustment of work areas; and
(i) rotation of OATs to different areas when the workload justifies.
April 1, 1983



- 64 -
PARAGUAY                             ANNEX 4
Page 1
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Banco Nacional de Fomento
Statement of Operating Policies and Procedures
(Unofficial Translation)
To accomplish the objectives established by Decree-Law No. 281,
March 14, 1961, creating the National Development Bank, and the amendments to
its supplementary legislation, and in exercise of its functions, the Board of
Directors of the National Development Bank hereby lays down the following
guidelines concerning the policies and procedures to be followed in its
operations. This statement of policies and procedures may be amended by the
Board of Directors when need and experience so warrant.
I.   PURPOSE
The National Development Bank is a governmental development bank
whose primary objective is to accelerate economic growth, for which purpose
it shall promote and finance general programs and specific projects to
develop farming, stockraising, forestry, industry and commerce of local
materials and products, the hotel trade and tourism, as well as to promote
the development of the capital market. Consequently, it shall follow a
prudent policy for promoting, financing and assisting by various means
productive enterprises in accordance with the national development plans.
The National Development Bank shall conduct its activities in accordance with
sound criteria and investment practices, pursuant to its charter law, its
regulations and other supplementary legislation and to this statement of
policies and procedures.
II. FUNCTIONS
The National Development Bank has the following functions and
activities:
(a) Development operations
(i)   It shall promote the formation of farming, stockraising,
forestry and industrial enterprises, including hotels and
tourism aimed at boosting national production.
(ii) It shall grant short-, medium- and long-term loans to
individuals and private enterprises for the development of
production in the sectors referred to in (i) above.
(iii) For such purposes it may obtain loans and issue development
bonds and mortgage certificates, with the approval of the
Central Bank of Paraguay.



- 65 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
(b) Commercial and savings operations
(i)   It shall receive sight, term and savings deposits and carry
out all types of banking operations in general, both within
the country and abroad.
(ii) It shall grant discounts and advances on current accounts and
transact all other operations normally involving a commercial
bank.
(c) Agricultural and livestock credit operations
It shall grant short- and medium-term production loans to small
farmers, grain farmers, dairy farmers, fruit growers,
forest-product producers, vegetable growers and small industry.
III. GENERAL LENDING POLICY
1.        In the conduct of its activities, the National Development Bank
shall exercise due prudence, in accordance with sound financial practices, as
to the risk involved in financing operations, and it shall seek to diversify
its financial activities from both a geographic and sectorial point of view.
2.        The National Development Bank shall consider all financing
proposals on their financial and socio-economic merits and shall select those
that yield a satisfactory return and promote the economic growth of the
Republic of Paraguay.
3.        The National Development Bank shall take into account the
socio-economic aspects of the projects that it finances. When a loan is for
more than US$150,000 equivalent, a detailed appraisal of the project-s
socio-economic aspects shall be made. For this purpose an analysis system
using social-rate calculations and other methods shall be used as the basis
for decisions.
4.        Loans shall be adequate to cover the necessary costs as indicated
in the investment program for the project. The terms and grace periods for
financing by the National Development Bank shall duly reflect the useful life
of the goods financed and the cash flow projection for each project.
5.        The National Development Bank shall not finance more than 70%
of the total cost of a project, excluding the cost of land. Exceptions to
this general rule may be made only if there is special justification, as in
the case of financial assistance to small and medium enterprises or of
expansion of projects in which the borrower has a substantial investment.
6.        Loans secured by a pledge or lien shall not exceed 50% of the value
of the article pledged. Loans secured by mortgage shall not exceed 60%
of the value of the real estate mortgaged.



- 66 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3
7.        The National Development Bank may refinance mature loans in special
circumstances on the basis of a study made in each instance.
8.        The National Development Bank shall require borrowers to conduct
their activities with due diligence and efficiency, in accordance with sound
financial, administrative and technical practices, and to maintain proper
documents and records as well as to submit financial statements at least once
a year but more frequently in the case of enterprises facing difficulties.
It shall further require the enterprise to keep up to date in the payment of
its taxes and social security obligations.
9.,       The National Development Bank shall ensure that the goods and
services for the projects it finances are purchased only after prior
comparison of prices and technical specifications quoted by several
suppliers, whenever possible, with a view to ensuring lowest prices and
suitable goods and services for each project.
10.       The National Development Bank shall require borrowers to obtain and
maintain adequate insurance against risks. In addition, they shall cover
other risk factors related to the purchase, transportation and delivery of
the goods financed to the place of their use or installation.
11.       The National Development Bank and its branches/agencies shall not
grant loans, surety bonds, endorsements or other guarantees to government
corporations or autonomous institutions.
IV. PROJECT SUPERVISION POLICY
1.        The National Development Bank shall secure to itself the right to
inspect real property, equipment, activities, plant and works included in the
project it finances, their operations and any relevant documents or records.
2.        The National Develoment Bank shall strive at all times to improve
and strengthen the technical, commercial and financial administration of the
enterprises it finances, issuing appropriate guidelines, either through its
own personnel or through consultants or experts, as necessary. The National
Development Bank shall not assume management responsibility in the
enterprises it assists.
3.        The National Development Bank shall disburse its loans in step with
the progress of project implementation and shall ensure that the funds
disbursed have been properly used.
4.        The National Development Bank shall establish a permanent
information, supervision and collection system, with a view to reducing
arrears by its borrowers and keeping them to a minimum.
5.        In the case of borrowers with outstanding balances exceeding
G 5,000,000 (five million guaranies), independently of the periodic review of
the financial statements of each borrower, the National Development Bank
shall inspect the facilities and operations of each borrower at least once a
year, and, in the case of enterprises facing difficulties, as often as it
deems necessary.



- 67 -
ANNEX 4
Page  4
6.        The inspections shall include valuation of the guarantees furnished
by each borrower, in order to ensure that the borrowers maintain suitable
insurance, with responsible insurers, based on sound commercial practices.
7.        The National Development Bank may, if necessary, depending on the
status of the enterprise, impose the following conditions:
(a) that the enterprise shall not contract new obligations without
prior authorization of the National Development Bank, except for
normal credits for working capital;
(b)  that a firm of independent auditors satisfactory to the National
Development Bank shall be engaged; and
(c) that the enterprise undertake not to pay dividends if its financial
position so dictates.
V.   FINANCIAL POLICY
1.        The National Development Bank shall conduct its operations in such
a manner as to ensure at least a reasonable return, sufficient to maintain
the real value of its capital. Interest rates, commitment fees and other
charges shall be determined by the Board of Directors to ensure proper
implementation of this policy.
2.        The National Development Bank shall not assume foreign exchange
risks in its operations; it shall pass such risks on to its clients or shall
adopt other measures to cover them.
3.        The maturity periods of assets of the National Development Bank
shall be shorter than those of its obligations.
4.        The National Development Bank shall not contract obligations,
including contingent liabilities, in excess of eight times its paid-up and
reserves, minus losses.
5.        In general, the National Development Bank shall not participate in
any enterprise, whether in the form of loans, guarantees or endorsements, for
an amount aggregating more than 20% of its paid-up capital, general reserves
and undisbursed earnings. If the Central Bank of Paraguay so authorizes, the
National Development Bank may grant loans and guarantees for amounts beyond
that limit, up to a maximum of 30%, in the case of operations between banking
institutions, or purchase or advance against letters of credit or other
documents covering export operations which entitle the bearer to receive
payments from abroad, or any other operations conducive to the development of
productive activities.
6.        The National Development Bank shall at no time have committed under
its responsibility, whether as loans, surety bonds, endorsements or other
guarantees, in a single enterprise or project, an amount aggregating more
than 30% of its paid-up capital and general reserves plus undistributed
earnings or minus accumulated losses, if any.



- 68 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5
7.        The National Development Bank shall operate a system of periodic
evaluation of its loan portfolio and other accounts, on the basis of w7hich it
shall establish adequate reserves to cover doubtful debts and other losses,
consistent with financial practices. In the case of debtors in arrears in
excess of G 2,000,000 it shall review the net worth and economic and
financial position on the borrower every si-x months.
8.        The National Development Bank shall have its accounts, financial
statements, balance sheets and profit and loss statements audited each
financial year by the Superintendency of Banks, pursuant to the General Law
on Banks and Other Financial Entities.
VI. ADMINISTRATION POLICY
1.        The National Development Bank shall keep its operating costs to the
minimum compatible with its objectives and the scope of its operations.
2.        The National Development Bank shall provide additional training for
its administrative and technical personnel, in order to develop a suitable
organization that can carry out project appraisals and subsequent supervision
of its borrowers.
3.        The National Development Bank shall apply a suitable remuneration
and incentive system for its personnel and shall allocate adequate resources
for their instruction and training.
4.        The personnel of the National Development Bank shall be recruited
and promoted in conformity with their competence and professional expertise.
5.        The departments of the National Development Bank shall submit to
the Board of Directors annual or more frequent reports which include:
(a) appraisal of new projects;
(b) progress of projects financed;
(c) financial statements;
(d) overdue borrowers; and
(e) other matters of importance to the financial and operating status
of the National Development Bank.
6.        The Board of Directors of the National Development Bank shall
ensure the uniform application of the policies and procedures defined
herein.
March 3, 1983



- 69 -
ANNEX 5
PARAGUAY
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
List of Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.  Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector
A.1.  UNDP/Bank Report No. PAR/77/005, dated August 1980 by Guzman Garcia
Rivero - Analysis and Projections Related to Agricultural Credit in
Paraguay and the Role of BNF. Two volumes, text and eight annexes.
A.2.  Bank Report No. 3569-PA, dated September 1981 - Economic Memorandum
on Paraguay.
A.3.  Bank-s Paraguay Agricultural Sector Report, dated August 1982,
draft by Marcelo Rossi (Consultant).
A.4.  Central Bank of Paraguay, 1981 - Economic, Financial and Monetary
Brief.
B. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B.l.  Paraguay, Agricultural Credit Project - Preparation Report -
FAO/Bank Cooperative Program, Report No. 39/82 CP-PAR. 11, dated
October 19, 1982 (text and six annexes).
B.2.  BNF's Financial Program, 1982-1986
B.3.  Mr. G. Gomez Report (October 12, 1981) on BNF's Agricultural
Portfolio and Causes for Loan Repayment Delinquency.
B.4.  BNF's Annual Financial Statements and Independent Auditor Reports
for fiscal years 1980 and 1981.
B.5.  Bank's Appraisal Reports on the two BNF's Industrial Credit
Projects (Loans 1419-PA and 1866-PA).
C. Selected Working Papers and Tables
Prepared by Appraisal Mission Members
C.1. Financial Analysis of BNF by G. Gomez.
C.2.  Detailed Farm Model Tables by H. Floyd and R. Hanan.
March 3, 1983



70
PARAGUAY                         SUPPORTING TABLE
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
B.NFIs External Resources Available for Small-scale Farmer Loans
Earmarked for Small Farmers - 1983-86
Approved                                         Amount Available
(US$ million)
World Bank
Loan 1674-PA                                            5.1
Loan 2087-PA                                            8.5
Loan 2141-PA                                            5.5
Sub-total                                          19.1
BNF Contribution (45%)                                  8.6
Sub-total                                          27.7
IDB
No. 615, Alto Parana Canendiyu                          4.7
IDB/IFAD Paraguari                                     10.8
Sub-total                                          15.5
BNF Contribution (40%)                                  6.2
Sub-total                                          21.7
KfW
KfW 6th Agreement                                       3.7
BNF Contribution (40%)                                  1.5
Sub-total                                           5.2
Total External Loans Approved                          38.3
Total BNF Contribution                                 16.3
Total Resources Available for Small Farmer Credit    54.6
Under Preparation for 1984 Approval
IDB - 6th Loan to AD for Small Farmers                 20.0
BNF Contribution (40%)                                  8.0
Sub-total                                          28.0
Total Approved, Under Preparation,
and BNF Contribution                                 82.6
March 3, 1983



PARAGUAY
AGRICULTORAL CREDIT PROJECT
Institution-Building Component
Cost Estimates
-(US$' OOO)-
Unit      Year 1         Year 2         Year 3         Year 4         Total
Unit Price  Units Amount Units  mount Units hmunt Units Amount Units Amrunt
Vehicles, four-wheel drive (jeep type)    one   24,300    -       -     10    243.0   10   243.0    -         -     20    486.0
Vehicles, two-wheel drive (pick-up type)  one   9,800    -       -      15    147.0   20   196.0   10    98.0  45    441.0
Office typewriters (manul)                one    1,100   30    33.0  30        33.0    -       -       -      -     60      66.0
Office typewriters (electric)             one    2,000    2       4.0   2       4.0    -       -       -      -      4       8.0
Desk calculators (recording tape)         one      500   20    10.0  20        10.0   20    10.0   20    10.0  80           40.0
Desk calculators (simple)                 one       80   50       4.0  40       3.2    -       -       -      -     90       7.2
Office furniture (desks, cabinets, chairs) set    1,000   10    10.0  20       20.0   20    20.0   10    10.0  60           60.0
Branch offices utilities/installations    n.a.                   50.0         200.0          200.0          100.0   -      550.0
Subtotal                                              101.0         660.2          669.0          218.0        1,648.2
Price contingency a/                                    5.0          75.0          115.0           40.0          235.0
106.0         735.2          884.0          258.0        1,883.2
Total
a/  For vehicles and office equipment.
May 10, 1983                                                                                                                                   0
z



- 72 -
SUPPORTING TABLE 3
PARAGUAY
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
BNF's Project Lending Prograi
Cash Flow
US$ Million
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5
INFLOW
Bank loan proceeds                        4.0       12.0       10.0      10.0        2.5
Counterpart from BNF  a/                  1.0        3.0
Debt Service on Subloans
From long-term subloans  b/                -         0.6        2.5       4.5        6.8
From short-term subloans                   -         1.8       5e3        5.6        5.4
Total                          5.0       17.4       17.8       20.1      14.7
OUTFLOW
Long-term subloans  c/                    3.5       10.5      11.0       11.0        2.6
Short-term project subloans  d/           1.5        4.5        4.6       4.6        1.2
Short-term subloans d/
(recovery rollover)                      -         -         0.2         -         13
Debt service Bank loan  e/                 -         0.5        2.0        3.2       4.4
Total                          5.0       15.5       17.8       18.8        9.5
Annual Cash Balance                        _         1.9         -         1.3       5.2
Cumulative Cash Balance                    -         1.9        1.9       3.2        8.4
a/   Years 1 and 2 (US$4 million) from BNF existing resources, years 3 to 5
(US$12.5) from project lending recoveries.
b/   Interest on long-term subloans.
c/   18% interest rate, 10 year term including 3 years grace period.
d/   18% interest, one year term.
e/   12% interest, 17 year term including 4 years grace period.
NOTE: Inflow projections are based on 100% subloan recovery, while actual
recovery over the past four years has ranged from 81% to 91%. Outflow
projections do not include administrative costs, currently of the
order of 5% over BNF's Agricultural Department outstanding loan
portfolio.
May 9, 1983



W
B 0 L I V I A
S    0 T H
A W, E R   C A
T, U -1-                                                                                      wex
71
B    R    A    Z    I   L
..6.,
/IV
PARAGUAY
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT                                                                                                                                                              /T
AKIN,
NATICNAL DEVELOPMENT BANK BRANCHES
MAIN ROADS
SECONDARY RODS
RAILROADS
DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
- - - INTERNATIONAL SOUNDARIES



