Document of 
TheeWrldrBnk                                        BankOi
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3580--PI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
O)N A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO
UJS$40 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
May 16, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Rank authorization. 



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1             =         G 126 (Guarani)
G 100            =         US$0.008
G 1000           =         US$7.94
G 1,000,000      =         US$7,937
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AD           -  Agriculture Department (BNF)
BNF          -  National Development Bank
CAR          -  Small Farmer Rehabilitation Credit Agency
CB           -  Central Bank
CREDICORP    -  National Credit Cooperative Inc.
DIAF         -  Department of Agricultural and Forestry Research
DRP          -  Debt Recovery Program
FECOPROD     -  Federation of Producers' Cooperatives
FG           -  Livestock Fund
IBR          -  Rural Welfare Institute
IDB          -  Inter-American Development Bank
IFAD         -  International Fund for Agricultural Development
KfW          -  Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MAG          -  Ministry of Agriculture
SEAG         -  Agricultural Extension Service
TAP          -  Technical Assistance Program
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)          =   10,000 m2 = 2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)         =   0.62 miles
GOVERNMENT OF PARAGUAY
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PARAGUAY
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
I. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       The Republic of Paraguay.
Beneficiary:   National Development Bank (BNF).
Loan Amount:   US$40.0 million (including about US$0.10 million front-end
fee).
Loan Terms:    17 years, including about four years of grace, at the standard
variable interest rate.
Relending
Terms:        The Government would make available the Bank loan proceeds
expressed in local currency equivalent, to BNF under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. BNF, in turn, would
relend funds to project sub-borrowers at an effective rate of
interest of at least 18% per annum. The adequacy of this rate
would be reviewed at least once a year. The amortization
period would be up to 10 years, including a grace period of up
to three years.
Project
Description:  The proposed project's overall purpose is to increase
agricultural output, including the production of export crops
in which Paraguay enjoys a comparative advantage, and to help
improve the incomes and living conditions of small- and
medium-scale farmers. Specifically, the project is designed
to improve farmers' access to financial resources by (a)
establishing a country-wide agricultural credit program in BNF
to finance long-term credit for on-farm investments and
short-term credit for operating costs; and (b) continuing the
efforts initiated under the Bank-financed Industrial Credit
Projects (Loans 1419-PA and 1866-PA) to strengthen BNF's
staff, services and associated facilities for agricultural
credit operations. The ultimate beneficiaries would be about
5,000 small- and medium-size crop farmers receiving project
subloans from BNF.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Benefits:      The project is expected to increase the production of
soybeans, wheat and cotton by 60,000 tons, 12,000 tons and
6,000 tons, respectively; to increase foreign exchange
earnings and savings from these crops; and to strengthen the
operating capacity of BNF, the principal lending institution
for the agricultural sector of Paraguay.
Risks:         The demand for credit under the project will depend heavily on
prices paid at farm level for soybeans and cotton. The
depressed international market for these two crops had made
their prices unattractive to the bulk of farmers in Paraguay
until recently. Measures introduced by the Government to
improve the exchange rate for exporters have effectively
increased the prices received by farmers. Furthermore, future
price trends, which will undoubtedly affect farmers' decisions
on using project-financed credit, are promising.



- ifii
Estimated
Costs:
Components                 Local         Foreign       Total
----------(US$ million equivalent)---------------
Credit Program              31.0 a/        39.0         70.0 a/
(on-farm investment)
BNF's Institution            1.0            0.9          1.9
Building
Total Project Cost          32.0           39.9         71.9
Front-end Fee                                .1           .1
Total Financing
Requirement               32.0           40.0         72.0 1/
a/   Includes US$14.0 million of project beneficiaries'
contribution.
Financing Plan:
Local         Foreign       Total
--- (US$ million equivalent)----
Bank loan                    -             40.0         40.0
BNF                         18.0            -           18.0
Project Beneficiaries       14.0            -           14.0
Total                       32.0           40.0         72.0
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY:        1984       1985       1986       1987   1988
Annual           2.0        8.0       10.0       15.0    5.0
Cumulative        -        10.0       20.0       35.0   40.0
Economic Rate
of Return:       Not applicable.
Appraisal Report: Report No. 4382-PA, May 16, 1983.
1/   Taxes for items to be procured by beneficiaries are not significant.



I
I
I



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.     I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Loan
to the Republic of Paraguay for the equivalent of US$40.0 million to assist
in financing an Agricultural Credit Project. The Loan, which includes a
front-end fee of US$0.10 million on the Bank loan, would have a term of 17
years including four years of grace, at the standard variable interest
rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.     An economic mission visited Paraguay in June/July 1982; its report
covering short- and medium-term developments and prospects, is in prepara-
tion. The following discussion is based on the findings of this mission.
Country data sheets are presented in Annex 1.
Economic Performance
3.     Agriculture, including livestock, forestry and fishing, is the main-
stay of Paraguay's economy. Over the last five years these activities
directly accounted for about 30% of GDP and nearly 50% of employment;
directly and indirectly, they provided over 95% of merchandise export
earnings. Most of Paraguay's manufacturing industry consists of the
processing of agricultural materials, both for home consumption and for
export. Although no significant mineral resources have been found, the
country has ample land suitable for farming and livestock raising, as well
as large areas of forest land.
4.     During the 1960's, the real growth of agricultural output and of
total GDP was slow, averaging 1.8% and 4.3% per year, respectively. The
introduction of soybean cultivation in 1970 accelerated growth, and both
crop production and forestry exploitation expanded substantially.
Livestock production also increased, though somewhat less sharply. The
joint construction with Brazil of the Itaipu hydroelectric dam on the
Parana river, started in the mid-1970's, gave a new and strong impulse to
the economy, the more so as it coincided with favorable world market
conditions for cotton and soybeans, Paraguay's main export crops. These
developments combined to raise Paraguay's average annual GDP growth rate to
10% during the 1975-1981 period.



- 2 -
5.      Growth has been accompanied by improvements in the standard of
living, reflected in increased life expectancy and literacy rates together
with declining child mortality.   Nutritional levels are currently
comparable to those in countries with higher per capita incomes.
Agricultura' growth has raised the real incomes of those living in rural
areas, who make up about three-fifths of the population. A significant
share of cotton and soybean output, which accounts for most of the recent
expansion, is grown by small farmers, many of whom have received land under
government and privately sponsored colonization programs. Despite some
lags, rural wages have generally been rising in real terms.
6.     Thus, the benefits of agricultural growth have been fairly widely
shared. Paraguay's per capita income is still low, and large segments of
the population live in poverty. At the same time, rising incomes and
greater social and economic mobility are creating new and more diverse
needs, both at the individual and national levels, together with stronger
expectations that they be satisfied. These pressures create new demands on
the government and the private sector for expanding much needed social
services, particularly in the areas of education and health.
7.     The rapid recent growth of Paraguay's agricultural production has
been achieved by expanding the area under cultivation through the
colonization of new land; this process was carried out largely by small
farmers, who, particularly at the beginning, migrated from the minifundia
area around Asuncion. Settlement programs were initially organized by the
government but later became massive and largely spontaneous; recently
expansion has been further stimulated--and to some extent guided--by the
construction of roads into new areas and the improvement of the existing
road network.
8.     Work on the Itaipu hydroelectric dam has provided well-paid
employment to several thousand skilled and semi-skilled Paraguayan workers
and has stimulated ancillary activities based on the supply of construction
materials and services for the dam itself and the growth of the nearby
city. Both dam construction work and urban development have raised demand
for food and consumer goods--many of them agriculture-based--thus creating
a new impetus for expanding agricultural production into the eastern
regions.
9.     High and sustained rates of GDP and per capita income growth
over nearly a decade, and the relatively broad distribution of their
benefits, are rapidly changing important aspects of Paraguay's economy.
Growing linkage with the outside world creates new outlets for the
country's production and increases the need for investment capital and the
adoption of modern, more efficient technology. This process also increases
the influence on the economy of changing world economic conditions.
10.    The Paraguayan economy is currently adjusting to several
unfavorable developments. The construction of the Itaipu project is in its
final stages; although investment over the next three years will still be
quite large, most of it will consist of imports of heavy machinery and
electrical components. Thus, Itaipu-related demand for Paraguayan



- 3 -
materials and labor is rapidly declining. At the same time, the Yacyreta
hydroelectric project (a joint venture with Argentina) has been proceeding
more slowly than planned and has failed to compensate for the declining
activities related to Itaipu. Meanwhile, on the external front, world
prices of cotton and soybeans have weakened since 1978. Although
Paraguay's exports of these commodities held up reasonably well in 1981,
they were offset by reductions in exports of livestock, wood products and
other items. The total value of exports fell in current dollar terms by
about 5% in 1981, the first drop in more than a decade.
11.    A further blow was dealt to the economy beginning in April 1981, by
the large Argentine devaluations, which resulted in a complete cessation of
Paraguay's exports to its neighbor and of Argentinian tourism to Paraguay.
Most directly affected were production and employment in the light
manufacturing sector and retail sales in the Asuncion area. The
devaluations also adversely affected investment expectations, partly
reversing the positive and forward-looking attitude of Paraguay's business
community after nearly a decade of rapid and sustained economic growth.
Nevertheless, bumper crops and larger than expected capital inflows in 1981
resulted in further increases of consumption and capital formation, and a
healthy 8.5% growth rate of GDP for the year.
12.    Although official figures for 1982 are not yet available, prelim-
inary estimates indicate zero GDP growth. Both agriculture and
manufacturing registered negative growth rates (roughly -0.5% and -3.1%,
respectively), which were offset by expansion in the services sector and
government. The factors underlying the overall stagnation in economic
activity included (a) the general decline of the world economy, which
reduced the prices of Paraguay's major export crops (between 1980 and 1982
international prices of soybeans and cotton fell by 14% and 10%
respectively in current terms); (b) devaluations and declines in the levels
of economic activity in neighboring Brazil and Argentina; and (c) lower
Itaipu construction expenditures (combined inflows from Itaipu and Yacyreta
fell from around $470 million in 1981 to some $400 million in 1982). While
reliable data are not available, it appears that the unemployment rate has
risen from an average of about 3.1% for 1976-80 to 4.6% in 1981 and 10.8%
in 1982. The exchange rate has come under pressure and international
reserves have fallen.
13.    The fiscal situation has also deteriorated recently, primarily as a
result of expenditure increases, which in turn were partially accounted for
by adjustments in the payments made to retired public sector personnel and
to the Chaco War veterans. Overall, central government revenues are
estimated to have increased by 32% between 1980 and 1982, while current
expenditures increased by 58%. The current fiscal surplus fell from 3.4%
of GDP in 1979 to 1.6% in 1980 and to nearly zero in 1982. Expenditure
cuts have fallen mainly on investment and non-contractual obligations.
Investment spending is estimated to have fallen even in current terms in
1982, and shortages of funds are reducing many public sector agencies'
ability to deliver services. In addition to curbing expenditure, the
authorities have taken steps to raise revenues by adjusting selected sales



- 4 -
tax rates and stamp taxes, and by updating the valuation of property
subject to taxation. Congress is also considering the introduction of a
personal income tax and improvements in tax administration.
14.    The fall in aggregate demand has slowed inflation, which has fallen
from 22.4% (as measured by the consumer price index) in 1980 so 13% in 1981
and 5.1% in 1982. However, the worsening balance-of-payments situation has
upset the traditional exchange rate stability of the Guarani. Beginning in
1981, the usual spread of 5-10% between the official exchange rate (126G to
$1 US dollar) and the fluctuating open-market rate began to widen. In
mid-1981 the authorities responded by authorizing commercial banks to
operate in the open market and allowing exporters to sell 50% of their
earnings at a preferential rate of 160G per US dollar. The open market
rate continued to rise, however; and in July of 1982 the authorities fixed
it at 160G per US dollar, transferring most import operations to this
market. Earnings from beef, vegetable and fruit exports were also made
fully convertible at the 160G rate, as were 50% of the proceeds of other
exports. Additional measures have included requirements for external
financing of imports, advance import deposits and administrative controls
to ensure that foreign exchange surrendered is used for authorized
purposes. Subsequent modifications have allowed exporters of selected
products (soybeans, cotton, beef and wood) to sell part of their export
proceeds in the parallel market where the exchange rate is higher. These
measures have mitigated the negative effects on these products'
competitiveness of maintaining the official exchange rate at 126 G. 1/
Economic Prospects
15.    In spite of current difficulties and the likelihood of a period of
relatively slow growth, Paraguay's economic prospects are favorable. The
country has enough unused agricultural land to sustain the recent expansion
of agricultural production for many years and there remains considerable
scope to raise productivity. The electricity revenues expected from Itaipu
and construction work on Yacyreta should also contribute to medium-term
growth prospects. The economy is forecast to grow at an average rate of
about 4% for the period 1983-1986, with a gradual recovery in 1983-84
leading to a medium-term rate of about 6% by 1985-86.
16.    Despite large and increasing current account balance of payments
deficits during the period of rapid economic growth starting in 1973,
net capital inflows were large enough to allow Paraguay to accumulate
substantial foreign exchange reserves during those years. Assuming average
annual GDP growth of 4% and sound exchange rate policies during 1983-86,
and taking into account past and projected international commodity prices,
exports are forecast to show a gradual recovery from a 4% growth rate
during 1983 to some 10% by 1986. Exports and imports attributable to the
1/   It should be noted that a significant share of external
trade is unrecorded; its proceeds are presumably exchanged at the
parallel rate.



two binational projects noted above have been forecast according to the
projects' construction schedules. Domestic imports are expected to
increase at an average annual rate of 6% as a result of lower GDP growth
and a higher exchange rate for imports. Non-factor services are assumed to
maintain their past relationship to exports and imports of goods. Under
these conditions Paraguay would require a net capital inflow of US$5.4
billion over the 1983-86 period. About US$4.1 billion of this total should
come from the two hydroelectric projects; some US$0.4 billion from
long-term public loans already contracted; and some US$0.2 billion from
direct investment and private loans. Paraguay would thus need an
additional net capital inflow of about US$0.65 billion -- an average of
US$163.0 million a year -- to fill the gap.
17.       Taking into account the country's sound agricultural export
prospects, its high level of international reserves and credit standing,
and the fact that within a few years foreign exchange will be forthcoming
from the sales of Itaipu's electricity to Brazil, Paraguay continues to be
creditworthy for the recommended amounts of Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PARAGUAY
18.       To date, Paraguay has received Bank and IDA credits (net of
cancellations) totalling US$427.3 million. Of this amount, US$377.5
million has been lent through 24 Bank loans, and US$49.8 million has been
provided by eight IDA credits. As of March 31, 1983, Paraguay's
indebtedness to the Bank and IDA totalled US$403.4 million, including
US$200.1 million of undisbursed funds. As of December 31, 1981, the
obligations held by the Bank and IDA were equivalent to about 22% of
Paraguay's external debt, with a blend of about 15% IDA and 85% IBRD; this
share is not expected to change significantly. The service on this debt
amounted to 16% of total debt service in 1981 or about 1.4% of exports of
goods and non-factor services. On a sectoral basis, Bank and IDA
assistance to Paraguay to date has been 43% for agriculture, 29% for
transportation, 11% for industry, 10% for education, 5% for water supply
and 2% for preinvestment studies in various sectors. Execution of these
projects has, on the whole, been satisfactory, as has the loan/credit
disbursement record.
19.       IFC has had four operations in Paraguay viz., a US$4.4 million
loan with US$1.0 million equity participation for a wood processing project
(FINAP) (1974); a US$1.2 million hotel operation in the city of Encarnacion
(1980); a US$5.0 million loan with US$2.0 million equity participation for
an agricultural project in southeastern Paraguay (1982); and a US$2.5
million loan with US$0.881 million equity participation for a hotel
operation in Asuncion (1982). The FINAP project experienced critical
financial and managerial problems, and efforts to restructure it did not
succeed. IFC is in the process of divesting itself of the assets
involved. Weakened market conditions have affected the performance of the
hotel projects. Progress on the agricultural project has been
satisfactory. Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans, IDA credits and
IFC investments, as of March 31 and April 30, 1983, respectively and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.



- 6 -
20.    Current and planned Bank Group lending to Paraguay is designed to
help the Government to achieve four interdependent and complementary
objectives, which are: (i) to expand output and exports by direct and
indirect support for programs that raise production and employment; (ii) to
distribute tf.h benefits of growth more widely, and especially to attack
directly the problem of rural poverty; (iii) to improve the management of
the economy, and particularly to strengthen public institutions and
financial intermediaries; (iv) to raise the public sector's investments in
support of the productive sectors, and to expand its role in the social
sectors.
21.    Bank Group support for industrial, agricultural and livestock
development projects in Paraguay is aimed at increasing value added and
exports of agricultural products, and at expanding marketing outlets,
particularly for small farmers. Lending for education, rural development
and rural water supply programs is designed to help ease the country's
rural poverty problem and to improve the living conditions in the rural
areas. Loans for transport are designed to help improve policies and
institutions in the sector, which provides vital support to productive
activity in agriculture and industry. Finally, pre-investment projects are
aimed at supporting programs to help overcome institutional constraints, in
particular in the areas of planning, economic management, and project
preparation and execution. Preparation work is underway for projects in
vocational training, livestock development, rural development, education
and health.
III. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. General Characteristics
Agriculture in the Economy
22.       Agriculture is the most important economic activity in Paraguay,
contributing about 31% of GDP, nearly 50% of total employment and over 95%
of the country's exports. In 1980, 70% of the population lived in rural
areas. The sector supplies most agricultural items needed for domestic
consumption except for wheat, dairy products and fruits, which are imported
from neighboring countries. The country is divided by the Paraguay river
into two distinct areas: the Chaco to the west and the Eastern region. The
Chaco, covering about 25 million ha. and accounting for only about 3% of
the country's population of three million, is dry, lacks water and
generates only about 1.5% of agricultural production (mostly livestock from
large ranches). The Eastern region accounts for over 97% of Paraguay's
population and GDP; it is made up of forested areas and plateaus, with
good soils and well distributed rainfall. Crop production is essentially
limited to this region.
23.       During the 1970s, the value of agricultural production grew in
real terms at a cumulative annual average rate of 7.5%; two-thirds of the
sector value-added was accounted for by crop production. Most of the



-7-
increase in crop production resulted from the expansion of cropped areas in
the eastern part of the Eastern region; the area covered by the principal
crops (mainly cotton and soybeans) rose from about 500,000 ha. in 1972 to
approximately 1.5 million ha. in 1980. The large-scale immigration of
capable and aggressive farmers from Brazil, made an important technological
contribution to the process of expansion, which was also furthered by the
migration of Paraguayan farmers from the country's central areas,
characterized by eroded soils and minifundia. Other important supporting
factors were the construction and improvement of roads in the Eastern
region, attractive international prices for cotton and soybeans, and
Government support for research, extension, training and credit services.
24.     In general, the marketing of agricultural products in Paraguay has
been free from Government regulations, and the prices for most products are
determined by domestic supply and demand and market conditions abroad,
especially in Argentina and Brazil. The only exceptions are the guarantee
price for wheat payable at the mills and certain reference prices for sugar
and cotton payable at the refineries and gins, respectively. However,
MAG's limited institutional and financial capability does not permit it to
exercise effective control on the prices received by the farmers which are
usually lower than these reference prices, especially at harvest. The
policy of supporting the wheat price has been in force for several years;
it is intended to shield the producer against competition from imports at
the official exchange rate. The guarantee price at present is about 50%
above import parity prices at the official exchange rate and about 20%
below at the free market rate.  The Paraguayan authorities have attached
importance to the domestic production of wheat on grounds of food security
and the complementarity of wheat to soya in their farming system. The
issue of maintaining a guaranteed price for wheat in the context of the
overall incentive system for agricultural production will be discussed with
the Government in the forthcoming Bank sector study.
25.       Future production expansion will require an expansion and
improved quality of services that directly affect farm productivity,
particularly fertilizers, improved seeds, herbicides, insecticides and
extension services. Mechanization is of prime importance in soybean
production; for all other crops, greater availability of animal traction,
hand tools -- plows and harrows, etc. -- would make a large contribution to
increase the productivity of land and men in the small farms of the
colonies. Studies have shown that fertilizer usage has been very low in
Paraguay; in 1979, for instance, 10,000 tons of fertilizer were imported
which at the recommended level would be sufficient only for 30,000 ha. or
less than 3% of the cultivated area. Undoubtedly, while there had been
improvements made in the past, major on-farm investments, better physical
infrastructure, and expanded provision of extension services and credits
are needed by both the small_ and medium-scale farmers in Paraguay. The
Bank and other international agencies have been helping the Government to
respond to these requirements by financing a number of integrated rural
development projects designed to upgrade the technological and economic
status of existing and new smallholder settlements. The proposed project
would assist in minimizing the said bottlenecks by providing credit with
complementary technical assistance to small- and medium-scale farmers.



-8-
Land Tenure and Use
26.    The number of farms in Paraguay has increased by 53% over the past
10 years, from about 162,000 in 1971 to about 249,000 in 1981. 2/ Over 70%
of them are exploited by owner-operators, another 12% by tena-ts, and the
remaining 18% by farmers who, though lacking land titles, may have
established users' rights. Farm size varies considerably. In the 14
departments of the Eastern region which account for 244,000 of the
country's 249,000 farms, over 40% had less than 5 ha, 24% had between 5 and
10 ha, 27% had 20 to 50 ha, and 4% had between 50 and 200 ha. Farms larger
than 200 ha accounted for about 1.5% of the total number. Land
distribution is highly skewed; of the total area included in the 1981
census, 95% of the farms took up only 23% of the total farming area (about
10 million ha.). These figures however, also reflect considerable
variability in land productivity.
27.       There is little reliable information on land use.  Existing
statistics indicate that of the total 10 million ha. making up the farming
areas of Eastern Paraguay, only 1.5 million ha. are cropped; the remainder
is in pastures, woodlands and wasteland. Cotton and soybeans occupy 50% of
the cropped area. The 1981 census suggests that, for holdings of 5 to 50
ha., 25% of the farm area is cropped, but that the comparable figure for
holdings of 50 to 200 ha. rises to about 30%. Increases in cropped land
are at the expense of forest land. In the majority of cases, small-scale
farmers, manually cut down and burn the forest after removing the most
valuable timber. After some years of cropping among the stumps and felled
trees, many farmers clear the stumps with heavy machinery or animal power.
Cotton is a typical non-mechanized activity of small-scale farmers, who
generally plant less than 5 ha. owing to labor shortages. Wheat and
sorghum are about the only crops that can be grown during the winter
season.
Institutional Framework
28.       The Ministry of Agriculture (MAG) is responsible for policy
formulation and for administering support services for the sector. Its
most important activities are agricultural extension (through its
Agricultural Extension Service - SEAG), research [Department of
Agricultural and Forestry Research (DIAF)], marketing, the collection of
agricultural statistics, and land reform. Various autonomous entities
carry out related programs. The National University of Asuncion provides
most of the agricultural education and some research, while the Rural
Welfare Institute (IBR) is responsible for land distribution, mainly
through the establishment of settlements. There are two centers and six
substations for agricultural research (together with three livestock
research substations), with a total staff of 73 professionals, 14 of whom
work in the central office of the Ministry of Agriculture. Though the
2/ Source: preliminary data from the 1981 agricultural census.



- 9 -
national research program is handicapped by a shortage of trained
scientists and funding, there have been some successes. For example, with
the participation of French Government Technical Assistance, DIAF has
produced high-yielding varieties of cotton, which have been widely adopted
by farmers over the past 10 years. SEAG, with some 300 technicians, faces
many of the same problems as DIAF. Staff linked to specific development
projects financed by the Bank and other foreign sources work under much
better conditions than their associates, but the impact of their work is
limited to the project areas. BNF's 93 agricultural technicians in 45
branch offices help farmers prepare on-farm investment programs and also
provide extension services. Moreover, there is a joint SEAG/BNF program
under which extension staff from SEAG assist BNF's small-scale farm
customers in preparing farm plans and credit applications in specified
.areas of the country. The Livestock Fund-(FG), which has been assisted by
several Bank loans, maintains a task force of professionals who provide
technical assistance in addition to helping ranchers prepare investment
plans and loan applications.
29.       Suppliers of insecticides and other production inputs, together
with the merchants who purchase farm produce, are actively involved in
technology transfer. In the case of certain crops (cotton, tobacco), the
buyers supply seed; most of them also provide production credit and
participate in extension programs organized by SEAG. This gives them
considerable influence with farmers. Some soybean merchants have agents
who make production contracts with farmers, arrange credit, supply inputs,
observe and advise on crop production problems, and supervise harvesting.
The role of private intermediaries in technology transfer may thus be as
important as that of official agencies.
30.       The IBR, established in 1963, has organized public settlements
and sponsored private ones, settling some 3,000 families per year, mostly
from the "minifundia" areas around Asuncion. It normally provides a plot
of about 15 to 20 ha. of undeveloped land for each family; its programs
emphasize settling large numbers at low cost and utilizing settlers'
self-reliance.   IBR also provides land titles, which are required as
collateral for agricultural credit from BNF. In Bank-supported rural
development projects, specific titling targets have been laid down;
these have generally been achieved, though sometimes with some delay.
Agricultural Credit
31.       Formal agricultural credit in Paraguay is provided by the general
banking system [other than the Central Bank (CB)] and certain specialized
entities. The banking system consists of the CB, the Government-owned BNF
and 22 private commercial banks, while the specialized public credit
entities comprise FG and the Small Farmer Rehabilitation Credit Agency
(CAH). Farmer associations and cooperatives, which are affiliated either
with the National Credit Cooperative, Ltd. (CREDICOOP) or to the Federation
of Producers Cooperatives (FECOPROD), also act as credit intermediaries.
Informal sources are important in providing seasonal production credit and
consumption credit to smallholder producers of cash crops.



- 10 -
32.       BNF is by far the most important source of institutional credit
for crop and mixed crop/livestock farmers in Paraguay. In 1981, it
accounted for 51% of the US$200 million lent for agriculture by
institutions in Paraguay, serving about 15% (30,000 to 40,000) of the
farmers and financing 30% of the area under cash crops. The bulk of this
lending has gone to small farmers who accounted for 80% of BNF's
agricultural borrowers. Significant numbers of small-scale farmers are
provided with credit in areas such as those covered by integrated rural
development projects where support services are adequate and farmers can be
reached with the services. Such conditions are generally limited to the
sites of integrated rural development projects, leaving many areas where
support services are weak and credit (particularly of a medium and long
term nature) is inadequate. Private banks mainly finance the marketing of
crops and livestock through intermediaries such as cotton gins, rice or
sugar mills and soybean exporters, but they also provide short-term credit
for cattle fattening and marketing. FG, established in 1969 as an
independent branch of CB, has developed into an expanding source of
investment credit for livestock, with financing and institution building
assistance from a series of Bank projects. CAH's main objective is to
provide credit and other types of help to poorer small-scale farmers who
lack land titles or other collateral, and hence do not satisfy the criteria
for obtaining credit from other institutional sources.
B. Bank Strategy and Previous Bank-financed
Projects in Agriculture
33.       The Bank's agricultural lending strategy is to help sustain and
broaden the growth process, that started in the 1970s. To this end, the
Bank is supporting efforts to (a) expand the agricultural frontier, while
at the same time protecting natural resources, and (b) promote and support
production intensification through the provision of credit and other
support services. This strategy is in line with the Government's economic
and social objectives for the sector. It is complemented by assistance
from other lenders (notably the IDB, USAID, and the Governments of Japan
and the Federal Republic of Germany) in the fields of agricultural
marketing, research, extension, agricultural statistics, and specific
commodity programs.
34.       The proposed project would be the twelfth Bank/IDA agricultural
operation in Paraguay. A general-purpose agricultural loan in 1951 was
followed by five livestock projects, four rural development projects, and a
livestock and agricultural development project. Past project execution
experience underscores the importance of expanding financial and technical
services for agriculture, together with transport infrastructure, so that
production potential can be rapidly realized and the development needs of
lower income people can be met. Recent Bank agricultural lending to
Paraguay has emphasized support for small-scale farmers, mostly through
rural development projects which combine the provision of credit, land
titling and extension services with rural roads and community and health



- 11 -
facilities. Experience with the rural development projects has been satis-
factory. Despite implementation delays, these projects have contributed to
increased agricultural production and incomes and improved rural roads,
community and health facilities. The Project Performance Audit Reports
(PPARs) available so far relate to livestock projects except for the one
on the Small Farmer Credit and Rural Development Project (Credit 509-PA),
completed in 1980. The latter PPAR concludes that the project achieved
most of its physical, economic and social objectives and resulted in
increased yields for cotton, maize and soybeans although implementation
delays led to a cost overrun of 25%.
IV. THE PROJECT
35.       The proposed project was prepared by the Government and BNF,
assisted by an FAO/CP mission that visited Paraguay in August/September
1982. A Bank mission appraised the project in November 1982.
36.       A report, entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Agricultural Credit
Project (No. 4382a-PA)" is being circulated separately. A Loan and Project
Summary is attached to this report. Negotiations with the Borrower took
place in Washington in April 1983. The Paraguayan delegation was headed by
Dr. Cesar Romeo Acosta, President of the Central Bank. A Supplemental
Project Data sheet is included as Annex III.
Objectives and Description
37.       The project is designed to raise agricultural output, including
export crops in which Paraguay enjoys a comparative advantage, and to help
increase incomes and improve living conditions mostly among medium- and
small-scale farmers. Toward this end, the Project would (a) establish an
agricultural credit line in BNF to finance medium- and long-term credit for
on-farm investments and short-term credit for incremental operating costs;
and (b) continue BNF's ongoing institution-building program (initiated with
Bank/UNDP assistance in 1976), whose aim is to strengthen and expand the
staff and services required for BNF's agricultural credit operations.
38.       Credit Component  The lending program would provide funds over a
three-year investment period to some 5,000 farmers, most of whom would be
crop and mixed crop/livestock producers in the Eastern region.
Medium-scale farmers (those with 40-200 ha. of cultivated land), who grow
food for direct consumption and commercial crops (mainly soybeans),
currently have very limited access to credit; project lending would be
oriented mainly but not exclusively to their credit needs. (see also
para. 44) Small-scale farmers (those with 10-40 ha. of cultivated land)
who produce a mix of crops and livestock for family consumption together
with some cash crops (mainly cotton), would also be eligible for credit if
they are located in areas not assisted under other Bank or
internationally-financed BNF projects. In both cases, however, a farm for
which credit is provided must be operated by the farmer and his family and
must be their major source of income. Medium- and long-term credit would
be mainly used for mechanized destumping of fields; farm machinery (mostly



- 12 -
tractors, tilling implements and soybean harvesters); farm installations;
on-farm roads; and soil conservation practices. Short-term credit would
help finance the production of annual crops (mainly soybeans and cotton for
sale and cassava, maize and beans for subsistence). The principal items
financed by short-term credit would be seeds, fertilizer, pesticides and
equipment operating costs. (see also para. 53(b)).
39.       Institutional Development.  To help improve BNF's operational
efficiency and services to farmers, the project would provide financing
for: (a) vehicles for field staff which would enhance mobility and
frequency of contact with farmers; and (b) office equipment which would
expedite processing of loan requests and supervision and in general make a
long-delayed and much-needed contribution to the efficiency of operations.
-In particular, there is a strong case for-provision of field vehicles which
are critical to the mobility of loan officers and technical assistance
officers of BNF. Because of the lack of foreign exchange, BNF is not in a
position to import the vehicles it needs to make efficient use of its
personnel. TAP is designed to strengthen accounting and computing
services, financial management and the administration of its lending
operations. It is financed by BNF from various sources including funds
available under the Bank's Second Industrial Credit Project. BNF has
prepared an updated 1983-85 program which was reviewed during negotiations
(para. 45).
Executing Agency
40.       The proceeds of the loan would be made available to BNF in local
currency under arrangements to be covered by a subsidiary agreement between
the Government and BNF. The execution by the Government and BNF of a
subsidiary agreement under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
would be a condition of loan effectiveness [Section 6.01 of the draft Loan
Agreement].
41.       BNF, which would execute the project, is an autonomous institu-
tion under the Ministry of Finance. Its mandate is to promote and finance
general programs and specific projects for the development of agriculture,
livestock, forestry, industry and commerce.  BNF provides credit and other
banking services through three departments -- Agriculture, Development
(Industrial) and Commercial--each of which has independent capital, sources
of funds and operating guidelines; all these are supported by BNF's general
administration, financial and service units. The credit component of the
project would be administered by BNF's Agriculture Department (AD), while
the Coordinating Committee for BNF's Technical Assistance Program
(para. 45) would administer the institution-building component, with
support from an agriculture credit consultant to be financed under the
Cazaapa Area Development Project (Ln 2087-PA).
42.       BNF's agricultural lending is handled through three programs,
each with its own sources of funds and beneficiary target groups. The
Agricultural Promotion Program, is basically a countrywide small-scale
farmer credit program, financed since the mid-1960s by five IDB loans that
have already been disbursed together with BNF funds and rediscounts from



- 13 -
CB. The Agricultural Enterprises Program finances mainly mechanized
medium- and large-scale farming enterprises, and is funded with limited BNF
resources plus occasional loans from foreign banks and suppliers' credits.
The Regional Projects Program handles mainly the small-scale farmer credit
components of rural and area development projects, and is financed with
assistance from the Bank, IDB and the KfW.
43.       Agricultural credit granted annually by BNF has risen from about
US$40 million in 1978 to about US$76 million in 1981 (an average annual
increase of about 25% in current prices and 16% in real terms). Over
two-thirds of these amounts were advanced under the Agricultural Promotion
Program and the Regional Projects Program; both programs are aimed at
small-scale farmers, who account for over 80% of BNF's 30,000 to 40,000
borrowers annually. Credit for small-scal-e farmers will be further
augmented by a new countrywide credit program to be provided by IDB and by
future rural development projects being prepared for external financing.
A system of support services and facilities (including extension and input
supplies) of the kind available in areas served by rural development
projects is essential if small-scale farmers are to use credit produc-
tively. Subject to this limitation, small-scale farmers' credit needs can
be adequately met by the existing and proposed external lines of credit
available to BNF, which are almost wholly designated for such benefi-
ciaries.
44.       Between 1978 and 1981, BNF's short-term lending to the agricul-
tural sector grew in real terms by an average of 18% a year while medium-
and long-term lending rose by only 12%. This mainly reflects the scarcity
of long-term funds for the Agricultural Enterprises Program, whose invest-
ment loans for medium- and large-scale farmers grew at an annual rate of
only 6%.   Thus, funding to meet the credit needs of this latter group who
have an important role in agricultural production, has been inadequate.
The proposed project would be principally directed at this group along with
small-scale farmers for whom other funds are not available. The project
would also help with institution-building in BNF's agricultural operations,
an objective that could not be realized through Bank-financed rural
development projects (because BNF involvement in these projects was rela-
tively limited and handled mainly through its branch offices).
45.       In 1977 an overall rehabilitation plan was worked out and imple-
mented within the framework of two Bank-supported industrial credit
projects. Under the first project (Loan 1419-PA), BNF started implementa-
tion of a UNDP/Bank Technical Assistance Program, called TAP, to strengthen
BNF's institutional capability. The program began in September 1977; over
the following three years, it helped BNF to upgrade its financial admin-
istration, industrial projects appraisal and supervision, programming of
agricultural loans, computing activities, telecommunications between head-
quarters and branches, loan portfolio management and human resources.
Encouraged by these achievements, BNF authorities decided at the end of
1981 to continue and expand the TAP with special emphasis on AD's opera-
tional efficiency. During the course of the following year, BNF detached
20 professionals from its various departments to work full time on



- 14 -
the second phase of the TAP; the program was institutionalized as a perma-
nent BNF office, headed by a Coordinating Committee assisted by an
expatriate consultant hired by BNF. The second phase of the TAP
(1982-1985) is estimated to cost US$3 million to be financed largely by
BNF's own res7ources and partly by the Bank's Second Industrial Credit
Project, IDB and IFAD. BNF has presented a revised 1983-85 TAP program to
the Bank. Assurances have been obtained that BNF will carry out TAP in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank and not later than the end of June each
fiscal year, BNF will review with the Bank its implementation progress and
prepare updated annual programs for the succeeding fiscal year (Section
3.05(a) and (b) of the draft Project Agreement).
46.       Financial Situation.  After incurring losses for 12 consecutive
years, BNF began to make profits in 1977. Profits rose steadily from about
US$0.5 million in that year to US$2.2 million in 1981. Since 1981, however
profitability has fallen mainly as a result of rising operating and finan-
cial costs. Most of the increase in operating costs has been caused by
staff expansion, salary increases and the general impact of inflation. BNF
is a multi-purpose development bank, and its agricultural lending is geared
toward small-scale farmer credit, which is costly to process and supervise;
its administrative costs are not unduly high compared to those of similar
banks in other countries.   Financial costs, were 6.2% of average
liabilities in 1979; by 1981, this proportion had risen to 7.4% reflecting
the rising cost of funds in the world market. In order to offset this
trend, BNF. raised the interest rate on loans for agriculture from 13% to an
effective annual rate of 18% in 1979. As a result, BNF's average interest
income on its portfolio as a whole grew from 13.8% in 1978 to 15% in 1981.
47.       Portfolio Quality.  In 1976, during the appraisal of the Bank's
first Industrial Project (Loan No. 1419-PA), both the Bank and BNF's new
administration were concerned about the high proportion (22%) of arrears in
BNF's loan portfolio. Subsequent efforts to deal with this problem led to
a reduction of the arrearage proportion to 16.9% by 1981; further improve-
ments are expected in the near future. The value of arrears, from 30 days
to over five years, amounted to US$35 million on December 31, 1981. Of
this total, amounts overdue for over two years amounted to US$14.9 million
(43%), of which US$11.2 million represented old loans. Such loans had, in
most cases, been made by the Agricultural Department in support of Govern-
ment-sponsored programs (such as the National Wheat Program), under which
lending decisions were based predominantly on political rather than tech-
nical-economic grounds. Provision for possible loan losses amounted to
US$10.5 million, or 70% of the amount in arrears for over two years at the
end of December 1981. The recovery of current payments due on agricultural
loans has improved from 82% in 1977 to 90% in 1981; the comparable figures
for the total BNF portfolio as a whole were 81% and 90.2%. The rate of
recovery of loans in arrears has also improved, from 21% for agricultural
loans and 25% for all BNF loans in 1977 to 34% and 35%, respectively, in
December 1981.



- 15 -
48.       Actual and expected improvements in BNF's portfolio quality stem
largely from measures taken under the TAP. In addition, BNF adopted a debt
recovery program (DRP) which established collection goals (based on the
amount and length of arrears) together with procedures and schedules for
achieving them. A Portfolio Control Committee, composed of the directors
of BNF's operating departments, was established to supervise the DRP and to
upgrade portfolio quality. In order to raise collection levels further,
BNF is drawing up a second DRP under the Second Industrial Credit Loan
incorporating specific performance targets for (a) reducing existing
arrears; (b) improving collection procedures; (c) closely monitoring and
supervising the portfolio to prevent new arrears from occurring; and
(d) sending quarterly reports to the Bank.  The second DRP was received
and reviewed during negotiations and assurances were obtained that, BNF
would carry out the DRP in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and not later
than the end of June of each fiscal year, BNF would review with the Bank
the progress of its implementation and would prepare updated annual
programs for the succeeding fiscal year. (Section 3.05 of the draft Project
Agreement).
49.       The Government contributed a total of US$54.5 million to BNF's
equity in 1977-1982. These funds were intended to help BNF to increase its
investment loans, to cushion the impact on its liquidity of agricultural
loan arrears caused by adverse crop conditions or declining commodity
prices, and to compensate it for losses on earlier lending undertaken in
pursuance of Government agricultural programs. This capital infusion
(which was in compliance with the conditions of the Bank's first and second
industrial credit projects), and its own increasing profitability have
improved BNF's financial position over the last few years; its debt-equity
ratio was 3.1:1 in 1982 compared with a maximum 8:1 under the Second
Industrial Credit Project. The Central Bank's rediscounting facility is
expected to support BNF's short-term lending. In 1983-1986 BNF plans to
expand its medium/long-term agricultural lending operation on the average
by 22% per year compared to its past rate of 12%, (i.e. from US$30 million
to US$54.5 million in 1986, including the proposed project), while
maintaining past growth rates in its short-term lending (i.e. 18% per year,
from US$80 million in 1983 to US$130.4 million in 1986). It is expected
that the project itself, assisted by a contribution from BNF of about US$4
million in the first two years, and front-loading of disbursements (80%) in
the same period (see para 55) will generate sufficient funds to sustain
the projected lending operations of BNF. However, actual annual financial
requirements of BNF would be reviewed by the Bank and BNF not later than
September 30 of each year. (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 16 -
Lending Terms and Conditions
50.       The proceeds of the loan would be transferred by the Government
to BNF in Guaranies under a Subsidiary Agreement under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank [Section 3.01(c) of the draft Loan A-reement].
Project subloans, as well as other similar loans made by the AD, would bear
interest and other charges at an initial effective rate of not less than
18% per annum during their lifetime [Section 2.03(a) and the Schedule of
the draft Project Agreement]. This rate is positive in real terms and
covers the AD's financial and operating costs (inflation in 1982 was
5.1%). In line with BNF's policy statement, which requires it to conduct
operations in a manner which would ensure a reasonable return sufficient to
maintain the real value of its capital, assurances were obtained at
negotiations that interest rates on new subloans would be periodically
reviewed. This review would be undertaken not later th.an April 1 each year
by BNF in consultation with CB and the Bank. If necessary, BNF would
modify the interest rate and commission charges on new project subloans and
all other medium- and long-term loans made by AD with funds from other
sources, so that (a) they would be sufficient to cover the operating costs
of BNF's loan portfolio; and (b) BNF would maintain a positive real
interest rate vis-a-vis the annual inflation rate, as measured by the
variation of the Consumer Price Index for the previous calendar year. If
consultations fail to produce an agreement within 180 days, BNF would
abstain from making any further commitment out of the proceeds of the loan
until such agreement is reached [Sections 2.09(a) and (b) of the draft
Project Agreement].  The procedure is consistent with the approach taken in
previous agricultural and industrial projects financed by the Bank in
Paraguay.
51.       Subloans would be made to project beneficiaries in accordance
with AD's standard procedures.  Investment loans would be processed and
approved on the basis of farm plans and would be based on detailed plans
demonstrating the technical and financial (including cash flows)
feasibility of the proposed investment. Subloans for investments
complementary to farm development projects or production of incremental
annual crops would be based on adequate cash flow projections. Loans would
finance up to the following percentages of the costs of the approved
projects: Farmers with less than 40 ha. (90%), 41-80 ha. (80%) and 81-200
ha. (70%). BNF's agricultural technicians would help farmers prepare farm
plans and provide them with technical assistance complementing the services
provided by the SEAG extension staff. Financing for on-farm investments
would have repayment terms of up to 10 years, including grace periods of up
to three years; within these limits, the amortization schedule would be
established for each subloan on the basis of the cash flow projections of
the investment plan to be financed. Similarly, short-term loans for the
production of incremental annual crops would have repayment terms in
accordance with the growing cycle of the specific crop, plus a reasonable
time for harvest and marketing. In general, these loans would be for a
period of one year. Assurances were obtained that any subloan or subloans
made to any individual beneficiary would not exceed a total of US$150,000
equivalent, estimated to be the maximum investment required for a farm of
up to 200 ha. [Section 2.03(B) of the draft Project Agreement].



- 17 -
Project Cost and Financing
52.       Total project cost is estimated at US$72.0 million equiva-
lent 3/, with a foreign exchange component of US$40.0 million or about 55%
of total cost. The proposed Bank loan of US$40.0 million would finance the
full foreign exchange component. BNF would provide US$18.0 million (25%).
Project beneficiaries would contribute the remaining US$14.0 million
(20%).
53.       Estimated project costs and financing have been calculated under
the following assumptions and considerations:
(a) the lending program would constitute the core of the project,
amounting to US$56.0 million, to be financed with US$39.0 million
(70%) from the proceeds of the Bank loan and US$17.0 million
(30%) from BNF;
(b) of the US$56.0 million, about US$40.0 million (70%) would be used
for long-term investment subloans and US$16.0 million (30%) for
incremental short-term subloans, which would be tied to the
investment subloans;
(c) the number of subloans is estimated to be about 5,000 and the
commitment period four years;
(d) the contribution of beneficiaries is estimated to be about
US$14.0 million or 20% of the on-farm investment program.
(e) the project's institution-building component, amounting to US$1.9
million, would be financed in almost equal parts by the Bank and
BNF. The $1.9 million would fund the purchase of vehicles and
office equipment; it includes price contingencies over a
three-year period on foreign and local costs, based on inflation
rates of 8% in 1983, 7.5% in 1984 and 7% in 1985;
(f) project costs were generally estimated on the basis of November
1982 prices escalated to May 1983.
Procurement and Disbursement
54.       The 5,000 project beneficiaries would use the proceeds of
Bank funds for subloans to purchase on-farm development inputs from
established local agents who represent a broad spectrum of international
and local suppliers. The use of international competitive bidding would
not be practicable. Local agents for tractors, farm machinery, fertilizer
and chemicals represent Bank member countries and provide satisfactory
3/   Taxes for other items to be procured by beneficiaries are not
significant.



- 18 -
services. Vehicles and office equipment for BNF would be procured through
locally advertised bidding procedures, which are satisfactory.
Requirements would be grouped as far as possible to make the quantities
sufficiently large to attract bids from foreign firms. Local bidding would
be used because of the relatively modest amounts involved, and to obtain
service from the local dealers who represent a reasonable number of
manufacturers.
55.       The proceeds of the Bank loan are expected to be disbursed over a
period of four-and-a-half years as follows:
(a) 80% against disbursements by BNF up to US$20 million equivalent
for subloans to project beneficiaries during the first phase of
the project (estimated at about two years.)
(b) 64% against disbursements by BNF up to US$35 million equivalent
for subloans to project beneficiaries during the second phase of
the project (about 2 1/2 years);
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures and 70% of local expenditures for
vehicles and office machines; and
(d) 50% of expenditures for other office equipment, furniture and
supplies.
Disbursements for subloans under the agricultural credit component would be
made against certified statements of expenditures. BNF's internal audit
and control arrangements are adequate for the adoption of this procedure.
The loan is expected to be fully committed by December 31, 1987 and to be
fully disbursed by June 30, 1988.
Accounts and Auditing
56.       BNF would keep separate project accounts, records and other
documentation. Financial statements for BNF as a whole and those for the
project would be audited annually by independent auditors satisfactory to
the Bank. The audit would include financial information to support
statements of expenditures used to claim reimbursements from the Bank. The
auditor would provide an opinion on the adequacy of (a) procedures
underlying disbursements against statements of expenditures, and (b)
internal controls relating to the preparation of these statements.
Certified copies of the audited accounts, together with the report of the
auditors, would be sent to the Bank no later than four months after the
close of each fiscal year (December 31; Section 3.03 of the draft Project
Agreement).
Monitoring and Evaluation
57.       BNF would be responsible for monitoring the progress of the
project and evaluating the impact of investments financed under it.
A consultant financed under the ongoing IDB/IFAD agricultural credit
project for small-scale farmers (PPR), is helping BNF to set up a Monitor-
ing and Evaluation Unit for agricultural credit projects; the new Unit is



- 19 -
expected to start evaluating the IDB/IFAD project and subsequently to
monitor and evaluate all AD credit projects. No later than twelve months
after loan effectiveness, BNF and the Bank would review the proposed system
to ensure that it would be satisfactory to the Bank (section 2.10 of the
draft Project Agreement). A draft completion report would be prepared by
BNF's Evaluation Unit and submitted to the Bank no later than six months
after the closing date (Section 2.07 of the draft Project Agreement).
Benefits
58.       The project would provide new investment and production credit to
about 5,000 farmers, thereby enabling them to cultivate more land and
increase farm production. Rural labor would be used more productively
and farm incomes would rise. It is estimated that at full development,
after six or seven years, production of soybeans, wheat and cotton would
increase by 60,000 tons, 12,000 tons and 6,000 tons or 6%, 18% and 4% of
aggregate production of these crops in 1982, respectively. Exports of
soybeans and cotton would also grow substantially. Finally, the project's
institutional building component would improve BNF's ability to support
agricultural development.
59.       Four farm models have been used to estimate representative finan-
cial and economic rates of return at constant 1982 prices. Each model
represents a typical farm size and production system and incorporates
development programs expected to be undertaken with the support of BNF
subloans. The resulting financial rates of return range from 16% to 50%
and the economic rates of return from 22% to 100%. 4/ The financial rates
of return for the four farm models remain attractive (ranging from 13% to
47%) under the following set of assumptions: (a) 10% increase in
investment or operating costs, or (b) 10% reduction in revenues.
Project Risks
60.       The project's main risk relates to the levels and variability of
farm prices for soybeans and cotton. Farmgate prices for these crops tend
to follow fluctuations in world market prices. Low international prices
during the last two years, together with the requirement that exporters
surrender their foreign exchange at the official rate, which began to fall
increasingly behind the free market rate, have had a negative impact on the
profitability of these crops. Farmers investment decisions and ability to
repay bank loans were affected accordingly. However, beginning July of
4/   Under one of the four models the technology would change drastically
from being labor-intensive to capital-intensive; non-remunerated
family labor would be replaced by custom machinery services leading to
a reduction in costs and an increase in the economic rate of return to
over 100%.



- 20 -
1982 the authorities have introduced a series of measures designed to
improve the effective exchange rate for exporters which resulted in higher
farmgate prices. The Bank's commodity price forecasts, morever, point to
increasing international prices for cotton and soybeans in 1983 and
beyond. Thus, adequate incentives exist for farmers to expand cultivated
areas and to finance additional investments with credit under the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Paraguay and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the National
Development Bank (BNF) and the Report of the Committee provided for in
'Article III, Section (iii) of the Bank's Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of
the Loan are listed in Section III of Annex III.
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
May 16, 1983



-21 -                                                     ANNEX I
Page 1
TABLE 3A
PARAGUAY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PARAGUAY                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERIGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                  - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)--
TOTAL             406.8                                    MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL0    164.0                 1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA N CARIBBEAN                EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    260.0        400.0    1300.0                      1902.0                     2323.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         79.8        159.0      233.6                    1259.9                      2107.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  1774.0          2290.0    3168.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 35.6            37.1       39.4                       65.7                       47.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                            5.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                              8.7
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                      2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                           4.4          5.6        7.5                      35.2                        83.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        12.5         14.8       18.7                      92.5                       155.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
C-14 YRS.                            45.9         46.0       44.3                      39.7                        31.1
15-64 YES.                            50.8         50.7       52.4                      56.1                        61.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      3.3          3.3        3.4                       4.2                         7.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 2.6/c        2.5/c      3.2                        2.4                        1.6
URBAN                                 2.9          2.9        3.8                       3.8                         3.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        43.0         39.0       35.6                       31.4                       23.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        12.7          9.1        7.3                        8.4                        9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.2          3.0        2.4                        2.1                        1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..           ..       26.0/d
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..              ..       15.5/
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)             94.0        103.0      118.0                     110.0                       116.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    114.2         121.5      119.4/e                   108.4                      125.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             74.5         77.6       78.5/e                    66.0                        92.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          42.6         42.3       44.477                    34.0                        35.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         8.9          4.3        2.5                        5.6                        9.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    55.6            61.3       65.2                      64.2                        67.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                              85.8         59.8       46.8                      64.2                        65.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 5.9         11.0       13.0/f                    65.6
URBAN                                15.3         22.0       25.07?                    78.9
RURAL                                 0.3          5.0        5.07?                    43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..          6.0       10.0/f                    59.3
URBAN                                  ..         16.0       28.07f                    75.3
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..                      30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             1808.7       2238.5    2194.3/d                   1617.3                      1105.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            ..       2210.4    2287.977                   1063.5                       634.4
POPULArION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               437.9/g      598.1      703.9/f                   477.4                       286.8
URBAN                               205. 47/     359.8      469.677                   679.8                       192.0
RURAL                              5914.0/g    5480.0    3202.1/f                    1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPlTAL BED              ..           ..         ..                      27.3                        20.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 5.5/g        5.4/h       ..
URBAN                                 5. 37e       5.o70.
RUNAL                                 5. 7/g       5. 77.
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 2.6/g        2.4/h
URBAN                                  ..          1.7/h
RURAL                                  ..          3.1Th
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                13.2L/g      17.5/h
URBAN                                33.2/g       41.7/h
RURAL                                 1.27g        1.i27        .



- 22 -                                                  ANNEX I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
PARAGUAY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PARAGUAY                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA9ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)_-
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 98.0        109.0     102.0/e                  104.3                      102.4
MALE                 105.0       115.0      106.0o7                  106.4                      107.1
FEMALE                90.0       103.0       98.0/e                  103.3                       99.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 11.0         17.0      25.0/e                    41.3                      60.2
MALE                  11.0        17.0       26.OIe                   40.4                      66.4
FEMALE                11.0        17.0       25.0T7                   41.8                      54.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)   7.5           6.3        5.9/e                   33.7                      31.6
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            28.1         32.3      28.0                      29.9                      25.8
SECONDARY                           7.7          9.4      12.0                      16.7                      22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        75.0/g       80.1/h    84.0                      79.1                      75.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.1          6.7         ..                     42.8                      51.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         82.2         73.8      60.6                    270.5                      157.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         14.8      18.6                    107.7                      123.7
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..        43.2      28.7                      63.7                     112.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..         ..                      2.7                       4.0
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       578.5        723.8    1020.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   21.6         21.5      23.6                     24.4                       36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              56.3         52.6      49.1                      31.3                      38.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 19.0         19.2      19.4                     23.9                       25.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                32.5         31.6      32.2                      33.6                      44.5
MALE                                 51.7         50.0       49.4                     50.4                      56.3
FEMALE                               13.9         13.5      15.1                      16.8                      32.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5         1.6        1.5                      1.3                       0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..                    184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..     260.0                     518.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     260.0                     371.1                     406.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      19.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..      50.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
ia   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
Ic Due to emigration of Paraguayans to neighboring countries (Argentina and Brazil), population growth
rate is lower than rate of natural increase; /d 1976; /e 1977; /f 1975; /g 1962; /h 1972.
May, 1982



- 23 -                                                                                             ANNEX I
Page 3
DEFINIfTIONfS OF SOCIAL INDIrATOUS
Ngain:  Although rho data  r  d-a  fromnane  generally judged the mast authoritative and reliable, iL  hbld alr he noted that theY may not in inter-
nationally  -oparbhi  beaas  of cthe lack of standrdiond defia,itioaa and con epts usd by different actnint Lao coiloatieg the d-a.  The data are,nme
theism., osef i to deacrihe ardent of  agnitda. indicate trrndn, and ahaerctotine certain major diffornecos                -. h   -oocutrfoa.
The noreoncre groups are (1.) thn ...e c..ctry grucp of the nnij eat ccu.iry and (2) oc....try grop elth  -uneht higheor average fearer char the country gunny
ofthu  ubjeo  coun..try (eccept fun   Haigi Incoo    Oil fopantoro" g roof ohore  'iddle Iaoma North Africa and Middle fast" is ohon..n becu..ar of stronger
nonu-clcaai  ffiiiisf.In the refarracn group data the av...oen aro Pupalatiun oighted anitheecin meant fun onh indicator aud siren only nie.
maJority of f1 ho -aurino fo e group ha- data for~r the  fedlctan.  yla_   h.a ar-Rae of couennlen oven0 the fedi-aora dopends on rho aailaiflltry of data
aed Itet  uf_'m. cauio  mean he ..utrninad in r.ntaiog acnrgrs of one  Windctor to another.  Theta at-rgot urn sniy asrfu1 La comparing the value of
ariadinucor  Lt a time anug the coun try and erf.e...n Strope.
AREA (nho..sa.d sqik.)                                                                                        Peuttonor fosrital fad- totl,anon  and erol.  - Population (rtatl.
Total - T.atu1 eanfuce-o a    ..reacogiso  lead ano  and ialand eaters; 1979 data.                -bhan  and rural) divided hy their retp-tiv- n-Mbr  of bnspita  heds
Agni-1-1aa  - EntisaLn  of  aniacuu           .an  urod temporarily on p-rnanotip                 ara bIai  in pblir and private goonra1 And  peaisliend hespIatI and rn-
for arops, p  tores, marhec 004 bin cot gardens 00 to IL. fta1oe; 197P9 data.                  habiliatftonaeotren.  gospitals Aroeatbls          pets prm        tly atf fed
by at toast roe phytician.  Establish-tn providing prinaips11y conta-
iN?  iP,CAPTA (f)) GNtP pan c..Pita.aiar  atFria mre  p ..e. ....                             dial cur  ae not included,  aRatI hepiatsl, hanon  i-alade health
colored by eo   conerion method as World for  Afla  (197-g  hanin); l960,                         o_d  _ndinaI neutron ea  petmoantty ecffod by a physician  (hut hy
1970, and 19ff eata,                                                                             medical. anniract,Iuso ida1f., eta.) abiob offor la-patient a-ea-
dation and pr-ida a Inited range of medical fautlition. Foet entin-
ENEtRGY CONSUMfPTION PER CAPITA - A ...aI c-nauptio  of craoriarerfy (coa                           lifa1 parpunes orbenbh-pi-l  incluIde WHO. Pr pintpat/ge...r-1 hosPitals.
and lIgnite, ptrnolnu, natural gao and bydno-, ouninap aed grothonsa  .1ec-                       and rural hospitals, looal on rursi hoepitale uod medical  an  materity
tniotoy) 1o kitognuon of coal oquilcaeo  per no pita; 1960. 1970g..ad 1979                        cotnt Specialieed  h_nPitat. ore inoded only uoder tota.
dab,                                                                                           Ad.i..ic. Perr Hsosrita  fed - Total nuber of adiaasto or dcniehngen
from hoapitals divided by the aumber of heft.
POPULATION ANff VITAL STATISTICS
Tota  Pprulotion, M4id-Tear~ (tihus.d.).    At of July 1; 19ff. 1979,. ad 1980                OlSIOG
data                                                                                         Acorago Sitn  o   cuth    (Persons pet houtnhld) - total, urba,  an  rurl-
fnian PopulatIon (poocaso of aural) - ltl  of colo  no trtIa  pupo1atlau;                        A itush ad narotofa grop of  dladiduo  ta eh  son  lirI o  qatnni
filff...nI dfio itio... of  ....c .an nay of feut au.arbility of data                           and the ir main soa.  A boondor or todger may on nay cot he inlsdnd in
_mag countries; 1960.  19701.ad 1990 doce.                                                      the he..sehold forsa-     oiclpanpanes.
Popalacion PtJroctcc                                                                           A-trageruoPer n  pntonpo   ro- total, urban, and  rura  - acengean
Papuatiu  In  ear  0f  - entret yputac.ica projectiuns ure hated on 19ff                 her  tpron   e ,    ran. Lt all urhas, and natal occpied -aotvniu...l
total  .pnyutaion by ag.   ndsa  n  choi   utli               friiyctn                       datilitgn.~ naatprntiury.  On-i1ing, emelado  oo-per-rmen t... aranns  and
Prorcicryaamoer  f r  erctiy tte  copnsa  f  hro  lnslacno                          ...cuie   orra
tug llfcn-phctLcy cc                ..r icoiof etch  -oatryc. Per capit   oc_eAcues  to ilnarrc itry (pocooc- o  delliart) - total, aban. and nroi.  -
torn, aud tomato lift aop11orc   utobiliniog at 77.5 years.  The pArc-                      C_onniu..ald falilngsnithlectnicity Lo liviog qoortar. an por.rtatge
ators forfctLiry tar  also ha-  rI-a  -rcls ..c..nLog declic  to                            of tocl, -bhoa, uod runst d-nilisgcne-pnccily.
fertility according no iL-nv  trel cod pant family plannig prrfanmnc..
foi  oucr  f  noouslgofco  of         'Ie,fo  cohlua-o  of me-tally             lflCATIfLN
and fertiliry trroda for projLociu  pFroura....dj-ard Eooclmen  kat
gtatiocarc papoIatio- - In.  a urair....y pupulatioucthere Lnofouauc                           PrImary nhoo1 - tota, nale and fe le-OGroto  total  mete en  tomat
the bioth, rate icoqu1 co thc dr-th raft, and al.to rlrafen          .rnu -iarr-               reole        of all acm. atcr pl~rim:ary I-cl so perrcentages of respctr.-
ma_i.cccor.Tin is achirvd only of tot f.Miitfy ratas delice to                                  primary  ch-ul-ago  popolrtoaa.; carall  -odachle  aged 6-Il
tin              1-1anntloa  of act, -n  ep-od-ccio  nato, aim  aunt gen-Ttio                    oars ht aj-srd for diff.e-ru     lgthe of primary odo..oitnfa
of  _n  repiacr  itrsrlf...artly.  The ctltilo..ry populatioc afro 0                           c triac rich   ccra   da-tcon, anro1ltn            m py mooed 1ff penarot
ratimatad on thu bunco of the prajoc-d choacrrninci-c of the population                        siuo no   popils ar. bolan an ubn rho offitilt r1           o  aga.
it the y.ro  2000, nsd  h. race of d-nliur, of fertility  -rot  to roplaca-                  Secondary scoo  -taot. ,male and femato - Cosputed an ah-r; c-uondory
mealloca.                                                                                       rdualonrfurnatleat  ea  yoarc of approvd primary tsetit
yr a    taio..ay yapuictica La orac.hd - The year  hobo  attiocary ppulatios                    pr_vidos gaero, voctional,or --ah- crising tastr-ctu-  for pupils
f- or mul  ho reaphed.                                                                          ...ofly of 127 to OP pouro of ago; cr-roapondoco ca       .esae g-errIly
Population Dooitcy                                                                                  e_cluod.
Per as. kon. -Mid-yuan populctoo par  quor-  kilonto  fill hect-re) or                       P2ainirntlor(oco   f.seooar)    fcalolintituton
total area   19g 99ad1979 data                                                               Loud   techical, ioduntrlot, ororhr   rgaaat    prr   e ed
Per no. in.agricultural toed - Compood an above for aglcicurt.-   Land                         only or asdopanrtura of nocuodaryintutcs
onl; 60k, 1971 and 1979 data                                                           PpoIl-tahnaio-priay  cod  --cofry - Total stadot  aenull   is
population; hA. strraruo  prct    i    Childreu  (0-t4 yearo) ,  -uking-uge (is-                 primary auZd neofry tr_rl  drividd by ousbors   tO.. rahe L.i the
hs4 pra-),oaf nr-f no  (I yu         n  open  onpr rgao   o-yor- papa-                         co-topordiog  orol..
Ilu;  9h0f. 1970,  .ed 1990               - data.g. o                                        Afalt literary tact (peren) L ilerote udults (shin  to read and 5
PopMtlutt    oronol fat  petut  - total1   A--ac  groathleato   oftotal mid-.                     onarr_taf   of tota  adult papolatina, aged 11  Y yer  aef er..   i
,:,r pouaio        -o 195f-6f, 1960-70. ad1970-80.
Poyatari_n irorth fae(pr_       a)- orIon-Annual  groth ratr  ofrunla  popo-                 CONelWIJONTf
tati.nu fan 19Sf0-hf, 196f-70, and 1970-f0.                                                  Pasna  Cr  prlhuadpoaula  - ,                   F -,ere cart  -prao. maca
Craf Birth fat  (per thounand) - Ano-a1 livo hirtho par thautond of mid-poor                    cara orating  lesti Rtha   Ih   enn;cnun   eaocs                     ra   a
population; 1960, 1970, -df 1999 data.                                                          siftttryc-hitl-n
Craf leach fate (per  h....ao) - Acu-a1 d-ath  Per thonnued  of old-yprat                      fotRo    . fcicarn loon thousabnd  ppuaton         1 Altypos of r I'llrsfn  ai
pulio;1960, 19701, and 1980 duta.                                                        br-ad-ots tu g_o-r P pubic par thosad of  opeputtico;  ..laenu.
trustforudcro   at- Aca...fg  oustr of dcughc-raasoma    ill hear in                              IL .oanedLccrvnti  cantrien and in, poars a.. regiltattiun  of radio
Ion our7ntolnaroda-lr  p-odia  ifaI  mapOr..l-o          ..cta . prs f---P-"'ff                                       I'-auoealnlfat;dt  fo  r macor yoars may cur ho o-p-ralo  ilou
tlirpsatau lp  fivo-ra   vogendgin1910, 1970, and 19ff.                                        rent  ...ncti   uhotiehd licansicg.
familyPtosrea -  ccaptrn. Anuat (houcoda) -fo,ua  namr ofacpoaTV Raeivrs(er thausad poplatio)-   TV  ercr  fur brooduost to
of birth--artfvus~r  oopnso   ol lfuly punigprogram.                                            gcr pat pii  per riousaud popltu i_tn    -oulden suIicand TVreees
tartl  plunan  ....r (prcn  of mate L crn   treul'ogo ofmrre                                ico rrsad to peron  obt  ragtn-rtiu Lo.f TVat   -ea in nffot.
'ume  ofR rld-beario'F age ('15-i4 ypoara) uho un   hal-..tu    rior                           nnyprCnoain(e  Iocn   uoin  itoenho averge tin-
all marIed u-n  1o cam  agu group.                                                             cuatu    t "daily general Ilto...nt....yapor', dafilad aa    periodical
pollination     devtd _rmrily tn r...oding gouos : uI      s   It It cosifrerd
rOOf AND NUTRacTuGN                                                                                to be 'daicy' if it appeorr   trac..t f oa  tu      nk
lcd-e of Foof o-d-cti- pan Capita (I969-7-lff0_) - loden of pen capita annual                  CinomA  ..1 o aaltkcaic     perto   Capita pen feat -oun.d00the auhe   f
pr-du-ti- of oh1 food  _omeditin_n.         d  tnfciuo or,iufta tod and f rd aud               tinher  ..Id driag the poor. inc.iuftg umainat. furn"-is  ioa
Ia to na1ed-n year b-oom   C.meotil nocoer primary goof. u(e.g. uugo-rce                       aef vbillnult.i
iuatof of augar)  htth aer efibl  and c-otino to gn(e.g. coffee oaf
tea ore-nnidef).  Agitgargt  productita oh ro.b cucatry it based onLAfiR FliCEr
satiml  -rnugr profaer pric- aighto; 1961-h5, 19700, oaf 1980 data.                          Total labor Force (tlho..aad) - ic-tuolcaly ounc   eyr-non, ieclodisg
far ..Pi,. sepply of clte   (porce. of roLnu.io-ta  - Camptrd fromumffro   n  anomlpdbht enolfding bauteive., studrota, 000.,
onergy oquicotent of not food osPpyllr   _uibLue it coutry pan capita                          naaing puotir   of alt afe.  Dof caloun ..    vaicacann    ore
par day.  A-ilblat   supplien conpri-o domectin production, Isparce t..sa                      con cor.obll; t96f. 1970 and 1990 data.
inform,, oaf choogo-iouc-k.  Nfor a-pplion  -ul ado -ulna  ford',_udo,                         Famal  (percent) - f-el  talonb.  fo-n  ac p-rcea--go of rural labor Porno.
quatities o-df in foud proc...aig, and I-cer  Lo Inrt          Rtc. iqoiro-                    Agrinolturo (percrt) - tutor frce to fang  forostry, hanting and
meca rin  animated by PAO hone d an phipantgic-t cdo tot norml anti-                          fiohiog .. parne...cgn of caallbor foc;16g170 and1990 data.
cilty oa  hulti  .. nundttiogociomact rum,otonlayoih,ag                                        Indea-n  (pononer       ao    oc   nanog   osrcin    enatno
and are dco-iburion of popelcrio..  ccd atuning If penan_ fr c-oat.or amad  ertf                              -c,otr.odfau   ecrao  fttltlnPno
h..naolod to..el; 19h1-ht, 19711 and 1977 darn.                                                 19611, 19710 ad 19f1 dero.
Per caPita aop"J, of Proeo(r00pody              .. nri   _reoat ofptcpt                        Participation fae(euo)-ttl:ae adtat-atiiolco
nor  Fsply of food per day.  lNar supply of food In defiuod anhov.-   fe-                      antic icy nrmt  one computed a.t.tucal  no, and female lblor fore-
qirearo Pfor clI _ntncien -coabliched by lilt pru-ido fan mliun                               perre-tgoa of Ltur, mln and fran1o populati-c of sit  got r-ep-tri-ly;
a     Ioeca   ofI6 groan  f rural proctoi par day oaf 20 grav  of uetol and              1960. 1970. and 19ff data..  Theta are bsnd on ILO's  ariiptintuco
Puoco protein.  uf  lIt10 gnome should ho u.i-atrprotin   Thnt stad-                           rl- clin,g uge-son  tnucture ofthe ypntuciun, and lung time trend.  A
lk                                 ndo apr love  thou tins  of 75 g..uu of tota ll ocia oaf 23 groa  of                           for  -ae.ntoo app fry  uatlo-a  toca
aetmal protoin 00 an .. o a-go   tarho aonld,~ propocedbhy PAIP in lit Third                 fuoconlc Inpendeou  facto - foi.ofa popoltaico anf- 15 and 65 and ae
forld road Survay; 1961-65, 1170 and 197 7 data                                                to rho to tal lur forte.
Pe   ait. prote    oupy  tm      ri  sod polar -  rcen pply of food de-
riced  fro_ot a     and p        Loo i  grasptdy  1961-h5, 1970 and 1977 data.             INCOMEI DIST'ROIBTION
Child (auto 1-4) leacrh far. (net thousad) - anna  fauna.rh  porthibosand is                   Percecia-  of fnvnr      Icm   (loch it~ cah oaf tid) - freticad by richestt
age groap 1-4 yoursa.1 rchildren In ctei ogn grap, for mat dvatopig coat.-                     S pe-rcr  riches  lf percent, p-cr-a  20 perucr, ad porono 4t   F peco
tries data derived f tam life tablen; 1961. 1970 and 1910 data.                                of hu....hutft.
HEALTHfyOVERTY TARGET 0001ff
Lift Eut2-la-Y or girth (Y.ata) -tAota..ge t-n- of y-ruo  of life  -omicieg                    Th. fu1tuelug entiatro  ro very apprualotenaure   o  p-nonty levalo,
orbit;  9.170  n  1990  aa                                                                   oa  eh-ld ho lo-ep-tred hsnculeehec ln
InatOo talr  for t(pr   unf)-Annual doathn at let. Ott  order  -n  yror                ltmcd Alolota Poetonoetit(llpntpt)-u ued enrlI
of age per thu..n..f live birtha; 1961  1970 and 1900 data.                                    Abtotato  poverty  Mccm  intel-in that Ioa  level hel   ehinh a minima
Accos to Iota later (pernta of pplr )- total,  rbac, and rura  - Nun,                            notritio...aly odtqaar  dirt PI.. essen.tial oao-faad roqaiteomts is ret
baa of Preople (total. nohao, urd rural) aith trason-hir .cc.a. to taft                         tfu.rdall.
an en saypLY (1isnluft  trentd suf-ar  nutern no anrrstod hat aaucmto                       ftmtod RIgetoiv  Poverty Iyo_ Inc   (            P oa   paonlt,- aniaa, aed rutol
at rhaba  that from protarced hborhetno, sprige, and sanitary vel) as                      RratI relatlc- pocerr  isoe_   .-Io is mrtidaaeae pe   a pita
porcoatagen of theipro-p-icc   populaclo...  Ia an orrb-a erroopa blic                         pat-ama  lupin  of tba coanmry.  cr10 lanai fa drlrmf-Pra  the erolI
fas.tain or scandpout u..otred vet mare thou Off meters foes u hnr rep he                      level nubh adjustmet for higher coa tof living is orb a   rt
cuaaidr-sd as boing aitbi  r-asunblo acesof thathse   It .rot a1               a             fatimted Population felon Absalate Povrt  -am   Lr.e  (Ferc..t) - nrhaa
rosnal   acencud imPlY that the h-osafe or   nirm tof the h...tholf                        and total   Porcrt of papa1otion  tato   ad  ael  na  o  "abmolete
do  00 her  tt spend adiaprcportia..are parr of th. day  to fotthiog the                        oo"
family' eater neede.
.At.o.. to fR`neto fDseosl feConta   ouatr)-ttal, onhba, and  aral -
iNsistr of peuple (toto.l, urban.   a  rural) nrcad by  --cet  dispoa  as I.
prorgsof their -osyatte popoltatfeo.  Eatrema disposal may iaulade
the  almtiatd diepo..a1.  -hi- or cuou  greamt t. of haa  natre`
and na--ntor by ester-b.ore  ytyo   on the ono of pit privie  and aimi-
PnamiaprPitninian -  Papistiao diridef by  -anhe  of pMP.rocoii.si  physi-                                                       oEn-ir and S.niol fata Dfivtiot
aism  qanlified fees a med oa1 sobol an  n,creatny level.                                                                      a_nnip fA-lyacs and  Drjotn   tpartist
Pealeaspr NriaP-ea      eptt    dirided by a..ier of prootiniog                                                                             Kap 1987
male and famet greadmetenas,esctet  -amoa  pemetinlna1                     and
reeieg tntais



- 21 -
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population:        3.3 million (1981) 1/
GNP Per Capita:  US$1.340 (1980) 1/
Amount                  Average Annual Increase %           Share of CDP at Market Pric-s %
(US$1977 prices & exchange rate) (at constant 1977 prices)                     (at current prices)
1980      1981     1982 1/ 1965-70 1970-75 1975-80         1965    1970       1975      1980        1981
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
CDP                         2,936    3,177       3,177         4.4     6.9   10.9       100.0   100.0       100.0    100.0        100.0
Agriculture                881       940        935         1.6    6.1      7.3       36.7    32.1       36.6       28.7       27.1
Industry                   744       809        796        6.0     7.3   16.1         18.1    19.6       20.2       25.0       25.5
Services                 1,311     1,428      1,446        6.1     6.2   11.1         45.2    48.3       56.8       53.7       52.6
Consumption                 1,915      2,328    2,531          4.1     4.8     7.2       86.1     S5.7       80.3      74.0        74.1
Gross Investment            1,098      1,228     1,090         6.0   16.3   23.6         15.1    14.7        26.8      35.2        35.3
Exports of goods & nfs        820        600       598         3.8     7.9   18.2        16.1    16.0        16.9      19.2        14.1
Imports of goods & nfs        897        979     1,042         3.9     9.6   19.2        17.2    16.4        24.0      28.6        23.6
Gross Domestic Savings   1,021           849       646         5.3   16.3   20.8         13.9    14.3        19.7      25.9        25.9
Amount                   Average Annual Increase %              Composition of Merchandise %
(million US$ current)             (at constant prices)                       (at current prices)
1980      1981               1965-70 1970-75 1975-80         1965     1970     1975      1980        1981
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise exports           709       676                 -1.4      17.5    15.4
(of which Projects)        88       103                 --        --       40.3
Merchandise imports        1,254      1,388                   5.1      9.0    25.1       100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0    1(0.0
Food                       24        33                  -3.3   -10.6      22.4        10.9      8.2      3.3        1.9       2.4
Other Consumer goods   101           99                  13.2    12.4        7.9        8.4     18.5    14.8         8.1       7.1
Primary and Inter-
mediate goods            114       103                   8.8   -12.7      29.5        28.0    25.1    14.7          9.1       7.4
Fuels and lubricants   130           95                  15.9      2.1    10.0          8.4      8.1    14.4        10.4       6.8
Capital goods             149       178                  -2.0     13.6      8.4        26.1    24.2    22.3         11.9      12.8
Others2/                  449       543                   1.5    21.7    36.L          18.3    L5.9    19.0        35.8       39.2
Projects                  287       337                  --       --       37.6        --       --       11.5      22.8       24.3
1975       1976        1977       1978          1979         1980          1981
PRICES AND TERMS OF TRADE
CDP deflator (1977=100)                            87.2        91.6      100.0        110.4        133.1        155.5          181.3
Exchange rate (G/US)                              126.0       126.0      126.0        126.0       126.0         126.0          126.0
Export price index                                 69.6        73.4      100.0         91.0        97.9         101.0          135.0
Import price index                                101.7        92.5      100.0        107.2        128.7        145.6          138.5
Terms of trade index                               68.4        79.4      100.0         84.9         76.1         69.4           97.5
As % of GDP (Current Prices)
1965     1970   1975   1979   1980   1981    1982 I/
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current Revenue                                                          10.4      11.7    9.4      9.9     9.0    8.1      6.9
Current Expenditure                                                       8.4     10.0      7.6     6.6     7.4    7.4    8.8
Surplus (+) or Deficit (-)                                                1.9       1.8     1.8    3.4      1.6    0.7   --
Capital Expenditure                                                       1.7      2.6      2.3     2.7    2.3      2.4     2.7
Financing (net)                                                          -0.2      0.1     0.6    0.8   -1.0   -2.5   -1.3
OTHER INDICATORS                                                         1965-70       1970-75       1975-80       1980-85
GNP growth rate (X)                                                      4.4          6.7           10.6          4.0
GNP per capital growth rate (%)                                          1.7          3.4            7.0           1.1
ICOR                                                                     2.9          2.5            3.1           --
Marginal Savings rate                                                   27.3         42.6           52.5           __
Import elasticity                                                        1.0          1.4            1.8           1.2
1/ Estimate.
2/ Includes non-registered imports.
Sources:  Central Bank of Paraguay, IMF and Mission estimates.
April 5, 1983



- 25 -
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(million USS current and constant 1981 prices) 1/
Population:       3.3 million (1981) 3/
GNP Per Capita:  US$1,340 (1980) 3/
Actual                                     Projected
1977       1978       1979      1980    1981      1982 3/  1983         1984     1985
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS 2/
Net exports of goods & services                 -427      -712       -964      -900   -1,093      1,511   -1,350   -1,444    -1,459
Exports of goods & services                   485       654        803    1,007    1,009    1,115    1,038    1,044           1,164
(of which projects)                            75       126        147       188       222       214       192       161        180
Imports of goods & services                   912    1,366       1,767    1,907    2,102    2,626    2,388    2,488           2,623
(of which projects)                           215       413        518       642       723    1,046        852       881        895
Net transfers                                       1         6          7         5         6        8         9        10          12
Current Account Balance                         -426      -706       -957      -895   -1,087   -1,503   -1,341   -1,434    -1,447
Direct private investment, net                     4.7      13.8       29.3        5.4     -7.9      32        33        36         38
N & LT loans, net                                419.2    678.4       821.9  1,005.1  1,112.7  1,559        1,315    1,315       1,377
Official                                      100.6    104.9        79.6    110.2    121.8    246          250       250        280
Private                                        15.0      26.3       52.4      12.5    -18.1       19        20        21         22
Projects                                      303.6    547.2       689.9    882.4  1,009.0  1,294    1,045    1,044           1,075
Other                                            111.0    182.5       274.3      46.3      23.5   -215          -         -          -
Changes in reserves (-increase)                 -108.9   -168.7    -168.5   -161.8    -41.3    127             -7        83         32
International reserves                           269.4    438.1       606.6    768.4    809.7    689          696       613        581
Reserves as months of imports                       3.5      3.8        4.1        4.8      4.6        3.1      3.5        2.9       2.5
Actual
1977       1978       1979      1980    1981
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT (Public & Private)
Gross Disbursements                               142.2    157.5       186.5    206.0    200.0
Official Creditors                             40.6      82.1       40.8      87.6    101.9
Multilateral                                18.1      29.2       34.0      39.9      67.3
IBRD                                       6.9       7.8       16.4      30.1      34.3
IDA                                        5.2       5.3        3.6       2.9       2.5
Bilateral                                 22.1      52.8        6.8      47.7      34.6
Private Creditors                             101.7      75.4      145.8    118.4       98.0
Suppliers                                   28.0      48.8       72.6      70.0      62.0
Financial Markets                           73.7      26.6       73.2      48.4      36.0
External Debt                                     604.5    832.7   1,290.9  1,247.5  1,570.6
Debt Outstanding and Disbursed                394.8    530.9       661.6    783.7    839.3
Official                                   335.3    445.1       523.5    632.9    706.6
Private                                     59.5      85.8      138.1    150.8    132.7
Undisbursed Debt                              209.7    301.8       629.3    563.8    731.3
Debt Service
Total Service Payments                         42.5      49.7       83.7    124.9    132.7
Interest                                    12.7      18.0       29.9      44.5      36.9
Payments as % exports                           8.8       7.6       10.4      12.4      13.2
Average Interest rate on new loans (x)              6.9       8.4        6.9       7.2       9.9
Official                                        6.6       6.6        6.5       5.6       5.9
Private                                         7.5      10.1        8.4      12.6      12.2
Average maturity of new loans                      16.8      16.1       19.1      22.4      15.9
Official                                       20.2      23.3       21.0      26.2      24.1
Private                                         7.3       8.7       10.6       9.8      11.3
As % of Debt Outstanding
at End of Most Recent
Year (1981)
Maturity structure of debt outsanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                            41.4
Maturities due within 10 years                                           71.1
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                            4.2
1/ Actual values in current millions of dollars; projected values in 1981 constant dollars.
2/ Official figures are adjusted to include estimates of unregistered trade and import, export and borrowing uperations attributable
to the Itaipu and Yacyreta binational entities. -
3/  Estimate.                                                                                                             April 5, 1983



- 26-                       ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PARAGUAY
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (March 31, 1983)
(US$ million)
Loan or                                             Amount (less cancellations)
Credit No. Year  Borrower       Purpose                Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
Nine loans and seven credits fully disbursed 1/        50.3   45.8
587       1975  Paraguay  Preinvestment Studies        -       4.0       0.2
1346       1976  Paraguay  Rural Education              8.0    -           .0
1418       1977  Paraguay  Rural Development II        22.0    -          9.4
1419       1977  Paraguay  Industrial Credit           10.0    -          0.7
1502       1977  Paraguay  Rural Water Supply           6.0    -          0.7
1529       1978  Paraguay  Highways V                  33.0    -          0.5
1674       1979  Paraguay  Livestock and
Agricultural
Development              25.0    -          5.5
1736       1979  Paraguay  Highways VI                 39.0    -         21.7
1780       1979  Paraguay  Preinvestment
Studies II                5.0    -          5.0
1866       1980  Paraguay  Industrial Credit
and Regional
Development              31.0    -         27.5
1979       1981  Paraguay  Livestock Development       20.0    -          3.4
1992       1981  Paraguay  Rural Primary Education   17.0    -           16.2
2014       1981  Paraguay  Second Rural Water
Supply and Sanitation   11.8    -          10.9
2087       1982  Paraguay  Caazapa Area Development  31.0                31.0
2140       1982  Paraguay  Seventh Highway             46.0    -         45.3
2141       1982  Paraguay  Eje Norte Rural
. Development              22.4    -         22.1
Total (net of cancellations)               377.5   49.8      200.1
of which has been repaid                  21.5    2.4
Total now outstanding                      356.0   47.4
Amount sold                    1.3
of which has been repaid    1.3            0.0
Total now held by Bank/IDA                 356.0   47.4
Total undisbursed                                            200.1
1/   Includes exchange adjustment.



- 27 -                ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments - April 30, 1983 1/
Year                                                        (Amount in US$ million)
Loan    Equity    Total
1974    FINAP, S.A.                  Wood Processing         4.4       1.0      5.4
1980    NOVOTEL (Encarnacion)        Hotel Development       0.9      0.3       1.2
1982    Golondrina S.A.              Agricultural
Development          5.0       2.0       7.0
Total gross commitments                            10.3       3.3      13.6
Cancellation, sales repayment
and terminations                                 (4.4)    (1.0)    (5.4)
Net held by IFC                                     5.9       2.3       8.2
Total undisbursed                                   4.6         -       4.6
I/   A US$2.5 million loan for a hotel operation in Asuncion was approved in
1982, but is not yet signed.



28 -                    ANNEX II
Page 3
C.   Status of Projects in Execution as of March 31, 1983 1/
Loan 1418-PA        Second Rural Development Project, US$22.0 million, May 18,
1977; (Date of Effectiveness: January 17, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983).
All project components except for all weather roads should
be completed during the second half of FY 1983. The road construction is
expected to be completed only in FY 1985 because of the delays in the signing
of contracts of the final four stages of the all weather roads. All the
subloan funds (about US$1.8 million) are expected to be committed and
disbursed in the 1982 agricultural year. The 1982 loan recovery rate was of
the order of 70% resulting partly from low product prices at the beginning of
the harvest. Project accounts have been audited and the report is being
finalized.
Loan 1419-PA   Industrial Credit Project, US$10.0 million, May 18, 1977:
(Date of Effectiveness: January 17, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983).
One of the main objectives of the project was BNF's financial
and institutional rehabilitation. Satisfactory progress has been made
toward meeting this objective, which was achieved in part due to a reduction
in operating costs, a higher financial spread, and a capital contribution of
G1.3 billion that the Government made under the Loan. BNF's debt recovery
efforts have been contributing lately in decreasing the portfolio arrears.
A UNDP-financed Bank-executed technical assistance program was instrumental
in accelerating institutional improvements. Regarding the financing of
industrial projects under the Loan, BNF has submitted to the Bank over 50
subprojects thus committing the bulk of the Loan.
Loan 1502-PA        Rural Water Supply Project, US$6.0 million, December 16,
1977; (Date of Effectiveness: July 13, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983).
About 90% of the works have already been executed; it is
estimated that the project will be completed by mid-year. Water systems in
20 out of 47 benefitted towns are already in operation. Minor works to be
financed mainly from community contributions remain to be done in the other
27 towns' systems. The Bank reviewed and found satisfactory the bidding
documents for equipment to be paid out of the remaining loan balance.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understand-
ing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in projct execution.



- 29 -                       Annex II
Page 4
Loan 1529-PA        Fifth Highway Project, US$33.0 million, March 17, 1978;
(Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983).
Civil works on the repaving of Route 1 (Paraguari-Encarnacion,
303 km), based on a revised pavement design, were completed in July 1981.
Construction works on the Coronel Oviedo-San Estanislao road are underway;
completion, however, is hampered by the lack of funds to finance the higher
foreign exchange requirements resulting from increases in construction cost.
The Government requested the Bank to amend the Seventh Highway Project in
order to finance the foreign exchange required to complete this road.
Loan 1674-PA        Livestock and Agricultural Development POroject, US$25.On
million, April 6, 1979; (Date of Effectiveness: November
20, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984).
Three of the components of this project have been completed. Fondo
Ganadero has disbursed all funds, the wholesale market has been completed and
is functioning, 3 zonal markets are being rehabilitated and 2 producers'
markets are being constructed. The Agricultural Census has been carried out
and data are being analyzed. In each of these components the technical
assistance programs financed with loan funds and UNDP funds are continuing.
The small farm component is behind schedule but a full complement of
extension and credit agents is in the field. Construction of feeder roads,
by force account, is proceeding as availability of funds allows.
Loan 1736-PA        Sixth Highway Project, US$39.0 million, July 13, 1979;
(Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985).
Construction works in the southern (about 78 km.) and northern
(about 100 km.) sections of Route 6 have been delayed because of bad
weather. As of November 30, 1982 progress of construction in the Southern
Section was 59% against 79% proposed in the original schedule and in the
northern section progress was 30% against 46%. Revised pavement designs and
construction schedules have been prepared. The execution of activities of
the Feeder Road Unit is being delayed because of a shortage of staff. The
Director General of Highways has promised to complete the Unit's staff as
soon as possible. OCPIT has completed the final version of the Transport
Sector Plan 1983-86. The Bank is presently reviewing these plans.
Loan 1780-PA        Second Preinvestment Studies Project, US$5.0 million,
December 19, 1979; (Date of Effectiveness: September 19,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984).
The key technical assistance advisors located in various sectoral
ministries and agencies, and in the new Financial Programming Division of the
Ministry of Finance, have been appointed, and are well advanced with their
work. The various projects approved by the Government for financing under
this Loan, are in an advanced stage of preparation.



- 30-                      Annex II
Pa-age 5
Loan 1866-PA        Industrial Credit and Regional Development Project,
US$31.0 million, June 26, 1980; (Date of Effectiveness:
June 1, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985).
Execution of the project has been slow. Commitment and disburse-
ment are behind schedule. There are now much better prospects that the Fondo
Especial de Desarrollo (FED) component will be implemented effectively. FED
expects to meet the corresponding conditions of disbursement within the next
1-2 months. BNF intends to increase the use of Bank resources during 1982.
BNF's institutional development process has advanced satisfactorily. While
the different components for its institutional development are'at different
implementation stages, there is a positive attitude and decision in BNF to
implement several changes and recommendations. To obtain this, BNF has
established a second-stage technical assistance program (building up on the
technical assistance hitherto provided under a UNDP Program) financed with
own funds. BNF also has advanced satisfactorily in improving its debt
collection efforts. Regarding the management training component, Servicio
Nacional de Promocion Profesional (SNPP) is initiating the corresponding
activities. The feasibility study for the industrial estate in Encarnacion,
a feature of the project's regional emphasis on the south-eastern area of the
country, is well underway.
Loan 1979-PA        Livestock Development Credit, US$30.0 million, June 11,
1981; (Date of Effectiveness: December 4, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985).
This loan was made effective on December 4, 1981. In 1982, the
loan was being committed at a faster rate than anticipated at the time of
appraisal; while a strong demand for credit was exhibited by all three
categories (large, medium and small-scale) of producers, the small-scale
Mennonite farmers accounted for the bulk of the increase in credit demand.
The project's extension component for small-scale producers is being
executed.
Loan 1992-PA       Rural Primary Education Project (IV), US$17.0 million,
July 16, 1981; (Date of Effectiveness: December 2, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986).
This loan was made effective on December 2, 1981. Project prepara-
tion is fully completed, including final designs of schools, equipment and
furniture lists, selection of consultants and counterpart staff. Bid
documents and local funds are available. A technical assistance package
contract with OAS has been approved by the Bank and experts are expected to
arrive this year.
Loan 2014-PA        Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project, US$11.8
million, July 16, 1981; (Date of Effectiveness: February
10, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1986).
This loan was made effective on February 10, 1982. Procurement
bids are being processed for nationals and equipment for water supply in
seven communities. A consultant under the technical assistance program has
been hired; hiring of a second consultant is underway. SENASA submitted to
the Bank a satisfactory working plan to improve its administrative and
financial operations.



- 31 -                       Annex II
Page 6
Loan 2087-PA        Caazapa area development project, US$31 million, February
25, 1982; (Date of Effectiveness: February 23, 1983;
Closing Date: June 30, 1988).
The loan became effective on February 23, 1983; implementation,
however, has not started because of lack of counterpart funds.
Loan 2140-PA        Seventh Highways Project, US$46.0 million, May 26, 1982;
(Date of Effectiveness: December 20, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1988).
The loan became effective on December 20, 1982; implementation,
however, has not started because of lack of counterpart funds.
Loan 2141-PA        Eje North Rural Development (2141-PA), US$22.4 million,
May 26, 1982; (Date of Effectiveness: February 23, 1983;
Closing Date: June 30, 1988).
The loan became effective on February 23, 1983; implementation,
however, has not started because of lack of counterpart funds.
March 31, 1983



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
PARAGUAY
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by the country to Prepare Project:  8 months
(b) Preparation by: Government and BNF assisted by Bank and FAO
cooperative program.
(c) First Presentation to the Bank: February 1982
(d) First Bank Mission: February 1982
(e) Appraisal Mission Departure: November 1982
(f)  Negotiations:  April 1983
(g) Planned Date of Effectiveness: November 1983
Section II - Special Bank Implementing Action
None
Section III - Special Conditions of the Bank Loan
(a) Assurances were obtained that:
(i)    no later than the end of June of each fiscal year BNF
would review with the Bank the progress of
implementation of the second DRP and TAP (paras 45 and
48);
(ii)   Annual financial requirements of BNF would be reviewed
by the Bank, Government, and BNF not later than
September 30 of each year (para 49);
(iii)   BNF would comply with the provisions described in
paragraph 50 with regard to the interest rates charged
on its loans;
(iv)    any subloan or subloans made to any individual
beneficiary would not exceed, in the aggregate,
US$150,000 equivalent (para 51);



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(v)    BNF's project accounts would be audited and the
accounts and report of the auditors would be sent to
the Bank no later than four months after each fiscal
year (para 56); and
(vi)   BNF would be responsible for project monitoring under a
system to be elaborated by BNF and presented for Bank
agreement no later than six months after loan
effectiveness, and for the preparation of the draft
completion report to be submitted to the Bank no later
than six months after project completion (para 57).
(c) Execution of a subsidiary agreement between the Government
and BNF, satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of
effectiveness (para. 40).



I



. ~  ~     ~      ~     I .~ --, 1,/1                                                        ,f
B  0    L I V    I A                        -                      ,,  \   '      _    /                '            T                         '                 ; 0
!~~                                                       ~       ~ N    /                                                      -     rt        .
BOLIVIA  *--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~            /                                                     6~~~~~~~  
.  /     - CMAYNP [API- AGePeld7R              !                \  ' /           6                                               A.A; E P    A , 
V  c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 
< -~ ~  ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 5x                                                                                               02      UIPBI=;EMLR r r  3oeE3 ' 
P      GU    A                                            5I Y
l   tp    .D   e:  .........  o            \ -  'Al 
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT~~~~~~~-                         DIT
PIAIN     ROADS ~     N                                                                                                                 0
j  \$     ,Kv:n-   sx .P                       .L.n                      A           .5 ,    B   P   A   Z                                 L 
<    .EL. n r PFNA  \}     .                                  5  0   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1', jL,p 7ul           t
-~ ~ K-01 \0}5G-A  G                                  X
t~~ ~                                -.     _      -_             __ -.A9 .X                          
~~                                                                                         ~ ~~~~~ 8 .                  n   8s - /_Svt
:  PARAGUAY '  I 's*; > U1>.W663- =A X
AGRICULTURAL  CREDIT  PROJECT                                                          2C4S1b , ;,r/f/ jl                             -SQ                j 
-Ad  NATIONAL DEVELOPMEI BT ANK ARREExED                                               "Vi>A&0                              (N   ;    Eo, nn
- SECONDARY ROADS                                                .g       Ned                X         d
DEPAHTMENT RDUSOARIDO5   k!*_ ~l
-. INTSRNAflOVAL BCUNDARIES                                       <. '                        1510(rbq' t-wGng 
RIVER~~~ A                                         I a- >H   
I              7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Ac                            -                                    Ilot./icrv.res   rJ   E t
og | Z CV.5



