Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21350-UG
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 37.3 MILLION
(US$ 47.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
FOR AN
HIV/AIDS CONTROL PROJECT
December 28, 2000
Human Development 1
Country Department 4
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 30, 2000)
Currency Unit = Ugandan Shilling
Shilling I = US$0.0005376
US$1 = 1860 Shillings
FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACP                  AIDS Control Program
CHAI                  Community-led HIV/AIDS Initiative
CBC                   Community Base Care
CBO                   Community Base Organization
CSO                  Civil Society Organization
FM1                   Financial Management Initiative
FMM                   Financial Management Manual
HIV/AIDS              Human Immunodeficiency Virus/Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
IAPSO                 Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of the UNDP
IDA                  International Development Association
IEC                   Information, Education and Communication
MACA                  Multi-Sector Approach to the Control of HIV/AIDS
MAP                   Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program for Africa
MOH                   Ministry of Health
NCPA                 National Committee for the Prevention of AIDS
NGO                   Non-governmental organization
PCT                   Project Coordination Team
POM                  Project Operational Manual
PEAP                  Poverty Eradication Action Plan
PLWHA                 People Living with HIV/AIDS
PMR                   Project Management Report
PRSC                  Poverty Reduction Support Credit
PSO                   Private Sector Organization
STD                   Sexually transmitted disease
STI                   Sexually transmitted infection
SWAP                  Sector wide approach
UAC                   Uganda AIDS Commission
UNAIDS                Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS
UNFPA                 United Nations Population Fund
UNICEF                United Nations International Children's Fund
USAID                 United States Agency for International Development
VCT                   Voluntary Counseling and Testing
WHO                   World Health Organizatioin
Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:   James W. Adams
Sector Manager/Director:    Dzingai B. Mutumbuka
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Alexandre V. Abrantes



UGANDA
HIV/AIIDS CONTROL PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                          2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  8
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      11
3. Benefits and target population                                                     11
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      12
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          16
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         17
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                           19
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   21
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        22
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           22
2. Financial                                                                          23
3. Technical                                                                          24
4. Institutional                                                                      24
5. Environmental                                                                      25
6. Social                                                                             26
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 27
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     27
2. Critical risks                                                                     28
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     30



G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            30
2. Other                                                                              30
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         31
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        31
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          32
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    35
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         46
Annex 4: Monitoring and Evaluation                                                       47
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               50
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       56
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     66
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   67
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 69
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            72
Annex 11: Uganda WrV/AIDS Brief                                                          74
MAP(S)
IBRD 25052R1



UGANDA
HIV/AIDS Control Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTHI
Date: December 28, 2000                          Team Leader: Alexandre V. Abrantes
Country Director: James W. Adams                 Sector Manager/Director: Dzingai B. Mutumbuka
Project ID: P072482                              Sector(s): HA - HIV/AIDS
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Health/Nutrition/Population; Poverty Reduction
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan    p[q Credit   [1  Grant     [ I Guarantee    [ 1 Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 47.50
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                              Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5%                                  Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan:    Source.Xe-                        Y ocal          - .  Foreign     ; JTota     -
BORROWER                                                       2.50           0.00          2.50
IDA                                                           26.50          21.00         47.50
Total:                                                        29.00          21.00         50.00
Borrower: THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
Responsible agency: GOVERNMENT AGENCIES
Address: Uganda AIDS Commission, Plot No 213 Sentema Rd, Mengo, P.O. Box 10779, Uganda
Contact Person: Dr. David N. Kihumuro Apuuli
Tel: +256 41 273 538               Fax: +256 41 258 173                Email: uacnadic@imul.com
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
wFtY       >202E i  K 00  3      2005  -W005           006
Annual    6.00       10.00      12.00      11.00     11.00
Cumulative    6.00      16.00      28.00      39.00     50.00
Project implementation period: 5 years
Expected effectiveness date: 04/18/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2006
OCS PAD F-.: Rw. h ,d., O



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project will support the goals of the Government of Uganda's National Strategic Framework for
HIV/AIDS which aims to:
a) reduce the spread of LlV infection;
b) mitigate the health and socio-economic impact of HIV/AIDS at individual, household and community
levels; and
c) strengthen the national capacity to respond to the epidemic.
The Strategic Framework proposes to attain these goals by financing a multi-sector response including all
line ministries, civil society, the private sector and communities.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The following constitute the summary indicators for outputs, process, and impact of the project. It may be
difficult to detect significant changes in impact indicators during the five years of project implementation
due to the nature of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, therefore, intermediate outcome measures are also included.
A more extensive list of indicators is included in the logical framework (see Annex 1).
A. Output Indicators
1. By 2006, 60 percent of secondary schools apply the secondary school curriculum that incorporates
HIV/AIDS information.
2. By 2006, increase from 13 to 100 percent the proportion of districts implementing TB DOTS.
3. By 2006, increase from 6 to 50 percent the proportion of hospitals providing prevention of mother to child
transmission services.
4. By 2006, increase from 0 to 50 percent the number of identified orphaned children (by sex) that are
receiving social support from the project.
5. Increase from 30 to 50 percent the proportion of people living with HIV/AIDS identified by district health
registers that are receiving some form of home or community based support.
6. By 2006, increase by 50 percent (from 80 million to 120 million) the number of condoms sold through
social marketing outlets or distributed in Uganda.
B. Process Indicators
7. By 2006, all relevant line ministries (13) have incorporated HIV/AIDS prevention or mitigation activities
in their regular work-plans and are implementing them.
-2 -



8 By 2006, increase from 0 to 45 the number of districts that are implementing integrated l1V/AIDS
work-plans.
9. By 2006, increase from 0 to 80 percent the proportion of district hospitals reporting no stock-outs of
essential drugs for managing sexually transmitted infections in the last 6 months.
10. By 2006, increase from 20 to 80 percent the proportion of districts that have IIV/AIDS voluntary
counseling and testing centers.
11. The amount of project funding disbursed under community-led HIV/AIDS initiatives (CHAIs) will
account for at least 25 percent of all project funds disbursed in the previous 12 months.
C. Impact Indicators
12. By 2006, reduce from 49 to under 40 percent the proportion of 15-19 year old boys and girls that are
sexually active.
13. By 2006, reduce from 14 to 10 percent the proportion of sexually active people reporting non-regular
sexual partners.
14. By 2006, reduce from 15 to 5 percent the rate of reported sexually transmitted (urethritis) infections in
men aged 15-49 in the last 12 months.
15. By 2006, reduce by 30 percent the drop-out rate of orphaned children in primary school.
16. By 2006, increase from 30 to 50 percent the proportion of men/women aged 15-49 who report using a
condom in their last act of sexual intercourse with a non-regular partner.
17. By 2006, reduce I-UV prevalence from 9 to below 6 percent among women attending prenatal care
services.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA/R200-187            Date of latest CAS discussion: November 16, 2000
The latest Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Uganda was issued on October 24, 2000. The focus of
the CAS is on:
a) increasing the ability of the poor to raise their incomes;
b) improving the quality of life of the poor;
c) enabling the environment for economic growth and structural transformation, and
d) ensuring good govemance and security.
-3-



To improve the quality of life of the poor, the Bank will focus on improving access to basic services such
as health care, clean water and quality primary education through its lending and non-lending services.
Bank support will include:
a) Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit to improve the delivery of education, health and sanitation services
and support cross-cutting reforms in public sector management;
b) HIV/AIDS Control Project to support Uganda's effort in combating the epidemic;
c) International Finance Corporation investments in social sectors, supporting private initiatives in health
and education;
d) Sector studies in the education, health and water sectors; and
e) World Bank Institute Workshops on population, reproductive health and health sector reform; on
gender, health and poverty reduction; and on World Links for development.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
2.1 Main sector issues. Uganda was one of the first countries to be affected by IRV/AIDS and remains
one of the worst affected countries. Since the onset of the epidemic, about 2.2 million people have been
infected, 800,000 have died, and over 1.1 million children have been orphaned. Currently, AIDS is
responsible for 12 percent of annual deaths, surpassing malaria and other conditions as the leading cause of
death among the population aged 15-49. The epidemic has forced women, elderly, children and youths into
heading households; has forced children and youths out of school and into early labor; and has devastated
the numbers of professionals in key sectors such as education and health.
The HIV/AIDS epidemic affects women more than men in Uganda. HIV infection rate among girls aged
15-19 is three to six times more than that of boys; and among people aged 20-24, the rate for women is
twice as high as among men. In addition to the greater risk of being H1V infected, women are also more
likely to bear the burden of caring for the sick and orphans.
Since the epidemic mainly affects the productive age group, socioeconomic consequences have devastated
every aspect and segment of national development. This has imposed an unsustainable and mounting
burden on households, communities and the society as a whole.
Uganda stands out as one of the few countries in Africa that has made progress in reversing the spread of
the epidemic. Currently, the level of awareness is over 90% in the general population, and demand for
preventive services has increased, with over 50,000 voluntary counseling and testing (VCT) sessions
conducted and 60 million condoms distributed annually. The median age at first sexual contact has
increased by two years among youths aged 15-24, 16.6 for girls and 17.4 for boys. There has been an
overall decline in the FLV sero-prevalence rates from 18.5% in the early 1990s to 8% in 1999. The relative
success of Uganda in controlling the spread BIV has been attributed to:
a) a lower proportion of 15-19 old males ever having sex;
b) a higher proportion of 15-19 old males having sex within marriage only; and
c) substantially lower numbers of non-regular sexual partners for all ages, particularly for the non-married.
-4 -



The relative success has also been attributed to better social communication strategies, which make more
use of open personal communication networks, leading to enhanced social capital and cohesion.
Despite Uganda's success, HIV prevalence still remains unacceptably high at 8% in the adult population,
and the extent of behavioral change is still limited compared to the level of awareness. In the absence of a
cure or preventive vaccine, a further change in sexual behavior remains the most important approach
toward preventing WV infection. A "social vaccine" including reinforcement of existing social information,
education and communication strategies, with a focus on open personal networks and social cohesion,
needs further refinement and new ones must be developed. The present services for VCT, sexually
transmitted disease (STD) treatment, and provision of condoms remains largely in urban areas, leaving
rural areas under-served. Experiences in Uganda have shown that where more actors were involved in
HIV/AIDS activities, the results are better. Although 12 line ministries are already implementing
HIV/AIDS control activities, the activities need to be strengthened and expanded to under-served areas.
The challenge thus is in building capacity in all sectors and institutions to respond to the epidemic in a
coordinated manner. In addition, orphans and households thrown into poverty due to HIV/AIDS need care
and social support.
2.2 Government strategy. Uganda's response has been characterized by a broad partnership involving
government, non-governmental organizations, religious groups, communities, people living with HIV/AIDS
(PLWHA), and local and international donors. This was underpinned by openness, commitment and strong
leadership from the highest level of government in addressing the epidemic. As a first step, the government
established the National Committee for the Prevention of AIDS in 1985 and, in October 1986, set up the
AIDS Control Program in the Ministry of Health to spearhead the national response.
With the realization that HIV/AIDS had ramifications beyond the health sector, the government adopted a
multi-sector approach to the control of HIV/AIDS in 1992 and established the Uganda AIDS Commission
(UAC) by Act of Parliament. The key mandate of UAC is to coordinate national policy formulation,
provide oversight functions and carry out advocacy with regard to HIV/AIDS. Further, efforts were
undertaken by the government to mobilize and unify the response to the epidemic at national, district and
community levels. These efforts included: development of a National Operational Plan (1993-1997),
establishment of 12 AIDS Control Programs in line ministries, establishment of District AIDS
Coordination Committees, and strengthening of collaboration and partnership at all levels, but especially
with the non-government sector.
The government has continued refining and improving the multi-sector approach in order to mainstream
HIV/AIDS control activities within the various line ministries and organizations based on their mandates.
In the Poverty Eradication Action Plan, reduction of WV prevalence is identified as a key priority; and all
line ministries, districts and organizations are expected to mainstream HIV/AIDS activities. The Ministry
of Health has mainstreamed AIDS control activities into its sector wide program, to be financed from
different sources via direct budget support. The current National Strategic Framework 2000/1-2005/6
builds upon the previous AIDS programs, uses existing institutions and implementation arrangements, and
places the HIV/AIDS in the broader context of social and economic development. The National Strategic
Framework 2000/1-2005/6 calls for a greater emphasis on community implementation, improved
integration and cross-sector collaboration, encouraging wider stakeholder participation and more effective
interventions.
The following are the main areas to be addressed in the WV/AIDS National Strategic Framework, to:
- 5 -



a) Consolidate the prevention of transmission of HIV and sexually transmitted infections;
b) Promote integration of HV/AIDS interventions into sexual and reproductive health;
c) Mitigate the impact of 1IV/AIDS on people affected and infected;
d) Address the economic, social and cultural impact of HI-V/AIDS; and
e) Strengthen national capacity at all levels to respond to the epidemic with increased
emphasis on the community.
The Government of Uganda has requested access to IDA resources within the framework of the first phase
of the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program (MAP) for the Africa Region approved by the Board of
Directors of the World Bank Group on September 12, 2000. Uganda is eligible for MAP funding in that it
has satisfied the four MAP eligibility criteria:
a)    Satisfactory evidence of a strategic approach to HIVIAIDS. Uganda already has a coherent
national, multisectoral strategy and action plan for HIV/AIDS prevention, care and treatment that has been
developed through a participatory approach;
b)    A high level HIV/AIDS coordinating body. Uganda has created the Uganda AIDS Commission,
which is directly under the Office of the President, with broad representation of key stakeholders from all
sectors, including people living with HIV/AIDS, to oversee and coordinate the implementation of the
National Strategic Framework;
c)    Government agreement to use appropriate implementation arrangenents. Government has
agreed to accelerate project implementation by channeling funds directly to civil society organizations and
to communities that would be coordinated at the district level. In addition, Government has agreed to
contract out important implementation mechanisms, in particular in the areas of financial management,
procurement and monitoring and evaluation; and
d)    Government agreenent to use andfund multiple implementation agencies. Government has
agreed within the public sector to expand HIV/AIDS activities to a broad range of ministries, departments
and parastatals, as well as to fund activities undertaken by the private sector, the civil society organizations
including non-government and community-based organizations, and AIDS service providers. Government
has agreed to further expand HIV/AIDS activities to community level and to support community-led
HIV/AIDS initiatives.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
3.1 Sector Issues. The project addresses four key issues:
a) the need to scale up activities and coverage;
b) the need to further mainstream the war on HIV/AIDS into all sectors in the government and into civil
society;
c) the need to focus on what has worked, i.e. strengthen social capital by empowering communities in
- 6 -



fighting against the epidemic, and favoring open interpersonal communication networks; and
d) the need to strengthen coping mechanisms including offering a safety net for orphans and for female,
child and elderly headed households, due to deaths of husband, parents or guardians.
This project will address the need to scale up activities by extending activities to all districts, by further
engaging other line ministries beyond the Ministry of Health, by empowering communities to take the fight
against H[V/AIDS into their own hands, and by enhancing civil society participation including,
non-governmental organizations, churches, farmers associations, unions, student associations, and private
enterprises.
The project will mainstream HIV/AIDS activities, by supporting line ministries and districts to plan and
implement their H1V/AIDS action plans, and by encouraging civil society to take the matter into its own
responsibility.
The project will focus and improve what has worked best in the past, i.e. will reinforce social capital and
cohesion, by empowering communities through support to Community-led HIV/AIDS Initiatives. These
will cover health promotion, the establishment of open interpersonal communication networks, home-based
care, social and spiritual support to HIV/AIDS- affected families and by bringing traditional birth
attendants and traditional practitioners into playing a greater role in the fight against HIV/AIDS.
The project will offer impoverished orphans and female-, child- and elderly-headed households an economic
safety net in the form of targeted orphan support, i.e. it will provide material and other forms of support
including cash grants to families impoverished by AIDS to keep orphans in school and to reduce child
labor, using existing organizational mechanisms.
Tlhe implementation of the multisectoral strategy has met challenges. Notably, the implementation of a
strong coordination mechanism has not been as successful as desired both at the center and in districts.
The key challenges were with establishment of clear linkages between the line ministries and the Uganda
AIDS Commission, in the development of HV/AIDS sector specific strategies for mainstreaming
HlV/AIDS control to the other line ministries and the establishment of adequate coordination in the context
of a very decentralized government system. The project will support such capacity building effort.
3.2 Strategic choices. The main strategic choices faced in project design were as follows:
a) a choice between a single standing sector investment credit versus program financing via budget support
under the Poverty Reduction Support Credit; and
b) a choice between a specific project to be financed by the Bank versus support to the overall Uganda
IV/AIDS Programn, by expanding ongoing activities and fnancing activities which are not yet covered by
the existing program or by other bilateral or multilateral development agencies.
The project is structured as a free-standing sector investment credit, under the second phase of the
Multi-country HWV/AIDS Program for Africa because:
a) what is needed is a "war-like" effort, a scale up of activities which are well beyond "business as usual"
or small incremental efforts;
b) it would otherwise be difficult to mainstream IWV/AIDS activities into national and district agencies,
- 7-



into civil society, the private sector and communities; and
c) such effort needs close monitoring and ongoing evaluation to check progress and identify problems in a
timely fashion.
A free-standing operation is the instrument of choice for such a scenario. Budgetary support through a
broad poverty reduction support program and a sector wide approach will finance the traditional
HIV/AIDS control activities in the Ministry of Health.
The project will support the Uganda HIV/AIDS Program, scaling it up and covering some of the activities
that have not yet funded from other sources, as opposed to a Bank-specific HIV control project, a project
which would be parallel to the regular AIDS control program. The reasons for this choice are that:
a) the Ugandan Government has shown in the past the commitment and the capacity to run a successful
program, indicated by a 50 percent reduction of HIV prevalence over the last ten years; and
b) the proposed Uganda National Strategic Framework for HIV/AIDS Activities 2001/2006 is well
justified and planned.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
This project, under the regional Multi-Country AIDS Program for Africa, will finance a US$50 million
share of Uganda's National Strategic Framework for HIV/AIDS Activities 2000/1-2005/6.
The project will scale up the existing HIV/AIDS Control Program by mainstreaming program activities
into line ministries and other non-health government agencies at national and district levels, and by making
better use of the capacity of community-led and civil society organizations, including churches, farmers'
associations, trade unions and private businesses.
The project will support FHV control activities coordinated by the Uganda AIDS Commission and directly
carried out by line ministries, by districts and by community-led organizations, or contracted out to civil
society organizations or to the private sector, including:
a) Health promotion and prevention to reduce the rate of HIV transmission;
b) Diagnosis, treatment, care and support to mitigate the impacts of HIV/AIDS; and
c) Research, surveillance, monitoring, evaluation and program management to strengthen the national
capacity to respond to the epidemic.
1.1 Project Component 1: Nationally Coordinated Initiatives (US$25 million, 50 percent of total project
costs)
Under this component, the project will support HIV/AIDS control activities coordinated by the Uganda
AIDS Commission and directly carried out by different line ministries or central governent agencies, or
contracted out to civil society organizations or the private sector. At appraisal, IDA agreed with the
government on the specific actions plans for the first year of project implementation, to scale up and
- 8 -



mainstream HIV/AIDS activities at the:
a)     Uganda AIDS Commission;
b)     Ministry of Health;
c)     Ministry of Education and Sports;
d)     Ministry of Gender, Labor and Social Development;
e)     Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries;
f)     Ministry of Works, Housing and Communications;
g)     Ministry of Defense;
h)     Ministry of Internal Affairs;
i)     Ministry of Local Government;
j)     Ministry of Public Service;
k)     Ministry of Justice; and
1)     Other ministries.
Other Ministries will be assisted to draft the respective HIV/AIDS action plans during the first year of
project implementation. Each line ministry's work plan will include HIV/AIDS prevention and mitigation
activities for its staff as well as for the public that it directly serves.
Many of these activities will be contracted at national level but will be directly benefit districts and
communities. For example, diagnostic kits and pharmaceuticals will be financed under this component but
will mostly benefit district based health services.
1.2 Project Component 2: District Initiatives (US$ 10 million or 20 percent of total project costs)
Under this component, the project will support activities which are directly carried out by district
authorities, or are contracted out to civil society organizations or to the private sector, including activities
to:
a) Raise awareness of district leadership, teachers, school management teams and community leaders;
b) Train and support district- and community-based staff and leaders, including teachers, home-care
givers and counselors, traditional healers and traditional birth attendants, and rural extension workers;
c) Provide HIV/AIDS related health promotion and prevention services at all district hospitals and clinics;
d) Provide HIV/AIDS related diagnosis, treatment and care at referral district hospitals;
-9-



e) Promote community-led and civil society-led HIV/AIDS initiatives and manage the respective selection,
contracting, financing and supervision; and
f) Provide HV/AIDS related information, education and communication and condom distribution to the
district work force.
Many of the activities financed under this component will directly support activities carried out at
community level, i.e. advocacy, training, promotion of community-led HIV/AIDS Initiatives.
1.3 Project Component 3: Community-led HIV/AIDS Initiatives - CHAIs (US$ 10 million, 20 percent of
total project costs)
Under this component, the project will support community-led HIV/AIDS control activities directly carried
out, or contracted out, by community-based organizations, such as:
a)    Targeted support to orphans, guardians of poor orphans and AIDS stricken impoverished
households, including those headed by females, children and elderly due to death of spouse, parent or
guardian, conditional to families keeping school aged children at school, for a minimum amount of time. In
addition, pre-school and out-of-school orphans will be supported to attend day care centers and vocational
training;
b)    Community-based information, education and communication; and
c)    Home-based care.
The project operational manual includes a full menu of eligible sub-projects, a list of sub-projects and
activities which Af Ill not be financed under the project, as well as a description of how to get technical
assistance to develop a sub-project, how to apply for a grant, how sub-projects will be selected and
approved, how funds will be transferred, and how a sample of sub- projects will be supervised audited and
evaluated.
1.4 Unallocated
The project has $5 million IDA credit unallocated, which will be allocated to District Initiatives or
Community Initiatives based on progress review and project needs.
1.5 Estimated Project Costs
Total project costs are estimated at US$50 million, including US$21 million in foreign costs and US$29
million in local cost equivalent. The project will be funded by a US$47.5 million IDA Credit and by
US$2.5 million from the Government in cash (in addition, the Govemment will cover taxes and duties
associated with imports related to the project). (See Annex 3, Estimated Project Cost Summary.)
- 10 -



s~~~~~~~~~~~~~:    B  --
Nationally Coordinated Activities                    25.00       50.0    24.00       50.5
District Activities                                  10.00      20.0       9.00      18.9
Community-Led                                        10.00      20.0       9.50      20.0
HIV/AIDS Activities
Unallocated                                           5.00       10.0      5.00      10.5
Total Project Costs                  50.00      100.0    47.50      100.0
Total Financing Required                   50.00     100.0     47.50      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
This project is a multi-sector operation that is not intended to address long-term sector and institutional
reforms within any one sector, or to include conditions linked to macroeconomic or sector policies.
However the project will strengthen the following key policy and institutional changes:
a)    Making the National HIV/AIDS Program truly multi-sectoral by mainstreaming HIV/AIDS control
into the action plan of every Government agency and by strengthening capacity of the Uganda AIDS
Commission for national coordination; and
b)    Ensuring the National HIV/AIDS Program is truly participatory by encouraging private sector
participation in HIV/AIDS control and empowering communities to be key players in the HIV/AIDS
control program.
3. Benefits and target population:
3.1 Benefits. The project will provide the following benefits to Uganda:
a)    Reduced number of new HIV/AIDS cases, by reducing the rate of transmission of W1V through:
i.    changing WRV-related behaviors;
ii.   irnproving accessibility to condoms;
iii.   reducing the rate of sexually transmitted diseases; and
iv.   reducing the number of WIV infections transmitted from mother to child;
b)    Extended productive life of people living with AIDS by:
i.    improving the prevention and treatment of opportunistic infections; and
ii.    providing nutritional supplements for people living with HIV/AIDS;
c)    Improved economic prospects of orphans and poor HIV-stricken families with school aged children
by providing the respective households cash transfers on the condition that children attend school;
- 1 1 -



d)    Improved diagnosis, treatment and care for people living with HIV/AIDS by:
i.    expanding voluntary counseling and testing to every district;
ii.    disseminating standard protocols, and training both professional and traditional health care
providers on the clinical management of sexually transmitted infections and opportunistic infections, and of
HIV; and
iii.   improving planning, procurement and distribution of essential diagnostic kits and
pharmaceuticals; and
e)    Improved ability of communities, households and individuals to prevent or cope with the impact of
HIV/AIDS, through comnmunity-led HIV/AIDS initiatives.
3.2 Target population. The project is designed to target:
a) Groups that are known to be particularly vulnerable to HIV infection such as young people (in
particular teenage girls), pregnant women, long distance truck drivers, road and power construction
workers, traders, fishermen, the military, and the prison population;
b) Groups which engage in high risk HIV-related behaviors, such as commercial sex workers and their
clients, men who have sex with men and intra-venous drug users;
c) Key sectors such as agriculture, industries, road construction, power and energy, and
d) Impoverished orphans and HIV-striken households, with a focus on those headed by women, elderly
and youths.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
4.1 Institutional arrangements. The Uganda AIDS Commission (UAC) and its Secretariat, which is
under the Office of the President, will coordinate the overall National HEV/AIDS program and project
activities. The UAC Director General will be the Project Director, to whom a Project Coordinator will
report. The Project Coordinator will lead a Project Coordination Team (PCT), which will be contracted to
support additional work generated by project-related management, monitoring and evaluation.
A Project Steering Committee, to be chaired by the Permanent Secretary of the Office of the President will
be established as an advisory board and include representatives from key sectors and institutions, as well as
representatives from key civil society organizations, including those which represent people living with
HIV/AIDS. The Project Coordinator will be the Secretary of the Project Steering Committee.
A Technical Resource Network, which is composed of technical staff from different sectors, line ministries
and other agencies, and a Stakeholders Network, which is composed of representatives of civil society
organizations as well as other multilateral and bilateral agencies, have been established. These Networks
will support the Uganda AIDS Commission to mobilize line ministries, districts and communities for
HIV/AIDS initiatives and to review technical aspects of annual sector HIV/AIDS plans and evaluation
reports.
- 12 -



Line ministries will implement their respective HIV/AIDS plans and report regularly to the UAC on agreed
input and output indicators. The day to day implementation will be carried out within the existing structure
rather than creating a new structure.
Districts will be at the forefront of project implementation. District HIV/AIDS work plans will reflect
various sector activities to be implemented at the district level. Line ministries will provide the relevant
guidelines, coordination, training, monitoring and evaluation, and resource mobilization in line with existing
working arrangements with the districts. A formal contract with agreed input and output indicators will
guide the relationships between districts and the PCT. Each district will establish a District WIV/AIDS
Committee, composed of heads of department, municipal and town councils, and relevant civil society
organizations.
Communities will organize themselves, present their proposals to the respective district or the Project
Coordination Team, and will execute Community-led W[V/AIDS Initiatives. Communities may want to
contract assistance from civil society organizations to prepare, and implement their sub-projects.
Community-led initiatives will be funded separately from district workplans. Communities will contribute
in kind to sub-project financing, their contribution amounting to at least five percent of total sub-project
costs.
Civil Society Organizations -- CSOs (including, non-governmental organizations, Religious Organizations,
farmers' associations, unions, student associations and private enterprises) and Private Sector
Organizations -- PSOs, will be contracted to implement project activities. District budgets will include
funds earnarked by the project for CSO and PSO based sub-projects. The UAC and the Stakeholder
Network will organize a process to pre-qualify bonafide HV/AIDS civil society organizations.
The project will coordinate with other IDA funded projects and with other WV/AIDS related projects
financed by other bilateral and multilateral organizations. At national level, coordination will be achieved
through the Stakeholder Network and the Enlarged UNAIDS Thematic Group. At district level,
coordination will be achieved through the District WIV/AIDS Committee.
4.2 Project implementation. The project will finance a series of HIV/AIDS plans presented by line
ministries and districts, as well as a large number of Community-led HIV/AIDS Initiatives. Planned
activities for the first year of project implementation were integrated into an annual Project Implementation
Plan (PIP). At Appraisal, the Bank reviewed and was satisfied with the draft first year PIP.
The project will be implemented in an incremental manner, starting with those ministries and districts which
already have WIV/AIDS workplans. Project coverage will be scaled up and expanded to more sectors, as
the project assists ministries and districts in strengthening their implementing capacity.
Line ministries and districts will present annually WHV/AIDS plans for the following fiscal year. The
UAC/PCT will coordinate these plans and, when needed, will provide assistance to improve programs and
eliminate duplications.
In each district, a lead civil society organization will promote CHAIs on behalf of the project. Community
beneficiaries, i.e. rural or urban community residents, and community-based organizations -- CBO will be
eligible to present community-led WHV/AIDS initiatives. CBOs may contract an Implementing Partner to
assist communities in subproject preparation and processing, and counseling in implementation. The cost
of such assistance will be reimbursable, up to a maximum of 10 percent of total sub-project costs. There
will be a list of "standard sub-projects" for which review, approval and financing will be streamlined and
- 13-



almost automatic, and a list of activities which will not be financed under the component. Communities
may present non standard subproject proposals. If one particular type of non-standard proposal is
frequently submitted, it will become part of the standard list.
Civil Society Organizations and Private Sector Organizations may present 1HV/AIDS Initiatives to the
UAC/PCT, to the relevant line ministries or the District Project Coordinators. If relevant, they will be
incorporated into the respective workplans and budgets.
The Project Operational Manual (POM) describes in detail the project's institutional and implementation
arrangements. At appraisal, IDA reviewed and was satisfied with the project's draft POM. Annex 2
describes project's institutional and implementation arrangements in more detail.
4.3 Project monitoring, supervision and evaluation. Project monitoring and evaluation will be based on
a broad range of measures, including impact indicators and more intermediate process and output measures
to capture project performance in the more immediate term.
Project impact will be measured employing data from the H[V sentinel surveillance, baseline and end-line
population-based surveys on knowledge, attitudes, practices and behavior and service utilization, and
special studies commissioned to assess impact in specific areas not easily addressed by population- based
surveys. Monitoring of the project will employ project-based data, beneficiary inputs, and program
reviews.
The UAC/PCT will monitor overall project implementation, assessing the performance of project
implementation as well as the effectiveness and efficiency of implementation at sub-county, district and
national levels. Line Ministries will monitor their own activities at the central level and provide the UAC
SecretariatlPCT information on a minimal number of variables on a quarterly basis. Line ministries will
also monitor district implementation within their respective sector mandates. Civil society organizations
and community based organizations activities will be monitored based on their contracts and separate
analyses will be conducted to assess the performance of these entities as well.
The UAC/PCT will supervise overall project implementation and meet regularly with the Project Steering
Committee to discuss progress under each implementing agency. Staff from the line ministries and project
coordination team will make regular visits to the field to monitor the performance of districts and civil
society organizations. District Technical Planning Committees, representing each sector and incorporating
community-based and civil society organization representation, will supervise project activities at district
and sub-county and community levels.
The UAC/PCT will organize annual project reviews, a mid-term program review and the project
completion review to assess the performance of the project, its components and its contribution to the
national effort to reduce the spread and impact of HIV/AIDS. Project reviews will be carried out jointly by
the UAC/PCT and an independent team of experts under previously defined terms of reference. Project
reviews will culminate in stakeholder meetings that will form a basis for re-planning for the next two years.
- 14 -



The UAC/PCT and IDA will organize a joint project launch workshop within one month after project
effectiveness. One of the main purposes of the workshop is to make further progress on project monitoring
and reporting requirements. During the project mid-term review, various indicators will be used to assess
project performance and needs for fund reallocation.
The POM and Annex 4 of this report describe the project's monitoring, institutional and implementation
arrangements in detail
4.4 Procurement Procedures. The UAC, line ministries and districts will procure works, goods and
services in relation to the respective activities, in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines: Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September
1997, and January 1999), in particular Section 3.15, Community Participation in Procurement. Consulting
services by firms, organizations, or individuals financed by IDA will be contracted in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997,
revised in September 1997 and January 1999).
The Government will contract one or more procurement agents to carry out the procurement of large items
packages, such as condoms, diagnostic kits and pharmaceuticals for the diagnosis and clinical management
of HIV/AIDS, sexually transmitted infections and opportunistic infections, including tuberculosis. The
implementing agencies will ensure adequate procurement capacity is established as per the government
procurement reforms to carry out procurement within the respective agencies.
Communities will use the Bank's simplified Procurement and Disbursement Procedures for
Community-Based Investments to procure goods or services needed to implement their respective
Community-led H[V/AIDS Initiatives. Since each CHAI will cost less than US$30,000, "local shopping"
will be a standard procurement method.
To facilitate speedy import of items valued at less than US$100,000 equivalent required urgently for
diagnosis/treatment and institutional strengthening, contracts may be made based on international shopping
and national shopping procedures, respectively, or through procurement from the United Nations.
Given the urgency of the project, a wide-ranging General Procurement Notice for the first year of
operations will be placed on the United Nations Development Business web site without a need for
hard-copy publication. The Borrower will prepare a procurement plan for the first year of project
operations to be included in the POM, and subsequently annual procurement plans.
Procurement performance (including sub-project procurement activities) will be assessed on an annual
basis (in the form of procurementlphysical audits by an external agency). In addition to the formal annual
audits, ad-hoc procurement reviews will be conducted periodically.
The POM and Annex 6 of this report describe the project's procurement and disbursement arrangements in
detail.
4.5 Financial Management and Disbursement. The project will have a viable financial management and
accounting system, including a comprehensive Manual of Financial Procedures, Chart of Accounts and
fully integrated project financial and accounting system, using appropriate accounting software. The PCT
will include a financial manager and controller and will put in place an appropriate financial and
- 15 -



accounting system for the project. Similar institutional strengthening measures will be taken with regard to
capacity in line ministries and districts where such intervention is needed. Capacity building in financial
management in communities will be supported through the collaborating civil society organizations and
community based organizations.
A Special Account (SA) will be opened and maintained in a reputable commercial bank. A Project
Account will be opened in local currency in the same commercial bank. Sub-project accounts will be
opened for different implementing agencies. After approval of annual plans and budgets the PCT will
facilitate the transfer of funds to the various implementing agencies.
Disbursements of the project proceeds will initially assume the traditional disbursement mechanisms for
IDA assisted projects. However, the project will be expected to convert to Project Management
Report-based disbursements mechanism under the Financial Management Initiative framework in a period
not exceeding 18 months. The project will mainly use Statement of Expenditures (SOE) through the SA to
access Credit funds, while direct payments and Special Commitments will be used for bulk procurement of
goods and services.
All disbursements against expenditures for contracts with the civil society organizations and the private
sector will be made against SOEs and be subject to random ex-post financial, physical, and technical
review by IDA missions and be audited by financial and technical consultants employed by the Uganda
AIDS Commission. All procurement contracts not subject to IDA prior review will be disbursed against
SOEs, and documentation will be retained by the PCT and made available for review by IDA and the
project auditor. In the case of Community-led H1V/AIDS Initiatives, there will be pre-financing of
expenditures, as communities are unlikely to start contracting without the assurance of funds. All
disbursements against expenditures under the CHAIs will be subject to ex post review by IDA missions
and the project auditor, on a sample basis.
The project will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. Each implementing agency will
submit quarterly financial reports to UAC. The PCT will consolidate all the project financial reports
submitted by the implementing agencies and prepare the project financial statements for auditing purposes.
Audited project financial statements and report thereon, inclusive of an auditor's opinion on the use of
statement of expenditures will be submitted to IDA within six months following the end of the financial
year.
At appraisal IDA reviewed and was satisfied with financial management arrangements and the Financial
Management Action Plan. The Project Operational Manual and Annexes 5 and 6 of this report describe the
projects financial management and disbursement arrangements in detail including a detailed assessment of
the fnancial management and internal control systems.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
This project is a Sector Investment Loan under the second phase of IDA's Multi-Country HIV/AIDS
Program (MAP) for the Africa Region and is directly in accordance with the Bank's regional HlV/AIDS
strategy, Intensi.fying Action against HIYVAIDS in Africa: Responding to a Development Crisis. The
overall MAP design is a horizontal APL. Sector investment operations for individual countries and a
"vertical" APL for Africa, in combination with the "horizontal" APL proposed, were two alternatives
considered and rejected (see MAP project appraisal document for details).
- 16 -



Section B. 3. -- Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices, above, describes the
reasons why the option of funding the Uganda H1V/AIDS Program through broad support to the national
budget under the Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit was rejected.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
2.1 Related project financed by IDA. IDA has supported two projects which are directly related to the
HIV/AIDS Control Project: the Sexually Transmitted Infections Project (Cr.2603), and the District Health
Services Project (Cr. 2679).
In addition, IDA is preparing a direct budget support operation, the Poverty Reduction Support Credit
(PRSC), which will provide budgetary support to some HIV/AIDS related activities is related to this
operation.
Sexually Transmitted Infection Project (STIP . The proposed HIIV/AIDS control project will follow up and
scale up activities under the STIP project. It will strengthen the multi-sectoral approach dealing with HIV,
and it will empower communities by financing community-led HlV/AIDS initiatives. The STI Project
($50m), began in 1995 and is due to close December 31, 2001. It supports the National AIDS Control
Program, including IEC activities, surveillance and care and support. It developed syndromic management
protocols for STI treatment and financed STI and tuberculosis drugs. Its performance is presently rated as
satisfactory.
District Health Services Pilot and Demonstration Project (DHSP . The proposed HIV/AIDS Control
Project will take advantage of the capacity built at district level to implement integrated, multi-sectoral,
district WV/AIDS action plans, and to promote and assist community-led HIV/AIDS initiatives. The
DHSP project ($45m), began in 1995 and is due to close on December 31, 2002. It supports the
development, financing, planning and management of district health services in a decentralized government
system. It has also supported the restructuring of the public health system and the Ministry of Health
including the development of health sector reform, civil service reform, manpower development at all
levels, and important studies such as the burden of disease study. Its performance is presently rated as
satisfactory.
Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC). The proposed HIV/AIDS Control Project will provide
additional resources to what will be funded through the PRSC and will be used to scale up the war against
WHV/AIDS. The PRSC ($225 million), currently under preparation, will provide direct budgetary support
to the country with an emphasis on assisting priority sectors, one of which is the health sector, and cross
cutting areas such as procurement, human resource and financial management. The fund is allocated by
the Ministry of Finance using its normal budget processes. The Ministry of Health received an additional
$3.3 million in this FY. The PRSC is to become the main mode of IDA support to Uganda and its
contribution to the health sector, according to the Midium-term Expenditure Framework, is expected to
grow substantially in coming years to over US$ 10 million annually. A part of the PRSC shall support the
procurement of some large item packages, such as condoms and pharmaceuticals. In order to harmonize
the PRSC with the HWV/AIDS Control Project, the Government of Uganda has agreed that the Uganda
HIWV/AIDS Control Project will support the procurement of condoms, HIV and syphilis diagnosis kits,
drugs for the prevention and treatment of opportunistic and sexually transmitted infections, including
tuberculosis (TB), and for the prevention of mother to child transmission, on a declining basis. Funding for
these large contracts would progressively be taken up by the regular PRSC/budget support financing
- 17 -



system.
2.2 Projectsfunded by other development agencies. The project also complements HIV/AIDS projects
financed by other multi- and bilateral development agencies. The total amount of grant funds provided by
these agencies is estimated at about US$16 - 17 million per year. These projects implement different
HIV/AIDS control activities in a limited number of districts, often using civil society organizations as an
executing agency. The Danish international development agency -- DANIDA supports different civil
society-led and Rakai District-based HIV/AIDS control activities, in the area of health promotion and
prevention of mother to child transmission, costing about US$500,000 per year. Ireland AID also supports
H[V/AIDS control activities costing about US$500,000 per year, focused in three districts (Kibaale,
Kiboga and Kumi), but is considering extending its support to some nationally coordinated activities as
well. The Swedish international development agency -- SIDA supports a number of civil society-led
HIV/AIDS control initiatives, costing about US$1,000,000 million per year. UNFPA is considering to
finance HIV/AIDS control activities costing about US$275,000 per year, as integral parts of its
reproductive health, population and development strategy and advocacy activities. US Government
Agencies (US Agency for International Development -- USAID, Center for Disease Control -- CDC, and
Department of Defense are very active in supporting different HIV/AIDS activities in Uganda. Activities
have focused mostly in voluntary counseling and testing, and on medical care and support to people living
with HIV/AIDS, partnering with two major Ugandan civil society organizations: the AIDS Information
Center, and The AIDS Support Organization. Center for Disease Control is supporting HIV related
monitoring and evaluation activities, while Department of Defense is actively preparing HIV vaccine trials,
mainly in Rakai district. Total US Government contributions in 2000 are around US$14 million, but the
US Government is considering an increase in funding to assist the Government of Uganda in scaling up
HIV/AIDS control activities. Department for International Development UK (DFID) is also supporting a
number of district based HIV control activities, in collaboration with civil society organizations, but at the
time of appraisal it was not possible to quantify the magnitude of its investment. The European Union is
also considering supporting Uganda's WV/AIDS Control program, but the magnitude and timing of such
support is yet to be defined.
The Uganda AIDS Commission will lead the coordination of the inputs provided by different bilateral and
multilateral development organizations, through regular meetings of the Stakeholder Network and of the
enlarged Uganda/UNAIDS Thematic Group. When relevant, there will be joint supervision and review
missions, bringing together IDA staff with those of the bilateral and multilateral agencies involved in AIDS
control. When this is not the case, the Bank mission will debrief the relevant bilateral and multilateral
agencies on the results of the mission. These collaboration processes will contribute to sharing of learned
lessons and contribute to continuing improvement of project design and implementation.
- 18-



Latest Supervkion
Sector Issue                      Proect                    (PSR) Ratings
._____________________________  I ____.____. _________. ___   (Bank-financed   pro  only ) 
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                    Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Re-established a collapsed health  First Health Project               S             S
system, focused on rehabilitation,  (Cr. 1934-UG) _ closed
policy reform and institutional
strengthening;
HIV/AIDS: prevention of sexual     Sexually Transmitted Infections    S             S
transmission of HIV; mitigation of the  Project
personal impact of AIDS; and       (Cr. 2603-UG)
institutional development.
Policy development; piloting delivery of District Health Services Pilot  S          S
essential package of health services;   and Demonstration Project
rehabilitation of facilities; and  (Cr. 2679-UG)
institutional development.
Nutrition and early childhood      Early Childhood Level              S             S
development at community level     Development Project
(Cr. 3052-UG)
Poverty reduction and improving living Poverty Reduction Support
standards                          Credit (under preparation)
Other development agencies
EU                                 Safe blood supply.
UNDP                               AIDS commission, inter sector
and community led initiatives.
WHO                                Safe blood supply.
UNFPA                              Regional and district based
projects.
UNICEF                             Idem. Focus on orphans
DFID                               District based projects
DANIDA                             District based projects
GTZ                                District based projects
USAID                              District based projects
NORAD                              In Preparation
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The Government of Uganda has 15 years of experience in undertaking H1V/AIDS control efforts and has
had the best success story in Africa, as it halved the incidence of HIV/AIDS over a period of ten years.
The Bank has been a major supporter to the Government in the fight against HIV/AIDS. In addition, the
Bank is the largest source of international financial and technical assistance to IV/AIDS programs in the
world, financing HIV/AIDS programs in Africa, Latin America, Central and Eastern Europe, South and
East Asia. Lessons learned from both national and global experiences with HIV/AIDS epidemic have been
incorporated in project design, as follows:
- 19 -



a)    The major lessons from the Uganda AIDS control "success story" concern the importance of:
i.    Political commitment, government openness and strong leadership particularly from the
Office of the President and Ministry of Health in addressing HIV/AIDS are critical;
ii.    Sexual behavior that reduces the number of sexual partners is key: i.e. lowering the
proportion of 15-19 year olds ever having sex; higher proportion of 15-19 year olds having sex within
marriage only; lower numbers of non-regular partnerships;
iii.    Open personal communication networks for acquiring knowledge about AIDS and having
direct knowledge about people living with H1V/AIDS are key to changing behaviors, to reinforcing social
cohesion and social capital; and
iv.   Increased use of condoms is important but cannot explain why Uganda has been more
successful than Kenya, Malawi and Zambia in reducing the spread of the epidemic.
The project will focus on strengthening social cohesion and social capital, by empowering communities to
fight against AIDS, through support to a number of community-led initiatives. Open interpersonal
communication networks will be fostered in order to maintain and reinforce behavior change, i.e. delaying
the age of sexual debut, and reducing the number of sexual partners. Strong, continuous and well targeted
information, education and communication campaigns have been instrumental in changing knowledge,
attitudes and behavior mainly among the young, vulnerable and high risk groups. The project would
finance continuing efforts in this area.
b)    Prevention of mother to child WHV transmission and chemo-prophylaxis of opportunistic infections
may reduce the incidence of the disease and delay the progression from I-V infection to clinical AIDS.
The project will scale up the existing pilots of mother to child transmission and support pilots to prevent
opportunistic infections, under guidance from UNAIDS and WHO;
c)    Community participation in planning and implementation, and the inclusion of non-government
organizations, such as community-led organizations and civil society organizations (including churches,
farmers' associations, trade unions, student associations, and private businesses) could increase coverage of
WHV/AIDS-related activities, widen the scope of services to be provided and increase sustainability of the
program. The project will finance community-led and civil society organization-led WV/AIDS prevention
and mitigation subprojects and will establish a ongoing discussion forum with civil society organizations to
clarify the nature and requirements of a stronger partnership between government and civil society;
d)    The design of a multi-sectoral program requires gaining consensus among key actors early in
project design, while mainstreaming of HIV/AIDS into non-health sectors and implementation of
H1V/AIDS in a decentralized environment, requires substantial capacity building. The project will carry
out a series of multi-sectoral workshops on overall project objectives and design and will have a component
to support HWV/AIDS prevention and mitigation subprojects in different line ministries, as well as
community-based.subprojects, and will invest substantial resources in building the necessary capacity in
non-health sector government agencies and communities;
e)    Planning, procurement, distribution and availability of essential inputs, such as condoms,
diagnostic kits, pharmaceuticals and other medical supplies have to be adequate to allow information,
education and communication to have impact. It would be unfortunate to encourage people to use
-20 -



condoms, or to come forward for voluntary counseling and testing, only to find that there are no condoms
available, or that the VCT center has run out of tests. The project will contract out to a procurement agent
with proven expertise in the procurement and distribution of such essential inputs;
f)    An adequate HIV/AIDS surveillance system is essential for effective monitoring and evaluation of
the impact of HIV/AIDS interventions. The project will include a component to support improved program
monitoring, evaluation and management, including strengthening of the HIV/AIDS surveillance system.
Care has to be taken not to take "good" news on the incidence or prevalence of the disease as an excuse to
relax the effort to control HIV/AIDS. The media has to be well educated into interpreting epidemiological
data correctly. The project will invest in improving the relationships between the Uganda AIDS
Commission and the media;
g)    Many civil society organizations do not have adequate project and financial management skills and
systems. The project will finance training and assistance for civil society organizations working for
HIV/AIDS control in the area of project and financial management; and
h)    Political support from the highest level in the country, especially the Presidents own lead in the
fight against HIV/AIDS, is very important but needs to be accompanied by the same level of leadership and
commitment at the district level given the important role of political and administrative leadership of the
districts under decentralization. The project will support to build linkages between national leadership and
local implementation agencies.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government presented a satisfactory National Strategic Framework for HIV/AIDS Activities Uganda,
2001-2006. The strategy is coherent, multi-sectoral, and includes a specific action plan covering
prevention, treatment and care for those infected and affected by HIV/AIDS. Strategy formulation and the
preparation of program implementation have involved significant stakeholders and social assessment
techniques.
The Government has had a National Committee for the Prevention of AIDS since 1985 and has had an
AIDS Control Program in the Ministry of Health to spearhead the national response since 1986. In 1988
Uganda recognized that HIV/AIDS had ramifications beyond the health sector, and this led to the adoption
in 1992 of a multi-sectoral approach to the control of HIV/AIDS and the establishment of the Uganda
AIDS Commission under the Office of President for national coordination of HIV/AIDS related activities.
The country's Poverty Eradication Action Plan (PEAP) has put the reduction of HIV prevalence as one of
its high national priority.
The AIDS Control Program already executes some of its activities through multi-sectoral government
agencies and through community-led and civil society organizations. Different approaches will be further
integrated at district level into district-based HIV/AIDS programs and community-led HIV/AIDS
initiatives. Participatory consultations with civil society, the regions, donors, and community
representatives were held to seek guidance, build up ownership, and encourage local initiatives. At
pre-appraisal, the UAC organized a log-frame workshop, involving key members of its Technical Resource
Network, to gain consensus around the project concept document, project design and implementation
arrangements. It also organized a town hall meeting, involving its Stakeholder Network, to gain consensus
around the mission aide memoire and next steps which were needed to complete project preparation, as well
as organized a seminar for members of Parliament, to raise awareness about the upcoming Credit and
facilitate the respective legislative approval process. In addition the project operational manual and the
-21 -



project implementation plan was prepared with extensive stakeholder collaboration, during a series of
multi-sectoral workshops.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
IDA is in a unique strategic position to support the Government of Uganda HIV/AIDS program including
the mobilization of external resources. The project will bring Uganda:
a)    Knowledge and lessons learned from international experiences in AIDS programs;
b)    IDA's international experience in the implementation social funds and in targeted cash transfers
will also add value in the implementation of community led HIV/AIDS initiatives in general and in the
implementation of targeted support for orphans; and
c)    A substantial injection of resources and technical assistance from the international community.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
1. I Economic (see MAP Annex 5). The detailed economic analysis on HIV/AIDS has
been carried out under the MAP, which includes an overall assessment on the impact of
HIV/AIDS on economic development and poverty and a cost-benefit analysis of
HIV/AIDS interventions. The data used in the analysis included the Uganda HIV/AIDS
information. This section only highlights some key points for the Uganda HIV/AIDS
Control Project.
The HlV/AIDS epidemic in Africa has gone beyond health and has become a serious socioeconomic
development issue. HIV/AIDS affects an economy through (a) reducing productivity, domestic savings and
economic growth, and (b) increasing costs of treatment and care for both affected households and the
society as a whole. Uganda is one of the severely-affected countries. Despite recent progress made in
controlling HIV infection, about 8 percent of Uganda's adult population is HIV positive. About 800,000
have already died from AIDS and left over 1.4 million orphans. It is estimated that Uganda loses 1 percent
point of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) every year directly from HIV/AIDS. AIDS strikes people in their
most productive age, reducing both the size and growth of the nation's labor force.
Care and treatrnent for AIDS impose enormous costs on households and the society at large. Households
with AIDS patients are likely to lose the income of their members (often the main breadwinner) in addition
to facing an increase in medical expenses. Some households are forced to withdraw their children from
schools in order to save money as one of their coping strategies. One survey in Kampala found that about
47 percent of households with orphans did not have enough money to send their children to school. One
study in Rikai district showed that households spent up to a third of their annual income on medical care in
one month or on one funeral.
-22 -



The economic benefits of the proposed AIDS control project are multifold (See C.3. above). First, since
this project aims to scale up interventions in HIV/AIDS control and mitigation, the majority of Ugandans
will directly and indirectly benefit from increased access to H1V/AIDS prevention, treatment, care and
mitigation activities. Secondly, new HIV infections will be reduced, due to an expansion in coverage of the
package of HIV/AIDS prevention activities supported by the project. Thirdly, people living with
HIV/AIDS can lead a longer and more productive life by benefiting from better management of
opportunistic infections and access to nutritional supplements; and therefore, less loss in productivity and
income and reduced costs for treatment and care. Fourthly, orphans will have improved economic prospects
with increased schooling.
As the data analysis showed in Annex 5 of the MAP, a reduction in AIDS-related death rate would likely
increase the growth rate of GDP. The targeted interventions will benefit vulnerable groups such as teenage
girls and pregnant women by imnproving access to VCT, treatment and care. The cash transfer program will
keep orphans from poor families fed and in school, therefore improving human capital in the long term.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
(Not applicable)
Fiscal Impact:
The fiscal impact of the project is likely to be small. Some US$10 million are estimated to be disbursed
annually, representing less than 1.5% of the total Government budget in FYOO/0 1. Counterpart funds are
not expected to be unduly heavy. Most of the counterpart fund requirement applies to civil works and
operational expenses. Civil works in this project will be restricted to the renovation of existing health
centers and reference laboratories and thus limit the anticipated requirement for recurrent cost support. The
project will cover some of the incremental operating expenses (estimated to be 12% of total project costs),
on a declining annual basis. The actual fiscal impact is even less since much of the project will be directly
channeled to CSOs and PSOs and communities which are required to generate their own counterpart
contributions equivalent to 5% of the cost of their proposals. Nevertheless, the government is expected to
assume responsibility for the maintenance of project investmnents with the closure of the project. In the past,
Uganda has faced difficulties in meeting counterpart fund and recurrent cost requirements of its health
programs. To prevent this problem, an annual review will be carried out to assess the adequacy and
availability of operating and maintenance costs before the beginning of each year's budget planning cycle.
Incidence offiscal expenditures:
Ex-ante, the project is designed to be targeted to the poor. However, ex-post analysis of previous health
projects in Uganda indicates that the benefits of public health interventions are often captured
disproportionately by better-off rather than poor households. For instance, the analysis done by Gwatkin, et
al (May 2000) using 1995 Demographic and Health Survey data show high concentration ratios (i.e., high
inequality of access) for such health services as use of contraception, birth delivery by trained health staff,
and antenatal care by doctors. Knowledge of HIV/AIDS, however, is generally more equitably spread.
These conclusions argue for better targeting of project resources, especially for government-funded public
health interventions. This could be achieved under the project through reduction of the physical distance to
a health facility (for every additional 1 km. of distance to a facility, use of health services drops by 1%
(Hutchinson, et al: 1999); a more intensive information and communication campaign to inform the
populace of the availability of health services; commnunity involvement in determining their own health
needs; and improving the quality of care, which appear to be the single most important determinant of the
-23 -



poor's decision to utilize health services.
3. Technical:
The project will finance health manpower training and supplies for the use of standard clinical management
protocols developed by government and as recommended by UNAIDS or WHO. Such standards will be
used in voluntary testing and counseling, in prevention of mother to child transmission, in prevention of
opportunistic infections, and in the clinical management of sexually transmitted diseases and opportunistic
infections.
The project will finance communities to support orphan's education and social welfare, using targeted
conditional transfer programs, which have been shown in several Latin America (Brazil, Mexico, Hondur
as, Nicaragua, and Ecuador) and in Sub Sahara Africa (Tanzania) to be successful in:
a)    targeting the poor,
b)    increasing school attendance and reducing school drop-outs, and
c)    protecting the structurally poor during economic crisis (i.e. providing them with an assured source
of income which smoothes income shocks), encouraging human capital investments, and preparing the next
generation for facing future shocks.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The experience of the different implementing agencies is diverse. The Uganda AIDS Commission has been
active for several years, but has little project implementation experience. The capacity of coordinating
HIV/AIDS activities nationwide is still very limited. The project will finance on a declining basis the
strengthening of its capacity, and will support a project coordination team for the duration of the project.
The project coordination team will include several consultants who have good IDA-related project
implementation experiences (i.e. in procuremnent and financial management), acquired in other IDA funded
projects, such as the Sexually Transmitted Infections, and the District Health Services Pilot Project.
Among line ministries, the Ministry of Health which has the largest HIV/AIDS action plan, has good
experiences in implementing IDA-funded projects. Other line ministries, such as Education and Sports,
Gender, Labor and Social Development, have HIV/AIDS action plans, but little experience in
mainstreaming HIV issues in their operations. The Uganda AIDS Commission and the project will make
sure that they will proceed step by step, with realistic targets and will support them as necessary.
Districts will be key to the success of this operation, as they will implement a large part of the project and
will integrate multi-sectoral efforts into cohesive district action plans. Of all sub-Saharan countries,
Uganda is the country which has been most successful in decentralizing government to the district level,
and many districts already have experience in the implementation of IDA and other donor funded projects.
Other districts have limited capacity and will have to be assisted. UNAIDS and UNICEF are presently
financing a District Response Initiative to strengthen the capacity of districts to handle the challenges of
HIV/AIDS pandemic. The project will complement and scale up such efforts, as required.
Communities in Uganda have a long and strong tradition of community organizations and community-led
-24 -



initiatives. The Government of Uganda, however, does not have an ongoing social development fund,
through which the project could support Community-led HIV/AIDS Initiatives (CHAIs). The project will
therefore opt for using district government structures, or civil society organizations, and very simple
procedures to channel funds to CHAIs.
Civil society organizations (CSOs) in general, and HIV-related CSOs in particular, are quite strong in
Uganda, both at national and district level. Some of them are strong umbrella national organizations, such
as TASO, the AIDS Information Center, and the churches, -- while other are smaller and district based
CSOs. In both cases, most have experience with IDA or other bilateral or multilateral development agency
funded projects. They will be key in the implementation of many project sub-components and activities.
4.2 Project management:
The Uganda AIDS Commission, under the Office of the President, is well placed for coordinating the
National HIV/AIDS program and the project, and for providing a multi-sectoral perspective. The project
will assist the UAC in recruiting its core technical staff and, in addition, will contract a project coordination
team, to cope with the additional requirements generated by project management. Each line ministry and
district will manage the implementation of its own 1RV/AID plans and ensure its ownership. The
FIV/AIDS Technical Resource Network and the Stakeholder Network, will assist the UAC in mobilizing
and coordinating the different implementing agencies.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The project will contract a procurement agent, on a competitive basis, to procure large contracts. In
addition, the UAC project coordination team will include procurement specialists at national and district
levels.
4.4 Financial management issues:
TIhe financial management capacity in UAC requires strengthening. The project will take various measures
to strengthen institutional capacity of UAC including recruiting a financial management specialist for the
Project Coordinating Team and develop an adequate computerized financial management information
system. In the interim, the project will put in place the financial management system that has already been
implemented under the IDA supported Sexually Transmitted Infections Project. A Financial Management
Action Plan will be implemented to allow the project to convert to Program Management Report-based
disbursement.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project is not expected to generate any adverse environmental effects. Possible environmental risks
include inappropriate handling and disposal hazardous medical waste and inadequate management of the
respective disposal sites in urban or peri-urban areas, where domestic and medical waste may be mixed and
where scavenging is a livelihood.
The project will finance training of health care professionals, of traditional birth attendants and traditional
healers, and of community workers delivering care to HIV/AIDS patients. This training will include
instruction on appropriate separation, transport and disposal of hazardous medical waste. The project will
finance the revision of existing health sector guidelines on appropriate management of hazardous medical
waste at medical facilities and at disposal sites to include the relevant dispositions regarding HIV/AIDS.
- 25 -



5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
NA
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: NA
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
NA
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
NA
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the projects social
development outcomes.
The project is expected to have a positive social impact by assisting and empowering people and
institutions to deal more effectively with the HIV/AIDS epidemic.
People living with HIV/AIDS and their families face continued violations of their economic and human
rights. The project will assist preparing the legislative initiatives that would make it more difficult for such
violations to continue, and will finance advocacy, information, education and communication activities to
raise awareness and acceptance of the human and economic rights of people living with HIV/AIDS.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The Uganda AIDS Control Project was developed on the basis of the Uganda HIV/AIDS Strategic Plan
and following a process of consultation with key government, non-government, and international
stakeholders, and groups of people living with HIV/AIDS.
During project preparation, the Uganda AIDS Commission convened several consensus-building exercises
to involve in major stakeholders, including a log frame workshop to gain consensus around the project
concept document, project design and implementation arrangements and a town hall meeting, involving its
Stakeholder Network, to gain consensus around the mission aide memoire and next steps which were
needed to complete project preparation. It also organized a seminar for members of parliament, to raise
awareness about the upcoming Credit and facilitate the respective legislative approval process.
The Uganda AIDS Commission, which will coordinate project implementation, is supported by a Technical
Resource Network including representatives from relevant line ministries and districts, and by a
Stakeholder Network which includes civil society organizations, people living with HI-V/AIDS and bilateral
and multilateral development agencies. In addition the project will support an ongoing series of
participatory processes in which project achievements and shortcomings will be shared with key
stakeholders and technical specialists. This process will contribute to raising awareness, and to building
consensus around project design and implementation.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
- 26 -



Civil society organizations have been consulted during project preparation and appraisal and will execute a
significant part of the project, supporting government agencies and community-led initiatives. Civil society
organizations will also be consulted in annual project reviews, in the mid-term and the end of project
evaluation.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The Uganda AIDS Commission integrates representatives from different Government agencies, from civil
society and from people living with AIDS and is supported by a Stakeholder Network which will assist in
mobilizing different sectors in society.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Gender specific and orphan specific indicators have been included among the project performance
indicators (See section A.2. and Annex 1.)
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
ROlP A b
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     C Yes *No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  O Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                             0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              O Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)         0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The project complies with all Bank's safeguard policies, including those described above.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project is expected to be sustainable institutionally in the medium term because it is built upon the
strong government ownership and supports the ongoing and already strong Uganda National HIV/AIDS
Program. The project will scale up the existing program by mainstreaming activities into all government
sectors, civil society, and communities. The project emphasizes institutional capacity building at national
and local level which would further enhance the sustainability of the project and its local sub-projects.
As far as its financial sustainability, it is unlikely that the Government will be able to fully finance the
program in the medium-term. But it is realistic to expect that bilateral and multilateral development
agencies will continue to finance the program beyond the period of project implementation.
-27 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
_MOk                   Risk Rftfng            Risk MitiatiOn Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Central and Regional Government, sector   M         UAC, with all partners will continue to create
ministries and community leaders may not            demand and commitment at all levels, including
honor their commitment to participatory             the participatory development of comprehensive
development and to the creation of an               national HIV/AIDS strategies and action plans.
enabling environment for local responses
to HIV/AIDS.                                        The decentralized and participatory
implementation will help sustain the political
commitment.
Denial due to cultural, religious and other  M      This will be addressed by developing and
reasons may limit the capacity of the               implementing sub-programs and sub-projects in
country to scale up action.                         a fully transparent and participatory manner.
All these processes will include civil society and
in particular people living with 1HV/AIDS.
From Components to Outputs
Some regions and districts may lack the    S        The processes and documentation required for
capacity and resources needed to design,            sub-programs and subprojects will be simplified
coordinate, and evaluate their respective           and standardized.
components of the comprehensive
programs.
Decentralized implementation entities and  S        Program design will emphasize capacity
communities may lack the capacity to                building through training of executing entities
propose and mange their sub-programs                and technical support at all levels.
and sub-projects.
Allocation of small grants will permit
generalized learning by doing. Performance
based replenishment weeds out implementing
entities whose capacities are not improving.
Simple procurement and disbursement
procedures for community-based investments
will be used for a large part of the program.
- 28 -



Slow disbursement of project operations:     S         Where necessary, outsourcing of fund
* Due to limited financial management               management and financial reporting procedures
capacity                                               and control will be agreed upon. And the
* Due to inadequate procurement                     necessary contracts initiated prior to IDA credit
procedures and capacities                              effectiveness. Procurement of large ticket items
* Due to delays in appraisal and                     will be procured and distributed by extemal
approval of sub-programs and                           procurement agents.
sub-projects.
Appraisal and approval of intermediate and
small sub-programs and sub-projects will be
decentralized to regional and local coordinating
committees.
Poor inter-sector collaboration at national,  M        Strengthen institutional capacity of UAC and
regional and local levels.                             establishment of HV/AIDS coordinating bodies
and committees at local level will improve
coordination.
The highly decentralized implementation      M         Some mechanisms will be built into the project
mechanisms will result in unmanageable                 design:
fiduciary problems, including misuse of                (a) Accountability to end users via participation
funds.                                                 in project design and implementation, and via
transparency rules;
(b) Contracting out of financial management,
where necessary;
(c) A random financial technical and process
audit of all small executing entities, and
mandatory publication of all audit results,
complemented by audits triggered by beneficiary
complaints;
(d) Financial audits of all large scale executing
entities; and
(e) Integrated reports from executing entities
which link performance to financial report.
Overall Risk Rating                          M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
The overall project risk is estimated to be moderate because there is good Government and civil society
ownership, the existing HIV/AIDS program is relatively strong, and because the project implementation
team, under the Uganda AIDS Commission, benefits from the experience of staff who successfully
managed the Sexually Transmitted Infection Project.
- 29-



There is however a substantial risk that the project will not be able to scale up all operations right from the
start because some line ministries and a number of districts have insufficient experience with multi-sectoral
initiatives and limited experience in HIV/AIDS control. In addition, the project will have to set up a new
system to channel funds to community-led initiatives, given that Uganda does not yet have an established
social fund system. Under normal project preparation circumstances, these risks would have been reduced
by intense project preparation inputs, but given the urgency to respond to the HIV/AIDS epidemic, the
project was prepared in a very short time without the level of technical support, which would usually
accompany project preparation and appraisal.
To minimize the risk and ensure the success implementation of this project, IDA will have to:
a)     provide adequate resources for supervision which is above the standard supervision coefficients;
b)     conduct supervisions with the team consisting of specialists from multisectors and specialists in
key areas such as financial management, procurement and monitoring and evaluation; and
c)     collaborate closely with internal and external partners and stakeholders.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
3.1 ExternaL The project is not expected to spark major external controversy.
3.2 Internal. Outsourcing of key functions such as procurement of key inputs may be controversial as it
may be perceived as coming at the expense of capacity building. As the availability and timeliness of key
inputs are essential for the success of the operation, outsourcing may be the only way to ensure speed in
procurement and distribution, and adequate accountability.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
a)     The Borrower has adopted the Project Implementation Plan and Project Operations Manual
satisfactory to IDA;
b)     The Borrower has appointed a project implementation team coordinator, a financial manager and
financial controller, a monitoring and evaluation specialist, and a procurement specialist, all satisfactory to
IDA; and
c)    The Borrower has established an accounting and financial system satisfactory to IDA.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
None
- 30 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
D2 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
Z 1. b) Not applicable.
D 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
C1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
C 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
At appraisal IDA reviewed and was satisfied with:
a) draft Project Implementation Plan, including the first year work plan for
participating sectors;
b)  draft Project Operations Manual;
c)  draft procurement documents for the first year's activities; and
d)  a Financial Management Action Plan.
i. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
II 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Alexandre '(. Abrantes       ji7 Dzingai B. Mutumbuka              JmeR W. Adams
Team Leader                  l   Sector Manager                    t     ry Director
Shiyan Chao
Co-team Leader
- 31 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
UGANDA: HIV/AIDS Control Project
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To increase the quality of life  Life expectancy will begin to                  The supported programs will
of the poor by imnproving their increase.                                      enable the mobilization of
access to basic services such                                                  sufficient financial and human
as health care, including                                                      resources to support
increased access to HIV                                                        multi-sector and sustainable
related diagnosis, treatment or                                                national responses to the
care.                                                                          HIV/AIDS epidemic.
To mitigate the impact of
HIV/AIDS epidemic in
Uganda.
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Reduce the spread of HIV  By 2006, reduce from 49% to  KAPB Survey conducted every Multi-sectoral activities
infection                 under 40% the proportion of  2 years, DHS Survey     financed will lead to
15-19 year old boys and girls  conducted in 2000 (and likely attitudinal and behavior
that are sexually active (by    in 2006).            change regarding prevention
sex).                                                and care.
By 2006, increase from 30%/O  Idem.                  Availability and willingness of
to 50% the number of                                 local NGOs and CBOs to
men/women aged 15-49 who                             implement the
reported using a condom in                           community-level initiatives.
their last act of sexual
intercourse with a non-regular
partner.
By 2006, reduce from IS% to  Idem.                   Motivated public and private
5% the reported sexually                             sectors implementing
transmitted (urethritis)                             HIV/AIDS activities.
infections in men aged 15-49
in the last 12 months.
By 2006, reduce HIV       Sentinel Surveillance System  Interest and commitment from
prevalence from 8.5 to below                         beneficiaries and local
6 percent among women of                             governments.
childbearing age as measured
in women attending prenatal
care services.
Mitigate the health and   Reduce by 30% the drop out  Special Studies of subset of   The rate of orphanhood does
socio-economic impact of    rate of orphaned children in  districts.           not outpace the rate of
HIV/AIDS at individual,   primary school.                                       providing assistance to
household and community                                                         orphans.
levels
Increase from 30% to 50% the Special Studies of subset of   PLWA are not afraid of
proportion of PLWHA       districts.                 providing their name and
identified by District health                        home address when attending
registers that are receiving                         health services for treatment.
some form of home or
community based support.
- 32 -



Strengthen the capacity of    By 2006, increase from 0 to 45 Project Data      All districts are aware of the
communities, civil society and the number of districts                         urgency to take action
government to respond to the  implementing integrated                          multisectorally.
epidemic                  HIV/AIDS work-plans.
Output from each          Output Indicator:          Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1) National Initiatives  By 2006, all relevant (13) line Project Data          There is no resistance to
ministries will have                                 addressing HIV/AIDS in all
incorporated HIV/AIDS                                sectors.
prevention and impact
mitigation activities in their
annual work plans and are
implementing them.
By 2006, applied in 60% of   Project Data            There are sufficient staff to
secondary schools the                                provide the necessary training.
secondary school curriculum
that incorporates HIV/AIDS.
By 2006, increase by 50%  Project Data               There are no obstacles to
(from 80 to 120 million) the                         procuring a sufficient supply
number of condoms sold                               of condoms.
through social marketing
outlets or distributed in
Uganda.
2)District Initiatives    By 2006, increase from 20%   Project Data-MOH        All sub-counties have the
to 80% the counties that have                        necessary capacity to provide
voluntary counseling and                            the services.
testing centers.
By 2006, increase from 13%   Project Data-MOH        The necessary drugs are
to 100% the number of                                available.
districts implementing TB
DOTS.
By 2006, increase from 0% to Project Data-MOH        Improved capacity of District
80% the proportion of district                       health services.
hospitals reporting no
stock-outs of essential drugs
for managing sexually
transmitted infections in the
last 6 months.
By 2006, train 60 percent of  Project data-Ministry of  There is no resistance among
agriculture and fishery   Agriculture                ministry staff to discuss the
extension workers on                                 subject.
HIV/AIDS.
By 2006, increase from 6% to Project Data--MOH       Staff are adequately trained
30% the proportion of                                and provide mothers with
hospitals providing prevention                       adequate breastfeeding
of mother to child                                   alternatives.
transmission services.
3) Community -led Initiatives By 2006, 509/o of the identified Project data    District and sub-county
HIV/AIDS orphaned children                           governments effectively
(by sex) , receiving support                         manage local welfare
from the project.                                    programs for orphans.
- 33 -



By 2006, increase by 40% the Project data            PLAs come break the silence
number of associations of                            and organize to support each
people living with HIV/AIDS                          other.
that are generating
subprojects.
By 2006, increase by 80% the Project data            Civil society and the
number of community led                              community are aware of the
initiatives targeting                               importance of targeting youth.
adolescents.
The amount of project funding Project data           Sufficient community
disbursed under CHAI will                            response will be obtained.
account for at least 25% of
funds disbursed in the
previous 12 months.
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:         (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
1) National Initiatives   US$ 25.0 million          Project data
2) District Initiatives   US$ 10.0 million           Project data
3) Community -led Initiatives US$ 10.0 million       Project data
4) Unallocated            US$ 5.0 million            Project data
- 34 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
UGANDA: HIVIAIDS Control Project
The project will finance a US$50 million share of Uganda National Strategic Framework for HIV/AIDS
Activities 2000/01-2005/6. The project aims to improve a) access to 1HV/AIDS prevention, care and
treatment programs; b) the quality and efficiency of care provided to V/AIDS patients, and c) the
country's capacity to cope with the epidemic.
The project will scale up activities by mainstreaming program activities into line ministries and non-health
government agencies at national and district levels, and by making better use of the capacity of community-
led and civil society organizations, including churches, farmers' associations, trade unions and private
businesses.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$25.00 million
NATIONALLY COORDINATED INITIATIVES
Under this component, the project will support HIV- control activities coordinated by the Uganda AIDS
Commission, which will be directly carried out by different line ministries and other national government
agencies, or contracted out to civil society organizations or to the private sector, including:
a)    Uganda AIDS Commission/Project Coordination Team
i.    Strengthen the capacity of the Uganda AIDS Commission (UAC). This would include
enhancing UAC's capacity to provide national leadership on HIV/AIDS, especially its role to guide a
coordinated National strategy, to overcome social and cultural barriers to I-V/AIDS, and to mobilize
sector ministries, religious and cultural organizations, people living with HIV/AIDS, women's groups,
youth groups, the private sector, and other key stakeholders. The project will finance UAC's annual
meeting and the periodical meetings of national HIV/AIDS-related committees;
ii.    Promote legal initiatives concerning the legal, ethical and human rights issues related
to HIIVIAIDS. Such initiatives will include measures to promote the integration of people living with AIDS
in schools, to reduce their discrimination in the workplace, to facilitate their access to care, and to ensure
the confidentiality of medical information;
iii.    Coordinate project support to HIV-related research and knowledge management.
Research sub-projects which will be selected on a competitive basis. A HIV/AIDS Research Committee
will assist UAC in managing calls for proposals. Proposals to be financed by the project will be cleared by
the relevant line ministry and the Uganda National Council for Science and Technology. The project's
operational manual describes the relevant implementation arrangements;
iv.    Coordinate capacity buildingfor line ministries and districts in the integration of
HIV/AIDS sections into their respective Poverty Reduction Strategy Programs, and in the design,
management and implementation of HIV/AIDS programs at different levels. The UAC/PCT will
coordinate/package the relevant technical assistance for those districts with less capacity for responding to
the epidemic, bringing together expertise from its Technical Resource Network, including the relevant line
- 35-



ministries; and
v.    Monitor and evaluate different program components. The UAC/PCT and the Project
Steering Committee will review the results every six months and share the information to the society at
large
b)     Ministry of Health
.      Contract mass media campaigns, in collaboration with UAC and other relevant partners,
to enhance further the awareness and understanding of the means of transmission and prevention of
HlV/AIDS and sexually transmitted infections, and to promote the use of condoms;
ii.    Expand voluntary HIV counseling and testing -- VCT, to at least 80 percent of districts.
The Ministry of Health, will provide the relevant technical guidelines, will collaborate with district
authorities in training all staff involved, including those of civil society organizations, and provide the
necessary equipment and supplies. Through campaigns, increase the demand for voluntary counseling and
testing services;
iii.   Improve national HIVIAIDS reference centers, including reference laboratories, day care
centers, ambulatory care network and sexually transmitted infection testing and counseling centers;
iv.    Review and disseminate natonwide clinical protocols for the management of HIV
(including the use of anti retroviral drugs), of sexually transmitted and opportunistic infections, including
tuberculosis, and for home care support, and carry out the relevant training for district-based trainers of
health sector staff;
v.    Improve blood supply safety and quality control and guarantee the availability of the
relevant diagnostic kits (HIV, hepatitis and syphilis) in the entire blood transfusion network;
vi.   Improve the procurement, stock management and distribution of essential supplies,
such as gloves, disposable materials, laboratory reagents, male and female condoms, HV-related
diagnostic kits and pharmaceuticals for management of sexually transmitted infections, opportunistic
infections, including tuberculosis, prevention of mother to child transmission, and prophylaxis of
opportunistic infections, both in the public and private markets;
vii.    Inprove safe handling of laboratory and medical materials and waste. The Ministry
of Health will develop an bio-safety program for at least 80 percent of health care facilities, revise the
relevant technical guidelines and train the relevant personnel;
viii.   Expand the prevention of mother to child transmission, and pilot the prophylaxis
against opportunistic infections, in health settings with the relevant capacity. These activities will be
expanded and developed as part of family planning and reproductive services, pediatric and prenatal care,
and in the management of infectious diseases;
ix.    Strengthen the HIVIAIDS surveillance system. This will include the improvement of the
notification of HIV/AIDS and of sexually transmitted infections, the expansion of sentinel surveillance
sites, beyond the prenatal clinics to also include voluntary counseling and testing centers, military facilities,
prisons, tuberculosis and sexually transmitted disease clinics, and blood banks;
- 36 -



x.    Monitor HIV-related behavior trends, in collaboration with the UAC and other relevant
partners;
xii.   Produce and distribute an HIVIAIDS Epidemiological Report and Newsletter. The
Report, produced biannually will include in-depth epidemiological analysis and behavioral data, and will
target health professionals. The Ministry will also edit a simpler IV/AIDS Newsletter targeted to the
general public;
xiii.   Provide line ministries and districts with the HIV/AIDS-related technical assistance,
when requested; and
xiv.   Provide HIV-related information, education and communication and condom
distribution to mfinistry workforce.
c)    Ministry of Education and Sports
i.    Review education sector policies regarding access to school of children and teachers with
HWV/AIDS, sanctions against sexual harassment and sexual abuse by teachers and others;
ii.    Review primary, secondary and tertiary school curricula to include appropriate
reproductive health and HIV related education, produce and distribute the relevant educational materials,
and train teachers in their use;
iii.    Focus resources on effective school health- FRESH. Lessons will be developed which
seek HIV-related knowledge and behavioral change through a teaching approach which will target both
skills and knowledge and will include: negotiation, resisting peer pressure, self-esteem, communication and
assertion. Lessons will be developed through teacher training colleges and "key trainer workshops", which
will also provide a cadre of trainers to transfer lessons learned down to district level workshops;
iv.    Promote school- and student association- led initiatives, in primary, secondary and
tertiary education institutions (to be financed under Part C);
V.    Expand HIV/AIDS and sexually transmitted infections related counseling and testing
to schools, colleges and institutions of higher education, using peers and parents as key resources;
vi.    Monitor and evaluate the impact of HIV/AIDS in the education sector, in collaboration
with the Ministry of Public Service, the Ministry of Gender, Labor and Social Welfare and other relevant
agencies; and
vii.   Provide HIV-related information, education and communication and condom
distribution to ministry workforce.
d)    Ministry of Gender, Labor and Social Development
i.    Prepare and promote legislation on the rights of orphans, widows and people living
with HIVIAIDS as bonafide members of communities they live in, to avoid disinheritance and
discrimination. This activity will be carried out in collaboration with UAC, Ministry of Justice, the
Parliament, the National Council for Children, civil society organizations representing people living with
HIV/AIDS, women associations, and other relevant agencies. This activity will be accompanied by the
- 37 -



relevant advocacy and information, education and communication activities;
ii.    Promote workers-, youth-, women-, civil society- and community-led HIVWAIDS
initiatives. These initiatives will be financed under part C and include:
company-led, employer-led, workers associations-led and union-led 1I1V/AIDS
initiatives at workplaces. These activities will be targeted at particularly vulnerable professional groups
such as long distance truck drivers, migrant laborers, traders, fishermen, hotel and tourism industry
workers (to be financed under Part C);
youth-led HIV/AIDS initiatives, including recreation, sports club and adolescent
reproductive life and health-related initiatives;
women-led initiatives focusing on the empowerment of women, counseling on the
use of condoms, awareness on the risks posed by genital mutilation, early and forced marriages, defilement,
and the rights of people living with H1V/AIDS. This activity will be carried out in collaboration with
women's organizations; and
civil society or community-led HIV/AIDS initiatives in the area of education and
welfare of orphans, people living with HIV/AIDS, and for female, child and elderly headed households due
to deaths of husbands, parents or guardians (to be financed under part C); and
iii.    Review conditions of microfinance programs, to accommodate the special needs of
women, children and elderly led households, foster homes, social groups supporting and caring for orphans;
and
iv.    Provide HIV-related information, education and communication and condom
distribution to the ministry and related agencies workforce.
e)    Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries
i.     Train district trainers of agriculture an dfishery extension workers, on HI V/AIDS
counseling and testing, and on improved nutrition, with an emphasis on locally grown foods;
ii.    Promote community-led andfarmers' association-led HIVIAIDS initiatives in the area
of improved nutrition, with an emphasis on locally grown foods (to be financed under part C); and
iii.    Provide HIV-related information, education and communication and condom
distribution to the ministry workforce and affiliated agencies.
f)    Ministry of Works, Housing and Communications
i     Ensure aUl construction contracts include HIV/AIDS prevention and mitigation
activities for the work force;
ii.    Promote company- and union-led HIV/AIDS initiatives, targeted to transport sector
workers ( to be financed under Part C); and
iii.    Provide HIV-related information, education and communication and condom
- 38 -



distribution to the ministry workforce and affiliated agencies such as the Uganda Airlines, Uganda
Railways and the Civil Aviation Authority, and to associated high risk groups like long distance drivers.
g)    Ministry of Defense
i.    Provide HIV and sexually transmitted infection related prevention, care and mitigation
services for aU military personnel, including:
information, education and communication;
voluntary counseling and testing;
social marketing and condom distribution; and
diagnosis and treatment of sexually transmitted infections and of opportunistic infection,
including TB.
ii.    Train Ministry of Defense health care providers, care givers and social workers and
counselors on HIIV/AIDS prevention, diagnosis, clinical management and social support; and
iii.    Train Ministry of Defense managers in HIV/AIDS control activity management.
h)    Ministry of Internal Affairs
i.    Provide HIV related prevention, care and mitigation services for all police and prison
populaions including:
information, education and communication;
voluntary counseling and testing;
social marketing condom distribution; and
diagnosis and treatment of sexually transmitted infections and tuberculosis; and
ii.    Provide HIV-related information, education and communication and condom
distribution to the ministry workforce;
iii    Train Police and Prison health care providers, care givers and social workers and
counselors on HIV/AIDS prevention, diagnosis, clinical management and social support; and
iv.    Train Police and Prisons managers in HV/AIDS control activity management.
i)    Ministry of Local Government
i.    Review, harmonize and supervise the application of district-based policies and
regulations concerning HIV/AIDS;
ii.    Provide HIV-related information, education and communication and condom
- 39-



distribution to the ministry workforce.
j)     Ministry of Public Service
i     Incorporate andpromote the implementation of new public service management rules
and practices that address legal, ethical and social rights of persons living with HIV/AIDS, including
policies on recruitment, leave, deployment, training, pay, exit, and welfare of public officers;
ii.    Monitor trends and the impact of HIV/AIDS in the civil service and assist the respective
ministries plan for future resource shortages; and
iii.    Provide HIV-related information, education and communication and condom
distribution to the ministy workforce.
k)    Ministry of Justice
i.    Provide HIV-related information, education and communication and condom
distribution to the ministry workforce.
I)    Other Ministries
Other Ministries will be assisted to draft I{V/AIDS action plans during the first year of project
implementation. The project will finance the implementation of such action plans as they are approved by
the UAC and IDA.
Project Component 2 - US$10.00 million
DISTRICT INITIATIVES
District authorities will implement their own integrated HIV/AIDS and sexually transmitted infection
control and prevention activity workplans, in accordance with the Uganda National Strategic Framework
for HIV/AIDS Activities, 2001/2006.
Under this component, the project will support activities directly which are carried out by district
authorities, or are contracted out to civil society organizations or to the private sector, including activities
to:
a)    Raise awareness of district leadership, teachers, school management teams and community
leaders on prevention and mitigation of HIV/AIDS, on the rights of people living with HIV/AIDS, widows
and orphans, and on the impact of several traditional or common practices on the spread of HIV/AIDS, i.e.
early and forced marriages, female genital mutilation, early sex, multiple and irregular sexual partners,
scarification, blood sharing and other forms of skin piercing, and other common practices such as
defilement and alcohol abuse;
b)     Train and support district- and community-based staff and leaders, including
i.    teachers on life skills, on the prevention of 1IIV/AIDS and sexually transmitted infections;
ii.    home-care givers and counselors on voluntary counseling and testing, on prevention and
-40 -



mitigation of WIV/AIDS, on the prevention, management and referral of sexually transmitted diseases and
opportunistic infections, including TB;
iii.   traditional birth attendants and traditional practitioners on the impact of traditional
practices on the spread of WHV/AIDS (i.e. female genital mutilation, scarification, blood sharing and other
forms of skin piercing, early sex, multiple and irregular sexual partners, early and arranged marriages, as
well as other common practices such as defilement, and alcohol abuse), as well as on the diagnosis, first
aid, and referral of AIDS, sexually transmitted and opportunistic infections;
iv.    rural extension workers including agriculture extension workers, community development
assistants, health assistants, and civil society organization extension staff, etc., on the prevention of
IIV/AIDS transmission and on nutrition (with emphasis on available foods and how to grow them), and on
how to serve as community resource persons.
c)    Provide HIV/AIDS related prevention and care services at all district hospitals and clinics,
including:
i.    information, education, communication;
ii.    social marketing and distribution of condoms;
iii.   voluntary counseling and testing for the overall population, with emphasis on high risk
groups;
d)    Provide HIV related diagnosis, treatment and care at reference district hospitals, including:
i.     clinical management of sexually transmitted and opportunistic infections, including
tuberculosis (Direct Observation Tuberculosis - DOTS);
ii.    prevention of mother to child HIEV transmission; and
c).    Pilot the prophylaxis of opportunistic infections in selected reference district hospitals and
clinics;
d).    Promote community-led and civil society-led HIV/AIDS initiatives and manage the respective
selection, contracting, financing and supervision. It is estimated that a number of districts will not
initially have the capacity to carry out this activity. In such cases, the UAC will ensure that such activities
will be carried out through contracts with civil society or private sector organizations; and
e).    Provide HIV-related information, education and communication and condom distribution to
the district workforce.
Project Component 3 - US$ 10.00 million
COMMUNITY-LED HIV/AIDS INITIATIVES - CHATs
Under this component, the project will support community-led and civil society-led H[V control initiatives.
CHAIs will be promoted, facilitated and assisted by the relevant line ministries, by district authorities
and/or by civil society organizations. CHAIs will include activities demanded by communities and which
- 41 -



they can implement directly or with assistance from the districts or civil society organizations, such as:
a)     Targeted support to orphans -- Targeted support to orphans, guardians of poor orphans and
AIDS stricken impoverished households, including those headed by females, children and the elderly,
conditional on families keeping school aged children at school. Under this initiative, communities, school
management committees and headmasters will identify needy orphans and their respective guardians.
Following registration of the orphan the guardians will receive a check which will assist the guardian
finance the expenditures for one term associated with school fees, uniforms, books and materials, and
nutritional supplements. In the next tern, the guardian can claim a second check, if she or he present
evidence that the child or adolescent has attended school for a minimum amount of time. The size of the
grant will vary by age of the orphan. The transfer for adolescents will be larger than for children, to offset
the opportunity costs of not having the adolescent join the workforce. In addition, support will be provided
to pre school and out of school orphans to attend day care centers and vocational training programs;
b)    Community-based information, education and communication on preventing the transmission of
HIV/AIDS and of sexually transmitted infections, on the risks carried by traditional practices such as
female mutilation, skin piercing and blood sharing, mother-to-child transmission and new legislation
protecting HIV/AIDS patients and families, as well as social marketing and distribution of condoms. The
project will support social support networks and persons living with HIV/AIDS to disseminate HIV/AIDS
information; The project will also support initiatives led by groups of people who engage in high risk
behaviors (commercial sex workers, men who have sex with men and intravenous drug users), or groups of
people who are vulnerable to engaging in such behaviors, as well as initiatives led by civil society
organizations which specialize in working with such groups; and
c)    Home-based care -HBC. This may include:
i.    information and education on the prevention of HIV/AIDS and sexually transmitted
infections, and the prevention mother to child transmission;
ii.    distribution of condoms;
iii.   targeted food supplements;
iv.    voluntary counseling and testing;
v.    clinical management of sexually transmitted infections and opportunistic infections,
including provision of home based kits;
vi.   social and spiritual support; and
vii.  training and support to care givers and community counselors.
The home-based care will address the needs of people living with HIV/AIDS and their families. A training
manual for home-based care staff will be developed and a patient care kit will be provided. Routine
supervision and technical support will be provided by district teams or civil society organizations
designated by them. A referral system between cornmunity based care and referral hospitals will be
established.
Civil society organizations may on their own initiative, or under contract with the UAC or with district
-42 -



authorities, promote community-led initiatives and provide the communities with whatever technical
assistance is required to prepare a sub-project proposal, or to cany out the activities included in the
sub-project proposal.
UNALLOCATED
The project has $5 million IDA credit unallocated. This amount will be allocated at mid term review to
Part B -- District Initiatives or Part C -- Community-led HIV/AIDS Initiatives, based on the relative
progress made in the implementation of district and community initiatives.
Project Insitutional and Implementation Arrangements
Institutional Arrangements. The Uganda AIDS Commission (UAC) and its Secretariat, which is under
the Office of the President, will coordinate the overall National HIV/AIDS program and project activities.
The UAC Director General will be the Project Director, to whom a Project Coordinator will report. The
Project Coordinator will lead a Project Coordination Team (PCT), which will be contracted to support
additional work generated by project-related management, monitoring and evaluation. The PCT will
perform day to day project-related coordination and facilitation activities. The PCT will utilize expertise
from previous IDA supported projects, such as the Sexually Transmitted Infections Project and the District
Health Services Pilot and Demonstration Project. The project will finance PCT as well as strengthen the
UAC Secretariat's capacity, on a declining basis.
A Project Steering Committee, to be chaired by the Permanent Secretary of the Office of the President will
be established as an advisory board and include representatives from key sectors and institutions, as well as
representatives from key civil society organizations, including those which represent people living with
HIV/AIDS. The Project Coordinator will be the Secretary of the Project Steering Committee.
A Technical Resource Network, which is composed of technical staff from different sectors, line ministries
and other agencies, and a Stakeholder Network, which is composed of representatives of civil society
organizations as well as other multilateral and bilateral agencies, have been established. These Networks
will support the Uganda AIDS Commission to mobilize line ministries, districts and communities for
FIV/AIDS initiatives and to review technical aspects of annual sector HIV/AIDS plans and evaluation
reports.
Line ministries will implement their respective HIV/AIDS plans and report regularly to the UAC on agreed
input and output indicators. In all line ministries, the respective Permanent Secretary will have overall
responsibility for implementing the sector HIV/AIDS workplan. An HIV/AIDS focal person has been
identified for the purpose of project coordination in each ministry. The day to day implementation will be
carried out within the existing structure rather than creating a new structure. Since the Ministry of Health
will carry out a significant proportion of the project activities, it may require technical assistance in areas
such as procurement and financial management.
Districts will be at the forefront of project implementation. District HIV/AIDS work plans will reflect
various sector activities to be implemented at the district level. Line ministries will provide the relevant
guidelines, coordination, training, monitoring and evaluation, and resource mobilization in line with existing
working arrangements with the districts. A formal contract with agreed input and output indicators will
guide the relationships between districts and the PCT. The Chief Administrative Officer will have overall
-43 -



responsibility for project implementation at district level. The CAO will identify from among existing
district staff a District Focal Person who will be responsible for project coordination and management
activities. Service delivery activities will be the responsibility of various of district line departments, civil
society organizations, private sector and community based organizations.
Each district will establish a District HIV/AIDS Committee, composed of heads of department, municipal
and town councils, and relevant civil society organizations. The District Focal Person will chair the
Committee. The Committee will nominate its secretary. The Committee will meet periodically to mobilize
different stakeholders and facilitate project implementation.
Communities will organize themselves, present their proposals to the respective district or the Project
Coordination Team, and will execute Community-led H[V/AIDS Initiatives (CHAIs). Communities may
want to contract assistance from civil society organizations to prepare, and implement their sub-projects.
Community led initiatives will be funded separately from district workplans. Communities will contribute
in kind to sub-project financing, their contribution amounting to at least five percent of total sub-project
costs.
Civil Society Organizations -- CSOs (including, non-governmental organizations, Religious Organizations,
farmers' associations, unions, student associations and private enterprises) and Private Sector
Organizations will be key partners of Government in scaling up and mainstreaming HIV/AIDS prevention
and mitigation activities. Civil Society Organizations and Private Sector Organizations (PSOs) will be
contracted to implement project activities. UAC/PCT and districts will enter into contracts with CSOs and
PSOs. District budgets will include funds earmarked by the project for CSO and PSO based sub-projects.
The UAC and the Stakeholder Network will organize a process to pre-qualify bonafide HIV/AIDS civil
society organizations.
Each district will contract a lead civil society organization with proven financial, project monitoring and
community mobilization skills to promote community-led HIV/AIDS initiatives and assist communities in
subproject preparation.
The project will coordinate with other IDA funded projects and with other HIV/AIDS related project
financed by other bilateral and multilateral organizations. At national level, coordination will be achieved
through the Stakeholder Network and the Enlarged UNAIDS Thematic Group. At district level,
coordination will be achieved through the District HIV/AIDS Committee.
Implementation arrangements. The project will finance a series of HIV/AIDS plans presented by line
ministries and districts, as well as a large number of Community-led HIV/AIDS Initiatives (CHAIs).
Planned activities for the first year of project implementation were integrated into an annual Project
Implementation Plan (PIP). At Appraisal, the Bank reviewed and was satisfied with the draft first year
PIP.
The project will be implemented in an incremental manner, starting with those ministries and districts which
already have HIV/AIDS workplans. Project coverage will be scaled up and expanded to more sectors, as
the project assists ministries and districts in strengthening their implementing capacity.
Line ministries and districts will present annually HIV/AIDS plans for the following fiscal year. The
UAC/PCT will coordinate these plans and, when needed, will provide assistance to improve programs and
eliminate duplications.
- 44 -



Communities will organize themselves for the purpose of presenting proposals for Community-led
HIV/AIDS Initiatives. In each district, lead civil society organization will promote community led
HEV/AIDS initiatives on behalf of the project. Community beneficiaries -- CB, i.e. rural or urban
community residents, and community-based organizations -- CBO will be eligible to present community-led
HIV/AIDS initiatives.
Community-based Organizations may contract an Implementing Partner -- IP to assist communities in
subproject preparation and processing, and counseling in implementation. The cost of such assistance will
be reimbursable, up to a maximum of 10 percent of total sub-project costs.
There will be a list of "standard sub-projects" for which review, approval and financing will be streamlined
and almost automatic, and a list of activities which will not be financed under the component.
Communities may present non standard subproject proposals. If one particular type of non-standard
proposal is frequently submitted, it will become part of the standard list.
Communities will present their AIDS proposals to District Project Coordinators. District WHV/AIDS
Committees will review sub-projects on the basis of agreed eligibility and selection criteria and make
decisions on financing. Sub-projects over US$ 10,000 will need approval of the UAC Secretariat. Each
CHAI shall not cost more than US$30,000. Annex 2 describes some representative CHAIs, and the Project
Operations Manual describes them in detail. These initiatives will be financed through funds specifically
earmarked for this component within the district budgets.
Civil Society Organizations and Private Sector Organizations may present HIV/AIDS Initiatives to the
UAC/PCT, to the relevant line ministries or the District Project Coordinators. If relevant, they will be
incorporated into the respective workplans and budgets.
The Project Operational Manual (POM) describes in detail the project's institutional and implementation
arrangements. At appraisal, IDA reviewed and was satisfied with the project's draft Project Operational
Manual.
-45 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
UGANDA: HIV/AIDS Control Project
Part A- Nationally Coordinated Initiatives                      5.00          20.00         25.00
Part Ba-District Initiatives                                   29.00           1.00          10.00
Part C-  Community-led Initiatives                             10.00           0.00          10.00
Unallocated                                                     5.00           0.00           5.00
Total Baseline Cost                                            29.00          21.00         50.00
Physical Contingencies                                         0.00           0.00          0.00
Ptice Conffngencies                                            0.00           0.00          0.00
Total Project Costs                29.00          21.00          S0.00
Total Financing Required                 29.00          21.00          50.00
Civil Works                                                       3.00            0.00          3.00
Goods                                                             2.00          20.00          22.00
Consulting Services, training and audit fees                      3 00            1.00          4.00
Operating costs                                                   6.00            0.00          6.00
Grants for Subprojects under Part C of the project               10.00            0.00         10.00
Unallocated                                                       5.00            0.00          5.00
Total Project Costs       29.00          21.00          50.00
Total Financing Required        29.00          21.00          50.00
All costs include contingencies.
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net oftaxes, is 50 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 95% of total
project cost net oftaxes.
-46 -



Annex 4
UGANDA: HIV/AIDS Control Project
Monitoring, Supervision and Evaluation
Responding effectively to HIV/AIDS requires sustained monitoring and evaluation of a broad range of
measures, including impact indicators and more intermediate process and output measures to capture
project performance in the more immediate term. Project impact will be measured employing data from the
H1V sentinel surveillance, baseline and end-line population-based surveys on knowledge, attitudes,
practices and behavior (KAPB) and service utilization, and special studies commissioned to assess impact
in specific areas not easily addressed by population-based surveys. Monitoring of the project processes and
outputs will employ project-based data, beneficiary inputs, and program reviews.
Monitoring
Monitoring of project progress under the Sexually Transmitted Infection Project was conducted through
analyses of progress attained on annual district work plans. These work plans included all activities
conducted at the district level, including those conducted by civil society organizations (CSOs) and
community based organizations (CBOs). No management information system was established to monitor
project activities. The Government's assessment of the current monitoring and evaluation of the national
response to the epidemic noted the lack of monitoring information on many interventions and among those
that did possess it, the type of information collected did not permit the association of project inputs with
particular outcomes nor the achievement of particular objectives. Thus, while there is evidence, based on
sentinel surveillance, that prevalence of HIV infection is declining, it is difficult to identify which
interventions played a greater role in the decline.
The project will support the design and implementation of a computerized management information system
(MIS) based in the Uganda AIDS Commission -- UAC, containing key technical and financial input and
process information for the Uganda HIV/AIDS Control Project. The Government's National Strategic
Framework contains a very detailed log frame including a broad spectrum of input, output, outcome and
impact indicators. Each line ministry that has developed a sector plan to respond to the HIV/AIDS
epidemic has also developed its individual log-frame which is consistent with the national log-frame. Given
the large number of implementing entities involved and the broad spectrum of activities, indicators to
measure program progress and impact will be prioritized. Only those key variables that capture the
necessary aspects of project implementation and impact will be retained, taking care that they include the
relevant input and output variables, so that changes in outcomes and impact indicators can be explained
during evaluation. Moreover, only variables that can be measured with existing data sources will be
included. Project monitoring will assess the project implementation team performance in project
implementation as well as the effectiveness and efficiency of implementation at sub-county, district and
national levels.
Thus, the MIS will contain key monitoring indicators identified in the Government's National Strategic
Framework. Line ministries will monitor their own activities at the central level and provide the UAC
Secretariat regular information on a minimal number of variables. They will do so on a quarterly basis.
The bulk of information on sector and non-governmental activities will be gathered at the district and
sub-county level. While CSO and CBO activities will be included in district work plans and will be
measured at the district and sub-county levels, separate analyses will be conducted to assess the
performance of these entities as well.
-47 -



Due to the multi-sectoral nature of the response, project-based data will be gathered from a number of
sources, including service statistics from various ministries, observation during site visits, district work
plans, and pre-defmed data provided by districts on a regular basis. The bulk of information on sector and
non-govermnental activities will be incorporated into the progress reports submitted regularly by districts.
Line ministries will provide separate reports. A system will be designed including standardized data
collection forms to be employed at each level of decision making and clear protocols on information flows,
collection and coding of the information. The use of standard reporting formns will simplify reporting
procedures and ensure consistency and uniformity in the type and manner in which the data are collected.
The design of the system will be subcontracted to a specialized firm as soon as the project becomes
effective. A short list of qualified firms was prepared at appraisal.
Careful monitoring of project activities and the groups they benefit will be crucial in the effective targeting
of project inputs. At project start-up a mapping of high risk groups and their distribution across the
national territory will be conducted. This mapping will be updated every six months on the basis of the
activities financed and the populations benefited, allowing the UAC to identify gaps early on and encourage
adequate coverage in those areas in subsequent work plan development. Monitoring will also allow
improved targeting of vulnerable groups including women and adolescents.
The project will also conduct focus groups or rapid assessments of beneficiaries' access and experience
with the project to improve performance. In particular, sporadic assessments would focus on access to the
program by the more vulnerable groups, including youth under 19 years of age and women in general,
orphans and people living with HIV/AIDS.
Supervision
Project supervision will be carried out at the district and sub-county levels by the technical planning
committees at the district and sub-county levels representing each sector and the Ministry of Local
Government staff. These committees have CBO/CSO representation. However, since the main function of
these is for planning and coordination, it is likely that capacity of staff at those levels may lack the
necessary skills to adequately monitor the project. Given varying levels of capacity of staff, assessments
will be made prior to initiating activities in the particular district. Training will be provided to strengthen
their capacity. Staff from the project implementation team will make random visits to the field to monitor
the performance of Districts and CSOs. Oversight of the overall program will be conducted by the UAC.
The UAC will meet regularly with secretaries of the various ministries to discuss progress under each line
ministry.
Supervision by IDA will include regular supervision visits, program reviews, and the review of periodic
progress reports including basic indicators. Program reviews will be held annually to assess the
performance of the project, its components and its contribution to the national effort to reduce the spread
and impact of H1V/AIDS. Specific areas of the review will include technical and operational aspects of
project implementation. Program reviews will be carried out jointly by the UAC and an independent team
of experts under previously defined terms of reference. The reviews will draw on the information generated
from routine monitoring, the studies conducted and any other relevant information. Program reviews will
cuiminate in stakeholder meetings that will form a basis for re-planning for the next two years. These
meetings will be used to share information on trends, best practices and to provide general technical
information.
-48 -



Evaluation
Uganda has an established HIV/AIDS program evaluation system. Evaluation of program impact is
currently measured through a sentinel surveillance system and periodic population based surveys. This
includes 15 sites in antenatal clinics in 15 districts and one in the main sexually transmitted infections
referral center. Additionally, data on prevalence of I-V are available from the AIDS Information Center
(AIC), a voluntary counseling and testing (VCT) facility, and from the blood bank. Data from the latter
two, however, are considerably less representative of the general population as the AIC tested individuals
are self-selected, and blood bank data include only those with expected minimal risk as the blood bank
screens donors before any tests are conducted to reduce resource waste. While antenatal samples are
representative of the sub-population they target (i.e. young pregnant women) they do not capture men, or
non-pregnant women (women unable to get pregnant because of age, infertility or current use of
contraception). Moreover, data on high risk groups are limnited, relying solely on data derived from Mulago
Hospital sexually transmitted infections clinic. Thus, sentinel sites targeting men, non-pregnant women and
some high risk groups (CSWs, prison population, e.g.) need to be included. Plans are under way to
establish some sentinel sites targeting the armed forces. The project will call upon the expertise gathered by
The World Bank, the World Health Organization and UNAIDS, i.e. on the Guidelinesfor Second
Generation HIV Surveillance (Geneva, CH: UNAIDS, May 2000). Within the country the project will rely
on strong research oriented institutions such as the Makerere University and the Uganda Bureau of
Statistics.
Impact is also measured through a series of Knowledge, Attitudes, Behavior and Practice (KAPB) surveys
conducted every two years. Under the STI project three population-based surveys were conducted in 7
districts (the last one is still to be applied in 3 districts). These provide data on key indicators on samples
of approximately 1500 individuals aged 15-49 in each of the 7 districts. However, these contain primarily
health related information and thus would not be adequate to measure a multi-sector response. Thus, the
project will support the design and implementation of baseline and end-line population-based surveys to
measure multi-sector knowledge, attitude, practices and behaviors. Sampling method will allow for
representative samples at the district level. However, given the enormous sample size this would imply, the
survey would be applied in 10-15 districts that represent Uganda. The final list of indicators to be
measured in the baseline survey will be defined at appraisal on the basis of the Government's prioritized
log frame for the Strategic National Response. The surveys will be subcontracted to an independent firn.
Special in-depth surveys will be conducted from time to time to examine the impact on particular high risk
or particularly vulnerable populations, or to assess the impact of specific interventions, including their
cost-effectiveness. In addition, operations research will be conducted to solve particular implementation
issues and bottlenecks identified during implementation. These can include, for example, pilots to identify
the most effective way to provide home-based care under different situations (rural/urban, etc.). They will
employ quasi experimental designs, with data collected from small samples of control and experimental
groups and will be of short duration (3-12 months). These surveys would be sub-contracted out.
The UAC will be responsible for overall program and project evaluation. Line ministries and districts will
be responsible for monitoring the implementation of their respective action plans and activities, and will
provide quarterly program management reports to the UAC Secretariat. The UAC will produce and share
quarterly input and output program management reports to IDA, and will conduct a broader annual, mid
term and end of project program review. For the mid-term and end-of-project review, the UAC will
contract an independent program and project evaluation, including its impact on the agreed outcomes. The
lessons learned from these evaluations and review will be fed back into program management, to improve
program design and implementation arrangements.
-49 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
UGANDA: HIV/AIDS Control Project
Financial Management
The project will have an adequate financial management system by project effectiveness. The financial
management framework will ensure appropriate safeguards are taken into consideration in the design of the
financial management system from the Uganda Aids Commission (UAC) to the line ministries, districts and
the community initiative component with the assistance of intermediaries (NGOs and CSOs) as needed. A
Project Coordination Team (PCT) will be established with experienced and competent key project staff in
UAC to coordinate and manage the implementation of the project, including putting in place an appropriate
financial and accounting system for the project. It was agreed with the government at negotiations that an
appropriate financial and accounting system for the project will be put in place by project effectiveness.
The UAC will assume overall responsibility for oversight of the irnplementation of the project, and PCT as
such will be held accountable for the proceeds of the entire Credit.
A Special Account will be opened and maintained in a reputable commercial bank to be decided upon by
the Ministry of Finance in consultation with IDA. It was agreed with the government at the negotiations
that the initial deposit under traditional disbursement mechanisms will be set up at US$ 2.5 million, and the
authorized special account amount under the Project Management Reports (PMR) based disbursement will
be enhanced to US$ 6 million. A Project Account in local currency will be opened in the same commercial
bank. Sub-project bank accounts will be opened for implementing agencies such as the UAC, line
ministries and districts. After approval of annual plans and budgets the PCT will be responsible for
facilitating the flow of funds to the various participating entities at all levels. The detailed procedures for
fnancial management are outlined in the Financial Management Manual (FMM) of the project which will
form an integral part of the Project Operational Manual (POM) to be ready by project effectiveness.
-50 -



Flow of Funds
IDA
Special Account in
US$ in a
Commercial Bank
Project Account in
Uganda Shillings in
a Commercial Bank
Districts           UAC Secretariat      Line Ministry        National NGO
Department/Com      & PCT Accounts    Project Accounts    Accounts
munity/NGO/CS
O/CBO Accounts
The financial management mechanisms which will be detailed in the FMM, will be based on the following
understanding:
a)    UAC secretariat will not be involved in the implementation of the project, but will be responsible
for approving line ministry and district workplans including CHAIs submitted for funding;
b)    PCT will receive and consolidate project expenditure returns from the various participating
entities, which will be guided by reporting formats to be designed and included in the FMM. The retuns
will be submitted to PCT by the tenth day following the end of the month for which the expenditure relates.
PCT will monitor the process and help to improve capacity of participating entities that demonstrate
delayed or inadequate reporting; and
c)    PCT will maintain adequate accounting and recording systems (accounts) using an appropriate tool
(accounting software) to enable the preparation of quarterly financial reports and annual project financial
statements in accordance with International Accounting Standards (IAS).
The funds for CHAI activities will be pre-allocated to districts in aggregate for inclusion in the district plan
and budget. The district authorities will be responsible for facilitating the flow of funds including signing
off on the direct releases to the sub-projects. The release will be in tranches. The details of tranche releases
are outlined in the Financial Management Manual.
- 51 -



Disbursements and Operation of Project Special Account
Disbursements of the project proceeds will initially assume the traditional disbursements mechanisms for
IDA assisted projects. However, the project will be expected to convert to Project Management Reports
(PMRs) based disbursements mechanism under the Financial Management Initiative (FMI) framework in a
period not exceeding 18 months after effectiveness. A time bound action plan has been agreed with the
Government that PCT will pursue to implement RMRs. Replenishmefits of the Special Account will be
determined by the level of eligible expenditure accounted for through the replenishment withdrawal
applications submitted to IDA from time to time, and at least once in each month. Quarterly comprehensive
project management reports, comprising implementation physical progress reports and financial reports
together with procurement process progress reports should be submitted for review by UAC/PCT and IDA.
Auditing Arrangement
PCT will prepare consolidated annual project financial statements comprising the Project Account and
Statement of the Special Account as well as a separate and distinct Statements of Expenditures for the
entire project. For funds disbursed to line ministry project accounts, the ministries will submit their
financial accounts to UAC. With respect to Community Sub Projects, whether facilitated by CBOs or not,
supporting documents of accountability will be submitted to the District Project Offices. In turn the
districts will consolidate the district reports and submit to the PCT project monthly expenditure returns as
well as quarterly progress reports. The UAC, line ministries and districts will ensure that internal audit
requirements are fulfilled. PCT will be expected to submit consolidated audited fnancial statements for the
entire project and auditor's report thereon as well as auditor's management letter on the affairs of the
project to IDA within six months following the end of the financial period being reported on. The project
will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The auditors are required to express separate
opinions on both the SOEs and SA and follow the International Standards on Auditing.
Project Financial Management System
An effective financial management system is essential to the achievements of the project as well as to
provide financial accountability with due diligence. The PCT under the guidance of the project Financial
Controller, will be responsible for ensuring that financial management and reporting procedures for the
project at UAC as well as at the various implementing entities will be acceptable to IDA. The project
Financial Controller will be responsible for the fnancial management, accounting and disbursement
functions of the project, including payments through the Special Account, maintaining accounts and
making payments for eligible expenditures. The Financial Controller for the project will also oversee
project financial management and accounting at the district level, and mentor project accountants both at
UAC and at the district level.
The UAC secretariat, with the assistance of the PCT, would be responsible for overall project management,
including (i) monitoring the progress of the project (ii) coordinating project activities (iii) establishing and
maintaining sound financial management and procurement systems (iv) Project Management and Progress
Reports (inclusive of PMRs i.e. the physical, financial and procurement implementation progress), and
liaison with IDA and other development partners.
Successful implementation of the financial management action plan will allow the project to satisfy the
Bank's minimum requirements under OP/BP 10.02. The Financial Management System would be able to
produce the project financial management statements, including summary of sources and uses of funds,
- 52 -



uses of funds by project component, project account reconciliation statement, cash withdrawal statement,
and cash forecast. The Chart of Accounts would facilitate presentation of summary expenditures by
component, activity and disbursements category.
Project Accounting Systemn The project will develop a viable financial management and accounting
system, including a comprehensive Manual of Financial Procedures, Chart of Accounts, and a fully
integrated project financial and accounting structure with a suitable system architecture using an
appropriate accounting software. The accounting system will provide data to facilitate measurement for
performance when linked to outputs of the project. The Chart of Accounts will ensure availability of
information required and the consistence in account classification. The Chart of Accounts should be
developed in a way that allows project costs to be directly linked to specific activities and outputs
consistent with expenditure Disbursement Categories in Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Manual of Financial Procedures. The project financial management system will be documented in the
Manual of Financial Procedures, covering financial policies and procedures, accounting and internal
control systems, fnancial planning and budgeting system, procurement and contract administration and
monitoring system, financial reporting, flow of funds and auditing arrangements. The Manual should
contain statements and explanation of the project's budgetary policies and procedures; describing
responsibilities for the budget preparation, review and adoption, execution monitoring and reporting. The
Manual of Financial Procures is being prepared by the government counterpart responsible for the financial
management. This Manual should be ready by project effectiveness.
In view of the complexity of this project, and the presence of several implementing entities of diverse
structure, technical assistance in financial system development is needed in order to put in place a viable
financial management system by project effectiveness.
Table 1: Disbursement Table
IYear 1     Year 2     Year 3      Year 4      Year 5
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs                 4.0         6.0        6.0         6.0         6.0
Recurrent Costs                  2.0         4.0        6.0         5.0         5.0
Total Project Costs                 6.0        10.0       12.0        11.0       11.0
Total Financing                     6.0        10.0       12.0        11.0       11.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                        5.6         9.6        11.5        10.4       10.4
Governrunent                    0.4         0.4         0.5         0.6        0.6
Total Project Financing             6.0        10.0       12.0        11.0       11.0
- 53 -



Table 2. Financial Management Action Plan
No Manual of         Comprehensive Manual of Financial Procedures to   Credit effectiveness
Financial Procedures   be developed (with help of short term local
consultant ) describing accounting systems and
procedures for the project as a whole. The Manual
should include accounting basis, policies, standards
and guidance for internal control and accounting with
clear delegation and segregation of duties; funds flow
processes, etc.
No Dedicated Project  Project Accounting System to be developed that can    Credit effectiveness
Accounting System    produce project financial reports and statements that
in UAC               illustrate budgeted and actual costs, as well as
provide financial data to enable measurement of
performance possible through a monitoring system
A Chart of Accounts should be designed, to provide
Chart of Accounts    information that reflects type of project, sources of  Credit effectiveness
finds, and the relevant expenditure accounts that is
consistent with expenditure categories in the DCA,
project components and sub-con ponents and
activities
There should be a fully integrated computer based
Accounting System    system to keep track, collect and provide information   Credit effectiveness
on sanctioned budgets, procurement, expenditures,
sources of funds and outpu.s, measured by
monitoring indicato's
Staffing             Suitably qualified anid competent key staff for overall  Credit effectiveness
coordination, finrancial management and procurement
are mandatoiy requi1eler.t and should be identified
and appointed.
Training and         Training program be developed for scaiing up skills    By Credit effectiveness or
Development of       for the accounting staff in line ministry 1 iIV/AIDS  disbursement date to the
Accounting Staff     Units and in the districts (where capacity is weak).  affected line ministries
and districts.
Implementation plan 1for ski ls development should  During implementation
also be developed.                              l
- 54-



No Clear Reporting    A reporting structure for both internal management   Credit effectiveness
Arrangements        and external needs should be developed. Compliance
with PMR reporting requirement should be taken into
account under the FMI framework and as required
under the Manual of Financial Procedures (MFP).
Budgeting and       Documented statements and explanation of budgetary  Project implementation
Budgetary Control    policies and procedures to be included in the MFP.    stage
Also, the following should be well articulated in the
MFP: (i) quarterly and annual program for budget
preparation/review; (ii) format and content of
monthly/quarterly and annual financial reports; and
(iii) variance analysis with brief and clear
explanation for significant variations should be given
in financial reports.
Monitoring and      Need for policy for strict financial discipline required   By Credit effectiveness
Evaluation System   at UAC and its affiliated project implementing  and once in place,
entities at various levels. Monitoring arrangements,    process should be
and clear remedial actions in the event of non  continuously followed.
compliance with established procedures.
Auditing Terms of    Preparation of Terms of Reference for the auditor  Middle of the first year of
Reference           once the financial management system is designed  project implementation
and tested.
- 55 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
UGANDA: HIVIAIDS Control Project
Procurement
General
Although the type of activities to be financed under the project have been defined, the specific procurements
(civil works, goods and services) to support these activities have yet to be defined precisely. This is
particularly true for procurement to support activities at the district and community levels (more than 50%
of the total program) which will be demand driven and determined on an annual basis through the district
annual plans. The procurement plan for the first year will be prepared based on the initial needs of the
UAC, the participating line ministries and the national Community Service Organizations (CSOs) that will
have articulated their requirements. Procurements for subsequent years will only be indicative and based
on a pre-determined menu of activities that will guide preparation of sub-projects by participating
ministries, districts and communities. This being a multi-sectoral project, the annual plans will also need to
be closely coordinated with other on-going operations in the various sectors including the Poverty
Reduction Support Credit (PRSC) - Education, Health and Water and Sanitation; and the National
Agriculture Advisory Services (NAADS) program.
All civil works and goods would be procured in accordance with "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits, January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997, and January
1999". Bank's standard bidding documents for works and goods and standard evaluation forms would be
used where practicable. Based on these Guidelines, simple procurement procedures for application at the
community level would be developed in accordance with Section 3.15 - Community Participation in
Procurement, as part of the Project Implementation Manual. All procurement of consultant services would
be done in accordance with "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers, January 1997, revised in September 1997 and January 1999. " Bank's Standard Requests for
Proposals and evaluation forms would be used where practicable.
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) is mandatory and must be published in the UN Development
Business and in a national newspaper as provided under the Guidelines, immediately after negotiations.
The GPN would be updated on a yearly basis and would show all outstanding International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) for goods contracts and all International Consulting Services. Specific Procurement Notices
for goods to be procured under ICB and Expressions of Interest for consultant services estimated to cost
the equivalent of US$200,000 and above will also be published in the Development Business. Details on
project costs by procurement arrangements are presented in Table B.
Monitoring and evaluation of procurement performance at all levels (national, district and community) will
be carried out through annual ex-post procurement audits and regular ad-hoc reviews. Such audits
would:
(a) verify that the procurement and contracting procedures and processes followed for the projects were in
accordance with the Development Credit Agreement (DCA);
(b) verify technical compliance, physical completion and price competitiveness of each contract in the
- 56 -



selected representative samnple;
(c) review and comment on contract administration and management issues as dealt with by participating
agencies; (d) review capacity of participating agencies in handling procurement efficiently; and
(e) identify improvements in the procurement process in the light of any identified deficiencies.
Institutional Arrangements
The overall coordination of the program implementation will be carried out by the Uganda AIDS
Commission and the Project Coordination Team, with each line Ministry, district, community and CSO
responsible for implementation of their relevant work programs. Procurement will be done at three levels:
national, district and community. At national level, the UAC, through a strengthened Secretariat will be
responsible for coordinating procurement of all the large ticket items. Procurement of medium and small
size civil works, goods and services will be carried out by the relevant line ministry and district under their
respective contract committees/tender boards. The project will support Community-based HIV/AIDS
Initiatives (CHAIs) including minor repair works, purchase of drugs and supplies in small quantities (in
emergency cases), care and maintenance for AIDS patients and orphans, AIDS prevention promotion, and
other interventions at the community level. Work-programs under this activity will depend on applications
received from communities against a standard menu of activities. Items which are essential for the
execution of CHAls will be procured under simplified procurement procedures similar to those applicable
to social funds. A procurement procedure manual is under preparation as part of the Project
Implementation Manual. The thresholds for procurements at the three levels are presented below.
Thresholds for Procurement at Different Levels
iNational - UAC and        Civil Works        Upet 60,000
National
Goods              Over 30,000
Goods              Up to 30,000
Consultant         Up to 2,000
Services
- 57 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                            0.00           0.70          2.70           0.00           3.40
(0.00)         (0.50)        (2.50)         (0.00)        (3.00)
2. Goods                           16.80           2.20           5.50          0.00          24.50
(15.80)        (2.10)         (5.30)         (0.00)       (23.20)
3. Services                         0.00           0.00          4.40           0.00           4.40
and Training                      (0.00)          (0.00)        (4.40)         (0.00)        (4.40)
4. Community Based                  0.00           0.00          11.20          0.00          11.20
Initiatives
(0.00)         (0.00)        (10.60)        (0.00)        (10.60)
5. Incremental Operating            0.00           0.00           6.50          0.00           6.50
Expenses                           (0.00)         (0.00)         (6.30)         (0.00)        (6.30)
Total                            16.80          2.90          30.30          0.00          50.00
__(15.80)           (2.60)        (29.10)        (0.00)        (47.50)
IFigures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies
I2tncludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govermment
units.
A general procurement capacity assessment has revealed limited of procurement capacity at all these levels
and the need for strengthening such capacity. Since the UAC will be responsible for coordinating project
implementation, the most critical action required is to strengthen its Secretariat through employment of
suitable staff to coordinate activities of participating agencies, and provide procurement support and assist
in financial management. There are a number of institutional arrangements that are being put in place to
ensure that the capacity is strengthened. Firstly, the procurement experience gained through the Sexually
Transmitted Infections (STI) project will be passed down to this project, at least initially, through sharing
of the same staff to carry out the initial procurement activities for the UAC. Under these interim
arrangements between the two projects, the STI project manager, the financial management specialist and
the procurement specialist will start to support the activities under this project immediately. Secondly, a
procurement agent with a proven record of delivering health sector goods and services would be contracted
to procure items such as condoms, pharmaceuticals, diagnostic kits and other large ticket items. The need
for such an agent was identified about two years ago and the Ministry of Health (MOH) had started the
process of selecting such an agent but this was stopped due to a provision in existing MOH regulation that
requires the Government (central and districts) to procure all drugs and pharmaceuticals through the
National Medical Stores (NMS). The process of revising this regulation has started and the selection
process for the agent is expected to commence immediately. This agent will support procurement activities
in this project as well as procurement activities under the health component of the PRSC. It is critical that
the process of procuring the procurement agent is expedited. Thirdly, a procurement specialist will be
recruited to: assist participating line ministries to carry out procurement of their components; organize
quality assurance for procurement activities in this project; and train staff at all levels.
- 58 -



Procurement capacity at district levels is particularly weak. Due to the importance and multi-sectoral
nature of this project, the district administration will need to be suitably adapted to handle this project.
Like the national level, there will be three critical functions that will be carried out at the district level:
coordination; procurement and financial management. These functions would normally require three
different individuals and each participating district will have to indicate how these functions would be
carried out under the existing structure and staffing arrangements. The districts will also provide the
necessary support for these functions at the community level. At this level, the communities, through their
representative committees or CSOs, will be responsible for the procurement process using simplified
procurement procedures. Sub-project proposals from communities will be required to indicate how
procurement will be organized including any necessary support that will be necessary from the districts.
In order to ensure that participating agencies (line ministries, districts communities and CSOs) are familiar
with Bank procurement guidelines in general and the procurement procedures in this project in particular,
UAC with the assistance of IDA, would provide a series of workshops, with the first workshop being
organized before credit effectiveness. The subsequent workshops would be organized so as to coincide with
the proposed procurement supervision missions where the Procurement Specialist would conduct the
workshops as part of the supervision mission. The costs of these workshops will be included in the project.
These workshops would also act as forums to review any procurement issues that have been experienced
during implementation of the project and as vehicles for improving on the procurement arrangements in
place.
Procurement Methods for Works, Goods, and Consulting Assignments
Civil Works. The civil works to be included in this project would be small and generally of rehabilitation
nature such as rehabilitation of district laboratories, voluntary counseling centers, day care centers, or
outpatient units, and rehabilitation of reference laboratories, HIV/AIDS specialized day care or outpatient
centers, at community, district or central level. From experience obtained from the on-going DHSP and
STI projects, the districts are capable of handling individual civil works contracts estimated to cost up to
US$60,000 while the communities can only handle works that are less than US$5,000. Contracts for
works estimated to cost US$60,000 or less, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 1,000,000 equivalent, may
be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three
qualified domestic contractors invited in writing to bid. The invitation shall include a detailed description
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement
acceptable to IDA, and relevant drawings where applicable. The awards will be made to the contractors
who offer the lowest price quotation for the required work, provided they demonstrate they have the
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. For works estimated to cost less than
US$300,000 per contract up to an aggregate of US$2,000,000 will be procured by the UAC using national
competitive bidding.
Goods. As indicated in the Table above, the UAC will coordinate the procurement of large ticket items.
For goods, these goods will include items estimated to cost more than US$30,000 per contract. The items
will include: condoms; diagnostic kits; pharmaceuticals for the clinical management of FHV/AIDS and
opportunistic infections, including TB; vehicles and other project related supplies, reagents and IEC
materials. To the extent possible, contracts for the large ticket items shall be grouped into packages
estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or more and will be procured though International Competitive
Bidding (ICB). ICB procurement will be coordinated by the UAC Secretariat for the whole program.
Domestic preference will be applicable. Goods estimated to cost less than US$100,000 up to an aggregate
amount US$2.2 million will be procured through NCB. The standard bidding document for NCB will be
- 59 -



submitted to IDA by UAC for prior review. The approved document will form the basis of all NCB
procurements under this project. Goods estimated to cost less than US$30,000 equivalent per contract, up
to an aggregate amount of US$5.5 million equivalent may be procured through shopping procedures by
soliciting at least three quotations from different suppliers, in accordance with IDA Procurement Guidelines
(Paragraph 3.5 and 3.6) and June 9, 2000 Memorandum "Guidance on Shopping" issued by the Bank.
Contracts estimated to cost less than US$50,000, up to an aggregate of US$500,000 may be procured
through United Nations Agencies (IAPSO, UNICEF, UNFPA, WHO) in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. National shopping for regular operation and maintenance will follow IDA
guidelines. Procurement of goods and hiring of facilities for training purposes, such as workshops, will
also be carried out through shopping procedures. Procurement of items under the CHAIs will be carried out
in accordance with simplified procurement procedures (paragraph 5. Above)
Urgent Requirements. Notwithstanding the general provisions of paragraph 10 above, given the urgency
of the program, and to facilitate speedy procurement of urgently required drugs and items required
immediately for institutional strengthening, specific contracts will be handled by UAC in the following
exceptional manner:
a)    Drugs for opportunistic infections, IRV test kits, syphilis test kits, reagents for infection control
and TB laboratory reagents, estimated to cost less than US$200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate of
US$ 1,000,000, may be procured through international shopping;
b)    Computers and accessories, office and power equipment for new UAC Secretariat staff estimated
to cost up to US$ 100,000 may be procured through shopping or contracted from the UN Agency (IAPSO);
and
c)    Vehicles (up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$350,000 equivalent) for initial management
of the project may be procured from IAPSO and/or National Shopping procedures (preferably from'
bonded warehouses' on a competitive basis).
All contracts under the above stated 'Emergency Requirements' must be concluded within 12 months from
the Credit effectiveness date. The list of these items and their estimated value will be agreed upon with IDA
and incorporated in the Procurement Plan. The procurement and timely distribution of the goods will be the
responsibility of the UAC.
Consultancy Services. The total cost of consultant services and training is estimated at US$4.4 million
equivalent excluding any services to be procured under the CHAIs. The consultant services required would
cover the areas of AIDS research, AIDS education, trainers, community development specialists, public
relations firms (Information Campaign), procurement, financial management, monitoring and evaluation,
audit, and accounting. All consulting service contracts costing more than US$100,000 equivalent for firms
will be awarded through Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method. Consulting service contracts
estimated to cost less than US$100,000 for firms may be awarded through the Consultants' Qualifications
selection method. For contracts of a routine nature estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 and where well
established practices and standards exist such as financial audits, Least-Cost selection method may be
used. All consulting services of individual consultants will be procured under individual contracts in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 to 5.3 of the Guidelines. In exceptional cases,
Single-Source selection would be used in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 to 3.11. To this
effect, services procured at the district level under work plans satisfactory to the Association which are
estimated to cost less than $5,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amnount not to exceed
$500,000 equivalent may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured on single-source basis.
-60 -



To ensure that priority is given to the identification of suitable and qualified national consultants, short-lists
for contracts estimated under US$100,000 or equivalent may be comprised entirely of national consultants
(in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines), provided that a
sufficient number of qualified individuals or firms (at least three) are available. However, if foreign firms
have expressed interest, they will not be excluded from consideration.
Training, Workshops and Study Tours. Training, workshops, and study tours will be carried out on the
basis of approved annual programs that would identify the general framework of training activities for the
year, including the nature of training/study tours/workshops, the number of trainees, and cost estimates.
Selection of training institutions for workshops/training should be based on a competitive process using the
Quality- based method of selection.
Prior Review
Table C provides the prior review thresholds. Each contract for works estimated to cost more than
US$200,000 equivalent or more, and each contract for goods estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or
more, will be subject to IDA prior review as per paragraph 2 Appendix I of the Guidelines. Other
contracts will be subject to post review in accordance with paragraph 4 Appendix I of the Guidelines. All
consulting contracts costing US$100,000 equivalent or more for firms will be subject to IDA prior review.
With respect to each contract for employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the
consultants shall be furnished to IDA for its prior review. All single-source selection of consultants valued
at US$5,000 and above will be subject to IDA prior review. Other procurements subject to IDA review will
include: training workshops estimated to cost more than US$50,000; all overseas training; and any
exceptional extensions to non-prior review contracts raising their values to levels equivalent or above the
prior review thresholds. These limits must be monitored closely and should never be exceeded before
clearance from IDA.
-61 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
1. Works
Small works under      Above           NCB              Above
Work-programs          US$60,000                        US$200,000
US$60,000 and   At least three  Ex-Post
less            quotations from
qualified
contractors
2. Goods               US$100,000      ICB              All contracts    Shopping will be
and over                                          permitted for "
Emergency
Less than       NCB             Ex-Post           Procurements" required
US$100,000                                        for setting up the [JAC
Secretariat (Computers
Less than US$    IAPSO          Ex-Post           and accessories; and
50,000                                            vehicles) and for meeting
urgent drug requirements
Less than       Shopping        Ex-Post          for opportunistic
US$30,000                                         infections
3. Consultancy Services
US$100,000      QCBS            All
and over
Firms
Less than       CQ              Ex-Post
Us$100,000
Less than       LCS             Ex-Post
US$100,000                                        LCS to be used for
contracts of a routine
nature where well
Individuals                                                              established practices and
US$50,000 and   Individual      All               standards exist such as
over                                             financial audits
Less than       Individual      Ex-Post
US$50,000
- 62 -



Firms/Individuals       Over US$5,000   Single-Source    All               All single-source
Single-Source    Ex-Post          selection for contracts
Less than                                          over US$5,000 will be
US$5,000                                           subject to IDA review
4. Training,            US$50,000 and   QBS              All
Workshops, Study        over
Tours
Less than       QBS              Annual plans to
US$50,000                        be reviewed by
IDA
Total value of contracts  US$12.00
subject to prior review:  million
OVERALL RISK ASSESSMENT: H I G H
Refer to Paragraphs 6, 7 and 8 above.
Prior Review Thresholds:
Works                                           US$200,000 equivalent
Goods                                           US$100,000 equivalent
Consultancy Services (Firms)                    US$100,000 equivalent
Consultancy Services (Individuals)              US$50,000 equivalent
Frequency of procurement supervision mission proposed: Once every 4 months in the first year and every 6 months
in subsequent years. In addition ad-hoc reviews/audits will be carried out.
-63 -



Action Plan for Mitigating the High Procurement Risk
1.Strengthen implementation capacity                Continuous       All Implementing
_                                                    ~~~~~~~~      ~     ~~~~~~~~~Agencies  
2. Produce Simplified Procurement Guidelines         February 28,     IDA
2001
3. Identify one focal person in each project district to  February 28,  UAC/Districts
coordinate the district activities and to carry out  2001
procurement and financial management
4. Identify items currently under PRSC to be financed  February 28,   Ministry of Health
under this project                                   2001             (MOH)
5. Assess capacity of implementing agencies through a  February 28,   MOH/PCO
simple questionnaire                                 2001
Send Questionnaire
Receive Questionnaire
6. Identify Sector Coordinators of Procurement Activities    February 28,  UAC
2001
7. Select a procurement agent                        May 15, 2001     UAC/MOH
8. Decide on remuneration of core UAC Secretariat team  February 28,  UAC
2001
9. Appointprocurement agent                            May 15, 2001     UAC/MOH
10. Core team start work at the UAC Secretariat      April 30, 2001    UJAC/MOH
1l Emiiploy an assistant accountant                 April 30, 2001    UAC
- 64 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Disbursements of IDA funds will initially assume the traditional disbursements mechanisms for this
project. However, the project will be expected to convert to Project Management Reports (PMRs) based
disbursements mechanism under the Financial Management Initiative (FMI) framework in a period not
exceeding 18 months after project effectiveness. A time bound action plan has been agreed with the
Government that UAC/PCT will pursue over this period to make the project FMI compliant.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Works                                       3.00                         90 %
Goods                                      22.00             100% of foreign and 90% of local
Consultant Services/Training                4.00                         100%
Community Based Initiatives                 10.00                         95%
Incremental Operation Expenses              6.00                          90%
Unallocated                                 5.00
Total Project Costs                        50.00
Total                                       50.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
All disbursements against expenditures contracts with the civil society organizations and the private sector
will be made against statements of expenditure (SOEs) and is subject to random ex-post financial, physical,
and technical audit to be carried out by financial and technical consultants employed by the Uganda AIDS
Commission. All procurement contracts not subject to IDA prior review will be disbursed against SOEs
and documentation will be retained by the Uganda AIDS Commission administrations and made available
for review by IDA financial management and procurement specialists and project financial and
procurement auditors.
In the case of Community-led HIV/AIDS Initiatives (CHAIs), there will be pre-financing of expenditures,
as communities are unlikely to start contracting without the assurance of funds. All disbursements against
expenditures under the CHAIs will be subject to ex post financial and physical audits, on a sample basis, to
be carried out by financial and technical consultants employed by the respective districts or by the Uganda
AIDS Commission.
Special account:
To facilitate disbursements, the Government of Uganda will establish and maintain a Special Account in
US dollars in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. In order to ensure timely release of funds for the
project activities, a Project Account in Uganda shillings will be maintained in the same bank. Sub-project
bank accounts will also be maintained by the implementing agencies. It was agreed with the government at
the negotiations that the initial deposit under traditional disbursement mechanisms will be set up at US$ 2.5
million, and the authorized special account amount under the Project Management Report based
disbursement will be enhanced to US$ 6 million.
-65 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
UGANDA: HIV/AIDS Control Project
Time taken to prepare the project (months)     2                            2
First Bank mission (identification)            10/09/2000                   10/09/2000
Appraisal mission departure                    12/04/2000                   12/04/2000
Negotiations                                   12/11/2000                   12/12/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  04/18/2001
Prepared by:
The core project preparation team include Alexandre Abrantes (task team leader), Shiyan Chao (co-task
team leader), Peter Okwero (health specialist at the Resident Mission), Norbert Mugwagwa (Lead
Operations Health officer, community-led initiatives) and Sandra Rosenhouse (Senior Population and
Health Specialist, monitoring & evaluation). Other multi sector specialists contributed to project
preparation, including those listed below.
Preparation assistance:
Project preparation was assisted by Mary Green, Lori Geurts, and Vikki Taaka.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Alexandre Vieira Abrantes , AFTHl   Lead Public Health Specialist. Project Preparation Team Leader
Shiyan Chao, AFTHI               Senior Economist. Project Preparation Co-team Leader
Peter Okwero, AFMUG              Health Specialist, in country liaison with Government, civil society and
donors
Norbert Mugwagwa, AFMUG          Lead Operations Officer, community-led initiatives
Anabela Abreu, LCSHD             Sr. Public Health Specialist, project design
Sandra Rosenhouse                Sr. Population and Health Specialist, monitoring & evaluation
Rogati Kayani, AFTQK             Sr. Procurement Specialist, procurement
John Nyaga, AFC05                Sr. Financial Management Specialist, financial management and
disbursements
Aberra Zerabruk, LEGOP           Senior Counsel, credit agreement
Ytzahk Kamhi, AFTTR              Senior Highway Engineer, project design
Shimwaayi Muntemba               Senior Social Science Specialist, Gender, background and project design
Mario Bravo, EXTRO               Senior Communications Officer, IEC
John Lambert AFTR2               Consultant, Traditional Medicine
Oscar Picazo, AFTH I             Senior Economist, economic and financial analysis
Andrew Follmer, AFTH I           Operations Analyst, editing and quality control
Christian Hurtado, Consultant    Senior Operation Specialist, Proj. Impl. Plan and Oper. Manual
Christopher D. Walker, HDNHE     Lead Specialist, peer review
Johnathan C. Brown, AFTQK, ACT    Lead Operations Specialist, peer review
Africa
Olusoji Adeyio, UNAIDS           Senior Health Specialist, peer review
- 66 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
UGANDA: HIV/AIDS Control Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
The draft project implementation and operational manual were reviewed at appraisal. Adoption of a
project implementation plan and an operational manual acceptable to IDA is a condition of effectiveness.
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Aide Memoire and Annexes from October 2000 mission (pre-appraisal)
Aide Memoire and Annexes from December 2000 mission (appraisal)
Minutes of Negotiations from December 2000
C. Other
1. HTV/AIDS Surveillance Reports             Ministrv of Health       1996, 1997, 1998. 1999
i2. Uganda AIDS Commission Statute            Government of Uganda    March ]1992       
3. Report of the Technical Committee to      Committee to Review      October 1997
Review Roles and Functions of the Uganda     the Roles and Functions
AIDS Commission and Ministry of Health       of the UAC
4. Report to the Uganda AIDS Commission By    Committee on Review     September 1999
the Committee on Review of the Commission's    of the Commission's
Institutional Location                       Institutional Location
5. The Socio-economic Impact of HIV on Rural   FAO                    February, 1994 i
Families with an Emphasis on Youth                                                           l
6. Health Sector Strategic Plan, 2001-06     Ministry of Health       2000
7. Proposal for Scaling-up and Widen the     Ministry of Health       October, 2000
Response and Confront new HIV/AIDS
Challenges
7a. The National Strategic Framework for     GoU, Uganda AIDS         March. 2000
HIV/AIDS Activities in Uganda: 2000/1 -      Commission, Joint UN
2005/6                                       Program on AIDS,
other stakeholders in
AIDS
8. HIV/AIDS Implementation and Strategies    Ministry of Gender,      October, 2000
Labor and Social
Development           |
-67 -



9. HIV/AIDS Plan for Ministry of Education  Ministry of Education  September, 2000
and Sports                                 and Sports
9a. HlV/AIDS Program in the Agriculture    Ministry of Agriculture,  September, 2000
Sector                                     Animal Industry and
Fisheries
10. Review and Incorporation of HIV/AIDS   Ministry of Public     October 2000
Concerns within Personnel Management       Service
11. HIV/AIDS Plan for Ministry of Local    Ministry of Local      September 2000
Government, 2001-06                        Government
12. The Strategic Plan for AIDS Information  Makerere University  April 2000
Center, 2000-2004
13. Culture and its Impact on IHIV/AIDS    Makerere University    May 2000
Prevention and Care: Uganda Experience
14. Open Secret: People living facing up to  Action for AID       July, 2000
HIV and AIDS in Uganda. Strategies for Hope
15. National Guidance & Empowerment        NGENs                  June 1999
Network of People Living with HIV/AIDS
16. Operational Strategy and Plan of Action  The AIDS Support     1999
Organization TASO
17. Support to the Health Sector Strategic Plan   DFID, Ireland AID,  May 2000
2000-2005                                  SIDA, World Bank
18. Country Program Strategy               GoU - UNICEF           November 1999
19. HIV/AIDS and Rights to Self-protection  GoU -- UNICEF         2000
Program Plan of Operations
20. Adolescent Rights to Protection from   UNICEF                 May 2000
HIV/AIDS and Access to Friendly Services
21. MRC/DFID, UVRI Program on AIDS in      Medical Research       May 2000
Uganda                                     Council, Department of
International
Development & Uganda
Virus Research Institute
22. Project Implementation Plan            GoU                    December 2000
23. Project Operational Manual             GoU                    December 2000
*Including electronic files
-68 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
UGANDA: HlV/AIDS Control Project
Dec-2000
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                            disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                     IBRD         IDA                 GEF   Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig  Frm Rev'd
P050439       2001 PRIVATIZATION & UTILITY SECTOR REFORM            0.00     48.50                 0.00       0.00     47.41      0.00       0.00
P002992       2000 LOCALGOVDEVE.PROGRAM                             0.00     80.90                 0.00       0.00     65.06      -9.17     -9.17
P044679       2000 Second Economic and Fin. Mgmt. Project           0.00     34.04                 0.00       0.00     29.85      5.47      -1.51
P069840       2000 Power III Supplemental                           0.00     33.00                 0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
P035311       1999 PAMSU-GEF                                        0.00      0.00                 2.00       0.00      0.00      1.64       0.00
P002970       1999 ROADS DEVT PROGRAM                               0.00     90.98                 0.00       0.00     86.43      5.26      -3.91
P044213       1999 FIN MKTS ASSISTANCE                              0.00     13.00                 0.00       0.00     12.93      8.62       0.00
P002941       1999 ICB-PAMSU                                        0.00     12.40                 2.00       0.00      6.09      2.20      -7.94
P059127       1999 AGRIC.RES&TRNG. II                               0.00     26.00                 0.00       0.00     22.47      3.95      -2.16
P059223       1999 NAKIVUBO CHANNEL REH                             0.00     22.40                 0.00       0.00     19.68      10.42     -1.59
P040551       1998 NUTRIT.CHILD DEV                                 0.00     34.00                 0.00       0.00     24.84      5.87      -7.63
P049543       1998 ROAD SECTIINST.SUPP                              0.00     3000                  0.00 0,00           22.80     24.70      -5.28
P002972       1998 EDUCSECTORADJCRED                                000      80.00                 0.00       0.00      0.00       1.95    -78.05
P057007       1998 ELNINO EMERG RD REP                              0.00     27.60                 0.00       0.00     23.36     24.49      -3.15
P002987       1997 SAC III                                          0.00    125.00                 0.00       0.00     39.28     42.66      42.13
P046836       1997 LAKE VICTORIA ENV.                               0.00     12.10                 0.00       0.00      4.72       1.53     -6.97
P046870       1997 LAKE VICTORIA ENV.                               0.00      9.80                 9.80       0.00      6.07      3.27      -6.03
P002978       1996 ENVIRONMENTAL MGMT & CAPACITY BLDG               0.00     11.80                 0.00       0.00      1.72      2.92       1.23
P037582       1996 AGSECMGTPROJECT                                  000       17.90                0.00      16.36      0.00      16.50      0.00
P035634       1996 PRIV. SECTOR COMPETI                             0.00      12.30                0.00       2.18      2.58       5.68     -8.31
P002976       1995 INST. CAPACITY BLDG                              0.00     36.40                 0.00       0.00      4.10       6.39    -29.91
P002971       1995 DISTRICT HEALTH                                  0.00     45.00                 0.00       0.00      631       2.71    -35.39
P039880       1995 SACII                                            0.00      0.60                 0.00       0.00      0.00       000       0.00
P035584       1994 FINANCE SECTOR ADJUSTMENT                        0.00       1.10                0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
P002967       1994 SAC 11                                           0.00     80.00                 0.00       0.00      0.00      -8.33    -86.33
P002963       1994 SEXUAL.TRANS.IN                                  0.00     50.00                 0.00       0.00      5.26      6.01    -43.99
P002957       1994 SMALLTOWNS WATER                                 0.00     42.30                 0.00       0.00      6,90      6.84    -34.50
P002923       1994 TRANSP. REHAB.                                   0.00      75.00                0.00       0.00     24.03      25.68    49.18
P002893       1994 Bwindi Forest & Mgahinga Gorilla Nat PK          0.00      0.00                 4.00       0.00      0.00      0.02      -4.35
P002977       1994 COTTON SECTOR DEVELO                             0.00     14.00                 0.00       0.00      1.12       1.33      1.35
P002975       1993 ECON & FINANCIAL MAN                             0.00     29.00                 0.00       0.00      0.00      -1.33    -30.33
P002962       1993 FINAN SECTADJUSTCR                               0.00     100.00                0.00       0.95      0.00      -2.92     -2.15
P002953       1993 PRIMARY EDUC. &TEAC                              0.00     52.60                 0.00       0.00      4.17      4.15       1.98
P002938       1993 AGRIC. RES & TRG. PHASE I                        0.00     25.04                 0.00       0.00      0.03      -0.17    -25.21
P002991       1993 AGRIC. EXTENSION PROGRAM                         0.00      15.80                0.00       0.12      0.00      0.19    -15.60
P002996       1993 SAC I                                            0.00       1.40                0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
P002968       1992 ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT                           0.00     65.60                 0.00       0.00      0.18     21.67      -2.08
P002947       1992 SAC I                                            0.00    125.00                 0.00       0.00      0.00      -6.30   -131.30
P002990       1992 ECON RECOVERY II                                 0.00      1.60                 0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
P002981       1992 NORTHERN RECONSTRUCTION                          0.00      71.20                0.00       0.00      0.00      -3.25    -74.45
P002980       1991 ECON REC II                                      0.00      2.00                 0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
P002929       1991 POWER III                                        0.00    125.00                 0.00       0.00     17.20     -10.22     81.76
P002930       1991 LrVESTOCK                                        0.00      21.00                0.00       3.78      0.00       2,22     -0.14
P002933       1991 URBAN I                                          000     28.70                 0.00       0.00      0.30      4.39     -29.09
-69 -



Difference between
expected
Original Amount in USS Millions                               and actual
disbursements'
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                    IBRD         IDA                    GEF   Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig  Frm Rev'd
P002974       1990 ERIC I SFA                                       0.00       0.00                0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00
P002969       1990 WATER SUPPLY II                                  0.00      60.00                0.00       0.02      0.00     -4.06       4.06
P002973       1990 ECON REC PROG                                    0.00       1.50                0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
P002965       1989 ECONOMIC RECOVERY                                0.00      1.70                 0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
Total:       0.00    1793.26              17.80       23.41     484.70    200.20    -609.30
- 70 -



UGANDA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Dec-2000
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1996               AEF Agro Mgmt                  0.60    0.40    0.00    0.00    0.55    0.40      0.00    0.00
1992               AEF Clovergem                  0.84    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.84    0.00      0.00    0.00
1997               AEF Conrad Plaza               1.13    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.13    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               AEF Exec. Invmnt               1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1999               AEF Gomba                      1.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.40    0.00      0.00    0.00
1998               AEF Kampala Flwr               0.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
2000               AEF Kasambya                   0.99    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
AEF KiwaII                     0.16    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.16    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               AEF Ladoto                     0.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.80    0.00      0.00    0.00
2000               AEF LongFreight                0.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
2000               AEF Mosa Court                 0.64    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.64    0.00      0.00    0.00
1998               AEF Nile Roses                 0.16    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.16    0.00      0.00    0.00
1993               AEF Polypack                   0.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.10    0.00      0.00    0.00
1994               AEF Rainbow                    0.79    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.79    0.00      0.00    0.00
1995               AEF Rwenzori                   0.35    0.19    0.00    0.00    0.35    0.19    0.00    0.00
1993               AEF Skay Electro               0.22    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               AEF Skyblue                    0.51    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.51    0.00      0.00    0.00
1994               AEF White Nile                 0.28    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.28    0.00      0.00    0.00
1998               AEF Wstern Hgh                 0.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1999               Ccltel                         0.43    0.64    0.80    0.00    0.43    0.64    0.80    0.00
1994               DFCU                           0.00    0.60    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.60      0.00    0.00
1984/92            Jubilee                        0.00    0.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.10      0.00    0.00
1993               Kasese Cobalt                 13.33    3.60    0.00    0.00   13.33    3.60      0.00    0.00
1996               Tilda Rice                     2.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.90    0.00      0.00    0.00
1998               Uganda Leasing                 1.16    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.56    0.00      0.00    0.00
1995/96            Uganda Sugar                   5.08    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.08    0.00      0.00    0.00
1983
Total Portfolio:        34.17     5.53    0.80     0.00    30.01    5.53     0.80     0
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
1998              AEF Ram Oil                     1000.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2000               CelTel Uganda                  4000.00      0.00    700.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:      5000.00     0.00    700.00      0.00
-71 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
UGANDA: HIV/AIDS Control Project
Sub.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               Sahevast      Low-
IUoanda     Affica   Income        Development diamond
1999
Ponoilatinn mid-vear (millions)                           21 5       842      2417                    Life expectancy
r.NP nAr canitn fAtlas method. USS)                       32         s 5of      41t
GrNP tAtlas method. USS billions)                          R 8       321        9#8
Averaae annual orowth. 1993-99
Pno lation (14)                                           2 9        2.1        1.9
Labor force fXf                                            27         2.8        2.3     GNP                                 Gross
Moat  year                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~par    primary
Mostrcnt stImate (latest vtravil8t10 19S3-998                                            capita                           n rnilment
Povertv (% of ooculation below naional oovertv line)       44
(Irbstn nonilatiina (% of total cooulatlon)                13         34         31
I Ufr eonectancv at birth tvears)                          42         50         an
Infant mortalitv JDer 1.000 llve births)                   97         92         77
rhild malntitrition tX of children under 51                2f          32        43                 Access to safe water
Access to imoroved water source (# of cooulationl          41         43         64
illitAerat-v 9 ofoaoulation ace 15+1                       38         39         39
Gross orimarv enrollment (%of school-aoe oooulationl      122         78         9Uganda
Maie                                                    12t         as        102                   Low-income group
Femato                                                  114         71         afi
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998       1t99
Economic ratlos
GDP (USS billions)                                         5.3        8.8       6.4
rrnss domestic invretment/GnP                             11 I       1 SO       18.4
Exoorts of loods and servicesiGDP                          8.0       10 3       1113                      Trade
rross domrestic savinas/GnP                                i 0        5.8       4 9
Gross national savinnslGflP                                1 A       134        1n 5
Current accnount halanc/P)9 -PP10 4                                            1t         Domestic
IntA^rst navmants/G:nP                                                0 a       n a      Domestic                       Investment
Total debt/GDP                                            38.2       53.6      54.3       Savings
Total debt serviceaexoorts                                           25.1i S        1
Present value of debt/GDP                                            35.0      27.3
Presnt vatlue of dehtJ/eoorts                                      3WA.8      2S5 3
Indebt8dness
197S-89  1989-99      1998       1999   1999.03
laveraoe annual oawth)
GPr)                                   34        71        5 R        74        ai3                     Uganda
GNP oer r.nita                        0n9        41        2 8        4 B        3I3 ILow-income gou
Eroortsofooodsandservices              1.2      148      -14.9       33.0        BA
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998       1999      Growth of Investment and GDP(%
(% of GDP)
Anrictltiure                                              Si R       44.6      44 4
Indlustrv                                                 1n7        17 f      1786      40
Manijfarltirinn                                          5 9        8.9       8R7       20-
qervices                                                  32 5       37.8      37.8
Private cnnsnrmntion                                      P2.0       84.8      85.2    -20             95   S6   97   9s   go
General nnvernment cnonsumntion                            70         9.8 Pi      9                       GDI    - -GDP
Imoorts of aoods and services                             18.1       19.7      22.9
la verace annual orowthl                    1979-89  1989-99        1996       1999      Growth of exports and imports I%)
Anriculture                                      2.7       3.7        1.9        6.9    60,,
Industrv                                         8 4      12 1       11 .       9 1      40
Manufacturino                                  3.6      13.5       14.4       11.3
Services                                         3 2       8 1        8.8        7 2     20
Private consumDtion                              3.4       6.3        8.6        0.8
General oovernnrent consinmntion                 0.n       8 2        R n       17.4             94   95   96   57 97
GCross dnmpstic investment                      13 1       8 2        3 7        9.n    -20
Imnorts of onods and sarvices                    7 3       9 0        3 1        2 8                    Exports    e` lmports
Gross national nroduct                          3I         7          . 5i8      7 3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators In the countrv tin bold) comoared with its income-oroun averane. If data are missino. the diamond will
he incomnle.te.
- 72 -



Uzanda
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1995     1999      InatIon (%)
Domestic prices                                                                    n o
(% change)                                                                         30
Consumer prices                                      131.0       5.8      -0.2    20
Implicit GDP deflator                           ,   115.4       10.7      4 4
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                       94   95 0e    97   sa
Current revenue                                        5.5      10.3      10.9    -10
Current budget balance                         t.       3        0.9      0.9                   GDPdeflator    O  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                         .      4.a      -5.6      -5.9
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                7      1989      1998      1999      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                             ,     282       4568       49      .500
Coffee                                               276       269      307
Cotton                                       ,.1) 11                      11
Manufactures                                  ,.
Total imports (cif)                                   562      1,411     1,376
Food                                                                              5
Fuel and energy                                       78        84       65
Capital goods                                          ,
Exoort odce index (1995s100)                   ..      92        74        67
ImDort orice index (1995=1001                          79       106       101                  *Exports      UImports
Terms of trade (1995=1001                             117         70       67
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                              1S1979    198t     l9os      1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                         304       034       726      o
Imports of goods and services                         712      18,71     16,34
Resource balance                                     -408    ,1,237    -1,107
Net income                                             -0         -9      -14          *                   i*    *
Net current transfers                                114       539       375
Current account balance                        .      360       -706     -746
Financing items (net)                          ..    342        840       780
Changes in net reserves                               18       -134      -33      i_
Uemo:
Reserves includino aold (USS millionsl         ..      46       750       748
Conversion rate (DEC. locaUSSI                 .,   170.4   1,149.7   1.3620
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998     1999
(USg millions)                                                                     Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            ,    1,903     3,631     3,480
IBRD                                                 24         0         a                     F: 5S
IDA                                                 605      1,971    2,042             E: 644
Total debt service                                               172      179
IBRD                                                  5         0         0
IDA                                                   5        24        25
Composition of net resource nows                                                      D: 385
Official grants                             36      177       433       277                                     B 2,042
Official creditors                                            22Q       188
Private creditors                            ,,       0          1        4
Foreign direct investment                    2        2       200       230           C: 351
Portfolio equity                                      0         0         0
World Bank program
Commitments                                  Q      141       172       267      A -18RD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                       100       242       148      B-IDA    D - Other multilateral  F -Private
Principal repayments                                  4        10        10      C- IMF                     G - Short-term
Netflows                                             96       :31       138
Interest payments                                     6        14        15
Net transfers                                        9Q       217       123
Development Economics                                                                                                919/00
-73 -



Additional
Annex No.: 11
UGANDA HIV/AIDS BRIEF
HlV/AIDS Prevalence Ranking in Sub-Saharan Africa: 17
Baclsgr .uad
M KJninpJhs, -ii ' prevalence among male STI patients increased from 42 percent in 1989 to 46
ncrccnt in 192. p.evalcnce among male STI patients in Kampala declined to 30 percent in 1998. In
i    66 pr  cen of sex workers tested at one rural site were HIV-positive.
> -.  t ;    the epidemic has become increasingly generalized, though in some sites there are
,- 'al H-IV prevalence is declining. In non-urban areas of Uganda, prevalence among antenatal
.I;^tc Aes decreased from 13 percent itn 1992 to 8 percent in 1998. HIV prevalence arnong
uterkatal chinic attendees in Kampala increased from 11 percent in 1985 to 31 percent in 1990;
wi QVever beginning in 1993, HIV prevalence among antenatal clinic attendees in Kampala started to
decline, reaching 14 percent in 1998.
I In 1998, undeT-hfve mortality was 24 percent higher than it would have been without AIDS.
In '995, only 7.6 percent of women ages 20-29, who are most likely to get pregnant, report-ed                         a
;er using a condom.                                                          HP.'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R Prevalence among PregnaLnt
cever using a ondom.                                                                                  MrWomen, Jrban (ercent)
Country Response/Obstacles                                                                            30
>  The Government and people of Uganda should be commended for their efforts in dealing with the      25 
H: VlhI )S epidemic. H-o' Never, the Government needs to pay attention to the fact that HIV            /
prevalence remains high.
>    ,'he Covemnmvnt needs to correct the perception (among leaders and the general public) that the  l-
worst of the epidemic is over. HIV prevalence is high and also generalized in the pop-ulation,     s
neaning that any complacency now could lead to severe setbacks.                                   o
>  Tke CGoverament needs to maintain HIV/AIDS as a priority issue on the agenda of both the central      1sF l%B 1990 IQ  t9A 19 19T
and district levels of government.
I 1he Government should continue developing a strong multisectoral program to cover all sectors and
partoers (including NGOs, which have played an important outreach role).
tn thle health sector, procurement and logistics management problems are serious. Stock-outs of        Hioro
e serwiul commodities, including condoms, drugs for opportunistic infections, and medical supplies,    9000
continue to be experienced on a regular basis. A number of donor-assist-ed programs are coming to an    Soao _
end, To avoid losing momentum, the Government needs to effectively implement its proposed program       6000
for HIV/AIDS.                                                                                           5000
4000)
3000
Yes  No                   3~~~~~~~~~~000
Bank HIViAIDS Activities to Date                                                                       loon  9
Yes      Nio                           19s5 1997 19t9 1991 1993 1995
Iks HiV/AIDS a regular part of our high-level dialogue with govt. and civil society?  4
Does HIVAIDS receive substantive treatmetnt in the CAS or its update?  4
the portfolio bee revie-wed for HIV/AIDS retrofitting?                                            life lxpO withd 2d without
~~~~~~~itgtocopnns                         ..d,.                                 AIDS, 1998 and 2010 grasrs)
Don ll prot inld  h  eesar HIIV/AIDS-mitigation conmponcnts?     unsderweay
Dons the Bank reguiusa  auttend UNAIDS mretings?                    v
Project Name              Approval Date          IDS                $M
First Fleid'h Project         6/23/88           42.5               1.0
STI irojeei                   4/12/94           50.0               50.0
Opportunities                                                                                            a  ID   Xi 40 so ef 70
[ThevFe shiould be identified by the Country Teamt.]
Wthot AMS m   With AiDS
- 74 -



A i-----                 --- F                                                                                                             | IBRD 25052RW
/32-                                             34/                                               36
SUDAN
f                          ''   1~~~~~~~~~~Tho                                    /          2                                                                      4
)\o,oXx MZ't-~ -~~-- <j 0  /                                                                               UGANDA
)'Kbgkg_  iY-meg ri        tt4,;t ~ / KtoSS
4 Oms,g ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ItLor
.ARUk~                                 t 9l;                                                                          <  so'orP R.--  RIVERS
t   A,.ROA,Y                                         R ',ERN                KOTIDOJ  I                                  FALLS
GpAbo                                                                         f     > 1h v;_ \, 1 A3T30R ! {1 \ t O_,,  *    FERRIES
DEMOCRATIC    )~
REPU BLIC                                                                 Jf <64vTks_7+a) ok_ J)._  < _rw-2 ~ lcn /p ! ALT P                            RIMARY BITUMEN ROADS
OFCONGO                   NEBBI*                                                                                    MOROTO                ----  PRIMARY GRAVEL ROADS
I<zGoll         M   . j.dXg   . {    )<;  '. \'           +mAchw:R: su XA<QC!S          <  nk IK  '. fCToLoo'P         UNSURFACED ROADS
Toshw:ddn:  -w_thison  >  RAILROADS
N, .NoikoU                                                            2-
SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES
NK.D-,, .  W m9                                           JmoKa L,           DISTRICT CAPITALS
Lownpo   cm'  'letp  KUMI       7>                      *    ~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL
HOIMA-                                                     'Ne                            A t                    DISTRICT BOUNDARIES'
k-g. .  ~ ~ ~ ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~      -     REGION BOUNDARIES
H    }1 . .   u \, l   )felNorrolooni    *  g .... Ko   sy   TrhK * INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
UWER   Mb                                         ~~~~~           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Diootnmes ,o,oolith DiOriot Copitols. with one
r-t-,-/  t   KiBALE   >  t   K,,,   \   ETt   t ,tLUWER    Mbuir4>,rlirr ,.>    t g 1 ' />            Etcep-or F.rt Porftl is the District Cepitl f Kbhre Di riot
v r   zJ T Nt UYO             6 Blnm o,Kyn                                                    e     b,            /                                                      r   i 
t  )  61FpRT'~                 6                                              * i _              - T.MUNDE  Ktoroooo  KILOMETERSO   50         100         150
PRTA                                      tBo                                 IGAGAj
fff _rKl i-T__ K\.-MILES 0  50         100
K,I-b                     FONdli'' .  KaA|. .-.  RNF    >' 
].r-                         bon;o Buk                      AL T E                                                    KENYA
t h          h  t. w. r o  K     pe:Nd       I.                                                                                  ._,,,,,,AiA A:
TQRhes,d.    myon It  p? o           "'
BUS FNYI                                           C                                                                                  UGnyiudRf l  RWANDA<s   
UKN            > Iois   II: ,,                                                    ,                                                    AN            A  /6
__ eeF _  ._rs6olo4KLE . b^O                                                                                                          K..
K.                 N~~NM   .Okirf    7                                                                                                   ''.CNGO  TANZiIAA~-
0                                                                                                                                 CT-.
on T. B-    eo4.,                                                                                  
40~~~~0                      towr  si
BA       rirI 05,0 O~oo                      TANZANIA
'a,  ~ ~ ~~~~orrws.r                  )n\?h                                                 34-                                               30
JUNE 1998



