Report No. PID9607
Project Name                      Uganda-HIV/AIDS Control Project (@)
Region                            Africa Regional Office
Sector                            HIV/AIDS
Project ID                        UGPE72482
Borrower(s)                       THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
Implementing Agency
Address GOVERNMENT AGENCIES
Uganda AIDS Commission, Plot
No 213 Sentema Rd, Mengo,
P.O. Box 10779,
Uganda
Contact Person: Dr. David N. Kihumuro Apuuli
Tel: +256 41 273 538
Fax: +256 41 258 173
Email: uacnadic@imul.com
Environment Category              C
Date PID Prepared                 December 27, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date          December 4, 2000
Projected Board Date              January 18, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Main sector issues.    Uganda was one of the first countries to be affected
by HIV/AIDS and remains one of the worst affected countries. Since the
onset of the epidemic, about 2.2 million people have been infected,
800,000 have died, and over 1.1 million children have been orphaned.
Currently, AIDS is responsible for 12 percent of annual deaths, surpassing
malaria and other conditions to become the leading cause of death among
the population aged 15-49. The epidemic has forced women, elderly,
children and youths into heading households, forcing children and youths
out of school and into labor force. Since the epidemic mainly affects the
productive age group, its socioeconomic consequences have devastated every
aspect and segment of national development. The HIV/AIDS epidemic affects
women more than men in Uganda. HIV infection rates among girls aged 15-19
is three to six times more than that of boys; and among people aged 20-24,
the rate for women is twice as high. In addition to a greater risk of
being HIV infected, women are also more likely to bear the burden of
caring for the sick and orphans.      However, Uganda stands out as one of
the few countries in Africa that has made progress in reversing the spread
of the epidemic.   Currently, the level of awareness is over 90t in the
general population, and demand for preventive services has increased, with
over 50,000 voluntary counseling and testing (VCT) sessions conducted and
60 million condoms distributed annually. The median age of first sexual
contact has increased by two years among youths aged 15-24, 16.6 for girls
and 17.4 for boys. There has been an overall decline in the HIV
sero-prevalence rates from 18.5w in the early 1990s to 8t in 1999.     The
relative success of Uganda in controlling the spread HIV has been
attributed to a) a lower proportion of 15-19 old males having sex; b) a
higher proportion of 15-19 old males having sex within marriage only; and



c) substantially lower numbers of non-regular sexual partners for all
ages, particularly for the non-married. The relative success has also
been attributed to better social communication strategies, which make more
use of open personal communication networks, leading to enhanced social
capital and cohesion.    Despite Uganda's success, HIV prevalence still
remains unacceptably high at 8t in the adult population, and the extent of
behavioral change is still limited compared to the level of awareness. In
the absence of a cure or preventive vaccine, a further change in sexual
behavior remains the most important approach in preventing HIV infection.
A "social vaccine" including reinforcement of existing social information,
education and communication strategies, with a focus on open personal
networks and social cohesion, needs further refinement and new ones must
be developed. The present services for VCT, sexually transmitted disease
treatment, and provision of condoms remains largely in urban areas,
leaving rural areas under-served. Experiences in Uganda have shown that
where more actors were involved in HIV/AIDS activities, the results are
better. Although 12 line ministries are already implementing HIV/AIDS
control activities, the activities need to be strengthened and expanded
to under-served areas. Thus the challenge is in building capacity in all
sectors and institutions to respond to the epidemic in a coordinated
manner. In addition, orphans and households thrown into poverty due to
HIV/AIDS need care and social support.Government strategy. Uganda's
response has been characterized by a broad partnership involving
government, non-governmental organizations, religious groups, communities,
people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA), and local and international donors.
This was underpinned by openness, commitment and strong leadership from
the highest level of government in addressing the epidemic. As a first
step, the government established the National Committee for the Prevention
of AIDS in 1985 and, in October 1986, set up the AIDS Control Program in
the Ministry of Health to spearhead the national response.With the
realization that HIV/AIDS had ramifications beyond the health sector, the
government adopted a multi-sector approach to the control of HIV/AIDS in
1992 and established the Uganda AIDS Commission (UAC) to coordinate
national policy formulation, provide oversight functions and carry out
advocacy with regard to HIV/AIDS. Further efforts were undertaken by the
government to mobilize and unify the responses to the epidemic at
national, district and community levels. These efforts included:
development of a National Operational Plan (1993-1997), establishment of
12 AIDS Control Programs in line ministries, establishment of District
AIDS Coordination Committees, and strengthening of collaboration and
partnership at all levels, but especially with the non-government
sector.The government has continued refining and improving the
multi-sector approach in order to mainstream HIV/AIDS control activities
within the various line ministries and organizations based on their
mandates. In the Poverty Eradication Action Plan, reduction of HIV
prevalence is identified as a key priority, all line ministries, districts
and organizations are expected to mainstream HIV/AIDS activities. The
Ministry of Health has mainstreamed AIDS control activities into its
sector-wide program, to be financed from different sources via direct
budget support. The current National Strategic Framework 2000/1-2005/6
builds upon the previous AIDS programs, using existing institutions and
implementation arrangements, places HIV/AIDS in a broader context of
social and economic development. The National Strategic Framework
2000/1-2005/6 calls for greater emphasis on community implementation,
improved integration and cross-sector collaboration, encouraging wider
-2 -



stakeholder participation and more effective interventions.The Government
of Uganda has requested access to IDA resources within the framework of
the first phase of the Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program (MAP) for the Africa
Region, approved by the Board of Directors of the World Bank Group on
September 12, 2000. Uganda is eligible for MAP funding in that it has
satisfied the four MAP eligibility criteria:a) Satisfactory evidence of a
strategic approach to HIV/AIDS.    Uganda already has a coherent national,
multi-sectoral strategy and action plan for HIV/AIDS prevention, care and
treatment that has been developed through a participatory approach;b) A
high level HIV/AIDS coordinating body. Uganda has created the Uganda AIDS
Commission, which is directly under the Office of the President, with a
broad representation of key stakeholders from all sectors, including
people living with HIV/AIDS, to oversee and coordinate the implementation
of the National Strategic Framework;c) Government agreement to use
appropriate implementation arrangements.    The government has agreed to
accelerate project implementation by channeling funds directly to civil
society organizations and to communities that would be coordinated at the
district level. In addition, the government has agreed to contract out
important implementation mechanisms, in particular in the areas of
financial management, procurement and monitoring and evaluation; andd)
Government agreement to use and fund multiple implementation agencies.
The government has agreed within the public sector to expand HIV/AIDS
activities to a broad range of ministries, departments and parastatals, as
well as to fund activities undertaken by the private sector, the civil
society organizations including non-government and community-based
organizations, and AIDS service providers. The government has agreed to
further expand HIV/AIDS activities to community level and to support
community-led HIV/AIDS initiatives.
2. Objectives
The project will support the goals of the government of Uganda's National
Strategic Framework for HIV/AIDS that aims to: a) reduce the spread of
HIV infection;b) mitigate the health and socio-economic impact of HIV/AIDS
at individual, household and community levels; andc) strengthen the
national capacity to respond to the epidemic.The Strategic Framework
proposes to attain these goals by financing a multi-sectoral response
including all line ministries, civil society, the private sector and
communities.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
IDA is in a unique strategic position to support the Government of Uganda
HIV/AIDS program including the mobilization of external resources. The
project will bring Uganda:a) Knowledge and lessons learned from
international experiences in AIDS programs;b) IDA's international
experience in the implementation of social funds and in targeted cash
transfers will also add value in the implementation of community led
HIV/AIDS initiatives in general and in the implementation of targeted
support for orphans; and c) A substantial injection of resources and
technical assistance from the international community.
4. Description
This project, under the regional Multi-Country AIDS Program for Africa,
will finance a US$50 million share of Uganda's National Strategic
Framework for HIV/AIDS Activities 2000/1-2005/6. The project will scale
up the existing HIV/AIDS Control Program by mainstreaming program
-3 -



activities into line ministries and other non-health government agencies
at national and district levels, and by making better use of the capacity
of community-led and civil society organizations, including churches,
farmers' associations, trade unions and private businesses. Project
Component 1: Nationally Coordinated Initiatives (US$25 million, 50 percent
of total project costs)Under this component, the project will support HIV-
control activities coordinated by the Uganda AIDS Commission and directly
carried out by different line ministries or central government agencies,
or contracted out to civil society organizations or the private sector.
At appraisal, IDA agreed with the government on the specific actions plans
for the first year of project implementation, to scale up and mainstream
HIV activities at the Uganda AIDS Commission; Ministry of Health; Ministry
of Education and Sports; Ministry of Gender, Labor and Social Development;
Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries; Ministry of Works,
Housing and Communications; Ministry of Defense; Ministry of Internal
Affairs; Ministry of Local Government; Ministry of Public Service;
Ministry of Justice; and other ministries. The ministries without
HIV/AIDS plans will be assisted in drafting the respective action plans
during the first year of project implementation. Each line ministry's
work plan will include HIV/AIDS prevention and mitigation activities for
its staff as well as for the public that it directly serves. Many of
these activities will be contracted at national level but will be directly
benefit districts and communities. For example, diagnostic kits and
pharmaceuticals will be financed under this component but will mostly
benefit district based health services.Project Component 2: District
Initiatives (US$10 million or 20 percent of total project costs)Under this
component, the project will support activities which are directly carried
out by District authorities, or are contracted out to civil society
organizations or to the private sector, including activities to a) raise
awareness among district leaders, teachers, school management teams and
community leaders; b) train and support district and community-based staff
and leaders, including teachers, home-care givers and counselors,
traditional healers and traditional birth attendants, and rural extension
workers; c) provide HIV/AIDS related health promotion and prevention
services at all district hospitals and clinics; d) provide HIV/AIDS
related diagnosis, treatment and care at referral district hospitals; e)
promote community-led and civil society-led HIV/AIDS initiatives and
manage the respective selection, contracting, financing and supervision;
and f) provide HIV-related information, education and communication and
condom distribution to the district work force.Many of the activities
financed under this component will directly support activities carried out
at community level, i.e. advocacy, training, promotion of community led
HIV/AIDS Initiatives.Project Component 3: Community-led HIV/AIDS
Initiatives - CHAIs (US$10 million, 20 percent of total project
costs)Under this component, the project will support community-led
HIV/AIDS control activities directly carried out, or contracted out, by
community-based organizations, such as: a) targeted support to orphans,
guardians of poor orphans and AIDS stricken impoverished households,
including those headed by females, children and elderly due to the death
of spouse, parent or guardian, conditional to families keeping school aged
children in school, for a minimum amount of time. In addition, pre-school
and out-of-school orphans will be supported to attend day care centers and
vocational training; b) community-based information, education and
communication; and c) home-based care.The project operational manual
includes a full menu of eligible sub-projects, a list of sub-projects and
- 4 -



activities which will not be financed under the project, as well as a
description of how to get technical assistance to develop a sub-project,
how to apply for a grant, how sub-projects will be selected and approved,
how funds will be transferred, and how a sample of sub- projects will be
supervised audited and evaluated. UnallocatedThe project has $5 million
IDA credit unallocated, which will be allocated to district initiatives or
community initiatives based on progress review and project needs.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost       50
Total project costs are estimated at US$50 million, including US$21
million in foreign costs and US$29 million in local cost equivalent. The
project will be funded by a US$47.5 million IDA Credit and by US$2.5
million from the government in cash (in addition, the government will
cover taxes and duties associated with imports related to the project).
6. Implementation
Institutional arrangements. The Uganda AIDS Commission (UAC) and its
Secretariat, which is under the Office of the President, will coordinate
the overall National HIV/AIDS program and project activities. The UAC
Director General will be the Project Director, to whom a Project
Coordinator will report. The Project Coordinator will lead a Project
Coordination Team (PCT), which will be contracted to support additional
work generated by project-related management, monitoring and evaluation. A
Project Steering Committee, to be chaired by the Permanent Secretary of
the Office of the President will be established as an advisory board and
include representatives from key sectors and institutions, as well as
representatives from key civil society organizations, including those
which represent people living with HIV/AIDS. The Project Coordinator will
be the Secretary of the Project Steering Committee. A Technical Resource
Network, which is composed of technical staff from different sectors, line
ministries and other agencies, and a Stakeholder Network, which is
composed of representatives of civil society organizations as well as
other multilateral and bilateral agencies, have been established. These
Networks will support the Uganda AIDS Commission to mobilize line
ministries, districts and communities for HIV/AIDS initiatives and to
review technical aspects of annual sector HIV/AIDS plans and evaluation
reports.Line ministries will implement their respective HIV/AIDS plans and
report regularly to the UAC on agreed input and output indicators. The
day to day implementation will be carried out within the existing
structure rather than creating a new structure. Districts will be at the
forefront of project implementation. District HIV/AIDS work plans will
reflect various sector activities to be implemented at the district
level. Line ministries will provide the relevant guidelines,
coordination, training, monitoring and evaluation, and resource
mobilization in line with existing working arrangements with the
districts. A formal contract with agreed input and output indicators will
guide the relationships between districts and the PCT. Each district will
establish a District HIV/AIDS Committee, composed of heads of department,
municipal and town councils, and relevant civil society organizations.
Communities will organize themselves, present their proposals to the
respective district or the Project Coordination Team, and will execute
Community-led HIV/AIDS Initiatives (CHAIs). Communities may want to
- 5 -



contract assistance from civil society organizations to prepare and
implement their sub-projects. Community-led initiatives will be funded
separately from district workplans. Communities will contribute in kind
to sub-project financing with their contribution amounting to at least
five percent of total sub-project costs.Civil Society Organizations --
CSOs (including, non-governmental organizations, religious organizations,
farmers' associations, unions, student associations and private
enterprises) and Private Sector Organizations -- PSOs, will be contracted
to implement project activities. District budgets will include funds
earmarked by the project for CSO and PSO based sub-projects. The UAC and
the Stakeholder Network will organize a process to pre-qualify bonafide
HIV/AIDS civil society organizations. The project will coordinate with
other IDA funded projects and with other HIV/AIDS related project financed
by other bilateral and multilateral organizations. At national level,
coordination will be achieved through the Stakeholder Network and the
Enlarged UNAIDS Thematic Group. At district level, coordination will be
achieved through the District HIV/AIDS Committee. Project
implementation. The project will finance a series of HIV/AIDS plans
presented by line ministries and districts, as well as a large number of
Community-led HIV/AIDS Initiatives (CHAIs). The project will be
implemented in an incremental manner, starting with those ministries and
districts which already have HIV/AIDS workplans. Project coverage will be
scaled up and expanded to more sectors, as the project assists ministries
and districts in strengthening their implementing capacity.Line ministries
and districts will present annually HIV/AIDS plans for the following
fiscal year. The UAC/PCT will coordinate these plans and, when needed,
will provide assistance to improve programs and eliminate duplications. In
each district, a lead civil society organization will promote CHAIs on
behalf of the project. Community beneficiaries i.e. rural or urban
community residents, and community-based organizations will be eligible to
present community-led HIV/AIDS initiatives. CBOs may contract an
Implementing Partner to assist communities in subproject preparation and
processing, and counseling in implementation. The cost of such assistance
will be reimbursable, up to a maximum of 10 percent of total sub-project
costs. There will be a list of "standard sub-projects" for which review,
approval and financing will be streamlined and almost automatic, and a
list of activities which will not be financed under the component.
Communities may present non standard subproject proposals. If one
particular type of non-standard proposal is frequently submitted, it will
become part of the standard list. Civil Society Organizations and Private
Sector Organizations may present HIV/AIDS Initiatives to the UAC/PCT, to
the relevant line ministries or the District Project Coordinators. If
relevant, they will be incorporated into the respective workplans and
budgets.The Project Operational Manual (POM) describes in detail the
project's institutional and implementation arrangements. Project
monitoring, supervision and evaluation. Project monitoring and evaluation
will be based on a broad range of measures, including impact indicators
and more intermediate process and output measures to capture project
performance in the more immediate term. Project impact will be measured
employing data from the HIV sentinel surveillance, baseline and end-line
population-based surveys on knowledge, attitudes, practices and behavior
and service utilization, and special studies commissioned to assess impact
in specific areas not easily addressed by population- based surveys.
Monitoring of the project will employ project-based data, beneficiary
inputs, and program reviews. The UAC/PCT will monitor overall project
- 6 -



implementation, assessing the performance of project implementation as
well as the effectiveness and efficiency of implementation at sub-county,
district and national levels. Line Ministries will monitor their own
activities at the central level and provide the UAC Secretariat/PCT
information on a minimal number of variables on a quarterly basis. Line
ministries will also monitor district implementation within their
respective sector mandates. Civil society organizations and community
based organizations activities will be monitored based on their contracts
and separate analyses will be conducted to assess the performance of these
entities as well. Procurement Procedures. The UAC, line ministries and
districts will procure works, goods and services in relation to the
respective activities, in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines:
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 and revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999), in particular
Section 3.15, Community Participation in Procurement. Consulting services
by firms, organizations, or individuals financed by IDA will be contracted
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised in September
1997 and January 1999). The Government will contract one or more
procurement agents to carry out the procurement of large items packages,
such as condoms, diagnostic kits and pharmaceuticals for the diagnosis and
clinical management of HIV/AIDS, sexually transmitted infections and
opportunistic infections, including tuberculosis. The implementing
agencies will ensure adequate procurement capacity is established as per
the government procurement reforms to carry out procurement within the
respective agencies. The Project Operational Manual describes the
project's procurement and disbursement arrangements in detail.Financial
Management and Disbursement. A Special Account (SA) will be opened and
maintained in a reputable commercial bank. A Project Account will be
opened in local currency in the same commercial bank. Sub-project
accounts will be opened for different implementing agencies.
Disbursements of the project proceeds will initially assume the
traditional disbursement mechanisms for IDA assisted projects. However,
the project will be expected to convert to Project Management Reports
based disbursements mechanism under the Financial Management Initiative
framework in a period not exceeding 18 months. The project will mainly use
statement of expenditures (SOE) through the Special Account to access
Credit funds, while direct payments and Special Commitments will be used
for bulk procurement of goods and services. The project will be audited
by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The auditors will express
separate opinions on both SOEs and SA and follow International Standards
on Auditing. Each implementing agencies will submit quarterly financial
reports to UAC. The PCT will consolidate all the project financial reports
(submitted by the line ministries, districts, civil society organizations
and some larger community based organizations with larger community-led
sub-projects) and prepare the project financial statements for audit
purposes.
7. Sustainability
The project is expected to be sustainable institutionally in the medium
term because it is built upon the strong government ownership and supports
the ongoing and already strong Uganda National HIV/AIDS Program. The
project will scale up the existing program by mainstreaming activities
into all government sectors, civil society, and communities. The project
emphasizes institutional capacity building at national and local levels
- 7 -



that would further enhance the sustainability of the project and its local
sub-projects. As far as its financial sustainability, it is unlikely that
the Government will be able to fully finance the program in the
medium-term. But it is realistic to expect that bilateral and
multilateral development agencies will continue to finance the program
beyond the period of project implementation.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The Government of Uganda has 15 years of experience in undertaking
HIV/AIDS control efforts and has had the best success story in Africa, as
it has halved the incidence of HIV/AIDS over a period of ten years. The
Bank has been a major supporter of the government in the fight against
HIV/AIDS. In addition, the Bank is the largest source of international
financial and technical assistance to HIV/AIDS programs in the world,
financing HIV/AIDS programs in Africa, Latin America, Central and Eastern
Europe, South and East Asia. Lessons learned from both national and
global experiences with HIV/AIDS epidemic have been incorporated in
project design, as follows: a) The major lessons from the Uganda AIDS
control "success story" concern the importance of i) political commitment,
government openness and strong leadership particularly from the Office of
the President and Ministry of Health in addressing HIV/AIDS are critical;
ii) sexual behavior that reduces the number of sexual partners is key;
iii) open personal communication networks for acquiring knowledge about
AIDS and having direct knowledge about people living with HIV/AIDS are key
to changing behaviors, to reinforcing social cohesion and social capital;
and iv) increased use of condoms is important but cannot explain why
Uganda has been more successful than Kenya, Malawi and Zambia in reducing
the spread of the epidemic; b) Prevention of mother to child HIV
transmission and chemo-prophylaxis of opportunistic infections may reduce
the incidence of the disease and delay the progression from HIV infection
to clinical AIDS;   c) Community participation in planning and
implementation, and the inclusion of non-government organizations, such as
community-led organizations and civil society organizations (including
churches, farmers' associations, trade unions, student associations, and
private businesses) could increase coverage of HIV/AIDS-related
activities, widen the scope of services to be provided and increase
sustainability of the program; d) The design of a multi-sector program
requires gaining consensus among key actors early in project design, while
mainstreaming of HIV/AIDS into non-health sectors and implementing
HIV/AIDS activities in a decentralized environment require substantial
capacity building;e) Planning, procurement, distribution and availability
of essential inputs, such as condoms, diagnostic kits, pharmaceuticals and
other medical supplies have to be adequate to allow information, education
and communication to have impact; andf) An adequate HIV/AIDS surveillance
system is essential for effective monitoring and evaluation of the impact
of HIV/AIDS interventions.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The project is not expected to generate any adverse
environmental effects. Possible environmental risks include inappropriate
handling and disposal hazardous medical waste and inadequate management of
the respective disposal sites in urban or peri-urban areas, where domestic
and medical waste may be mixed and where scavenging is a livelihood. The
- 8 -



project will finance training of health care professionals, of traditional
birth attendants and traditional healers, and of community workers
delivering care to HIV/AIDS patients. This training will include
instruction on appropriate separation, transport and disposal of hazardous
medical waste. The project will finance the revision of existing health
sector guidelines on appropriate management of hazardous medical waste at
medical facilities and at disposal sites to include the relevant
dispositions regarding HIV/AIDS.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Alexandre V. Abrantes
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the Infoshop during the week ending
January 5, 2001.
9



