Report No. PID7999
Project Name                     Ethiopia-Conservation and Sustainable...
Use of Medicinal Plants
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Agriculture/Environment
Project ID                       ETGE35147
Borrower                         Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
Implementation Agency            Institute of Biodiversity Conservation and
Research (IBCR)
Address: P.O. Box 30726
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Date of This PID                 July 23, 1999
Project Pre-Appraisal Date       May 3, 1999
Project Appraisal Date           May 7, 1999
Project Board/VP Approval Date   September 21, 1999
A. Background
Country and Sector Background:
Ethiopia, with the second largest population in sub-Saharan Africa, has a GNP
per capita of $110, or one-fourth the average for the Region. Pervasive
poverty is manifested, inter alia, in the highest incidence of malnutrition
and lowest primary school enrollment ratio in the world. In remote areas,
seasonal stress and erratic climatic conditions pose a major risk to food
security and health which is further exacerbated by the isolation of many of
the poor owing to an extremely poor road network.
Ethiopia is characterized by a wide range of ecological, edaphic and
climatic conditions that account for the wide diversity of its biological
resources, both in terms of floral and faunal wealth. The plant genetic
resources of the country exhibit an enormous diversity in medicinal plants.
Many of these species are threatened because of environmental degradation,
deforestation, agricultural expansion and over-harvesting. The danger poses a
significant threat to the well-being of the population, especially the poor,
which has for generations relied on these resources to treat human and
livestock ailments and diseases. The loss from possible plant extinctions
could result in real socioeconomic losses to Ethiopia and be of global
significance.
B. Project Objectives:
The overall objective of this project is to initiate support for
conservation, management and sustainable utilization of medicinal plants for
human and livestock healthcare in Ethiopia. The project's specific objectives
are to: (i) strengthen institutional capacity; (ii) confirm and document
selected commonly used medicinal plants for the treatment of three major
human diseases (tapeworm infections, bronchopneumonia, hypertension) and
three livestock diseases (tapeworm infections, mastitis, dermatophilosis);
(iii) initiate studies for the safe utilization of effective medicinal plant



remedies for these three major human diseases and three livestock diseases;
(iv) assess the economic benefits derived from medicinal plants in human and
livestock healthcare on a national level; (v) develop a national medicinal
plant database; and (vi) support in-situ conservation and management and
initiate ex-situ cultivation of medicinal plants in the Bale Mountains area.
C: Project Description:
The project will be co-financed by the International Development Association
(IDA) and the Global Environment Facility (GEF). The IDA credit will support:
development of a national database of medicinal plants including the plants
used for the control of the 3 major human diseases and 3 livestock diseases,
as well as an inventory of plants identified from the Bale Mountains;
assessment of current levels of usage and economic benefits derived in the
country from use of medicinal plants; training and institutional
strengthening; developing Intellectual Property Rights (IPRs) guidelines for
sharing traditional medicinal knowledge; determining safety and efficacy, and
identifying dosage levels for selected commonly used remedies derived from
plant species; initiate studies for the propagation and cultivation methods
for the selected medicinal plants; and project implementation, monitoring and
evaluation. The GEF grant will support biodiversity conservation and
sustainable management of in-situ medicinal plant resources in and around
the Bale Mountains National Park as a means of reducing harvesting pressure
on wild plants. The GEF grant will also cover the costs of education and mass
awareness campaigns, local training, and pilot farmer-based cultivation
trials of selected threatened medicinal plants in home and community gardens
and boundary and buffer zones of the national park.
The project will include the following three major components:
(1) Institutional Strengthening, Human Resource Development, and Project
Monitoring & Evaluation.
Under this component, the project will support:
(i) strengthening institutional capacity of the Institute of Biodiversity
Conservation and Research (IBCR) - lead implementing agency;
(ii) developing human resource capacity of collaborating institutions:
Department of Drug Research (DDR), School of Pharmacy (SOP), Faculty of
Veterinary Medicine (FVM), National Herbarium (NH), Department of Biology
(DOB), Ethiopian Science and Technology Commission (ESTC), Traditional
Healers Association (THA) for implementing project activities;
(iii) (a) THA to establish a medicinal plant field gene bank and for
organizing a national THA workshop, and (b) ESTC to develop IPRs policy and
guidelines for sharing traditional knowledge; and
(iv) establishment and functioning of the Project Coordinating and Monitoring
Unit (PCMU).
(2) Studies, Research and Data Base Development.
This component will support:
(i) Studies to collect, analyze and interpret quantitative data on
socioeconomic benefits derived from medicinal plants used in human and
- 2 -



livestock healthcare on a national level;
(ii) research on propagation and cultivation methods of selected indigenous
medicinal plants for human and livestock diseases;
(iii) extraction, standardization, safety and efficacy, and dosage testing
and formulation of phytomedicines for 3 human diseases and 3 livestock
diseases; and
(iv) development of a National Medicinal Plant Database.
(3) In-situ Conservation and Sustainable Use in the Bale Mountains Area.
This component will support:
(i) On-site management including: (a) detailed socioeconomic survey and
assessment to: identify villages/users having the greatest impact on wild
populations of medicinal plants through harvesting and other activities, and
identify villagers/farmers for on-farm pilot propagation and cultivation
trials of medicinal plants to remove pressure on wild populations; and (b)
detailed biological survey and assessment of in-situ and ex-situ
conservation; zoning of key areas within the Park and strengthening park
management in collaboration with the World Wildlife Fund (WWF)-Dutch project.
(ii) Development and implementation of appropriate management policy options
and guidelines for sustainable levels of harvesting of medicinal plants
and/or their products.
(iii) Monitoring to assess: (a) impact of harvesting of medicinal plants in
permit areas; (b) impact of harvesting guidelines/management interventions
during implementation period in the park; (c) project interventions in
protecting threatened/rare medicinal plant species; and (d) market and
Traditional Health Practitioner (THP) surveys to determine levels of use
locally, and nationally of plants harvested from Bale Mountains National
Park.
(iv) Pilot farmer-based cultivation trials for a selected number of
threatened and indigenous species in home gardens and boundary and buffer
zones of the national park to: (a) supply local needs; and (b) provide
alternative income generation.
(v) Training of: (a) park administrative and technical staff in the
conservation, management and monitoring of medicinal plants within the park
and adjacent forests; and (b) farmers for pilot propagation and cultivation
trials.
(vi) Education and mass awareness campaigns of the relevance of conservation
and management programs of medicinal plants and importance to Ethiopia's
biodiversity and long-term healthcare needs.
D: Project Financing:
The project will be co-financed by IDA and GEF. The estimated project cost is
US$5.081 million, of which US$0.751 million or 14.8 percent will be funded by
the Government, US$1.798 million or 35.4 percent will be funded by GEF, and
-3 -



the remaining US$2.531 million or 49.8 percent will be funded by IDA.
E: Project Implementation:
A draft Project Implementation Plan (PIP) has been prepared during Pre-
Appraisal. A summary of the implementation arrangements is presented below:
Implementation period: A four-year project period is planned for IDA
supported (LIL) activities, and a five-year period for GEF-funded
conservation activities.
Implementing agency: Institute of Biodiversity Conservation and Research
(IBCR)
Project Management: IBCR will be responsible for the overall project
management, and project monitoring and evaluation. To facilitate overall
project management and coordination and ensure timely implementation of
project activities, IBCR will create a Project Coordinating and Monitoring
Unit (PCMU). The PCMU will coordinate day-to-day project planning,
procurement, disbursement, monitoring and report of all project activities.
The basis of the interactions between IBCR and the collaborating agencies
will be a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU). IBCR would sign an MOU with each
collaborating agency not directly under its control.
F: Project Benefits:
The principal beneficiary population would be the majority of the country's
rural and urban poor that depend on medicinal plants and herbal remedies for
healthcare. These groups will benefit through the dissemination of reliable
information on safety, efficacy and dosage levels of selected herbal
formulations through education public awareness programs. Communities,
including women, poor households, farmers and Traditional Health
Practitioners (THPs), will participate in the decision-making process by
contributing to the identification and implementation of medicinal plant
conservation, management, cultivation and harvesting strategies.
G: Project Sustainability:
The project has the potential to be sustainable if the following are given
sufficient attention:
The Government of Ethiopia (GOE) provides sufficient resources to support the
project's priorities such as upgrading of the Department of Drug Research's
technical capacity, quality control mechanisms are attained, and there is an
improvement in the availability and affordability of herbal drugs for the
treatment of the corresponding human and livestock diseases. Financial
sustainability could be improved through successful cost recovery measures,
increased community participation, and improved efficiency in the use of
available natural resources.
Participatory approaches are designed to reinforce a sense of ownership at
all levels and enhance the efficiency of resource management and contribute
to sustainability. In terms of outcomes, sustainability will depend on
replicability. The full collaboration of THPs and communities in this pilot
- 4 -



phase is required to create the right conditions for later replication in
other regions.
Dissemination of information regarding safe dosages and use of low-cost
phytomedicines in appropriate local languages and media.
H: Project Risks:
Potential project risks, and risk minimization measures considered in the
project include:
(i) Lack of adequate institutional capacity and collaboration for medicinal
plants conservation, management and utilization. To minimize this risk, the
project will provide funds to strengthen capacity of collaborating
institutions.
(ii) Delays in the development of project management capacity of IBCR. This
risk will be minimized through establishment of a PCMU at IBCR with adequate
staff and authority.
(iii) Inadequate research capacity for determining safety, efficacy, dosage
testing and formulation of herbal medicines in human and animal healthcare.
Funds will be provided to upgrade the DDR, SOP and FVM's research facilities
and to improve technical skills of their staff.
(iv) Traditional medicine practitioners will not share knowledge. Support
will be provided to ESTC for developing policy and guidelines for
Intellectual Property Rights (IPRs) in collaboration with THA for sharing the
traditional medicinal knowledge.
(v) Lack of motivation and collaboration of local communities to adopt
sustainable medicinal plants management and harvesting practices in the Bale
Mountains area. Local community outreach and farmers training are included in
the project activities to secure their active collaboration.
I: Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector:
From the Agricultural Research Project in Ethiopia, (Cr. 1521-ET), completed
in 1994: (i) in order to optimize the integration and collaboration of the
different public institutions and agencies and private sector, implementing
institutions should be familiar with IDA's procurement and disbursement
procedures; towards this end, training should be provided to implementing
agencies; (ii) project implementing agencies should be given the financial
authority to manage resources allocated for the components; and (iii)
adequate systems/resources for financial recording, reporting and accounting
must be in place for efficient functioning of any institution and agency.
From WHO project in Ethiopia implemented by DDR: As a first step, the project
was designed to familiarize and build some capacity of DDR to initiate basic
formulation studies. The project essentially worked in isolation with only
limited collaborative links with international laboratories. However,
recently collaborative links have been developed with international
laboratories. In the design of the proposed project, assurance will be
obtained that the DDR continues collaboration with the advanced laboratories.
- 5 -



From UNDP/GEF project in Ethiopia implemented by IBCR: Farmer participation
is essential in germplasm conservation programs and women are key elements in
community-based conservation and management strategies. Successful
collaboration between farmers and researchers is enhanced by good
agricultural extension services. The documentation of germplasm/farmers'
varieties can play an important role in biodiversity conservation and
sustainable use.
From some other related Projects: From the Sri Lanka Conservation and
Sustainable Use of Medicinal Plants Project (Project ID: LK-GE-35828):
questions have been raised by two local NGOs regarding the lack of
protection of information related to the distribution and uses of medicinal
plants, and information collected from practitioners of indigenous medicine.
Because this information is not presently protected from property rights
regimes the data will be available to anyone who may seek to privatize and
profit from the indigenous knowledge of the Sri Lanka people. Public
consultation was missing and legislative protection of medicinal plant
information has not been secured. The proposed project will support ESTC for
developing an IPR guidelines for sharing traditional medicinal knowledge with
the full participation of THA.
From World Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG) review of GEF-supported
biodiversity projects in Africa: (i) biodiversity projects need to deal
effectively with the economic and social pressures on ecosystems; (ii)
integration of biodiversity conservation agenda into the broader national
development agenda is essential; (iii) "ownership" of a biodiversity
conservation agenda should be at both the local and national levels; (iv)
clearly defined goals and objectives are essential to focus on project
efforts, monitor progress and demonstrate impact; (v) government commitment
and funding are essential for the success of biodiversity conservation
projects; and (vi) the problems of biodiversity loss among "abundant" and
cultivated species is a growing concern and need to be addressed. The
proposed project supports socioeconomic studies for effective
implementation; has well focussed goals to support medicinal plant
conservation; and has both local and government support through the
development of Conservation Strategy and Environmental Policy. Further a
Biodiversity Conservation and Development Strategy and Action Plan is being
prepared by IBCR which explicitly recognizes the importance of medicinal
plants.
GEF Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel (STAP) review carried out on
March 4, 1999 acknowledges that this is an innovative project and with
successful implementation would yield many global benefits. It could serve as
a desperately needed model for other areas of the world where populations
depend on wild plants for primary health care needs. The review indicates
that: details regarding methodologies for medicinal plant species selection
and cultivation trials need to be identified during the project development;
greater emphasis should be placed on identification of sustainable harvesting
practices; role of community involvement in project management is crucial;
and a committee of outside experts could add value to the implementation and
management of the project once it is underway.
J: Environmental Aspects:
Environmental Category: A
-6-



The project will focus on documenting the distribution, availability, safety
and efficacy of 6 medicinal plants used for the treatment of 3 major human
diseases and 3 livestock diseases. Every effort will be made to focus on
commonly used and available medicinal plants so as to take the pressure off
endemic and threatened/rare species found in protected areas. Policy and
guidelines will be developed for the sustainable management and harvesting of
threatened/rare medicinal plants in protected areas. The negative
environmental impact is therefore considered to be insignificant.
The project activities focus on documentation and strengthening conservation
and management programs of medicinal plants in the Bale Mountains National
Park. Other activities, such as identification of demonstrable cultivation
practices are small-scale and narrowly focused, and are not likely to cause
major soil disturbance or degradation. Activities will not involve the use of
agro-chemicals or pesticides.
The implementation of the proposed project is not expected to have any
adverse environmental impact. All pilot community-based trials in the Bale
Mountains area will be carried out in collaboration with farmers. If rare
plants are being utilized (as discovered from surveys) then under the project
there are resources for their protection and management, as well as to
attempt cultivation in available lands. There is also under the project a
real opportunity through the proposed planned public awareness and education
programs to get people to use more commonly available plant remedies.
K: Program Objective Categories:
The project will contribute to: Environment/Biodiversity Conservation,
Institutional Building, and Poverty Reduction (through improvement in human
and livestock healthcare).
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Processed by the InfoShop week ending July 30, 1999.
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
-7 -



