Page  1
Document of 
The World Bank 
 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 
 
Report No. 40343-LB 
 
EMERGENCY PROJECT PAPER 
 
FOR A 
 
PROPOSED GRANT 
 
IN THE AMOUNT OF 
 
US$1.0 MILLION 
 
FROM THE TRUST FUND FOR LEBANON 
TO THE 
LEBANESE REPUBLIC 
FOR THE 
EMERGENCY SOCIAL PROTECTION IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT 
PROJECT 
 
August 30, 2007 
 
Human Development Sector 
Middle East and North Africa Region 
 
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of 
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. 
Page  2
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 
(Exchange Rate Effective, July 20, 2007) 
 
Currency Unit 
= 
Lebanese Pound 
1
US$ = 
1,513 
LL 
 
FISCAL YEAR 
January 1 
–
December 31 
 
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS 
 
AMS Administrative 
Manual 
Statement 
DC-FF 
Direct Contribution Fully Funded System 
DPL Development 
Policy 
Loan 
EdL 
Electricité du Liban 
EOSI 
End of Service Indemnity 
EPP 
Emergency Project Paper 
ESIA 
Economic and Social Impact Assessment 
ESPISP 
Emergency Social Protection Implementation Support Project 
FAR Fixed-Asset 
Register 
GDP 
Gross Domestic Product 
GOL Government 
of 
Lebanon 
IC Implementation 
Coordinator 
IMC-SP 
Inter-Ministerial Committee for Social Policy 
ISN 
Interim Strategy Note 
IST Implementation 
Support 
Team 
IT Information 
Technology 
LOU 
Letter of Undertaking 
MIS 
Management Information System 
MOF Ministry 
of 
Finance 
MOIM 
Ministry of Interior and Municipalities 
MOPH 
Ministry of Public Health 
MOSA 
Ministry of Social Affairs 
MPD Multipurpose 
Household 
Survey 
NSSF 
National Social Security Fund 
OP Operational 
Policy 
PHC 
Primary Health Care 
PMT Proxy-Means 
Testing 
RIDPL 
Reform Implementation Development Policy Loan 
RSC Reform 
Steering 
Committee 
SAP 
Social Action Plan 
SME 
Small and Medium Enterprise 
TFL 
Trust Fund for Lebanon 
TOR Terms 
of 
Reference 
 
Vice President: 
Daniela Gressani 
Country Director: 
Joseph P. Saba 
Sector Director: 
Michal Rutkowski 
Sector Manager: 
David Steel 
Task Leader: 
Haneen Sayed 
Page  3
LEBANESE REPUBLIC 
EMERGENCY SOCIAL PROTECTION IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT 
PROJECT (ESPISP) 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA REGION 
EMERGENCY PROJECT PAPER DATA SHEET 
 
Table of Contents 
 
Emergency Project Paper (EPP) Data Sheet .............................................................................1                     
A.  Introduction  ........................................................................................................................3 
B.  Emergency Challenge:  Country Context, Recovery Strategy and  
 
Rationale for Proposed Emergency Project ........................................................................4 
C.  Bank Response:  The Project ..............................................................................................6 
D.  Appraisal of Project Activities ..........................................................................................10 
E.  Implementation Arrangements and Financing Plan ..........................................................11 
F.  Project Risks and Mitigating Measures .............................................................................12 
G.  Terms and Conditions for Project Financing ....................................................................13 
 
 
Annexes
Annex 1:  Detailed Description of Project Components .........................................................14
 
Annex 2:  Results Framework and Monitoring  ......................................................................21 
Annex 3:  Summary of Estimated Project Costs .....................................................................22 
Annex 4:  Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements  .....................................26 
Annex 5:  Implementation and Procurement Arrangements ...................................................27 
Annex 6:  Project Preparation and Appraisal Team Members ................................................34 
 
MAP # IBRD 33433 
 
Page  4
1
LEBANESE REPUBLIC 
EMERGENCY SOCIAL PROTECTION IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT 
PROJECT (ESPISP) 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA REGION 
EMERGENCY PROJECT PAPER DATA SHEET 
 
Date: August 30, 2007 
Country Director: Joseph Saba 
Sector Manager: David Steel 
Sector Director: Michal Rutkowski 
Lending instrument:  Emergency Recovery 
(Grant) 
Team Leader: Haneen Sayed 
Sectors: Other social services (90%); Health 
(10%) 
Themes: Social safety nets (P); Health system 
performance (S) 
Environmental category: C 
Type of Operation:  
New Operation  [X]    Additional Financing  [   ]   Existing Financing (restructuring) [   ] 
Financing type:  Loan [   ]              Credit  [   ]             IDA Grant [  ]              Other [X] 
Project ID: P106489 
Total Amount: US$1 million 
Proposed terms: Grant from the Trust Fund for 
Lebanon (World Bank-executed) 
Expected implementation period: September 6, 
2007 
–
April 30, 2009 
Expected effectiveness date: September 6, 2007 
Expected/revised closing date: April 30, 2009 
Recipient: Lebanese Republic 
Responsible agency: World Bank 
Development Objective
:
The objective of the Emergency Social Protection Implementation Support Project is to accelerate 
and improve the quality of the implementation of the package of social sector reforms presented by 
Lebanon at the Paris III donor conference in the areas of social insurance, safety nets, and health 
expenditures. This will be achieved through the provision of implementation support and capacity 
building for the National Social Security Fund (NSSF), Ministry of Social Affairs (MOSA), and 
Ministry of Public Health (MOPH). Over the medium term, the set of reforms supported by this 
Project will be expanded in order to ensure the transition to a social protection system that provides 
adequate income protection and security to all population groups, while ensuring financial 
sustainability and equity, and minimizing economic distortions.   
 
Short Description
:
The project will: (a) improve the control of expenditures and revenues within the NSSF, as well as 
the quality of services, by setting up an electronic claims processing and a  utilization control system 
and a registration and contributions collection system; (b) ensure financial sustainability of the 
NSSF by identifying the needed set of reform measures to control expenditures and optimize 
revenues; (c) improve the poverty focus of existing or new safety net programs in MOSA by 
developing and piloting a new targeting mechanism; and (d) control health expenditures by the 
MOPH through establishing a utilization review function, developing of hospital admission criteria 
and protocols, implementing hard ceilings on contracts with private hospitals and realigning MOPH 
coverage towards more cost-effective health services and hospital facilities. These activities will be 
achieved through the provision of implementation support to the three entities with a focus on the 
NSSF (70% of the funds).  
Page  5
2
Financing Plan (US$m.)  
Source Local 
Foreign 
Total 
Borrower 
Total IBRD/IDA 
Trust Funds 
Others  
Total  
 
0.47 
 
0.47 
 
0.53 
 
0.53 
 
1.0 
 
1.0 
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m.)  
2008 2009 
 
Total IBRD/IDA 
Trust Funds 
 
0.7 
 
0.3 
 
Does the emergency operation require any exceptions from Bank policies?  
Have these been approved by Bank management?  
Yes [  ]  No [X] 
Yes [  ]  No [   ] 
Are there any critical risks rated “substantial” or “high”?  
Yes [  ]  No [X] 
What safeguard policies are triggered, if any?  
Yes [  ]  No [X] 
Significant, non-standard conditions, if any:  This Grant is Bank-executed as requested by the GOL. 
Exception was sought and approved by the World Bank Managing Director (paragraph 10) 
Page  6
3
A. Introduction 
 
1. 
This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Vice President for the Middle East and North 
Africa Region to provide a grant from the Trust Fund for Lebanon (TFL) in an amount of US$1.0 
million for the Emergency Social Protection Implementation Support Project (ESPISP).   
 
2. 
The project will support the implementation of reforms in the social protection system, as 
part of the broader program of reforms presented to the international community by the 
Government of Lebanon (GOL) in the context of 
the donor’s conference held in Paris (Paris III) 
on January 25, 2007. The GOL program is comprehensive in scope and contains structural, social 
and fiscal reforms. The program was prepared prior to the July 2006 hostilities but was revised in 
light of the social, economic and fiscal impacts that resulted. Key objectives of this program 
include putting the large public debt on a downward trajectory, while simultaneously protecting 
the poor, vulnerable and middle-class segments of the population from negative shocks, and 
ensuring an improvement in social indicators, and avoid any deterioration that might result from 
the hostilities. In this context, a first loan, the Reform Implementation Development Policy Loan 
(RIDPL), focusing on energy reforms, as well as early actions in the areas of social protection and 
business development, was presented to the World Bank Board of Executive Directors on August 
2, 2007. A proposed Reform Implementation DPL II (RIDPL II), to be approved within the 
Interim Strategy Note (ISN) period (see below), continues the Bank's support to the GOL's reform 
program, with an emphasis on the social protection agenda.. 
 
3. 
The social protection agenda to be supported in the second proposed RIDPL is a 
necessity for the successful implementation of other reforms at the macro level, including those 
aiming at improving the fiscal situation of the country. Indeed, the reforms to be implemented by 
the GOL will strengthen income protection systems for the entire population. In addition, the 
reforms will contribute to rationalize government expenditures in the social sectors and to 
improve their effectiveness, while containing the accumulation of implicit liabilities of the NSSF. 
Five principles are guiding the reform program: (i) adequacy of benefits; (ii) affordability and 
financial sustainability; (iii) progressive and transparent redistribution; (iv) security against 
macroeconomic and demographic shocks; and (v) economic and administrative efficiency.  
 
4. 
The social protection reform agenda builds upon the Social Action Plan (SAP) adopted 
by the Lebanese government and upon the analysis and recommendations outlined in the 
Economic and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) carried out by the World Bank in the aftermath 
of the hostilities. The ESIA covers the different social sub-sectors including health, education, 
social protection and social insurance. However, the agenda that will be focused on, for the 
purpose of this grant, will consist of specific actions in the following three major components: 
social insurance, social safety nets, in addition to a health component. The global objective of the 
social insurance component seeks to: (i) define a policy framework for rationalizing and 
expanding coverage; (ii) improve governance and administration within the NSSF; (iii) bring 
about financial sustainability of the three branches of the NSSF, namely:  maternity and sickness 
fund, family allowances fund and end of service indemnity funds; and (iv) strengthen the income 
protection systems for workers (through the reform of the End-Of-Service-Indemnity and 
introduction of a new pension system for private sector workers). The social safety nets 
component aims to improve the poverty focus and its efficiency and effectiveness through: (i) 
institutional strengthening and capacity building for social safety nets and social development; (ii) 
strengthening protection of the disabled; (iii) reform of service delivery arrangements, and 
(iv)designing and implementing a nationwide targeting system. The health sector component is 
mainly addresses the rationalization and control of health expenditures by the MOPH. 
 
Page  7
4
5. 
The Bank and GOL have agreed that the proposed ESPISP will be used to reinforce 
implementation capacity in the NSSF, MOSA, and MOPH. Under Component 1, the grant will 
support the implementation of a new claims and utilization processing system within the NSSF 
(including new protocols for hospital admission), and a new registry and collection processing 
system. It will also support the preparation of a reform program (including the health insurance 
branch) to ensure financial sustainability. Under Component 2 the project will support the: (i) 
development of a proxy-means testing (PMT) targeting formula; (ii) development of an 
operational manual for the new targeting mechanism; (iii) development of an information 
management system; and (iv) piloting of the targeting mechanism. Finally, Component 3 will 
build on the work under Component 1 to (i) develop specific admission criteria and protocols 
within the MOPH; (ii) introduce a utilization review function; and (iii) prepare a plan to realign 
MOPH coverage towards more cost-effective health services and hospital facilities. These 
objectives and components have been confirmed in the Council of Ministers Decision No. 54 
issued on August 27, 2007.   
 
6. 
This grant is being prepared under emergency procedures, as stipulated in the TFL 
(US$70 million, approved by the Board on September 7, 2006). In addition, because of the lack 
of experience in project management, financial management and procurement within the main 
agency implementing the reform (NSSF), the GOL requested that the Bank be responsible for the 
execution of the proposed project.  
 
B. 
Emergency Challenge: Country Context, Recovery Strategy and Rationale for 
Proposed Bank Emergency Project. 
 
7. 
The July 2006 hostilities found Lebanon challenged to cope with its impact due to prior 
chronic problems facing the economy and the social sectors. Tragic human and economic 
impacts
1
have reversed the encouraging economic trend seen in the first half of 2006.  
Lebanon’s 
social insurance and safety net systems were weak in playing an effective protection role. The 
health and education sectors continue to face systemic issues and expenditures are not 
commensurate with outcomes. Unique to the region, Lebanon does not have a pension system for 
private sector workers (what exists is an End-of-Service-Indemnity). While there is a health 
insurance system, it is fragmented, costly and unsustainable. The system has also a coverage 
problem, as only a proportion of the population are formally covered by an insurance scheme, 
meanwhile around 50 percent of the population have no formal insurance and they resort to 
benefit from the MOPH for in-patient coverage. Formal safety nets are small, scattered, and not 
targeted to the poor or vulnerable population. The country relies on its strong confessional-based 
network of social services which play the role of a safety net (NGOs, welfare organizations, 
remittances, etc.) but which are also susceptible to economic or political shocks. The lack of an 
adequate safety net means that the GOL does not have the necessary tools to help absorb shocks 
that might result from economic adjustment measures. 
 
8. 
The Government had started to address social issues in a comprehensive manner prior to 
the summer 2006 hostilities and quickly resumed the agenda once the hostilities abated.
 
The 
1
Over 1,000 people were killed, 5,000 were injured and close to 1 million (a quarter of the population) 
were internally displaced.  Additionally, brain drain accelerated as more than 200,000 people left the 
country.  
Though estimates vary, the Bank’s ESIA measures total direct damage inflicted by the 
hostilities at US$2.0-2.4 billion, with a further US$700-800 million in indirect damage.  More than 
100,000 housing units were damaged or destroyed representing the single largest loss, followed by 
agriculture and irrigation, transport, and health and education facilities. Approximately, 30,000 jobs 
have been permanently lost, adding 3 percent to the unemployment rate. 
Page  8
5
development of the Social Action Plan (SAP) in May/June 2006, as well as individual sector 
strategies, and with the creation of an Inter-Ministerial Committee for Social Policy (IMC-SP), 
were important steps in this direction.  For the past four years, consecutive Lebanese governments 
have been advancing the pension reform agenda, which has lead to a draft pension law currently 
pending in Parliament for its enactment.  The draft law, once enacted by Parliament, will provide 
Lebanon with a fully-funded defined contribution pension system.  
 
9. 
At Paris III, Lebanon presented a social reform plan, which is an integral part of the 
economic reform package that aims to protect low income and vulnerable population groups. The 
proposed reforms are comprehensive, ranging from expanding social insurance (pensions and 
health insurance) by reforming the NSSF, to strengthening the poverty focus of social safety nets 
and public health services.  One of the key issues within the safety net reforms is the creation of a 
targeting mechanism for social assistance which will strengthen the poverty and vulnerability 
focus of the social safety net programs.  This targeting mechanism can also be used for allocation 
of public subsidies to finance health expenditures and income support programs. Segments of 
both the poor and middle class populations will also benefit from the social insurance reforms 
through the introduction of a pension system and more efficient and effective health insurance. In 
addition, the NSSF reforms will gradually lead to the elimination of 
Government’s implicit 
liabilities (e.g., from 83 percent of GDP to 52 percent of GDP, as early as 2015) by reducing 
pension related Government expenditures and transfers to the social security fund. 
 
10. 
ESPISP responds to the Government’s request for emergency funds from the TFL to 
assist the NSSF, MOSA, and MOPH to implement the reform agenda for the social sectors. Due 
to limited institutional capacity in the concerned agencies, GOL has requested that US$1 million 
be allocated from the TFL to initiate the design and implementation of social protection reforms. 
In its letter to the Country Director for Lebanon dated May 12, 2007, GOL also requested that 
this US$1 million grant (forming the initial phase of a reform implementation program) be Bank-
executed. As required by OP 8.00, paragraph 10, clearance was granted by the World Bank 
Managing Director for Bank-execution. The rationale for Bank-execution is as follows: 
 
(i) 
The NSSF lacks the capacity to execute this implementation support program in a 
speedy and efficient manner;  
(ii) 
The NSSF has no prior exposure to World Bank policies, procedures, guidelines, and 
time is of the essence to kick-start and advance implementation of the proposed 
reforms; 
(iii) 
The NSSF is an autonomous institution, and as such there is no viable alternative 
government agency to execute the grant; 
(iv) 
The grant would be limited to technical assistance and very small contracts for start-
up goods; and 
(v) 
Bank-execution will be a measure to mitigate the fiduciary and reputational risks 
inherent in the current situation at the NSSF. 
 
11. 
The proposed grant is consistent with the objectives of the TFL, which is providing 
timely assistance in sectors key to rehabilitation. Despite the difficult circumstances facing 
Lebanon, implementation of the TFL is progressing satisfactorily. From the TFL, a US$30 
million complementary grant to the First Municipal Infrastructure Project, approved in November 
2006, is financing the rehabilitation of basic services in municipalities affected by the hostilities 
and providing technical assistance to the Ministry of Interior and Municipalities.  Meanwhile, a 
US$15 million grant, approved at the end of March 2007, is addressing emergency needs in the 
Page  9
6
water and wastewater sector in the Beka'a valley, an area affected by the hostilities. In an effort to 
facilitate progress on the reform agenda, a US$5 million grant, also approved in March 2007, is 
helping build capacity in the energy sector to accelerate the reforms and restructuring of 
Electricité du Liban (EdL), the national electric utility. In addition, a US$4 million grant, is 
expected to be approved in the first quarter of FY08, and aims to help strengthen public 
expenditure and financial management capacity throughout the Government. Finally, the TFL, 
through IFC, is supporting private sector recovery, this is being done through a US$14 million 
first loss grant to scale up a risk-sharing facility for Lebanese banks (three banks signed an 
agreement in June 2007), and US$1 million in strategic advisory services to Kafalat, the Lebanese 
Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) guarantee agency in Lebanon. 
 
C. 
Bank Response: The Project  
 
1. 
Brief Description
 of Bank’s Strategy of Emergency Support
 
12. 
The ISN outlines the Bank’s proposed support for Lebanon during the next 12-15 
months. The period covered by the ISN is short in appreciation of the current uncertain economic 
and political situation in Lebanon. Bank management expects to submit a new ISN or a full 
Country Assistance Strategy to the Board by October 2008. 
 
13. 
The ISN is anchored in the Government’s medium-term reform program presented at 
Paris III. GOL presented a comprehensive program at Paris III, building on Lebanon’s pre-
hostilities efforts to launch a reform program. However, in Lebanon’s politically charged 
environment, quick and demonstrable first steps towards implementation are key to establishing 
reform momentum. The ISN outlines a transitional framework of technical and financial 
assistance to contribute to this early effort. It emphasizes the medium-term public expenditure 
and social reform agenda, with a particular focus on energy and social protection reforms and 
private sector led growth. It is widely understood in Lebanon and by the international community 
that because of service deficiencies and fiscal drain, quick and demonstrable reform actions in the 
energy and social protection areas are the essential first steps for:  (a) commencing a transition to 
fiscal sustainability over the medium term; (b) garnering support for the Government’s growth 
and social reform agenda; and (c) galvanizing donors to disburse their Paris III pledges to 
underpin reform implementation.  Therefore, the ISN is focused on priority reforms for which 
there is the necessary consensus for early implementation. 
 
2. 
Project Development Objectives 
 
14. 
The objective of the ESPISP is to accelerate and improve the quality of the 
implementation of the package of social sector reforms presented by GOL at the Paris III donor 
conference in the areas of social insurance, safety nets, and health expenditures.  This will be 
achieved through the provision of implementation support and capacity building for the NSSF, 
MOSA, and MOPH. The ESPISP will support the development and implementation, over the 
short term, of key new processes and policies in the three entities. The ESPISP, however, is part 
of a wider medium term reform program that targets six objectives: (i) preparation of a policy 
framework for social insurance and coverage expansion; (ii) improvement of the governance and 
administration of the NSSF; (iii) reforms to guarantee the medium and long terms sustainability 
of the NSSF; (iv) reforms to strengthen income protection programs (pensions and family 
allowances); (vi) putting in place a social assistance system that is able to target safety net 
programs to the most vulnerable population groups; and (vi) controlling costs in MOPH.  These 
reforms will help Lebanon in its transition towards a social protection system that provides 
Page  10
7
adequate income protection and security to all population groups, while ensuring financial 
sustainability and equity, and minimizing economic distortions. 
 
3. 
Summary of Project Components   
 
15. 
The ESPISP will support the implementation of a sub-set of activities from the three 
components of the social protection reform agenda.  This section briefly describes the overall 
objectives of the full reform program, while detailing the activities to be supported under the 
ESPISP.  The choice of these activities was based on implementable priorities over the short 
term, as well as budget availability. If additional resources became available, the implementation 
of other components of the medium-term reform program could start. The exact sequence of the 
wider reform components still has to be defined but it would depend, in part, on the level of 
additional resources that become available. The following table is a summary of the specific 
activities to be financed under the current ESPISP, followed by description of the components. A 
more detailed description of the full reform program and grant activities is provided in Annex 1. 
 
Components and Activities to be Covered Under ESPSIP 
Estimated 
Cost 
(US$million)
Component 1: Modernization of the Social Insurance System 
1. 
Provision of technical assistance for the design and implementation of an electronic 
claims processing and utilization control system. 
2. 
Provision of technical assistance for the design and implementation of a registry of plan 
members and collection of contributions system. 
3. 
Provision of technical assistance to identify and implement measures to secure the 
financial sustainability of the health insurance branch including the refinancing of 
accounts payable and accounts receivable. 
4. 
Capacity building, including training, and project implementation and coordination 
support at the NSSF. 
 
0.7 
Component 2: Strengthening of Social Safety Nets 
1. 
Development of a “proxy-means testing” targeting formula. 
2. 
Development of procedures for a new targeting mechanism and preparation of an 
operational manual that will detail the mechanism for the distribution of benefits to the 
poor and vulnerable. 
3. 
Development of an information management system to support implementation of the 
targeting mechanism, including provision of equipment and software. 
4. 
Provision of technical assistance to carry out testing of the targeting mechanism and 
method of benefit distribution. 
 
0.2 
Component 3: Health Sector Cost Rationalization 
1. 
Provision of technical assistance to introduce a MOPH utilization review function. 
2. 
Provision of assistance in developing 30 inpatient admission criteria within the MOPH. 
3.     Provision of technical support to prepare a plan to realign MOPH coverage towards 
more cost-effective health services and hospital facilities. 
0.1 
Total 1.0 
Page  11
8
Component 1: Modernization of the Social Insurance System. 
(Total US$3.9 million, of 
which proposed under this project US$700,000)
 
16. 
This component has four core subcomponents and its total implementation cost, over a 
period of 3-4 years is estimated at US$3.9 million. The four subcomponents are: (a) preparation 
of a policy framework for social insurance and coverage expansion; (b) improvement of the 
governance and administration of the NSSF; (c) reforms to guarantee the medium and long terms 
sustainability of the NSSF; and (d) reforms to strengthen income protection programs (pensions 
and family allowances). 
 
17. 
Subcomponent A
 is aimed at designing a policy framework for the social insurance 
system that includes defining the mandate of various institutions and coordination arrangements, 
as well as preparing a multi-year program to rationalize and expand coverage. 
Subcomponent B 
will focus on improving policy making, executive, and auditing functions within the NSSF, as 
well as the core business and administrative processes, in the context of the NSSF Master Plan 
(currently under implementation), including the reforms envisaged for the three branches. 
Subcomponent C
 will deal with the reforms necessary to ensure that the NSSF reaches financial 
equilibrium over a period of 5-7 years. This includes assessing the financial situation of the three 
branches managed by the NSSF, identifying policy measures to correct current imbalances 
(including introducing incentives to control costs in the health insurance branch), and estimating 
the unfunded liabilities of the NSSF and the arrears of the government, and agreeing on a 
refinancing plan. Finally, 
Subcomponent D
 will focus on the reform of the End-of-Service 
Indemnity through the implementation of a new Direct Contribution Fully Funded (DC-FF) 
pension system, and the reform of the family allowances. 
 
18. 
The ESPISP will focus on the implementation of activities under subcomponents B and C 
that will cover a period of 18 months at a cost of US$700,000
.
Under 
Subcomponent B
,
the grant 
will support the design and implementation of two key systems: (i) electronic claims processing 
and utilization control systems; and (ii) registry of plan members and collection of contributions.  
For each of these systems, the grant will support (a) a review of the appropriateness of the IT 
systems and software that are being setup in the context of Phase I of the Master Plan; (b) the 
design and implementation of the necessary reengineering of business and administrative 
processes; (c) the identification of needs in terms of staffing and training; and (d) the design and 
implementation of required new IT systems. The implementation of the new claims processing 
system will also require setting up a process to clear the backlog in claims processing. 
 
19. Under 
Subcomponent C
 the grant will support the following activities: (i) an actuarial 
valuation of the health insurance branch; (ii) the estimation of the government arrears with the 
NSSF and the design of a refinancing plan; and (iii) the design of at least three reform options for 
the health insurance branch including an assessment of welfare and fiscal impacts. 
 
Component 2: Strengthening Social Safety Nets 
(Total US$3.3 million, of which proposed 
under this project US$200,000)  
 
20. 
The GOL is planning to undertake a series of measures to improve the poverty focus and 
efficiency and effectiveness of the social safety net programs. The reforms include:  (i) 
institutional strengthening and capacity building for social safety nets and social development; (ii) 
strengthening protection of the disabled; (iii) safety net programs implementation and service 
delivery arrangements; and (iv) strengthening the poverty focus of the social safety net programs. 
 
Page  12
9
21. 
The GOL decided to introduce a targeting mechanism into the social safety net 
interventions. Focusing limited fiscal resources on the most needy is expected to improve 
efficiency and effectiveness of Government programs and thus increase their poverty reduction 
and social inclusion impact. Implementation of targeting will result in a national database of poor 
and vulnerable households in Lebanon, which will serve as a key source of information for 
targeting of various government transfers to Lebanese citizens in need. Introduction of targeting 
is planned in three stages: 
Stage one
:
design of the targeting mechanism and preparation of its 
piloting; 
Stage two
:
testing of the targeting mechanism and method of benefit distribution; and 
Stage three
:
a
national roll out. 
 
22. 
The project will support the first two stages. Specifically, the following activities will be 
supported:  (i) development of the PMT formula (the core formula and filters); (ii) development 
of detailed procedures (work flow processes) for implementation of targeting and preparation of 
an operational manual; (iii) development of an information management system to support 
implementation of the targeting system; (iv) testing of the targeting mechanism and method of 
benefit distribution, including provision of information and communication technology to one of 
the social development centers in districts where the system will be targeted; and (v) evaluation 
of the testing. 
 
Component 3:  Health Sector Cost Rationalization 
(Total US$260,000, of which proposed 
under the project US$100,000)
 
23. 
This component will focus on reforms in the MOPH and its implementation will be 
closely coordinated with Component 1. Component 3 focuses on improving allocative and 
technical efficiency in health spending. Activities under this component include defining 30 
hospital admission criteria and protocols, building institutional capacity for utilization review, 
creating provider community consensus on criteria and protocols, and implementing hard ceilings 
with private and public hospitals. 
 
24. 
The ESPISP will support the implementation of part of Component 3 at an estimated cost 
of US$100,000. More specifically, it will support the following three activities: (i) the 
introduction of a utilization review function within the MOPH; (ii) the development of 30 
admission criteria and protocols (as in the case of the NSSF); and (iii) the preparation of a plan to 
realign MOPH coverage towards more cost-effective health services and hospital facilities.  
 
4. 
Eligibility for Processing under OP/BP 8.0 
 
25. 
GOL has requested that ESPISP be financed from the TFL. The Board Paper for the TFL 
stipulates the use of OP/BP 8.50 for all TFL-funded projects
2
.
OP/BP 8.00 (Rapid Response to 
Crisis and Emergencies), issued in March 2007, now replaces OP/BP 8.50. The proposed Project 
is fully consistent with OP 8.00 criteria, and, in fact, will address the following priorities (as 
2
The TFL Board Paper indicates the following: 
“The preparation of TFL-funded projects would be 
carried out on an accelerated basis using the procedures outlined in OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery 
Assistance) in order to provide near-term recovery assistance. Streamlined procurement and 
disbursement procedures, consistent with Bank guidelines and used in other post-conflict situations, 
would be employed.  Given the Government’s severely strained fiscal position, the Bank would 
finance 100 percent of eligible expenditures under TFL-funded projects. To ensure appropriate 
accountability and transparency in the use of funds, projects would be designed consistent with Bank 
financial management requirements, and accounts would be audited according to Bank guidelines.”
 
Page  13
10 
defined in Paragraph 4 of OP 8.00): (a) establishing and/or preserving human, institutional, and/or 
social capital; (b) assisting with the crucial initial stages of building capacity for longer-term 
reconstruction, disaster management, and risk reduction; and (c) supporting measures to mitigate 
or avert the potential effects of imminent emergencies or future emergencies or crisis in countries 
at high risk. 
 
5. 
Consistency with Country Strategy (CAS or ISN)  
 
26. 
The proposed project is fully consistent with the new ISN for Lebanon, which envisions a 
continuing significant role for the World Bank Group in social sector activities, given its long 
experience in Lebanon and its comparative advantage. The Government requested that the Bank 
play a leading role in assisting in the development of the elements of the social protection reform 
program, and the Bank support is anchored within Pillar 2 of the ISN
3
.
Towards this end, the 
Bank will support implementation of the Government’s comprehensive SAP, developed as part of 
its medium-term reform program. The principal instrument of engagement is the proposed RIDPL 
II, complemented by grant funding from the TFL (this project). 
 
6. 
Expected Outputs and Outcomes 
 
27. 
Progress towards achieving the Project objectives will be measured by the following key 
indicators: 
 
(i) 
An electronic claims processing and utilization control system for the NSSF will have 
been made operational; 
(ii) 
A modern registry system is put in place; 
(iii) An actuarial evaluation of the health insurance branch of the NSSF will have been 
completed and options for reform approved by NSSF Board; 
(iv)  A pilot social safety net mechanism will have been implemented using a robust targeting 
formula. The pilot project will have been evaluated and lessons learned/best practices 
extracted for national roll-out; and 
(v) 
The number of unnecessary hospital admissions will have been reduced (both in NSSF 
and MOPH). 
 
D. 
Appraisal of Project Activities 
 
28. 
Financial Management.
 The proposed Project will be Bank-executed and will therefore 
utilize World Bank systems for all financial management issues. 
 
29. 
Procurement Management.
 The proposed Project will use World Bank Guidelines for all 
procurement activities. While the Bank is responsible for all procurement processing and 
management, the goal is to involve the beneficiary agencies in the procurement process, to allow 
for capacity building, ownership, and relevance of inputs and outputs to reform objectives. 
Details are found in Annex 5. 
 
3
This Interim Strategy Note (ISN) outlines the Bank’s proposed support for Lebanon during the next 
12-15 months. The ISN is anchored in the Government’s medium-term reform program presented at a 
donor conference in Paris in January 2007.  
Page  14
11 
30. 
Policy Exceptions and Readiness. 
No policy exceptions are foreseen. All terms of 
reference for activities to be implemented in the first 12 months will be prepared in the early 
stages of the project, and procurement of goods and selection of consultants can be launched as 
soon as the ESPSIP becomes effective. 
 
31. 
Lessons learned and reflected in the Project design.
 
As far as social insurance and 
NSSF reforms are concerned, experience from other countries reflect the importance of 
streamlined record keeping and automation of business processes for revenues and expenditures 
control, and increased accountability and transparency. For social safety nets, PMT mechanisms 
have been successfully implemented in a number of countries including Mexico, Chile, 
Columbia, Brazil, Sri-Lanka, Georgia, and Armenia. Jordan and Syria are preparing for 
implementation of PMT targeting mechanisms. Experience shows that this mechanism (i) is 
suitable for countries with a relatively large informal sector and seasonality of incomes and where 
income is not an accurate indicator of household welfare; and (ii) delivers good targeting 
outcomes if implemented effectively. Well-designed implementation arrangements appear 
crucially important for the PMT mechanism performance. In other words, each stage of 
implementation should be carefully planned and executed. 
 
E. 
Implementation Arrangements and Financing Plan     
 
32. 
An implementation structure has been agreed between the Bank and the three beneficiary 
agencies. At the NSSF, the World Bank team will liaise directly with the NSSF Director General 
on matters related to implementation of the NSSF activities. The DG in-turn will liaison with the 
NSSF Board as required. An Implementation Support Team (financed by the ESPISP), will 
consist of on-the-ground international and national advisors and specialists to support 
implementation of the reforms. An NSSF Counterpart Technical Task Team which includes 
NSSF technical staff will be established to implement activities within the NSSF and work with 
the international and national specialists. The implementation structure being put in place does 
not change the role, responsibility, or mandate of the NSSF Board, the Director General, or the 
Technical Committee. 
 
33. 
For MOSA and MOPH, implementation will be led by an Implementation Coordinator 
(IC) designated by the respective agency through a ministerial decision, reporting directly to the 
respective Director General (DG), and supported by a technical task team. The World Bank team 
will have a direct relationship with the Office of the Minister (or DG) in implementation of the 
activities. 
 
34. 
Procurement Arrangements.
 
Since the Bank is the executing agency, Bank operational 
and corporate procurement procedures will be followed. Administrative Manual Statement 
(AMS) 15.00 for the 
“Selection and Use of Consultants” and AMS 15.10 for “Corporate 
Procurement” will apply, as well as the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants 
by World Bank Borrowers,” and the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits – May 2004, Revised October 2006”. The beneficiary agencies shall be consulted at 
crucial stages of procurement. Procurement Arrangements are further detailed in Annex 5. 
Contract payments will also be the responsibility of the Bank. Procurement arrangements are 
further detailed in Annex 5. 
 
Page  15
12 
35. 
Financing Plan.
 
The Grant will finance goods, consultants’ services and training. Grant 
proceeds will be allocated to project components as follows: 
 
Component Allocation 
US$ millions 
Beneficiary 
Agency 
1. Modernization of the Social Insurance System 
0.7 
NSSF 
2. Strengthening Social Safety Nets 
0.2 
MOSA 
3. Health Sector Cost Rationalization 
0.1 
MOPH 
Total
1.0  
F. 
Project Risks and Mitigating Measures 
 
36. 
The current political environment makes reform implementation risky and could impact 
the implementation of the proposed ESPISP activities. The Council of Ministers Decision No.54, 
issued with reference to the ESPISP grant and specifying the activities it finances, is a clear 
indication of Government commitment to modernization and reform, and therefore provides some 
mitigation of the inherent risks. Another mitigating factor is the fact that the Social Action Plan 
was drafted prior to the current stalemate, and has gathered consensus among different 
stakeholders. At the NSSF, risks exist with respect to resistance from some representatives at the 
Board of the NSSF, though many Board representatives have indicated support for the ESPISP. 
There has also been very high engagement by the NSSF Director General and his staff in 
development of the ESPISP. The NSSF itself has also put forward its own reform program (such 
as that expressed in the Master Plan) which was approved by its Board and which the ESPISP 
builds upon.  
 
37. 
While there is current reform vigor in Lebanon, capacity at some of the beneficiary 
agencies remains a concern. The Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance have placed social 
reform at the top of their agenda. The beneficiary agencies have all demonstrated the same vigor 
for reform. However, the type and the breadth of reforms envisaged under the project will place 
technical and managerial challenges on those agencies. To mitigate capacity risks, the ESPSIP 
will be Bank-executed, and funds will be utilized to build capacity at the beneficiary agencies. 
The Bank will also provide regular supervision of activities, and will dedicate resources at the 
Lebanon Country Office to undertake day-to-day monitoring and coordination of project 
activities. 
 
38. 
The current security environment increases the risk that delays will occur in attracting 
qualified international advisors and specialists. Close monitoring of the security situation and 
close coordination with the regional security advisor will take place. 
 
39. 
There is also an added risk in the process of building ownership within the beneficiary 
agencies, which may cause implementation delays. Implementation arrangements (Annex 5) call 
for the involvement of these agencies in: (i) identifying needs jointly with the World Bank; (ii) 
reviewing and validating terms of reference; and (iii) monitoring, reviewing, and endorsing key 
decisions arising from consultant deliverables. To mitigate this risk, the proposed ESPISP will 
finance a full-time Project Coordinator to be located at the NSSF to coordinate and follow-up on 
the implementation of all activities (in addition to other full-time national technical specialists). 
Page  16
13 
At MOSA and MOPH, each of these agencies will designate a full-time Implementation 
Coordinator to do the same. Furthermore, the World Bank Lebanon Country office will dedicate 
resources to the management of the agreement, with support from international staff. 
 
G. 
Terms and Conditions for Project Financing 
 
40. 
The Project is financed through a grant made under the TFL, and for each category of 
financing, the disbursement percentage will be 100%. There are no conditions of effectiveness for 
this Project.
 
Page  17
14 
Annex 1 
Detailed Description of Project Components  
 
1.  Component 1:  Modernization of the Social lnsurance System 
Subcomponent A:  Social Insurance Policy Framework and Strategy for the Expansion of 
Coverage. 
 
The existing Inter-Ministerial Committee for Social Policy (IMC-SP) would be mandated to 
develop a National Social Insurance Policy Framework. The Committee working through a high-
level Social Insurance sub-committee would be in charge of defining the mandate of the various 
institutions managing the social insurance programs. This will involve defining the mandate of 
the MOPH, NSSF and MOSA in terms of population coverage, mechanisms to identify and enroll 
different population groups based on the new targeting system developed by the MOSA, and 
mechanisms to subsidize coverage for individuals with limited or no savings capacity 
 
Subcomponent B:  Improving governance and administration. 
The end goal is to review current governance structures and administrative processes to improve 
policy-making, executive, and auditing functions as well as corporate services. In terms of 
governance the goal is to review the composition of the Governing Body, its role and 
responsibilities as well as those of the Executive Director and the Technical Unit, the selection 
mechanisms for the various positions, as well as the arrangements to ensure appropriate 
accountability to plan members and to reduce conflicts of interest. In terms of administration, the 
focus is on reengineering core business process and administrative functions in the context of the 
implementation of the Master Plan and the envisaged reforms to the three branches managed by 
the NSSF. These processes include: registration of plan members, collection and enforcement of 
payment of contributions, reconciliation, payment systems, financing management systems, and 
corporate services. 
 
Three key automated systems that need to be implemented (only two through this grant) are:  (i) a 
centralized system to register and collect contributions; (ii) a system for claims processing and 
utilization control; and (iii) a financial management system based on accrual accounting. For each 
of these systems, it is necessary to review the appropriateness of the IT systems and software that 
are being setup in the context of Phase I of the Master Plan; design and implement the necessary 
reengineering of business and administrative processes; identify needs in terms of staffing and 
training; and design and implement the required new IT systems. The key features of the three 
systems are described below. The current grant will, however, only support the implementation of 
the first and second systems. The distribution of the various activities over time and the costs are 
described in Annex 5. 
 
Registry and collection of contributions
.
The management of the NSSF cannot be improved, 
and various administrative systems cannot be implemented, in the absence of an up-to-date 
computerized system to register plan members, and collect and reconcile contributions.   
 
The Central Register would contain the details of contributors and institutions and, while inert, it 
would inform every other system that is connected to the receipt of contributions and payments to 
third parties (the core business of NSSF). A Central Register would enhance end to-end 
processing that, in turn, will provide NSSF with greater ability to integrate and then interrogate 
data to improve services and overall management. The Central Register will be developed based 
Page  18
15 
on the principles that it will:  (i) be integral to the day-to-day operations of the NSSF by 
becoming the front end to both the payment and the contributions processes; (ii) maintain use of 
unique identifiers for individuals (i.e., using the Lebanese Identity number coupled with the Fund 
Membership number) and institutions; (iii) enable data-entry and updating by Regional Office 
staff of a central database with facility to access information on a national basis; (iv) assist with 
the provision of timely management information on contributions, payments, institutions, 
processing timeliness and workloads etc; (v) link the person to any payments made to or in 
respect of that person and link the person to his/her institution(s) as appropriate; (vi) be flexible 
enough to cater for future changes in legislation and administration (including possibilities such 
as the NSSF gaining responsibility for elements of other Funds); and (vii) include the facility to 
track users who access the system within the NSSF. 
 
In terms of the collection of contributions, the goal is to supplement stronger controls at registry 
(and payments in claims, see below) to better enforce the payment of contributions on the basis of 
deterrence (thus increasing the incidence of voluntary compliance) and risk analysis. A fully 
functioning IT system will help the NSSF to develop better information profiles about those 
failing to meet their contribution obligations. This will allow the NSSF to move toward a targeted 
and more comprehensive review of those institutions that present the highest risk. To reduce the 
risk of fraud within the NSSF all
 IT systems should have “auditing functionality.” The 
development of the new system will involve the adoption of an Integrated Compliance 
Framework that combines pro-active and re-active measures.  A key aspect in the design of the 
new system will be to have mechanisms in place to cross-check the accuracy of contributions.  
There are three aspects which need to be covered under this heading namely:  the accuracy of the 
declarations themselves (i.e., there are no arithmetic errors and the amount of contributions due 
and payable has been assessed correctly by the institution); reconciliation by institutions 
internally, to ensure that the amount they propose to pay as contributions for the period in 
question is in fact, the amount which is due and payable according to the information on the 
declaration forms; actions taken by NSSF to assess the ‘value’ of declarations lodged, to record 
that amount together with the money paid by each institution in the computing system and to use 
a
‘comparison account’ to check whether all money due has been paid.  
 
Claims processing and utilization control systems
.
The NSSF has a range of well-designed 
utilization control mechanisms in place.  The impact of those mechanisms, however, is restricted 
by a variety of issues, including the lack of computerization and timely data on utilization. 
Because of the relative sophistication of the programs already in place, if these implementation 
barriers are overcome it can be anticipated that the programs would achieve significant results 
relatively quickly.  This component will support the following activities:   
 
·
Define requirements and timing for all claims to be submitted electronically and 
introduce programs to assist providers and developers to achieve this. 
·
Introduce an effective electronic claims processing system that gathers data electronically 
from the facilities submitting claims, adjudicates the claim using built-in pre-payment 
triggers and blocks for specific events, and also presents utilization data in a way that 
enables effective review. The system will also have a capacity to record the decisions 
made by the medical controllers and the reasons behind those decisions. The 
sophistication of this system could then be increased over time to detect more subtle 
service misuse issues.  
·
Once the electronic systems are progressing, including electronic claims processing and 
utilization review, restructure the organization to include a utilization review and fraud 
division.  
Page  19
16 
·
Develop additional in-house admission protocols that will enable the medical controllers 
to make consistent decisions (this will be coordinated with the work with the MOPH 
where relevant).   
·
Because the information systems will take time to be set-up (up to 18 months) the 
component will also identify short term measures to ensure that medical controllers are 
available on weekends and holidays, thus preventing the current situation where 
providers display inappropriate admissions when the controllers are not active.   
 
Financial management and accounting systems (not supported by the current grant)
.
This 
activity will focus on the design and implementation of an accrual based Financial Management 
and Accounting System Framework to replace the current cash based accounting system. The 
value of accrual accounting is that it enables managers at the NSSF to make better decisions, 
based on the economic costs of the decisions under consideration, rather than the cash costs as is 
now the case.  This represents a major technical and cultural change for NSSF managers as well 
as financial staff.  The impact of such a shift will also enable more accurate financial statement 
disclosure on the NSSF management of economic assets, as well as its management of the 
contributions provided by the government and the beneficiaries.  Entities which have 
implemented accrual accounting have generally done so in a phased manner, with each phase 
comprising several steps.  The same approach will be followed under this activity.  
 
Indeed, the current system does not provide a comprehensive view of the financial performance 
of the fund.  The Financial Statements do not provide a true picture of assets and liabilities 
(especially regarding administrative operations and NSSF dues) in so far as:  (i) the value of 
claims for payment received but not paid does not appear on the balance sheet; (ii) the cost of 
replacing fixed assets (essential to the collection of contributions and the delivery of services) is 
not reported as a liability; and (iii) the acquisition of fixed assets appears as an increase in 
expenditures without a corresponding increase in the assets worth. Furthermore, the high volume 
of transactions and the absence of a computer-based accounting system necessitate the use of 
global financial transactions on the General Ledger. This reduces the financial transparency and 
accountability through posting important data as off balance sheet items and by obscuring the 
“audit trail” that links a given financial transaction to the primary documents that gave rise to the 
transaction. The accounting system also does not track appropriately the financing of health and 
family allowances expenditures through the surplus of the End-of-Service Indemnity Program.   
 
It is expected that the new accounting system would be operating in parallel to the current system 
within a period of 18 months after the implementation of the grant. Achieving this would require 
changes in legislation as the present law does define that the NSSF has to follow cash accounting.  
Other than the issues related to business processes reengineering, identification, design, procuring 
of the accounting system, staffing and training this component will support the following 
preparatory activities: 
 
·
Assess the impact of the proposed reforms on the financial department and the extent to 
which the data that will be provided is accurate and has been subject to reliable controls; 
·
Design of financial statements and preparation of chart of accounts; 
·
Prepare the standards and practices that will be followed by the NSSF financial 
department for estimating, posting, write-off and depreciation of balances; 
·
Implement changes to existing processing arrangements to ensure that all claims and 
contributions are recorded upon receipt (see two previous components); 
Page  20
17 
·
Create a special task force to process on-hand unpaid claims;  
·
Establish a closing balance for the existing cash-based accounting system; and establish 
an estimated opening balance for cut-over to the proposed accrual-based accounting 
system; 
·
Develop a cost attribution model that will allow indirect costs and overheads to be 
charged to one (or more) of the programs administered by NSSF; 
·
Create a preliminary Fixed Asset Register (FAR); 
·
Review of existing Law and regulations to identify the necessary steps to adopt new 
system and phase out the current one; and  
·
Design, develop and implement the system 
 
Subcomponent C:  Improving the financial sustainability of the NSSF.   
 
This is the key component of the reform program and it involves defining a multi-strategy to 
ensure that over a period of 5 to 7 years the NSSF reaches financial equilibrium. The component 
comprises the following activities tasks:  (i) assessing the financial situation of the health 
insurance branch and defining options for reform; (ii) assessing the unfunded liabilities of the 
EOSI and a refinancing plan; (iii) assessing the amount of government arrears with the NSSF and 
developing a refinancing plan; and (iv) assessing the financing needs of the family allowance 
branch under the status-quo.  Each of these activities is described below, but the current grant will 
only support activities (i) and (iii).      
 
Assessment of the financial situation of the health branch and options for reform
.
The main 
objective of this activity is to identify a set of reforms that will ensure that the health insurance 
branch reaches financial equilibrium while meeting basic principles in terms of design (adequacy, 
affordability, security, robustness, efficiency, and progressive redistribution).  The following 
tasks will be included under this activity: 
 
·
Design and estimation of an actuarial model to assess financial sustainability of the 
NSSF; 
·
Creation of a new, small actuarial unit within the NSSF and transferring the model with 
necessary training; 
·
Design reform options and assess their fiscal and welfare implications. The reform 
programs under consideration will explore policy changes in terms of: (i) structure and 
cost of the basic plan(s); (ii) financing mechanisms; (iii) payment and contracting 
systems; and (iv) quality control systems; and  
·
Estimating government arrears with the NSSF and designing a refinancing plan  
 
Estimating government arrears with the NSSF and refinancing plan
.
A
joint MOF-NSSF 
task force will be set up to validate Government liabilities related to:  (i) unpaid employer 
contributions; (ii) subsidies for drivers; and (iii) the unpaid government share (25%) of Health 
Insurance expenditures. This will first require defining a methodology that involves: describing 
the system; defining critical account areas and materiality thresholds for each area; estimating 
error and “precision;” assessing risks and evaluating internal controls; developing and conducting 
substantive testing procedures (including sampling methodology); and conducting exit interviews.    
In addition, the Task Force will define and agree a funding plan that will allow the Government to 
pay existing liabilities. 
 
Page  21
18 
Estimate unfunded liabilities of the EOSI and refinancing plan (not supported by the 
current grant)
.
The EOSI is accumulating unfunded liabilities as a result of four factors:  (i) the 
lack of a link between the payment of contributions and benefits accrual; (ii) the use of defined 
benefit formulas for part of the indemnity and the fact that arrangements with employers to 
finance the difference between individual savings are not reliable; and (iii) the fact that the end-
of-service indemnity has been lending its surplus to the health insurance and family allowances 
branches; and (iv) the fact that assets used in the calculation of rates of return on the savings on 
individual accounts are not valued at market prices. This activity will prepare preliminary 
estimates of these unfunded liabilities and design a refinancing plan to be agreed between the 
MOF and the NSSF. 
 
Estimate financing needs of family allowance branch (not supported by the current grant). 
The purpose of this task is to estimate how total expenditures related to the family allowance 
branch will evolve over time. The projections will then inform on the level of the pay-roll tax that 
would be required to finance the program and/or the level of budget support. The analysis will 
inform on the affordability of the current program and the need for reforms. 
 
Subcomponent D:   Supporting the reform of income protection programs.   
This an important component in the medium-term reform program of the NSSF. Its two activities 
are described below, although these will not be implemented under the current grant. 
 
Reform of the EOSI and implementation of the fully-funded DC pension system (not 
supported by the current grant). 
This activity will depend on the adoption by Parliament of the 
Draft Law introducing a DC-FF pension system. If approved, the NSSF will need to engage in a 
series of activities to implement the new system that include designing new business processes 
and IT, staffing the different units in charge of managing the system, and providing the necessary 
training. The government will also need to issue a series of regulations including, for instance, 
those related to the provision of disability and survivorship pensions and annuities, and the 
management of assets.     
Reform of the Family Allowance Branch (not supported by the current grant). 
The 
assessment of the financial situation of the branch will inform on the need for reform. This 
activity will then explore alternative options to contain expenditures and will evaluate their 
financial and welfare implications.  
 
Component 2:  Strengthening Social Safety Nets 
 
The Government of Lebanon is planning to undertake a serious of measures to improve the 
poverty focus and efficiency and effectiveness of the social safety net programs. The reform 
includes:  (i) institutional strengthening and capacity building for social safety nets and social 
development; (ii) strengthening protection of the disabled; (iii) reform of service delivery 
arrangements; and (iv) strengthening the poverty focus of the social safety net programs.  
 
In order to strengthen the poverty focus of the safety net programs the Government decided to 
adopt the proxy-means testing method as a targeting mechanism, because it is well-suited to an 
economy characterized by informality and seasonality of economic activities such as the case of 
Lebanon where income is not a good indicator of household welfare and where information on 
incomes is not readily available.  The PMT method introduces transparency and objectivity into 
the eligibility testing and assistance award process.  
 
Page  22
19 
Introduction of targeting is planned in three stages: 
Stage one
:
design of the targeting mechanism 
and preparation of its piloting; 
Stage two
:
testing of the targeting system, and 
Stage three
:
a
national roll out.  The project will support the stages one and two.    
 
The following activities will be implemented:  
 
(i)  
Developing the PMT formula (core formula and filters)
:
Based on the consumption 
aggregate constructed from the 2004 Multipurpose Household Survey (MPS) results and 
through a series of simulations, the PMT formula will be developed. Screening filters (3-
5
observable indicators of household welfare which are strongly correlated with higher 
welfare) will be identified, as well.  
(ii)  
Designing the program to be tested jointly with the targeting system (for instance, 
targeted cash assistance for the poorest households)
:
based on the results of the 2004 
MPS a one tranche cash social assistance program would be designed. The program will 
be targeted to the poorest households in one or several of the poorest districts of Lebanon. 
(iii) 
Developing detailed procedures (work flow processes) for implementation of 
targeting and preparation of an operational manual
:
These would include the 
following key segments: application procedures: procedures for collection of information 
on applicant households for eligibility testing; data entry; verification and cross check of 
information; proxy score calculation and application of filters; the establishment of the 
“
National Registry of
 Applicants for Safety Net Programs”
 (the records all households 
that have been assigned a final proxy score will be entered into the National Registry)
;
award of social benefits and calculation of the benefit amount for cash benefits, and 
procedures for benefit delivery. In addition, the following will be designed: a complaint 
mechanism and monitoring procedures (of internal processes, of beneficiary households 
–
through random checks after they have been awarded the benefit and monitoring of the 
poverty impact). All procedures, and responsibilities and accountabilities will be included 
and described in a detailed operational manual (a book of instructions for the social 
workers, National Registry staff, system administrators, supervisors, benefit delivery 
entities, etc.).  
(iv) 
Building an information management system
:
All business processes, i.e. entire work 
flow will be fully automated: household application, collection of information on 
households necessary to apply the formula and determine eligibility for assistance, 
household data entry, verification, cross checks, calculation of the proxy score, 
application of filters and final determination of the PMT score, calculation of the benefit 
and benefit delivery (electronic transfer to a delivery entity). The system will be built on 
a
stable platform, and will include local area network connection, as well as real time 
connection across various parts of the system.  
(v) 
Testing of the targeting mechanism and method of benefit distribution
:
the Targeting 
mechanism and method of benefit distribution will be tested in one or several districts of 
Lebanon. The testing will require involvement of respective (MOSA) social development 
center. In carrying out the testing the project will provide for one social development 
center: requisite information and communication technology equipment and services 
(computers, connectivity, LAN, etc.); training of social workers, supervisors and MIS 
system administrators; office equipment; printing of application forms and household 
questionnaires; development of public information campaign and printing of information 
materials and evaluation of testing. 
 
Page  23
20 
Component 3:  Health Sector Cost Rationalization.
 
The main goal of this component is to identify and implement policies to rationalize health 
expenditures incurred through the MOPH, through promotion of out-patient and primary care 
services. The MOPH already has a well-developed electronic claims processing system. In 
selected areas that have immediate utilization benefit, such as in utilization review analyses and 
pre-payment blocks for specific trigger events, additional capability will need to be developed. 
The current grant will support the following activities: 
 
·
Develop 30 in-house admission criteria and protocols, as in the case of the NSSF, that 
will enable the medical controllers to make consistent decisions. These should be 
developed jointly with the NSSF where relevant. 
·
Introduce a utilization review function within the MOPH   
·
Develop a plan to realign MOPH coverage towards more cost-effective health services 
and hospital facilities. 
·
Implement hard ceilings of MOPH contracts with private hospitals 
 
Over the medium term, there are other interventions that need to be considered, but will not be 
supported by the current grant. These include introducing mechanisms to reduce the number of 
contracted facilities to ensure that only the appropriate number of facilities for the population is 
contracted and that these are of the highest available quality. There could also be mechanisms to 
push more services to more cost-effective primary care levels, and that patients must be managed 
at a contracted Primary Health Care (PHC) facilities. Clearly, this will depend on the capacity of 
the PHC to take on this function.  
Page  24
21 
Annex 2 
Results Framework and Monitoring 
PDO 
Outcome Indicators 
Use of Outcome Information 
Accelerate and 
improve quality of 
implementation of 
reforms in NSSF, 
MOSA, and MOPH 
as part of the social 
sectors reform 
agenda set under 
Paris III.
 
The new systems targeted by this operation are put into place and are 
functional according to specifications. 
 
Essential components of the overall social sector reform strategies are 
further developed. 
 
Monitor progress of social sector reforms 
under Paris III
 
Intermediate 
Results 
One per 
Component 
Results Indicators for Each Component 
Use of Results Monitoring 
Component One:  
Modernization of 
the Social Insurance 
System. 
 
Complete comprehensive review of hardware and software 
requirements for the new claims and utilization control system, and the 
new register for plan members and contribution collection system to 
ensure consistency with NSSF reforms. 
 
Complete design of software requirements for the claims and utilization 
control IT system, the new register for plan members and the new 
contribution collection system. 
 
Development of training plan and completed training of staff on new 
functions and responsibilities stemming from the business process 
reengineering of claims processing, and administration of registers of 
plan members and contributors.  
 
New guidelines and admission protocols are defined and issued. 
 
Unified identification mechanisms for plan members and contributors 
operational. 
Ensure that the IT systems and software that 
have been already contracted by NSSF are in 
line with the new procedures and requirements 
stemming from the new business process 
reengineering financed by the project.  
 
Ensure that new business process, functions 
and policy objectives are reflected properly in 
the operating systems. 
 
Ensure that NSSF staff is properly trained so 
that the new systems financed by the project 
can begin operation.  
 
Effective control of health expenditures. 
 
The new register of contributors and  plan 
members operates efficiently 
Component Two: 
 
Social Safety Nets
 
Targeting formula developed and approved 
 
Operational manual for implementation of targeting completed 
 
MIS to support the pilot developed and tested 
 
Targeting mechanism tested and evaluated to 
inform and prepare the national roll-out 
Component Three: 
Health Sector Cost 
Rationalization 
 
Utilization review function is introduced in the MOPH which can 
oversee and implement more precise admission criteria to reduce 
unnecessary admissions (paid by MOPH) to facilities public and private 
facilities 
 
Enhanced IT module developed and implemented within the current 
MOPH IT system providing more precision and better tracking 
mechanisms for identifying unnecessary admissions 
 
30 Admission Criteria/Protocols agreed and established by the provider 
community and the MOPH. 
 
Physicians trained in new criteria to encourage better management and 
quality of care 
 
Completed plan to realign MOPH coverage towards more cost-effective 
health services and hospital facilities  
 
Heath expenditures are automated. 
 
Monitoring and rationalization takes place 
effectively. 
 
Numbers of unnecessary admissions reduced 
 
Acceleration of expenditures moderates 
overall 
 
Improved use of claims information for cost 
and quality controls 
Page  25
22 
Annex 3 
Summary of Estimated Project Costs 
(US$ million) 
 
Component 
Total Reform Requirements
4
Grant-Financed 
Modernization of the Social 
Insurance System 
3.90 0.7 
Social Safety Nets 
3.30 
0.2 
Health Sector Cost 
Rationalization 
0.26 0.1 
Total 7.46 
1.0 
4
As explained in paragraph 15 of main EPP text. 
Page  26
2
3
L
e
b
a
n
o
n
E
m
e
r
g
e
n
c
y
S
o
c
i
a
l
P
r
o
t
e
c
t
i
o
n
I
m
p
l
e
m
e
n
t
a
t
i
o
n
S
u
p
p
o
r
t
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
C
o
s
t
i
n
g
o
f
U
S
$
1
M
i
l
l
i
o
n
D
e
t
a
i
l
e
d
C
o
s
t
s
-
C
o
m
p
o
n
e
n
t
1
(
U
S
$
'
0
0
0
)
Q
u
a
n
t
i
t
i
e
s
U
n
i
t
T
o
t
a
l
s
U
n
i
t
2
0
0
7
2
0
0
8
2
0
0
9
T
o
t
a
l
C
o
s
t
2
0
0
7
2
0
0
8
2
0
0
9
T
o
t
a
l
C
o
m
p
o
n
e
n
t
1
-
R
e
f
o
r
m
o
f
t
h
e
S
o
c
i
a
l
I
n
s
u
r
a
n
c
e
S
y
s
t
e
m
1
.
E
l
e
c
t
r
o
n
i
c
c
l
a
i
m
s
p
r
o
c
e
s
s
i
n
g
a
n
d
u
t
i
l
i
z
a
t
i
o
n
c
o
n
t
r
o
l
s
y
s
1
.
I
n
t
e
r
n
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
C
o
n
s
u
l
t
a
n
t
s
I
T
E
x
p
e
r
t
p
e
r
s
o
n
/
w
e
e
k
5
-
-
5
5
2
5
-
-
2
5
.
0
-
-
T
r
a
v
e
l
u
n
i
t
1
-
-
1
1
5
1
5
-
-
1
5
.
0
B
P
R
A
d
v
i
s
o
r
-
C
l
a
i
m
s
p
e
r
s
o
n
/
w
e
e
k
1
2
-
-
1
2
5
6
0
-
-
6
0
.
0
-
-
T
r
a
v
e
l
u
n
i
t
1
-
-
1
1
5
1
5
-
-
1
5
.
0
B
P
R
A
d
v
i
s
o
r
-
U
t
i
l
i
z
a
t
i
o
n
p
e
r
s
o
n
/
w
e
e
k
1
0
-
-
1
0
5
5
0
-
-
5
0
.
0
-
-
T
r
a
v
e
l
u
n
i
t
1
-
-
1
1
0
1
0
-
-
1
0
.
0
H
R
A
d
v
i
s
o
r
p
e
r
s
o
n
/
w
e
e
k
6
-
-
6
5
3
0
-
-
3
0
.
0
-
-
T
r
a
v
e
l
u
n
i
t
1
-
-
1
5
5
-
-
5
.
0
2
.
L
o
c
a
l
C
o
n
s
u
l
t
a
n
t
s
C
l
a
i
m
s
A
d
v
i
s
o
r
(
x
2
)
p
e
r
s
o
n
/
w
e
e
k
3
2
1
6
-
4
8
0
.
7
2
2
1
1
-
3
3
.
6
U
t
i
l
i
z
i
a
t
i
o
n
A
d
v
i
s
o
r
(
x
2
)
p
e
r
s
o
n
/
w
e
e
k
2
0
-
-
2
0
0
.
8
1
6
-
-
1
6
.
0
H
R
A
d
v
i
s
o
r
p
e
r
s
o
n
/
w
e
e
k
5
-
-
5
0
.
7
4
-
-
3
.
5
S
u
b
t
o
t
a
l
2
5
2
1
1
-
2
6
3
.
1
2
.
R
e
g
i
s
t
r
y
o
f
p
l
a
n
m
e
m
b
e
r
s
a
n
d
c
o
l
l
e
c
t
i
o
n
o
f
c
o
n
t
r
i
b
u
t
i
o
n
s
1
.
I
n
t
e
r
n
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
C
o
n
s
u
l
t
a
n
t
s
I
T
E
x
p
e
r
t
p
e
r
s
o
n
/
w
e
e
k
3
-
-
3
5
1
5
-
-
1
5
.
0
-
-
T
r
a
v
e
l
u
n
i
t
1
-
-
1
1
0
1
0
-
-
1
0
.
0
B
P
R
A
d
v
i
s
o
r
-
S
o
c
i
a
l
I
n
s
u
r
a
n
c
e
S
y
s
t
e
m
A
d
m
i
n
p
e
r
s
o
n
/
w
e
e
k
9
-
-
9
5
4
5
-
-
4
5
.
0
-
-
T
r
a
v
e
l
u
n
i
t
1
-
-
1
1
0
1
0
-
-
1
0
.
0
B
P
R
A
d
v
i
s
o
r
-
R
e
c
o
r
d
s
A
d
m
i
n
i
s
t
r
a
t
i
o
n
p
e
r
s
o
n
/
w
e
e
k
6
-
-
6
5
3
0
-
-
3
0
.
0
-
-
T
r
a
v
e
l
u
n
i
t
1
-
-
1
1
0
1
0
-
-
1
0
.
0
2
.
L
o
c
a
l
C
o
n
s
u
l
t
a
n
t
s
H
R
A
d
v
i
s
o
r
p
e
r
s
o
n
/
w
e
e
k
5
-
-
5
0
.
7
4
-
-
3
.
5
S
u
b
t
o
t
a
l
1
2
4
-
-
1
2
3
.
5
3
.
F
i
n
a
n
c
i
a
l
S
u
s
t
a
i
n
a
b
i
l
i
t
y
o
f
H
I
B
r
a
n
c
h
1
.
I
n
t
e
r
n
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
C
o
n
s
u
l
t
a
n
t
s
F
i
n
a
n
c
i
a
l
S
p
e
c
i
a
l
i
s
t
p
e
r
s
o
n
/
w
e
e
k
3
3
5
1
5
-
-
1
5
.
0
-
-
T
r
a
v
e
l
u
n
i
t
1
1
1
0
1
0
-
-
1
0
.
0
2
.
L
o
c
a
l
C
o
n
s
u
l
t
a
n
t
H
e
a
l
t
h
E
c
o
n
o
m
i
s
t
p
e
r
s
o
n
/
w
e
e
k
2
3
.
5
7
-
-
7
.
0
S
u
b
t
o
t
a
l
3
2
-
-
3
2
.
0
4
.
D
e
s
i
g
n
o
f
a
t
l
e
a
s
t
t
h
r
e
e
r
e
f
o
r
m
o
p
t
i
o
n
s
f
o
r
H
I
b
r
a
n
c
h
1
.
I
n
t
e
r
n
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
C
o
n
s
u
l
t
a
n
t
s
-
-
2
.
L
o
c
a
l
C
o
n
s
u
l
t
a
n
t
s
-
-
S
u
b
t
o
t
a
l
-
-
-
0
.
0
5
.
I
m
p
l
e
m
e
n
t
a
t
i
o
n
S
u
p
p
o
r
t
T
e
a
m
1
.
I
n
t
e
r
n
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
C
o
n
s
u
l
t
a
n
t
s
-
-
2
.
L
o
c
a
l
C
o
n
s
u
l
t
a
n
t
s
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
C
o
o
r
d
i
n
a
t
o
r
p
e
r
s
o
n
/
w
e
e
k
2
0
5
2
-
7
2
1
.
2
2
4
6
2
-
8
6
.
4
T
e
c
h
n
i
c
a
l
C
o
o
r
d
i
n
a
t
o
r
(
x
2
)
p
e
r
s
o
n
/
w
e
e
k
4
0
1
0
4
-
1
4
4
0
.
9
3
6
9
4
-
1
2
9
.
6
A
c
t
u
a
r
i
a
l
/
F
i
n
a
n
c
i
a
l
A
d
v
i
s
o
r
p
e
r
s
o
n
/
w
e
e
k
2
0
5
2
-
7
2
0
.
9
1
8
4
7
-
6
4
.
8
S
u
b
t
o
t
a
l
7
8
2
0
3
-
2
8
0
.
8
T
o
t
a
l
4
8
5
2
1
4
-
6
9
9
.
4
Page  27
2
4
L
e
b
a
n
o
n
E
m
e
r
g
e
n
c
y
S
o
c
i
a
l
P
r
o
t
e
c
t
i
o
n
I
m
p
l
e
m
e
n
t
a
t
i
o
n
S
u
p
p
o
r
t
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
C
o
s
t
i
n
g
o
f
U
S
$
1
M
i
l
l
i
o
n
D
e
t
a
i
l
e
d
C
o
s
t
s
-
C
o
m
p
o
n
e
n
t
2
(
U
S
$
'
0
0
0
)
Q
u
a
n
t
i
t
i
e
s
U
n
i
t
T
o
t
a
l
s
U
n
i
t
2
0
0
7
2
0
0
8
2
0
0
9
T
o
t
a
l
C
o
s
t
2
0
0
7
2
0
0
8
2
0
0
9
T
o
t
a
l
C
o
m
p
o
n
e
n
t
2
-
S
o
c
i
a
l
S
a
f
t
e
y
N
e
t
s
1
.
D
e
v
e
l
o
p
m
e
n
t
o
f
P
M
T
t
a
r
g
e
t
i
n
g
f
o
r
m
u
l
a
1
.
I
n
t
e
r
n
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
C
o
n
s
u
l
t
a
n
t
s
-
-
-
-
2
.
L
o
c
a
l
C
o
n
s
u
l
t
a
n
t
s
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
0
.
0
S
u
b
t
o
t
a
l
-
-
-
0
.
0
2
.
D
e
v
e
l
o
p
m
e
n
t
o
f
O
p
e
r
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
M
a
n
u
a
l
1
.
I
n
t
e
r
n
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
C
o
n
s
u
l
t
a
n
t
s
-
-
-
-
2
.
L
o
c
a
l
C
o
n
s
u
l
t
a
n
t
s
P
r
o
g
r
a
m
S
u
p
p
o
r
t
p
e
r
s
o
n
/
w
e
e
k
2
0
5
2
-
7
2
0
.
2
5
5
1
3
-
1
8
.
0
S
u
b
t
o
t
a
l
5
1
3
-
1
8
.
0
3
.
D
e
v
e
l
o
p
m
e
n
t
o
f
M
I
S
1
.
I
n
t
e
r
n
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
C
o
n
s
u
l
t
a
n
t
s
-
-
-
-
2
.
L
o
c
a
l
C
o
n
s
u
l
t
a
n
t
s
M
I
S
F
i
r
m
l
u
m
p
s
u
m
1
-
-
1
4
5
4
5
-
-
4
5
.
0
I
T
C
o
n
s
u
l
t
a
n
t
p
e
r
s
o
n
/
w
e
e
k
8
-
-
8
0
.
5
4
-
-
4
.
0
S
y
s
t
e
m
A
d
m
i
n
i
s
t
r
a
t
o
r
(
x
2
)
p
e
r
s
o
n
/
w
e
e
k
1
6
4
8
-
6
4
0
.
3
7
5
6
1
8
-
2
4
.
0
O
p
e
r
a
t
o
r
(
x
3
)
p
e
r
s
o
n
/
w
e
e
k
3
2
9
6
-
1
2
8
0
.
2
6
1
9
-
2
5
.
6
3
.
E
q
u
i
p
m
e
n
t
I
n
t
e
r
n
e
t
C
o
n
n
e
c
t
i
o
n
m
o
n
t
h
l
y
-
1
2
-
1
2
0
.
6
-
7
-
7
.
2
I
n
t
e
r
n
e
t
I
n
s
t
a
l
l
a
t
i
o
n
u
n
i
t
-
1
-
1
1
-
1
-
1
.
0
C
o
m
p
u
t
e
r
s
u
n
i
t
-
1
0
-
1
0
1
-
1
0
-
1
0
.
0
N
e
t
w
o
r
k
(
2
0
o
u
t
l
e
t
s
)
c
e
n
t
e
r
-
1
-
1
1
.
5
-
2
-
1
.
5
3
.
7
S
w
i
t
c
h
C
e
n
t
e
r
-
1
-
1
0
.
3
-
0
-
0
.
3
3
.
8
M
o
d
e
m
C
e
n
t
e
r
-
1
-
1
0
.
0
5
-
0
-
0
.
1
3
.
9
R
o
u
t
e
r
C
e
n
t
e
r
-
1
-
1
2
.
4
-
2
-
2
.
4
3
.
1
0
N
e
t
w
o
r
k
P
r
i
n
t
e
r
s
P
r
i
n
t
e
r
-
2
-
2
3
-
6
-
6
.
0
3
.
1
1
S
c
a
n
n
e
r
S
c
a
n
n
e
r
-
2
-
2
0
.
5
-
1
-
1
.
0
3
.
1
2
O
f
f
i
c
e
f
u
r
n
i
t
u
r
e
(
d
e
s
k
+
s
h
e
l
v
e
s
)
I
t
e
m
-
1
0
-
1
0
0
.
5
-
5
-
5
.
0
3
.
1
3
S
o
f
t
w
a
r
e
L
i
c
e
n
s
e
U
s
e
r
-
2
0
-
2
0
0
.
3
-
6
-
6
.
0
3
.
1
4
S
e
r
v
e
r
s
C
e
n
t
e
r
-
2
-
2
7
.
5
-
1
5
-
1
5
.
0
3
.
1
5
P
r
i
n
t
i
n
g
a
p
p
l
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
s
F
o
r
m
1
0
0
0
0
0
-
-
1
0
0
,
0
0
0
0
.
0
0
0
0
5
5
-
-
5
.
0
3
.
1
6
P
r
i
n
t
i
n
g
q
u
e
s
t
i
o
n
n
a
i
r
e
s
F
o
r
m
4
0
0
0
-
-
4
,
0
0
0
0
.
0
0
0
5
2
-
-
2
.
0
S
u
b
t
o
t
a
l
6
8
9
3
-
1
6
1
.
1
4
.
P
r
o
v
i
s
i
o
n
o
f
T
A
t
o
c
a
r
r
y
o
u
t
t
e
s
t
i
n
g
o
f
p
i
l
o
t
1
.
T
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
I
T
D
e
p
a
r
t
m
e
n
t
(
4
s
t
a
f
f
x
2
s
e
s
s
i
o
n
s
e
a
c
h
)
l
u
m
p
s
u
m
-
1
-
1
1
-
1
-
1
.
0
I
n
t
e
r
v
i
e
w
T
e
c
h
n
i
q
u
e
s
&
B
u
s
i
n
e
s
s
P
r
o
c
e
s
s
:
-
-
-
-
L
o
c
a
l
C
o
n
s
u
l
t
a
n
t
l
u
m
p
s
u
m
-
1
-
1
1
-
1
-
1
.
0
-
-
T
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
C
o
s
t
s
(
r
o
o
m
,
t
r
a
n
s
p
o
r
t
,
h
o
t
e
l
.
.
2
d
a
y
s
)
p
e
r
s
o
n
-
1
-
1
3
-
3
-
3
.
0
2
.
P
u
b
l
i
c
R
e
l
a
t
i
o
n
s
P
r
i
n
t
i
n
g
o
f
M
a
t
e
r
i
a
l
s
l
u
m
p
s
u
m
-
1
-
1
4
-
4
-
4
.
0
3
.
P
r
o
g
r
a
m
E
v
a
l
u
a
t
i
o
n
P
i
l
o
t
E
v
a
l
u
a
t
i
o
n
p
e
r
s
o
n
/
w
e
e
k
-
-
4
4
2
.
5
-
-
1
0
1
0
.
0
S
u
b
t
o
t
a
l
-
9
1
0
1
9
.
0
T
o
t
a
l
7
3
1
1
5
1
0
1
9
8
.
1
Page  28
2
5
L
e
b
a
n
o
n
E
m
e
r
g
e
n
c
y
S
o
c
i
a
l
P
r
o
t
e
c
t
i
o
n
I
m
p
l
e
m
e
n
t
a
t
i
o
n
S
u
p
p
o
r
t
P
r
o
j
e
c
t
C
o
s
t
i
n
g
o
f
U
S
$
1
M
i
l
l
i
o
n
D
e
t
a
i
l
e
d
C
o
s
t
s
-
C
o
m
p
o
n
e
n
t
3
(
U
S
$
'
0
0
0
)
Q
u
a
n
t
i
t
i
e
s
U
n
i
t
T
o
t
a
l
s
U
n
i
t
2
0
0
7
2
0
0
8
2
0
0
9
T
o
t
a
l
C
o
s
t
2
0
0
7
2
0
0
8
2
0
0
9
T
o
t
a
l
C
o
m
p
o
n
e
n
t
3
-
H
e
a
l
t
h
S
e
c
t
o
r
C
o
s
t
R
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
i
z
a
t
i
o
n
1
.
S
u
p
p
o
r
t
i
n
g
t
h
e
U
t
i
l
i
z
a
t
i
o
n
R
e
v
i
e
w
U
n
i
t
a
t
M
o
P
H
1
.
I
n
t
e
r
n
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
C
o
n
s
u
l
t
a
n
t
s
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
2
.
L
o
c
a
l
C
o
n
s
u
l
t
a
n
t
s
I
T
S
p
e
c
i
a
l
i
s
t
p
e
r
s
o
n
/
w
e
e
k
2
-
-
2
1
2
-
-
2
.
0
S
u
b
t
o
t
a
l
2
-
-
2
.
0
2
.
D
e
v
e
l
o
p
m
e
n
t
o
f
A
d
m
i
s
s
s
i
o
n
s
C
r
i
t
e
r
i
a
1
.
I
n
t
e
r
n
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
C
o
n
s
u
l
t
a
n
t
s
G
u
i
d
e
l
i
n
e
s
A
d
v
i
s
o
r
p
e
r
s
o
n
/
w
e
e
k
7
-
-
7
5
3
5
-
-
3
5
.
0
-
-
T
r
a
v
e
l
u
n
i
t
1
-
-
1
0
1
0
-
-
1
0
.
0
2
.
L
o
c
a
l
C
o
n
s
u
l
t
a
n
t
s
-
P
h
y
s
i
c
i
a
n
(
G
u
i
d
e
l
i
n
e
s
D
e
v
e
l
o
p
m
e
n
t
)
p
h
y
s
i
c
i
a
n
1
0
-
-
1
0
1
1
0
-
-
1
0
.
0
S
u
b
t
o
t
a
l
5
5
-
-
5
5
.
0
3
.
D
e
v
e
l
o
p
P
u
b
l
i
c
-
P
r
i
v
a
t
e
S
t
r
a
t
e
g
y
1
.
I
n
t
e
r
n
a
t
i
o
n
a
l
C
o
n
s
u
l
t
a
n
t
s
H
e
a
l
t
h
E
c
o
n
o
m
i
s
t
p
e
r
s
o
n
/
w
e
e
k
5
-
-
5
4
2
0
-
-
2
0
.
0
-
-
T
r
a
v
e
l
u
n
i
t
1
-
-
1
1
0
1
0
-
-
1
0
.
0
2
.
L
o
c
a
l
C
o
n
s
u
l
t
a
n
t
s
C
o
n
t
r
a
c
t
i
n
g
S
p
e
c
i
a
l
i
s
t
p
e
r
s
o
n
/
w
e
e
k
1
-
-
1
3
3
-
-
3
.
0
3
.
T
r
a
i
n
i
n
g
P
h
y
s
i
c
i
a
n
s
&
C
o
n
t
r
o
l
l
e
r
s
(
6
0
x
1
w
e
e
k
e
a
c
h
)
l
u
m
p
s
u
m
1
-
-
1
1
0
1
0
-
-
1
0
.
0
S
u
b
t
o
t
a
l
4
3
-
-
4
3
.
0
T
o
t
a
l
1
0
0
-
-
1
0
0
.
0
Page  29
26 
Annex 4 
 
Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements  
 
The proposed Project will be Bank-executed, and the managing unit (the Human Development 
Department of the World Bank Middle East and North Africa Region) is responsible for (i) 
preparing TORs, (ii) hiring consultants and procuring goods and services, (iii) reviewing output; 
(iv) managing project budget, and (v) authorizing payment. No specific financial system or bank 
accounts are required to be setup by the GOL for the purpose of Grant. All activities will be 
financed at 100% basis, since counterpart funds are not required.   
 
Page  30
27 
Annex 5 
Implementation and Procurement Arrangements 
 
Introduction 
 
1. The 
ESPISP 
responds to the Government’s request for emergency funds from the TFL to 
assist the NSSF, MOSA, and MOPH in implementing the Government’s reform agenda for the 
social sectors. GOL has also requested that the ESPISP will be Bank-executed and will therefore 
utilize World Bank Guidelines for all procurement activities. While the World Bank is 
responsible for all procurement processing and management, the goal is to involve the beneficiary 
agencies in the procurement process, to allow for capacity building, ownership, and relevance of 
inputs and outputs to reform objectives. 
 
2. 
The objective of the ESPISP is to accelerate and improve the quality of the 
implementation of the package of social sector reforms presented by GOL at the Paris III donor 
conference in the areas of social insurance, safety nets, and health expenditures. This will be 
achieved through the provision of implementation support and capacity building for the NSSF, 
MOSA, and MOPH. 
 
Project Implementation Arrangements
 
3. 
The implementation arrangements for each beneficiary agency are described below.  
 
NSSF
4. 
The institution that is receiving the majority of funds from the project is the NSSF, and is 
where implementation arrangements are more closely defined. The World Bank team will liaise 
directly with the NSSF Director General on matters related to implementation of the NSSF 
activities. The DG in-turn will liaison with the NSSF Board as required. An Implementation 
Support Team (financed by the ESPISP), will consist of on-the-ground international and national 
advisors and specialists to support implementation of the reforms. An NSSF Counterpart 
Technical Task Team which includes NSSF technical staff will be established to implement 
activities within the NSSF and work with the international and national specialists. Through-out 
implementation, activities will also be guided by World Bank staff, both from the Lebanon 
Country Office as well as the Washington Headquarters. The structure for implementation is 
shown in the following diagram. The implementation structure being put in place does not change 
the role, responsibility, or mandate of the NSSF Board, the Director General, or the Technical 
Committee. 
 
Page  31
28 
 
5. 
The Implementation Support Team
 will, 
inter alia,
 undertake the following: (i) Provide 
the technical support needed to plan and carry out, and complete the activities to be financed 
through the ESPISP; (ii) communicate with both international national consultants hired under 
ESPISP and facilitate their access to information and data needed for the execution of their tasks; 
(iii) manage conflicts that might arise in the execution of these contracts; (iv) inform the NSSF 
DG on an agreed regular basis on its activities and progress of implementation; (v) bring 
promptly to the attention of the NSSF DG any decision-making bottle necks that are hindering 
implementation of activities or execution of contracts; (vi) report to the NSSF DG on technical 
issues as required. The IST will have adequate resources to enable it to fulfill its functions and 
would be granted direct access to the Director General and other Heads of Department, through 
the Director General when required. 
 
6. 
The NSSF Counterpart Technical Task Teams
 will be composed of NSSF staff and 
consultants, drawn from the NSSF departments who will be directly implementing the specific 
activities of the Project. The NSSF is expected to form three counterpart tasks teams, 
corresponding to each of the three activities in Component 1 of the Project. These teams will 
report the NSSF DG and will: (i) review and monitor technical inputs from national and 
international consultants; (ii) follow-up on all technical implementation issue; and (iii) liaison 
with the implementation support team staff and report on activity progress. 
 
MOSA and MOPH
:
7. 
For each of the two remaining agencies, MOSA and MOPH, will be led by an 
Implementation Coordinator (IC) designated by the respective agency through a ministerial 
decision, reporting directly to the Director General (DG), and supported by a technical task team, 
allowing the designated IC and task team the time and resources to undertake their duties. The 
World Bank team will have a direct relationship with the Office of the Minister (or DG) in 
implementation of the activities.  
 
NSSF Director General 
Implementation Support Team 
(World Bank Grant-financed) 
 
•
Project Coordinator 
•
3
technical specialists in the main areas of 
reform (IT, Actuarial) 
•
International advisors and specialists 
NSSF Counterpart Task Teams 
NSSF technical staff: 
-
Reviewing and monitoring technical inputs from consultants
-
Following-up on technical implementation issues 
-
Implementing activities in NSSF 
Support 
World
Bank 
Social 
Inter
-
ministerial 
Committee
NSSF Board 
Page  32
29 
Project Supervision and Monitoring
 
8. 
The Bank will designate resources at the Lebanon Country Office to provide day-to-day 
project coordination, under the guidance of the project Task Team Leader. The wider Bank team 
of sector specialists will provide regular support to project activities, as sequenced through the 
Implementation Schedule, and through 3-4 supervision mission that are coordinated with the 
preparation, appraisal, and implementation schedule of the Reform Implementation DLP II. 
 
9. 
Throughout the implementation period of the project, all parties (Bank, NSSF, MOSA, 
MOPH, and MOF) shall each keep confidential and shall not, without the written consent of a 
counterpart party, divulge to any third party any documents, data, or other information of a 
confidential nature. All consultant contracts shall have a specific confidentiality clause stating 
that consultants shall adhere to these same confidentiality arrangements to the Bank and the 
institution for which they are conducting the work (NSSF, MOPH, MOSA, or MOF).
 
Procurement Arrangements
 
10. 
The ESPISP is a Bank-executed operation, where processing of procurement shall be in 
its majority the responsibility of the Bank, and is to follow Bank operational and corporate 
procurement procedures:  
 
·
Administrative Manual Statement 15.00 
–
Selection and Use of Consultants By the 
World Bank For Operational Purposes - March 2007 (AMS 15.00) 
·
Administrative Manual Statement 15.10 - Corporate Procurement – June 2002 (AMS 
15.10) 
·
Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers – May 
2004, Revised October 2006 
·
Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits – May 2004, Revised 
October 2006 
 
11. 
The beneficiary agencies shall be consulted in crucial stages of procurement; in particular 
consultant outputs will be shared simultaneously with the Bank and the direct beneficiary agency. 
The following matrix lists the procurement processing steps and defines the roles and 
responsibilities of the respective parties:  
Page  33
30 
 
Processing Step 
World Bank 
NSSF 
MOSA 
MOPH 
Identify Needs 
Jointly with 
beneficiaries
 
Jointly with 
World Bank
 
Jointly with 
World Bank 
Jointly with 
World Bank 
Update Procurement 
Plan (PP) 
 
The PP shall be prepared 
during Appraisal of the 
Grant, in close 
consultation with the 
beneficiary agency 
WB 
Procurement 
Specialist will 
draft initial PP 
and will update 
PP as needs 
arise 
Notified Notified 
Notified 
Preparation of Terms of 
Reference (TORs) 
 
During implementation, 
the WB will prepare the 
TORs in  batches, and 
launched in accordance 
with the project 
implementation plan, and 
readiness of the 
beneficiary agency 
Draft and 
Finalize 
 
Review and 
validation by the 
NSSF DG, 
supported by the 
Implementation 
Support Team, 
within 10 business 
days of receiving 
TORs
 
Review and 
validation by 
MOSA, 
within 10 
business days 
of receiving 
TORs 
Review and 
validation by 
MOPH, within 
10 business 
days of 
receiving 
TORs 
Contracting (advertising, 
short-listing, evaluation, 
selection, contracting 
Conduct and 
finalize, 
supported by 
the 
Implementation 
Support Team, 
as needed 
Review and 
validate short list 
Review and 
validate short 
list 
Review and 
validate short 
list 
Implementation/Contract 
Supervision 
 
The World Bank shall 
liaise with the beneficiary 
agency with respect to 
contract supervision. Flow 
of information shall be 
maintained to update on 
progress and discuss 
implementation issues 
Contract 
management, 
oversight, and 
acceptance 
(interim and 
final) 
Review, monitor, 
and follow-up by 
Technical Task 
Team(s) 
 
NSSF DG to 
endorse key 
decisions arising 
from consultant 
deliverables, after 
appropriate 
consultation with 
the NSSF Board 
and other relevant 
government 
agencies 
Review, 
monitor, and 
follow-up by 
IC 
 
Minister (or 
DG) to 
Endorse key 
decisions 
arising from 
consultant 
deliverables 
Review, 
monitor, and 
follow-up by 
IC 
 
Minister (or 
DG) to 
Endorse key 
decisions 
arising from 
consultant 
deliverables 
Implementation Schedule and Procurement Plan
 
12. 
The following chart provides the draft implementation schedule and the draft 
procurement plan for all ESPISP activities. The schedule will be updated periodically as needed 
to account for changing requirements. 
Page  34
31 
 
Page  35
3
2
Page  36
3
3
Page  37
3
4
Page  38
35 
Annex 6 
 
Project Preparation and Appraisal Team Members 
 
Haneen Sayed 
Lead Operations Officer, Task Team Leader 
Ghassan Alkhoja 
Sr. Information Officer 
David Robalino 
Sr. Economist/Pensions Specialist 
Aleksandra Posarac 
Sr. Economist/Social Safety Net Specialist 
Robert Bou Jaoude 
Sr. Financial Management Specialist 
Sara Gonzalez Flavell 
Sr. Counsel 
Jean-Charles de Duravar  
Sr. Counsel 
John Langenbrunner 
Sr. Health Economist 
Lina Fares 
Procurement Specialist 
Firas Raad 
Health Specialist 
Celine Gavach 
Operations Analyst 
Mouna Couzi 
Sr. Program Assistant 
Afifa Alia Achsien 
Sr. Program Assistant 
Sophie Urnechlian 
Program Assistant 
Nada Abou Rizk 
Team Assistant 
Anca Mataoanu 
Pensions Consultant 
Page  39
Page  40
