Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  09/09/2007 
Report No.:  AC3079
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Lebanon 
Project ID:  P106489 
Project Name:  Lebanon Emergency Social Protection Implementation Support Grant 
Task Team Leader:  Haneen Ismail Sayed 
Estimated Appraisal Date: July 20, 2007 
Estimated Board Date: August 31, 2007 
Managing Unit:  MNSHD 
Lending Instrument:  Emergency Recovery 
Loan 
Sector:  Other social services (90%);Health (10%) 
Theme:  Social safety nets (P);Health system performance (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
0.00
0.00 
Environmental Category: C - Not Required 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [X] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [X] 
No [ ] 
2. Project Objectives 
The objective of the Emergency Social Protection Implementation Support Project is to 
accelerate and improve the quality of the implementation of the package of social sector 
reforms presented by donor?s conference held in Paris (Paris III) on January 25, in the 
areas of social insurance, safety nets, and health expenditures. This will be achieved 
through the provision of implementation support and capacity building for the National 
Social Security Fund (NSSF), Ministry of Social Affairs (MOSA), and Ministry of Public 
Health (MOPH). Over the medium term, the set of reforms supported by this Project will 
be expanded in order to ensure the transition to a social protection system that provides 
adequate income protection and security to all population groups, while ensuring 
financial sustainability and equity, and minimizing economic distortions.   
 
3. Project Description 
The grant will support the following activities:  
 
Component 1: Modernization of the Social Insurance System (US$0.7 million)  
 
1. 
Provision of technical assistance for the design and implementation of an 
electronic claims processing and utilization control system.  
Page  2
2. 
Provision of technical assistance for the design and implementation of a registry 
of plan members and collection of contributions system.  
 
3. 
Provision of technical assistance to identify and implement measures to secure the 
financial sustainability of the health insurance branch including the refinancing of 
accounts payable and accounts receivable.  
 
4. 
Capacity building, including training, and project implementation and 
coordination support at the NSSF.  
 
Component 2: Strengthening Social Safety Nets (US$0.2 million)  
 
1. 
Development of a ?proxy-means testing? targeting formula.  
 
2. 
Development of procedures for a new targeting mechanism and preparation of an 
operational manual that will detail the mechanism for the distribution of benefits to the 
poor and vulnerable.  
 
3. 
Development of an information management system to support implementation of 
the targeting mechanism, including provision of equipment and software.  
 
4. 
Provision of technical assistance to carry out testing of the targeting mechanism 
and method of benefit distribution.  
 
Component 3: Health Sector Cost Rationalization (US$0.1 million)  
 
1. 
Provision of technical assistance to introduce a MOPH utilization review 
function.  
 
2. 
Provision of assistance in developing 30 inpatient admission criteria within the 
MOPH.  
 
3. 
Provision of technical support to prepare a plan to realign MOPH coverage 
towards more cost-effective health services and hospital facilities.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The consultants will be working in Beirut, at the key premises of NSSF, MOPH and 
MOSA. There will also be close coordination with the Ministry of Finance, as well as the 
Prime Minister?s office.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Ms Maria Sarraf (MNSSD) 
Ms Laila Al-Hamad (MNSSD) 
 
Page  3
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
 X 
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
Not Applicable   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
Not Applicable   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
Not Applicable   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
Not Applicable   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
Not Applicable   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
Not Applicable   
Page  4
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
N/A 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
N/A 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
N/A 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
N/A 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
N/A 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
N/A 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Ms Haneen Ismail Sayed 
09/08/2007 
Environmental Specialist: 
 
 
Social Development Specialist 
 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Sector Manager: 
Mr David J. Steel 
09/10/2007 
Comments:   
