Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3221 
Project Name 
Lebanon Emergency Social Protection Implementation Support 
Project 
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Sector 
Other social services (90%); Health (10%) 
Project ID 
P106489 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF LEBANON 
Implementing Agency 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
August 30, 2007 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
July 23, 2007 
Date of Board Approval 
September 7, 2007 
Country and Sector Background 
 
1. 
The July 2006 hostilities found Lebanon challenged to cope with its impact due to prior 
chronic problems facing the economy and the social sectors. Tragic human and economic 
impacts have reversed the encouraging
 economic trend seen in the first half of 2006. Lebanon’s 
social insurance and safety net systems were weak in playing an effective protection role. The 
health and education sectors continue to face systemic issues and expenditures are not 
commensurate with outcomes. Unique to the region, Lebanon does not have a pension system for 
private sector workers (what exists is an End-of-Service-Indemnity). While there is a health 
insurance system, it is fragmented, costly and unsustainable. The system has also a coverage 
problem, as only a proportion of the population are formally covered by an insurance scheme, 
meanwhile around 50 percent of the population have no formal insurance and they resort to 
benefit from the Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) for in-patient coverage. Formal safety nets 
are small, scattered, and not targeted to the poor or vulnerable population. The country relies on 
its strong confessional-based network of social services which play the role of a safety net 
(NGOs, welfare organizations, remittances, etc.) but which are also susceptible to economic or 
political shocks. The lack of an adequate safety net means that the Government of Lebanon 
(GOL) does not have the necessary tools to help absorb shocks that might result from economic 
adjustment measures. 
 
2. 
The GOL had started to address social issues in a comprehensive manner prior to the 
summer 2006 hostilities and quickly resumed the agenda once the hostilities abated.
 
The 
development of the Social Action Plan in May/June 2006, as well as individual sector strategies, 
and the creation of an Inter-Ministerial Committee for Social Policy (IMC-SP), were important 
steps in this direction. For the past four years, consecutive Lebanese governments have been 
advancing the pension reform agenda, which has lead to a draft pension law currently pending in 
Parliament for its enactment. The draft law, once enacted by Parliament, will provide Lebanon 
with a fully-funded defined contribution pension system for private sector workers. 
 
Page  2
3. At 
the
 donor’s conference held in Paris (Paris III) on January 25, 2007, Lebanon 
presented a social reform plan, which is an integral part of the economic reform package that 
aims to protect low income and vulnerable population groups. The proposed reforms are 
comprehensive, ranging from expanding social insurance (pensions and health insurance) by 
reforming the National Social Security Fund (NSSF), to strengthening the poverty focus of social 
safety nets and public health services. One of the key issues within the safety net reforms is the 
creation of a targeting mechanism for social assistance which will strengthen the poverty and 
vulnerability focus of the social safety net programs. This targeting mechanism can also be used 
for allocation of public subsidies to finance health expenditures and income support programs. 
Segments of both the poor and middle class populations will also benefit from the social 
insurance reforms through the introduction of a pension system and more efficient and effective 
health insurance. In addition, the NSSF reforms will gradually lead to the elimination of 
Government’s implicit liabilities by reducing pension related Government expenditures and 
transfers to the social security fund. 
 
4. 
The Emergency Social Protection Implementation Support Project (ESPISP) responds to 
the Government’s request for emergency funds from the Trust Fund for Lebanon (TFL) to assist 
the NSSF, the Ministry of Social Affairs (MOSA), and Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) to 
implement the reform agenda for the social sectors. Due to limited institutional capacity in the 
concerned agencies, GOL has requested that US$1 million be allocated from the TFL to initiate 
the design and implementation of social protection reforms. As requested also by the GOL, the 
Grant will be Bank-executed.   
 
Objectives 
 
5. 
The objective of the ESPISP is to accelerate and improve the quality of the 
implementation of the package of social sector reforms presented at Paris II, in the areas of social 
insurance, safety nets, and health expenditures. This will be achieved through the provision of 
implementation support and capacity building for the NSSF, MOSA, and MOPH. Over the 
medium term, the set of reforms supported by this Project will be expanded in order to ensure the 
transition to a social protection system that provides adequate income protection and security to 
all population groups, while ensuring financial sustainability and equity, and minimizing 
economic distortions.   
 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
6. 
Since the end of the hostilities last summer, the Bank has been working closely with the 
Government at all levels and across several ministries to lay out the reform program for the 
social sector, which will also be the basis for which Lebanon sought substantial donor support to 
its economy following the devastation from the hostilities during Paris III. Most of the emphasis 
has been placed at the short-term measures to essentially initiate the reform process and builds 
on the endorsed measures back in July 2006.   
 
7. 
Furthermore, the Bank brings extensive experience in terms of implementing sector 
reform in difficult settings, which help lay sound foundations for sustainable reform over the 
longer term. Bank involvement in the social sector is also expected to send a strong signal to 
Page  3
other donors to support the effort and to leverage additional resources for technical assistance 
and facilitate donor coordination, through the Bank’s unique convening power. 
 
8. 
Finally, the Bank and Lebanon have a long-standing relationship in the social sector, both 
in investment support and sector reform. The Bank has been engaged in several social projects in 
Lebanon such as the Community Development Project initiated by the Bank in 2001 and several 
education projects. Another operation in the social sectors is the HIV/AIDs project. The Bank is 
currently supporting the GOL with an IDF grant covering different activities including the 
critical function of disease surveillance. 
 
Description 
 
9. 
The grant will support the following activities:  
 
Component 1: Modernization of the Social Insurance System 
(US$0.7 million) 
 
1.  Provision of technical assistance for the design and implementation of an electronic claims 
processing and utilization control system. 
2.  Provision of technical assistance for the design and implementation of a registry of plan 
members and collection of contributions system. 
3.  Provision of technical assistance to identify and implement measures to secure the financial 
sustainability of the health insurance branch including the refinancing of accounts payable 
and accounts receivable. 
4.  Capacity building, including training, and project implementation and coordination support at 
the NSSF. 
 
Component 2: Strengthening Social Safety Nets
 (US$0.2 million) 
 
1.  Development of a “proxy-means testing” (PMT) targeting formula. 
2.  Development of procedures for a new targeting mechanism and preparation of an operational 
manual that will detail the mechanism for the distribution of benefits to the poor and 
vulnerable. 
3. Development of an information management system to support implementation of the 
targeting mechanism, including provision of equipment and software. 
4.  Provision of technical assistance to carry out testing of the targeting mechanism and method 
of benefit distribution. 
 
Component 3: Health Sector Cost Rationalization 
(US$0.1 million) 
 
1.  Provision of technical assistance to introduce a MOPH utilization review function. 
2.  Provision of assistance in developing 30 inpatient admission criteria within the MOPH. 
3.  Provision of technical support to prepare a plan to realign MOPH coverage towards more 
cost-effective health services and hospital facilities. 
 
Page  4
Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
Special Financing 
1.0 
 Total 
1.0 
 
Implementation 
 
10. 
An implementation structure has been agreed between the Bank and the three beneficiary 
agencies. At the NSSF, the World Bank team will liaise directly with the NSSF Director General 
(DG) on matters related to implementation of the NSSF activities. The DG in-turn will liaison 
with the NSSF Board as required. An Implementation Support Team (financed by the ESPISP), 
will consist of on-the-ground international and national advisors and specialists to support 
implementation of the reforms. An NSSF Counterpart Technical Task Team which includes 
NSSF technical staff will be established to implement activities within the NSSF and work with 
the international and national specialists. The implementation structure being put in place does 
not change the role, responsibility, or mandate of the NSSF Board, the Director General, or the 
Technical Committee.  
 
11. 
For MOSA and MOPH, implementation will be led by an Implementation Coordinator 
(IC) designated by the respective agency through a ministerial decision, reporting directly to the 
respective Director General (DG), and supported by a technical task team. The Bank team will 
have a direct relationship with the Office of the Minister (or DG) in implementation of the 
activities. 
 
12. 
Procurement Arrangements.
 Since the Bank is the executing agency, Bank operational 
and corporate procurement procedures will be followed. Administrative Manual Statement 
(AMS) 15.00 for the “Selection and Use of Consultants” and AMS 15.10 for “Corporate 
Procurement” will apply, as well as the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants 
by World Bank Borrowers,” and the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits – May 2004, Revised October 2006”. The beneficiary agencies shall be consulted at 
crucial stages of procurement. Contract payments will also be the responsibility of the Bank. 
 
Sustainability 
 
13. 
Project funds will be mainly allocated towards supporting reform implementation at the 
NSSF, and a number of actions are being taken to ensure sustainability:  
 
·
The implementation mechanism is being setup to involve NSSF, MOPH and MOSA 
management and technical staff through the cycle of the development of terms of 
reference and the monitoring and validation of deliverables; 
·
Project funds will be used to undertake capacity building at the NSSF, through provision 
of training and organizational development;  
·
TOR’s for local full-time consultants and short-term international consultants will include 
provisions for transfer of knowledge. This would provide for a mechanism to carry 
Page  5
reform momentum forward after project closing and to facilitate transfer of the necessary 
skills to NSSF; and  
·
Similarly, for MOSA and MOPH the project will be implemented with staff from those 
two ministries, who will be appointed by Ministerial Decree (and supported by ministry 
staff). All consultancies will carry training and knowledge transfer provisions. 
 
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
14. 
As far as social insurance and NSSF reforms are concerned, experience from other 
countries reflect the importance of streamlined record keeping and automation of business 
processes for revenues and expenditures control, and increased accountability and transparency. 
For social safety nets, PMT mechanisms have been successfully implemented in a number of 
countries including Mexico, Chile, Columbia, Brazil, Sri-Lanka, Georgia, and Armenia. Jordan 
and Syria are preparing for implementation of PMT targeting mechanisms. Experience shows 
that this mechanism (i) is suitable for countries with a relatively large informal sector and 
seasonality of incomes and where income is not an accurate indicator of household welfare; and 
(ii) delivers good targeting outcomes if implemented effectively. Well-designed implementation 
arrangements appear crucially important for the PMT mechanism performance.  
 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
4.01) [ 
] 
[X] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[X] 
Physical Cultural Resources (
OP/BP 4.11
)
[
]
[X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OP
/
BP
4.10)
 
[
]
[X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
7.60)
*
[
]
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
7.50)
 
[
]
[X] 
Contact point 
Contact: Haneen Ismail Sayed 
Title: Lead Operations Officer 
Tel: 5367+229 
Fax:  
Email: Hsayed@worldbank.org 
Location: Beirut, Lebanon (IBRD) 
 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  6
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
