Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3150 
Project Name 
Lebanon Emergency Social Protection Implementation Support 
Project 
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Sector 
Other social services (90%);Health (10%) 
Project ID 
P106489 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF LEBANON 
Implementing Agency 
World Bank 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
May 29, 2007 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
July 17, 2007 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
July 31, 2007 
1. 
Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Key development issues 
 
The summer 2006 hostilities had tragic human effect,
1
while reversing the encouraging economic 
trend seen in the first half of the year
.
Thou
gh estimates vary, the Bank’s Economic and Social 
Impact Assessment
 
(ESIA) measures total direct damage inflicted by the hostilities at $2.0-2.4 
billion, with a further $700-800 million in indirect damage. More than 100,000 housing units 
were damaged or destroyed representing the single largest loss, followed by agriculture and 
irrigation, and transport. Furthermore, approximately 30,000 jobs have been permanently lost,
2
adding 3 percent to the unemployment rate. The hostilities, while disrupting the economic 
activity, have accentuated the problems in the social sectors and highlighted their historical 
neglect.
3
The Government of Lebanon (GOL)’s Paris III program commits it to a comprehensive and 
ambitious program of structural, social and fiscal reforms. Key to its success is placing the large 
public debt on a downward trajectory, while simultaneously protecting the poor, vulnerable and 
middle-class segments of the population from negative shocks, and ensuring that social 
indicators do not deteriorate. Indeed, improving social outcomes such as in the health sector is a 
priority of the Social Action Plan (SAP) presented in Paris. A Development Policy Loan (DPL) 
will help GOL reform its weak social protection system (social insurance and social assistance) 
to provide adequate protection not only for the difficult transition period ahead but also for the 
1
Over 1,000 people were killed, 5,000 were injured and close to 1 million (a quarter of the population) were 
internally displaced. Additionally, brain drain accelerated as more than 200,000 people left the country. 
2
At its peak it is estimated that job losses reached 120,000 during the hostilities. 
3
Same as above. 
Page  2
medium term, and to improve health and social outcomes at a time of fiscal constraints. The DPL 
builds upon the analysis and recommendations made in ESIA.
4
Key Sector Issues 
 
The analytical work undertaken under by the ESIA has highlighted the institutional problems and 
limited absorptive capacity of key social sector ministries. These problems prevent the 
Government from effectively undertaking reform initiatives to ensure the well being and 
livelihood of the citizens.  Major sector issues existed prior to the hostilities and which have been 
made even more apparent after the hostilities. These include: 
 
The social insurance system for instance in Lebanon is fiscally unsustainable, inefficient and 
inequitable
.
The system operates under fragmented institutional arrangements and outside a 
comprehensive framework for social protection. Seven public institutions offer, implicitly or 
explicitly, social insurance programs including: the National Social Security Fund (NSSF), the 
Ministry of Public Health (MOPH), the Fund for Civil Servants, the Fund for the Military, the 
Fund for Teachers, and two funds for Security Forces. There is little coordination between their 
policies and in the case of the MOPH and the NSSF the mandates regarding population coverage 
and the use of public subsidies have not been clearly defined. In general, the design of the 
insurance programs is ad-hoc, and this compromises their financial sustainability while 
generating problems in terms of technical and allocative efficiency and a potentially regressive 
redistribution of public subsidies 
 
No effective social safety nets system is in place in Lebanon to protect the most vulnerable.  
Lebanon is in need of a modern and robust safety net system focused on equity, social inclusion 
and unity. The Government has identified social safety net reform as one of its priorities. It is 
aware of the many challenges it faces and it is committed to addressing them. In the medium 
term, the reform of the social safety net is expected to bring about an integrated set of 
diversified, flexible and poverty focused programs, delivered efficiently, and effectively.  
 
The MOPH’s expenditures are highly skewed towards hospital-based specialized care and 
expensive drugs reflecting overall spending patterns in the country. Seventy-nine (79) percent of 
the 2005 MOPH budget (286 billion LBP out of 360 billion LPB) was spent on hospitalization 
and drugs with less than five percent spent on primary health care services. Furthermore, primary 
health care services have been under-utilized by the population at large (only 16.8 percent use 
these services according to recent surveys) and core public health functions of the MOPH 
remained under-funded and under-developed.    
 
The proposed reform program 
 
The GOL, with the assistance of the World Bank, is implementing a Social Protection Reform 
Program composed of three clusters: (i) social insurance; (ii) social safety nets; and (ii) public 
health. The social insurance cluster focuses on governance, administrative and financial reforms 
4
See draft chapters on health, education, social safety nets, pensions and labor (World Bank, November 2006). 
Subsequently in January 2007, the GOL convened workshops at the Grand Serail on three of the social sectors 
(health, education, and safety nets) which further developed the reform agendas for these sectors. 
Page  3
of the NSSF; developing a policy framework for health insurance and rationalizing policies in 
terms of social insurance coverage; and implementation of the new pension system. The social 
safety net cluster focuses on institutional strengthening and capacity building for social safety 
nets; strengthening the poverty focus of social safety net programs (in particular by establishing a 
targeting mechanism); strengthening protection of the disabled; and rearrangement of service 
delivery in Ministry of Social Affairs (MOSA). The third cluster focuses on rationalizing health 
expenditures, revitalizing primary healthcare, scaling up national immunization efforts and 
strengthening the core public health function of disease surveillance. 
 
The Bank will support these reforms through a DPL which will be accompanied by a package of 
assistance to support implementation of the agreed upon reforms and conditions. The 
implementation support (IS) would be provided primarily to the NSSF, and secondly to MOSA 
and MOPH.  There will also be indirect support to the Technical Secretariat of the Inter-
Ministerial Committee for Social Policy.  
 
This grant is being prepared under emergency procedures, like other projects financed through 
the LTF (US$70 million, approved by the Board on September 7, 2006). 
 
Rationale for Bank involvement
 
Since the end of the hostilities last summer, the Bank has been working closely with the 
government at all levels and across several ministries to lay out the reform program for the social 
sector, which will also be the basis for which Lebanon sought substantial donor support to its 
economy following the devastation from the hostilities during Paris III.  Most of the emphasis 
has been placed at the short-term measures to essentially initiate the reform process and builds 
on the endorsed measures back in July 2006.   
 
Furthermore, the Bank brings extensive experience in terms of implementing sector reform in 
difficult settings, which help lay sound foundations for sustainable reform over the longer term.  
Bank involvement in the social sector is also expected to send a strong signal to other donors to 
support the effort and to leverage additional resources for technical assistance and facilitate 
donor coordination, through the Bank’s unique convening power.  
 
Finally, the Bank and Lebanon have a long-standing relationship in the social sector, both in 
investment support and sector reform.   The Bank has been engaged in several social projects in 
Lebanon such as the Community Development Project (CDP) initiated by the Bank in 2001.  
This operation seeks to improve the living conditions and economic status of disadvantaged 
communities in Lebanon. The operation consists of four different prongs: (i) providing small-
scale assistance to poor communities in the areas of health and education; (ii) initiating capacity-
building and micro-credit; (iii) creating new special social programs targeting disadvantaged 
sub-populations in Lebanon; and (iv) improving monitoring and evaluation capacities.   Another 
related operation is in the area of HIV/AIDs. The Bank is currently supporting the GOL with an 
IDF grant covering different activities including the critical function of disease surveillance.  The 
public health reform initiatives included in the DPL project would reinforce the existing 
surveillance work supported by the IDF grant. 
 
Page  4
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The objective of the proposed project is to accelerate the implementation of reforms that are 
being proposed under the DPL by enhancing the capacity in the NSSF and the other agencies 
implementing the DPL (MOSA, MOPH).  
 
3. Preliminary 
description 
 
As an initial step for the coming 12 months, the following key areas will be initially supported:   
 
ƒ
Developing National Social Insurance Policy Framework 
which will serve as guiding 
document for the Government Committee mandated with developing a national policy for 
health insurance in Lebanon. 
 
ƒ
Upgrading NSSF core business and administrative processes. 
 A rapid assessment of 
the core business functions and administrative processes of the NSSF will be conducted.  
Then based on the assessment and the current reform plans for the EOSI and health 
insurance branches, update the Action Plan for Phase II of the Master Plan. Processes to 
be reviewed and reformed include, beneficiary accounting, claims processing, and 
utilization monitoring systems. Furthermore, technical assistance to the NSSF on overall 
IT infrastructure and architecture for 
implementation of the NSSF’s IT Master Plan will 
be provided. In addition, an assessment of the current capacity at NSSF to implement IT-
related reforms will be conducted and an action plan for strengthening NSSF’s IT 
capacity in the short- and medium-term will be developed.  
 
·
Financial practices of the NSSF
 – technical assistance will be provided to review 
accounting practices, NSSF financial data and audit reports, agree on official figures for 
the operational balance of the three branches in year 2006 and prepare TORs for due 
diligence analysis of dormant accounts, accounts due and accounts payable and 
refinancing plan. A Road map to migrate from a cash-balance accounting system to 
accrual accounting will also be prepared.  
 
ƒ
Controlling health expenditures of MOPH and the NSSF - 
analysis of the current 
covered benefits and utilization patterns and identification of actions and implementation 
mechanisms to reduce costs will be undertaken.  Special focus will be made on 
controlling hospital admissions for key high-cost specialty areas (i.e. cardiovascular 
surgery).  Furthermore, data will be collected to prepare a full actuarial valuation of the 
health insurance fund of the NSSF.   
 
ƒ
Implementation of new fully-funded DC pension system - 
the methodology and 
implementation plan to audit individual accounts will be undertaken as well as the 
preparation of individual’s estimated accrued rights and unfunded liabilities of the EOSI 
will be done.    
 
·
Introducing targeting into the safety net system in Lebanon: 
 Lebanon’s safety net 
programs lack a good targeting mechanism. Based on experience in other countries 
Page  5
indicator based targeting, or proxy-means testing would be an appropriate option for 
testing eligibility for MOSA programs. This mechanism ranks households (not 
individuals, or categories of individuals) based on a range of characteristics indicating 
their social and economic status (demographic composition, labor market status, assets, 
health status, etc.). Introduction of proxy-means testing brings as a bonus an automated, 
live national data base on poor and vulnerable households. Similar to other countries, 
Lebanon could use this data base to target its other programs aimed at poverty alleviation 
such as hospitalization waivers, subsidy removals and the like. The first step in 
developing a targeting system is to conduct a field survey to test the targeting formula. 
 
ƒ
Provide support to the Inter-Ministerial Committee for Social Policy 
in the form of 
experts in the areas of policy reforms, poverty analysis, and design and implementation 
of programs.
 
·
Rationalizing MOPH health expenditures 
-
In order to further rationalize MOPH 
expenditure and better control inappropriate hospital coverage, additional reforms over 
the short-term are required in the area of utilization review for high-cost procedures 
(particularly for certain high-cost procedures (i.e. open heart surgeries) and maternal 
health services); and maintaining hard caps on the annual budgets allocated to the 
contracted hospitals. Coupled with these reform measures would be the adoption of 
revised eligibility rules for MOPH hospital coverage based on the new targeting 
mechanism developed by the reform initiatives of the Social Safety Nets Cluster. The 
ability of the MOPH to rationalize coverage will also depend on unanticipated external 
shocks and the design and implementation of the national policy framework for social 
insurance in the country.
 
4. 
Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
As a technical assistance project financing consulting service contracts, the proposed operation is 
not expected to have any significant environmental or social impact. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
Trust Fund for Lebanon 
1 
 Total 
1 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Haneen Ismail Sayed 
Title: Lead Operations Officer 
Tel: (202) 473-3497 
Fax:  
Email: 
Hsayed@worldbank.org
Page  6
