                                        Document of
                                      The World Bank



                                                           Report No: ICR00001341



              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT

                                  (Trust Funds-TF090670)



                                           ON A

                                          GRANT


                         IN THE AMOUNT OF US$1.0 MILLION

                                          TO THE

                                 LEBANESE REPUBLIC

                                         FOR THE

     EMERGENCY SOCIAL PROTECTION IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT PROJECT


                                       March 31, 2010




Human Development Sector
Middle East and North Africa Region
                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2009)

                                 Currency Unit = Lebanese pound
                                     LP 1.00 = US$0.00066
                                       US$1.00 = LP 1,507

                                         FISCAL YEAR

                                    January 1 ­ December 31


                             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
DG                    Director General
EOSI                  End-of-Service Indemnity Program
ESIA                  Economic and Social Impact Assessment
ESPISP                Emergency Social Protection Implementation Support Project
ESPISP II             Second Emergency Social Protection Implementation Support Project
GDP                   Gross Domestic Product
GOL                   Government of Lebanon
HROST                 Health Reform Options Simulation Tool
ISN                   Interim Strategy Note
IST                   Implementation Support Team
MENA                  Middle East and North Africa
MIS                   Management Information System
MOF                   Ministry of Finance
MOPH                  Ministry of Public Health
MTBF                  Medium Term Budget Framework
NAPS                  NSSF Active Patient System
NPTP                  National Poverty Targeting Project
NSSF                  National Social Security Fund
PEM                   Public Expenditure Management
PMT                   Proxy Means Testing
RIDPL                 Reform Implementation Development Policy Loan
SAP                   Social Action Plan
SDR                   Special Drawing Rights
TA                    Technical Assistance
TFL                   Trust Fund for Lebanon
UNDP                  United Nations Development Program


Vice President:                                     Shamshad Akhtar
Country Director:                                   Hedi Larbi
Sector Director:                                    Steen Lau Jorgensen
Sector Manager:                                     Roberta Gatti
Task Team Leader-ESPISP:                            Haneen Sayed
Task Team Leader-ICR:                               Surat Nsour
ICR Primary Author:                                 Richard Carroll




                                               ii
                   LEBANESE REPUBLIC
   EMERGENCY SOCIAL PROTECTION IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT
                     PROJECT (ESPISP)

                                                           CONTENTS



Data Sheet
A. Basic Information .................................................................................................................... i 
B. Key Dates ................................................................................................................................ i 
C. Ratings Summary .................................................................................................................... i 
D. Sector and Theme Codes ........................................................................................................ ii 
E. Bank Staff ............................................................................................................................... ii 
F. Results Framework Analysis .................................................................................................. ii 
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ................................................................................ vi 
H. Restructuring (if any) ............................................................................................................ vi 

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ........................................................... 1 
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ........................................................... 5 
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................... 15 
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .................................................................. 15 
6. Lessons Learned .................................................................................................................... 18 
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ....................... 19 
Annex 1 Project Costs and Financing ....................................................................................... 21 
Annex 2 Outputs by Component ............................................................................................... 22 
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ............................................................................. 23 
Annex 4 Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .......................... 24 
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ............................................................... 26 
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ................................. 27 
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ................................... 34 
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents available in the project portal ................................... 35 
Map 33433 ................................................................................................................................ 36 




                                                                    iii
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Lebanon Emergency
                                                                          Social Protection
Country:                Lebanon                 Project Name:
                                                                          Implementation
                                                                          Support Grant
Project ID:             P106489                 L/C/TF Number(s):
ICR Date:               03/31/2010              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     ERL                     Borrower:
                                                                          LEBANON
Original Total
                        USD 0.0M                Disbursed Amount:         USD 0.0M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 0.0M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 World Bank
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:                      Effectiveness:          09/06/2007           09/06/2007
Appraisal:                           Restructuring(s):
Approval:             09/07/2007     Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    High
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Unsatisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                    Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:               Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing              Moderately
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:          Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower          Moderately
                        Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:              Unsatisfactory




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                        Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                            None
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                           Quality of
                           No                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Health                                                               10                  10
Other social services                                                90                  90


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Health system performance                                            33                  33
Social safety nets                                                   67                  67

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:            Shamshad Akhtar                     Daniela Gressani
Country Director:          Hedi Larbi                          Joseph P. Saba
Sector Manager:            Roberta V. Gatti                    David J. Steel
Project Team Leader:       Haneen Ismail Sayed                 Haneen Ismail Sayed
ICR Team Leader:           Surat F. Nsour
ICR Primary Author:        Richard J. Carroll


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the Emergency Social Protection Implementation Support Project is to
accelerate and improve the quality of the implementation of the package of social sector
reforms presented by Lebanon at the Paris III donor conference in the areas of social
insurance, safety nets, and health expenditures. This will be achieved through the
provision of implementation support and capacity building for the National Social
Security Fund (NSSF), Ministry of Social Affairs (MOSA), and Ministry of Public
Health (MOPH). Over the medium term, the set of reforms supported by this Project will
be expanded in order to ensure the transition to a social protection system that provides


                                                 ii
adequate income protection and security to all population groups, while ensuring
financial sustainability and equity, and minimizing economic distortions.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
No revisions

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                              Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                approval           Target       Completion or
                                              documents)           Values        Target Years
                The new systems targeted by this operation are put into place and are functional
Indicator 1 :
                according to specificiations.
                                           Systems to be
                                                                              Systems are
Value                                      developed.
                New systems not yet                                           functional, but not
quantitative or                            Systems to be
                developed.                                                    yet put into place in
Qualitative)                               operational in 1-2
                                                                              any hospitals.
                                           hospitals
Date achieved 09/30/2007                   09/30/2007                         04/30/2009
Comments
(incl. %        Mostly achieved.
achievement)
                Essential components of the overall social sector reform strategies are further
Indicator 2 :
                developed
Value
                                           See intermediate                   See intermediate
quantitative or None
                                           indicators                         indicators
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/30/2007                   09/30/2007                         09/30/2007
Comments        Mostly achieved. However, this "outcome indicator" is only a description of an
(incl. %        output. ICR must infer benefits from completed actions as there are no specific
achievement) outcome indicators.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target                     Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                             Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value                              Revised
                                               approval                        Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                              documents)                        Target Years
                Complete comprehensive review of hardware and software requirements for the
                new claims and utilization control system, and the new register for plan
Indicator 1 :
                members and contribution collection system to ensure consistency with NSSF
                reforms.
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments        Mostly achieved. All activities were completed except, by mutual agreement of



                                                iii
(incl. %        NSSF and the Bank, the new register for plan members and the contribution
achievement)    collection system. (see Section 1.6)
                Complete design of software requirements for the claims and utilization control
Indicator 2 :   IT system, the new register for plan members and the new contribution
                collection system.
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments        Mostly achieved. Similar to previous indicator, activities completed except those
(incl. %        relating to the register for plan members and the new contribution collection
achievement) system.
                Development of training plan and completed training of staff on new functions
Indicator 3 : and responsibilities stemming from the business process reengineering of claims
                processing, and administration of registers of plan members and contributors.
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments        Mostly achieved. Similar to previous indicator, activities completed except those
(incl. %        relating to the register for plan members and the new contribution collection
achievement) system.
Indicator 4 : New guidelines and admission protocols are defined and issued.
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved.
achievement)
                Unified identification mechanisms for plan members and contributors
Indicator 5 :
                operational.
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
                Not done. These activities have been picked up in the follow up project, ESPISP
(incl. %
                2
achievement)
Indicator 6 : Targeting formula developed and approved.
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved. A Proxy Means Testing formula was developed and approved
achievement)
Indicator 7 : Operational manual for implementation of targeting completed



                                               iv
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved. This manual was completed and used in the pilot.
achievement)
Indicator 8 : MIS to support the pilot developed and tested.
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved.
achievement)
                Utilization review (UR) function is introduced in the MOPH which can oversee
Indicator 9 : and implement more precise admission criteria to reduce unnecessary
                admissions (paid by MOPH) to public and private facilities.
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments        Not achieved. The utilization review function has been introduced in the sense
(incl. %        that there is a UR coordinator. However, the function has not been
achievement) institutionalized.
                Enhanced IT module developed and implemented within the current MOPH IT
Indicator 10 : system providing more precision and better tracking mechanisms for identifying
                unnecessary admissions.
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
                Not achieved. This activity has not been completed and progress remains very
(incl. %
                slow.
achievement)
                30 Admission Criteria/Protocols agreed and established by the provider
Indicator 11 :
                community and the MOPH.
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
                Not achieved. This activity has not been completed and progress remains very
(incl. %
                slow.
achievement)
                Physicians trained in new criteria to encourage better management and quality of
Indicator 12 :
                care.
Value
(quantitative



                                               v
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
                Not achieved. This activity can be completed only when the previous activity has
(incl. %
                been completed.
achievement)
                Completed plan to realign MOPH coverage towards more cost-effective health
Indicator 13 :
                services and hospital facilities.
Value
(quantitative
or Qualitative)
Date achieved
Comments
                Partially achieved. MOPH Committed adopted and implemented the early stages
(incl. %
                of a roadmap to introduce performance-based contracting for hospital services.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
         Date ISR
No.                              DO                         IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)


H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable



I. Disbursement Profile




                                               vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Background and Context at Appraisal

1.      Lebanon has a population of 4.1 million, of which 87 percent live in urban areas.
Lebanon is also a middle income country with a GNI per capita of US$5,770 (2007). GDP
growth was 2.0 percent in 2007 and is estimated to average around 4.0 percent for the period
2008-11. The country is heavily indebted with the present value of debt to GDP at 108.8 percent
in 2006, which makes the success of the Emergency Social Protection Implementation Support
Project (ESPISP) especially important because it aims to improve the efficiency of public
expenditures.

2.      The ESPISP Project Document reported that, at the time of appraisal in early to mid-2007,
and well before that, Lebanon's social insurance and safety net systems were weak. Lebanon did
not have a pension system for private sector workers (rather an End-of-Service-Indemnity, EOSI).
The health insurance system was fragmented and inefficient. Half of the population had no
formal insurance and relied on Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) benefits for in-patient
coverage. The program document described formal safety nets as small, scattered, and not well-
targeted. The country relied on its strong confessional-based network of social services (NGOs,
welfare organizations, remittances, etc.) which played a safety net role, but which were also
vulnerable to economic or political shocks. The lack of an adequate safety net meant that the
GOL did not have the necessary tools to help absorb shocks that might result from economic
adjustment measures. In addition, prior to 2006, the GOL did not have a strategy or plan in place
to address the above issues.

3.       The Government was beginning to address social issues in a comprehensive manner
through its Social Action Plan (SAP) of June 2006, as well as individual sector strategies, when
hostilities broke out between Lebanon and Israel. The July 2006 hostilities took a devastating toll
on the population and the economy, reversing the positive economic trend in the first half of 2006
and further straining the weak social protection system. 2

4.      The GOL quickly resumed the agenda once the hostilities abated. The creation of an
Inter-Ministerial Committee for Social Policy (IMC-SP) was an important step in this direction.
For the previous four years, consecutive Lebanese governments had been advancing the pension
reform agenda, which led to a draft pension law which was (and still is) pending in Parliament for
enactment. The draft law, once enacted by Parliament, would provide Lebanon with a fully-
funded defined contribution pension system.

5.       Social protection reforms were part of the broader program of reforms presented to the
international community at a donor conference held in Paris (Paris III) on January 25, 2007. The


2
 Over 1,000 people were killed, 5,000 injured and close to 1 million (a quarter of the population) internally
displaced. Additionally, "brain drain" accelerated as more than 200,000 people left the country. The
Lebanon Economic and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) estimated total direct damage inflicted by the
hostilities at US$2.0-2.4 billion, with a further US$700-800 million in indirect damage. Approximately,
30,000 jobs were permanently lost, adding 3 percent to the unemployment rate.




                                                     1
ESPISP can be viewed as a small but critical part of the broader, medium-term social protection
reforms, which pursued six objectives:

    1.       Preparation of a policy framework for social insurance and coverage expansion;
    2.       Improvement in the governance and administration of the NSSF;
    3.       Reforms to guarantee the medium- and long-term sustainability of the NSSF;
    4.       Reforms to strengthen income protection programs (pensions and family allowances);
    5.       Establishment of a social assistance system that is able to target safety net programs
             to the most vulnerable population groups; and
    6.       Controlling costs in MOPH.

6.      These reforms would help Lebanon in its transition towards a social protection system
that provides adequate income protection and security to all population groups, while ensuring
financial sustainability and equity, and minimizing economic distortions.

            Table 1: Timeline of Activities, Events, Documents Relevant to ESPISP
                     Activity/ Event/Document                                    Date
Social Action Plan (SAP)                                          June 2006
Hostilities with Israel                                           July-August 2006
Lebanon Economic and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA)              December 2006
Trust Fund for Lebanon (TFL) established                          September 2006
Inter-ministerial Committee for Social Policy (Social-IMC)        December 2006
established
Paris III--Presentation of GOL Development Strategy to donors     January 2007
Social Action Plan adopted as part of GoL Program in Paris III    January 2007
Interim Strategy Note Approved by Bank Board                      July 2007
ESPISP I                                                          Effective--September 7, 2007
                                                                  Closed--April 30, 2009
Reform Implementation DPL (RIDPL)                                 Effective--September 27, 2007
                                                                  Closed--January 31, 2009
ESPISP II                                                         Effective--August 2008
                                                                  Closing date: March 31, 2012
RIDPL II--Concept Note3                                            2008 Project Withdrawn

7.      As laid out in the Interim Strategy Note (ISN), the Bank supported the GOL reform
program with the Reform Implementation Development Policy Loan (RIDPL), which focused on
energy reforms, as well as early actions in the areas of social protection and business
development. The ISN placed a high priority on the social protection aspect of the loan, stating,
"It is particularly important that the wide-ranging structural reforms that Lebanon needs to
undertake be facilitated with first addressing the currently inefficient social protection agenda...."
The US$100 million RIDPL was presented to the World Bank Board of Executive Directors on
August 2, 2007. It was the first time that Lebanon agreed to a policy-based loan from the World
Bank. Historically, the GOL had eschewed policy-based operations, partly because of the
challenges posed by conditionality and partly because of budget support that was forthcoming
from the Gulf States.



3
 RIDPL II (initially called the Social Protection Development Policy Loan ­ SP DPL), as described in the
ISN, was to be the second stand alone DPL supporting the GOL's reform program. It did not proceed
because of lack of progress in the overall Paris III reform program.



                                                   2
8.       The social protection reform agenda built upon the SAP adopted by the Lebanese
Government and upon the analysis and recommendations outlined in the Economic and Social
Impact Assessment (ESIA) carried out by the World Bank in the aftermath of the hostilities. The
ESIA covered health, education, pensions, social safety nets, and labor markets. The focus of the
ESPISP grant was on social insurance (pensions and health insurance), social safety nets and
health.4

9.       There had been a lack of action in reforming social sectors in the past, particularly social
protection, and this has been well-documented in Bank analytical and evaluative work. The ESIA
stated that "The development of an effective safety net in Lebanon has been hampered by the
absence of a social policy framework, weak coordination and governance, politically-influenced
targeting and lack of reliable data (for poverty and also for the outcomes of interventions,
including ex-post evaluations)." The high degree of political factionalism and difficulties in
building sustainable capacity within the Government have been particularly hindering to a
functioning social protection system. After years of relying on in-house units of consultants in
the ministries, the Government showed little ability to implement outside of the enclaves of
consultants. The ESPISP grant was launched in this challenging environment.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

10.     The overall objective of the ESPISP was "to accelerate and improve the quality of the
implementation of the package of social sector reforms presented by GOL at the Paris III Donor
Conference in the areas of social insurance, safety nets, and health expenditures." This objective
was to be achieved through the provision of implementation support and capacity building for the
NSSF, MOSA, and MOPH. The ESPISP supported the development and implementation, over
the short term, of key new processes and policies in the three agencies.

11.     The project's specific objectives were to:

        1.       improve the control of expenditures and revenues within the NSSF, as well as the
                 quality of services, by setting up an electronic claims processing system, a
                 utilization control system, and a registration and contributions collection system;
        2.       ensure financial sustainability of the NSSF by identifying the needed set of
                 reform measures to control expenditures and optimize revenues;
        3.       improve the poverty focus of existing or new safety net programs in MOSA by
                 developing and piloting a new targeting mechanism; and
        4.       control health expenditures by the MOPH through establishing a utilization
                 review function, developing hospital admission criteria and protocols,
                 implementing hard ceilings on contracts with private hospitals, and realigning
                 MOPH coverage towards more cost-effective health services and hospital
                 facilities.



4
  The education sector reform was not included in ESPISP I because there was an on-going Bank-financed
project (the Education Development Project) which was supporting reforms in the sector. The Bank was
ready to reallocate from the EDP to support the post-2006 war recovery in the education sector (particularly
to help reconstruct destroyed schools) and proposed it to the GOL. However, the GOL was fortunate to
receive significant grant financing, particularly from Arab donors, for school reconstruction and
rehabilitation.



                                                     3
12.     These objectives were to be achieved through the provision of implementation support to
the three entities with a focus on the NSSF (70 percent of the funds). See Section 3.2
Achievement of Development Objectives for details of achievements and key indicators. These
objectives were relevant to priority constraints in social protection and aligned well with the SAP,
though, as stated, they were somewhat overreaching (see Section 3.1).

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
Reasons/Justification

13.     The PDOs and the key indicators were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

14.      The three agencies benefiting directly from the ESPISP are the NSSF, MOSA and MOPH
which received support to develop critical tools to improve these agencies' efficiency and
effectiveness. When the tools are broadly applied, as in the case of the MOSA Proxy Means
Testing, benefits will extend to both the poor and the GOL. The poor will benefit through better
targeted programs, and the GOL will benefit through more efficient use of government funds.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

15.     The originally planned components and activities of ESPSIP were as follows:

Component 1: Modernization of the Social Insurance System (US$0.7 million)

        1. Provision of technical assistance for the design and implementation of an electronic
           claims processing and utilization control system.
        2. Provision of technical assistance for the design and implementation of a registry of
           plan members and collection of contributions system.
        3. Provision of technical assistance to identify and implement measures to secure the
           financial sustainability of the health insurance branch, including the refinancing of
           accounts payable and accounts receivable.
        4. Capacity building, including training, and project implementation and coordination
           support at the NSSF.

Component 2: Strengthening of Social Safety Nets (US$0.2million)

        1. Development of a "proxy-means testing" (PMT) targeting formula.
        2. Development of procedures for a new targeting mechanism and preparation of an
           operational manual that will detail the mechanism for the distribution of benefits to
           the poor and vulnerable.
        3. Development of a management information system to support implementation of the
           targeting mechanism, including provision of equipment and software.
        4. Provision of technical assistance to carry out testing of the targeting mechanism and
           method of benefit distribution.

Component 3: Health Sector Cost Rationalization (US$0.1 million)

        1. Provision of technical assistance to introduce a MOPH utilization review function.
        2. Provision of assistance in developing 30 inpatient admission criteria within the
           MOPH.


                                                 4
        3. Provision of technical support to prepare a plan to realign MOPH coverage towards
           more cost-effective health services and hospital facilities.

16.     These components also aligned reasonably well with the priority constraints in social
protection as described in the ESIA. The ESIA synthesis stated the following:

"Implementation of the measures will face many challenges, given: (i) the pre-existing lack of
criteria for selecting private service providers; (ii) the absence of adequate data for objective
household targeting mechanisms (based on household "needs"); (iii) the limited capacity of the
Government to design, administer and monitor social programs; and (iv) the fiscal implications of
the recovery measures."

17.      The ESIA also concluded that health spending in Lebanon, which affects Components 1
and 3, should yield better `value for money'. The report pointed out that Lebanon outspends all
Middle East and North Africa (MENA) countries on health, yet its health status indicators
compare unfavorably with those of countries with similar income levels. The measures in ESPISP
Components 1 and 3 were focused on improving the cost-effectiveness of health care. Regarding
targeting, the specific recommendations of the ESIA included that "the Government should target
its transfers directly to beneficiaries" and that "social ministries need to adopt transparent and
scientifically-based targeting mechanisms (options include means-testing, categorical,
geographical or a combination of them)." The ESPISP Component 2 aimed at improving the
targeting of public programs. Although ESPISP measures were well-justified given country
needs and priorities, it is difficult to argue that they constituted real emergency measures, as one
might have expected, given the designation of the project as emergency support, as described in
OP 8.00 Guidelines.

1.6 Revised Components

18.     During implementation, it was learned that the NSSF had already outsourced the
development of a registry of (NSSF) plan members and collection of contributions system
(Component 1) to a consulting firm outside of the ESPISP. Thus, this activity was dropped from
the project. The freed up resources were used to fund a study of the implicit liabilities of the
EOSI (details in Section 3).

1.7 Other significant changes

19.     There were no other significant changes.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

20.     The ESPISP responded to the Government's request for emergency funds from the Trust
Fund for Lebanon (TFL) to assist the NSSF, MOSA, and MOPH to implement the reform agenda
for the social sectors. Due to limited institutional capacity in the concerned agencies, GOL
requested that US$1 million be allocated from the TFL to initiate the design and implementation
of social protection reforms.

21.    Justification for Bank execution. In its letter to the World Bank Country Director for
Lebanon dated May 12, 2007, GOL also requested that this US$1 million grant (forming the



                                                 5
initial phase of a reform implementation program) be Bank- executed. The impact of the
hostilities with Israel allowed the Bank team to make the case of extraordinary strains on the
GOL to maintain and sustain social services, and thus invoke OP 8.00, paragraph 10. As required
by OP 8.00, paragraph 10, clearance was granted by the World Bank Managing Director for Bank
execution. The rationale provided for Bank execution was as follows:

           1. The National Social Security Fund (NSSF) 5 lacks the capacity to execute this
              implementation support program in a speedy and efficient manner;
           2. The NSSF has no prior exposure to World Bank policies, procedures, and guidelines,
              and time is of the essence to kick-start and advance implementation of the proposed
              reforms;
           3. The NSSF is an autonomous institution, and as such there is no viable alternative
              government agency to execute the grant;
           4. The grant would be limited to technical assistance and very small contracts for
              startup goods; and
           5. Bank execution will be a measure to mitigate the fiduciary and reputational risks
              inherent in the current situation at the NSSF.

22.      The proposed grant was consistent with the objectives of the TFL, which aim at
providing timely assistance in sectors key to post-conflict rehabilitation. (See Section 3.1 for
further discussion of project design).

23.      Political gridlock. The ESPISP was prepared and implemented under extraordinarily
difficult conditions. Not only was it prepared in the wake of widespread destruction from
hostilities with Israel, but the period between June 2006 and November 2009 was one of political
gridlock that included the closure of Parliament, the withdrawal of the opposition from
Government, and an increase in the frequency of political violence. All of these factors created an
unstable safety and security situation, which affected activities in all sectors of the Lebanese
economy. Finally, as a result of the May 2008 Doha Accord, Parliamentary elections were held in
June 2009 after which a National Unity Government was formed in November 2009, more than
six months after ESPISP closed.

24.      Project design. The project design was of appropriate scope with activities that could
reasonably be completed within the 18-month timeframe. The design benefited from other
countries' experience that automation of business processes for expenditure controls was
important to successful social insurance schemes. The program document for ESPISP also cited
favorable experiences using the PMT in a number of countries. It was found that the PMT is
suitable in countries with a large informal sector and seasonal incomes, and where income is not
an accurate indicator of household welfare; and it delivers good targeting outcomes if
implemented effectively.

25.     Project risks. Project risks were assessed and addressed to some extent. The main risks
cited were resistance from the NSSF Board, weak capacity at beneficiary agencies and delays in
implementation because of efforts to build ownership. To address the resistance of the NSSF
Board, the Bank called for its reform citing a need to reduce the size of the Board. However, the
Board was not reformed, which caused problems during ESPISP I and its successor ESPISP II
(see next section). The risk posed by weak capacity was addressed by designating ESPISP as


5
    The NSSF was the implementing agency for the largest component of the ESPISP.



                                                    6
Bank-executed, which did aid implementation (see next section). The mitigation for the third
major risk, assigning a project coordinator, was appropriate. However, the NSSF did not appoint
one for the project (see next section).

2.2 Implementation

26.      Importance of Bank-Executed to implementation. The designation of ESPISP as a
Bank-executed activity helped reduce implementation risks. Under normal circumstances, an
operation such as ESPISP would be recipient-executed, but because the NSSF did not have the
capacity to execute the ESPISP in a timely and efficient manner and because there was no
alternative agency to implement ESPISP, Bank execution was a better option. Designating the
operation as Bank-executed also mitigated fiduciary and reputational risks. The main benefit of
designating ESPISP as Bank-executed was that, despite the challenging political environment, the
project's main (though not all) activities could be executed without significant delay.

27.      Resistance from the NSSF Board. While the ESPISP measures were strongly
supported by the Prime Minister's office and the Ministry of Finance (MOF), there was resistance
elsewhere to the ESPISP-supported reforms, particularly from the NSSF Board of Directors.
ESPISP's activities aimed to improve the transparency and efficiency of business processes and
public expenditures, so there were implications for substantially reducing fraud. For example, the
non-transparent, paper-based claims process that existed at the NSSF had offered opportunities
for inaccurate billing and other misuses of funds. On the day of negotiation of the ESPISP
project, the Board of the NSSF rejected the project. Subsequently, the Prime Minister took the
decision to proceed and approved the project through the Council of Ministers. With such a level
of resistance, the question arises whether the NSSF claims system component should have gone
forward. Because of the Bank-executed nature of the project and support at the top level of the
GOL, this risk could be mitigated and the main activity carried out.

28.     Project coordinators. The Bank team liaised directly with the Director General (DG) of
NSSF, and the DG liaised with the NSSF Board. The ESPISP financed an Implementation
Support Team (IST) of national and international advisors and specialists to support
implementation. A Project Coordinator was not recruited as originally planned, since the role of
coordination at the NSSF side was undertaken by the DG. The implementation team worked
closely with concerned heads of departments and units in the NSSF. The MOPH and the MOSA
each appointed an Implementation Coordinator (IC) who reported to the respective DG, and who
was supported by a technical task team. In the case of MOSA, a committee was established to
oversee and coordinate the targeting pilot, composed of heads of the key sections of the ministry.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

29.      Given the emergency nature of ESPISP, the design of the results framework was fairly
basic; monitoring indicators consisted of recording completed actions and milestones. This
results framework was used during supervision to keep project activities on schedule. There was
no expectation that the longer term, main development outcomes of ESPISP would be measurable
until at least the conclusion of ESPISP II when the new processes could be rolled out. The
following were listed as outcome indicators for the project development objectives in the ESPISP
results framework in the Project Document:

        The new systems targeted by this operation are put into place and are functional
        according to specifications.



                                                7
        Essential components of the overall social sector reform strategies are further developed.

30.      These indicators are not outcome indicators, but refer to completed actions and outputs.
The second "outcome indicator" is particularly vague and does not establish a reasonable basis
with which to assess achievement of outcomes. Although benefits can certainly be inferred from
these outputs, the Project Document needed to describe what the expected benefits of the actions
would be. In addition, while the longer term benefits would not be measurable for several years
after project closing, intermediate outcomes should have been specified for the short term, with
indicators that describe capacity building as well as progress in technical areas and in institutional
processes.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

31.      Safeguards. The ESPISP was rated as environmental category C and no safeguard
policies were triggered.

32.      Financial Management and Procurement. The designation of the ESPISP as Bank-
executed helped ensure that appropriate fiduciary practices were followed under the extraordinary
conditions in Lebanon. Financial management and procurement were conducted by the Bank.
All expenditures were disclosed and a final accounting presented in a letter to the Minister of
Finance on October 7, 2009. Of the allocated US$1 million for the ESPISP, US$957,923 (95
percent) was disbursed. US$813,993 (81 percent) was expended for consultants (local and
international), US$138,444 for goods (14 percent) and US$5,081 for operating costs (0.5 percent).

2.5 Post-completion Operation Next Phase

33.      Several follow-up policy operations are planned and ongoing. The Second Emergency
Social Protection Implementation Support Project (ESPISP II) is designed to build on the
achievements of the first ESPISP. ESPISP II was launched to maintain progress and continuity in
social sector reform, and to bridge the period until the next country assistance strategy (CAS).
The ESPISP II grant was also prepared under emergency procedures, as stipulated in the TFL,6
but, unlike ESPISP I, is recipient-executed. A proposed Reform Implementation DPL II (RIDPL
II) was planned in line with the Interim Strategy Note (ISN), but was withdrawn as the policy
environment deteriorated.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

34.      Social protection was one of two areas of reform that the Bank supported through its
RIDPL, with the other being energy sector reforms. The strategy of ESPISP was to provide
critical support to key social protection initiatives of the RIDPL that would, in particular, relax
important constraints to serving vulnerable groups. There appears to have been an implicit
strategy in ESPISP that by developing fully functional technical tools (e.g., NSSF claim system,




6
 The TFL was created with a transfer of US$70 million from IBRD surplus in September 2006. ESPISP
was financed from the accrued interest income from the TFL.



                                                  8
and the PMT), there would be pressure to move the policy environment forward. The lack of a
functioning tool could no longer be used as an excuse to do nothing.

35.      The Bank team judged that the post-conflict period offered an opportunity for a
breakthrough in these reform areas. Compared with the alternative strategy of waiting for a more
settled political and security situation, the strategy of moving forward with the ESPISP measures
has better positioned the GOL to achieve real improvements in efficiency and effectiveness of
public expenditures. The emphasis of the Government's own formal SAP on social protection
issues clearly made a case for an operation to support social protection reform. Although the
ESPISP activities were not emergency measures per se, the development objectives were relevant
to removing several key obstacles to improving the delivery of social protection services. These
obstacles were identified by the ESIA and highlighted in the SAP, and had been encountered in
previous Bank operations. The technical support under ESPISP aligned well with the reform
measures. The composition of the operation as a whole was somewhat ambitious in the Lebanese
context to reasonably expect smooth follow-up implementation given that certain constituencies
were threatened.

36.      The main PDO was "to accelerate and improve the quality of the implementation of the
package of social sector reforms presented by GOL at the Paris III donor conference in the areas
of social insurance, safety nets and health expenditures." This objective was feasible and
consistent with the project activities. Its precision could have been enhanced with more specific
results indicators (see Section 2.3). The project-specific objectives (see Section 1.2) gave a
picture of what the project was expected to achieve, but these objectives were somewhat
overreaching in the way they were stated (see Table 2). For example, Component 1's objective
was to "Improve the control of expenditures and revenues within NSSF...." However, this
objective would not be achieved until the claims system was actually implemented. A more
precise formulation of the component objective might have read "Create tools to improve the
control of expenditures...." Similar overreaching appears in the objectives for Components 2 and
3. In all three components, the component objectives jump ahead to the benefits that would be
realized after full implementation, which was not within the scope of ESPISP.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

37.      In the midst of a largely unsuccessful reform program, ESPISP had some significant
achievements. Although many of the performance indicators were process-oriented, referring to
completed actions or outputs and not true outcome indicators, new processes and tools, essential
for rationalizing public expenditures, were developed. As observed in Section 2, the ESPISP
results framework listed only output indicators. The real major outcomes would be budget
savings from a more efficient hospital claims and reimbursement system, improved patient
services because medical controllers will be less burdened by administrative duties, and reduced
poverty because government programs are better targeted. Again, realizing these outcomes will
require broad application of the tools and systems. This "rollout" is part of the follow up ESPISP
II. Therefore, it is not yet possible for this ICR to assess the longer term expected outcomes.
Table 2 summarizes and evaluates the major activities of ESPISP.




                                                9
            Table 2: Results and Ratings of Major Activities of the ESPISP
           Activity                             Result                    ICR Rating
Component 1: Modernization of the Social Insurance System--Moderately Satisfactory

Component Objectives: Improve the control of expenditures and revenues within the NSSF, as
well as the quality of services, by setting up an electronic claims processing and a utilization
control system and a registration and contributions collection system; and ensure financial
sustainability of the NSSF by identifying the needed set of reform measures to control
expenditures and optimize revenues.

Provision of technical assistance for the    Completed and tested in 1 hospital, but    Moderately
design and implementation of an              as of date of ICR not yet operating live   Satisfactory
electronic claims processing and             in any hospital.
utilization control system.

Provision of technical assistance for the    Dropped from ESPISP I at request of        No Rating
design and implementation of a registry      NSSF management because the task was
of plan members and collection of            contracted to another company.
contributions system.
                                             An End-of-service Indemnity (EOSI)         Satisfactory
                                             valuation was conducted in lieu of the
                                             registry of plan members.
Provision of technical assistance to         Completed. Recommendations were            Moderately
identify and implement measures to           made to improve the financial              Unsatisfactory
secure the financial sustainability of the   sustainability of NSSF's health
health insurance branch including the        insurance branch. However, the
refinancing of accounts payable and          recommendations have not been acted
accounts receivable.                         upon by the NSSF Board.
                                                                                        Moderately
                                             In a separate but related activity, the    Satisfactory
                                             arrears to NSSF were assessed and
                                             Government paid an additional LP 80
                                             billion in 2007 to NSSF to satisfy
                                             accounts payable. However, GOL
                                             failed to make its 2008 payment of LP
                                             80 billion.

Capacity building, including training,       Five people received training in the       Moderately
and project implementation and               NSSF on Health Reform Options              Unsatisfactory
coordination support at the NSSF.            Simulation Tool (HROST). However
                                             the actuarial unit was not established

Component 2: Strengthening of Social Safety Nets--Moderately Satisfactory

Component Objective: Improve the poverty focus of existing or new safety net programs in
MOSA by developing and piloting a new targeting mechanism.

Development of a "proxy-means                Completed development of the PMT.          Satisfactory
testing" targeting formula.

Development of procedures for a new          Completed.                                 Satisfactory
targeting mechanism and preparation of
an operational manual that will detail
the mechanism for the distribution of



                                                      10
benefits to the poor and vulnerable.

Development of an information              An information system was developed          Satisfactory
management system to support               to determine the ranking, eligibility and
implementation of the targeting            progressive benefit calculation for
mechanism, including provision of          candidates for a targeted benefit based
equipment and software.                    on the PMT.

Provision of technical assistance to       A successful pilot was carried out in 3      Moderately
carry out testing of the targeting         Beirut districts. Credibility of the         satisfactory
mechanism and method of benefit            exercise is threatened because the
distribution.                              incentive payment of LP50,000 to
                                           qualifying families has still not been
                                           paid.

Component 3: Health Sector Cost Rationalization--Moderately Unsatisfactory

Component Objective: Control health expenditures by the MOPH through establishing a
utilization review function, developing of hospital admission criteria and protocols, implementing
hard ceilings on contracts with private hospitals and realigning MOPH coverage towards more
cost-effective health services and hospital facilities.

Provision of technical assistance to       Partially completed                          Moderately
introduce a MOPH utilization review        The utilization review (UR) function has     unsatisfactory
function.                                  been introduced in the sense that there is
                                           a UR coordinator. However, the
                                           function has not been institutionalized.
Provision of assistance in developing 30   This activity has not been completed         Unsatisfactory
inpatient admission criteria within the    and progress remains very slow.
MOPH.

Provision of technical support to          Completed. MOPH Committed adopted            Moderately
prepare a plan to realign MOPH             and implemented the early stages of a        satisfactory
coverage towards more cost-effective       roadmap to introduce performance-
health services and hospital facilities.   based contracting for hospital services,
                                           which included developing performance
                                           indicators and establishing data
                                           requirements for these indicators.


Summary of Achievement of Objectives

  Component 1: Modernization of the Social Insurance System--Moderately Satisfactory

38.     Component 1 of ESPISP dealt with two of the three NSSF benefit programs (health
insurance and the EOSI), and was the largest component of the project, using 70 percent of the
project's funds. The achievements of this component represent a real breakthrough for the GOL.
The existing hospital claims systems at NSSF had been a paper-based system, which gave broad
scope for false claims and had led to excessive delays in reimbursing hospitals for services
provided. In addition, the paper-based system did not provide data for managing hospitals, such
as what types of patients were admitted, what types of procedures were performed, and what
types of equipment were used. ESPISP financed a successful effort to develop an automated
system that could greatly improve the efficiency of the hospital claims system. The expected



                                                    11
output was achieved, which is a functioning hospital claims system (NAPS) that has been tested
using actual medical records. It was highly challenging to develop a consistent, functioning
medical claims system, because the "rules engine" for the system had to incorporate thousands of
rules from a number of different sources, as well as medical codes. The NAPS, if implemented,
would reduce time periods to reimburse hospitals and help eliminate double and other fraudulent
charging for services. It would also free medical controllers from a heavy burden of
administrative work so that they could focus on a higher level responsibility of improving the
medical process for the patient.
39.      Another positive achievement was the resolution of the GOL's arrears to the NSSF.
Because data were insufficient for an accurate calculation of arrears, it was decided that the GOL
and NSSF would agree on an amount of arrears and then establish an installment plan to satisfy
those arrears. Beginning in 2007, the GOL paid both its current obligation to the NSSF as well as
an additional LP80 billion in order to pay down arrears that had accumulated during 1998-2006.
This achievement has contributed to the objective of the component which was improved
financial stability of the NSSF. However, it is a matter of significant concern that, as of the date
of this ICR, the GOL has still not paid its 2008 installment to NSSF of LP 80 billion.
40.    Several areas that were less successful were the adoption of financial sustainability
recommendations and the building of capacity within NSSF. The program document described
the importance of the registry of plan members by stating that "The management of the NSSF
cannot be improved...in the absence of an up-to-date computerized system to register plan
members, and collect and reconcile contributions." However, this subcomponent was dropped
from the project when it was learned that another consulting firm was working on the system.
ESPISP II has since included funding to complete the task of creating a registry of plan members.
41.      The resources that would have been spent on the registry under the first ESPISP were
reallocated to a valuation of the End-of-Service Indemnity Program (as of December 31, 2006).
This valuation was a measure toward financial sustainability of the NSSF by creating a better
understanding of NSSF's financial position in line with the component objective. The current
data set could not determine the detailed, specific amount to be transferred to future individual
accounts in order to transition to a proposed individualized national pension scheme. However,
despite this uncertainty, the valuation exercise did achieve a clearer understanding of NSSF's
overall financial position, which is in line with the component objective.
42.      Developing the recommendations to improve financial sustainability of the NSSF was
successfully completed, but the NSSF Board of Directors has yet to act on these
recommendations. Without action, the subcomponent is rated moderately unsatisfactory.
Pressure to implement the recommendations was alleviated to some degree by the fact that wages
increased, and the resulting increase in contributions improved NSSF's financial position. The
establishment of the actuarial unit in the NSSF was not achieved, although five people received
actuarial training from consultants. Thus, this subcomponent is also moderately unsatisfactory.

        Component 2: Strengthening of Social Safety Nets--Moderately Satisfactory
43.      This component also achieved a breakthrough. For the first time in Lebanon, the GOL
would have a tool with which to target programs to the poor. Government subsidy and income
support programs in Lebanon tend to be overly broad or confession-based. Obviously, this
approach is very inefficient in reaching the poor. Non-targeted programs are also fiscally
unsustainable which is why the MOF is a key supporter of targeting and specifically the proxy
means testing type of targeting. Proxy means testing is an appropriate method because of the lack
of reliable income data in Lebanon.



                                                12
44.      The MOSA, with assistance from consultants and Bank experts, successfully developed
the PMT targeting formula, as well as the procedures for the new targeting mechanism (including
preparation of an operations manual), and the information management system to support the
implementation of the targeting mechanism. The PMT was piloted in three districts of Beirut. A
core team of about 12 staff from MOSA operated and managed this pilot (7 staff from center and
5 staff from the regional centers). The MOSA staff demonstrated dedication as they worked
overtime without additional compensation. Thus, the ESPISP was able to build capacity at
MOSA. The Italian Government funded a portion of the cost of this pilot, to contract social
workers who conducted house visits/surveys. The reason for lowering the rating to moderately
satisfactory is the long and continuing delay in paying qualifying households their cash incentive
for participating in the PMT pilot. Failure to make this payment could undermine the credibility
of the PMT pilot.
      Component 3: Health Sector Cost Rationalization--Moderately Unsatisfactory
45.      As Table 2 shows, each of the activities at MOPH was only partially carried out.
Regarding the utilization review (UR) function, while MOPH has taken specific actions in that
direction, the UR function has not really been introduced in the sense that the original objective
implied. The original objective referred to a function "which can oversee and implement more
precise admission criteria," which has not been achieved. However, the MOPH did: (i) set up a
MOPH UR Committee with independent experts; (ii) assign a senior medical controller to
become the UR coordinator within the MOPH; (iii) perform data analysis on the high impact
procedures covered by the MOPH; (iv) prepare an in-depth study of diagnosed cases of
gastroenteritis in a national workshop organized by the MOPH; (v) prepare a detailed blue-print
for institutionalizing the UR function within the MOPH; and (vi) analyze the specifications for
installing a developed rules engine as part of the MOPH IT system.

46.      The activity to establish 30 admission criteria progressed slowly and was not completed.
A MOPH Committee was formed for the clinical management criteria and the concept was
presented at a national workshop. The key recommendations were to: (i) choose among two
international vendors selling clinical management criteria systems; and (ii) work with the Union
of Physicians to localize, adopt and approve a set of clinical management criteria to be used by
the MOPH. However, these recommendations have yet to be implemented. Under the
subcomponent to realign MOPH coverage towards more cost effective services, a consultant
produced a detailed road map to introduce performance-based contracting for hospital services.
A MOPH committee adopted the road map and implemented its early stages. The Committee
developed a basic set of performance indicators and analyzed the data requirements to generate
these indicators on a regular basis. As with the other sub-components, progress stopped short of
actual implementation.

Did ESPISP Make a Difference?

47.      The answer to this question needs to be divided into the short-term and the long-term. In
the short-term, it was a good strategic approach to use the TFL funds to develop tools that are
badly needed and to use these tools to pressure decision-makers to move policy forward to
rationalize public expenditures. In addition, capacity has been built, particularly at MOSA, but
also to some extent at the NSSF, especially in understanding the value and use of the new tools.
The longer-term question is whether hospital and basic social protection services will improve as
a result of ESPISP. This development impact will depend on whether the tools are actually
implemented on a broad basis, and that is uncertain at this point (see Section 4).



                                               13
3.3 Efficiency

48.     As a technical assistance project, no efficiency calculation was made for this project.
However, one can note that, for modest resources of US$1 million, critical tools were developed
that could substantially advance social protection benefits in the future.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

49.     As the summary demonstrates, there were substantial achievements and it is clear that the
operation made significant progress in a very difficult environment. Moreover, the main outputs
(the electronic claims system and the PMT) were developed and tested and the quality of the
outputs was satisfactory. Major questions persist largely because of the slowness of further
progress of ESPISP initiatives in ESPISP II (additional details below) and with the inability of the
GOL to pay the promised incentive payment on which the PMT pilot was based. Although
Component 3 is rated moderately unsatisfactory, it represented a relatively small part of the
overall project.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

50.      Part of the expected impact was a system of improved social service delivery. Again, the
ESPISP represented only a step in that direction. Therefore, the actual poverty reduction impact
is only to be realized if and when the systems are implemented on a broad basis.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

51.     The institutional development achieved by the ESPISP, although potentially substantial,
must be rated as modest. Institutional change could be significant if the tools of the program
actually become the way of doing business for the NSSF, MOSA and MOPH. In terms of
capacity building, the NSSF benefited to some degree at the working level from the near constant
presence of the NAPS consultants who worked intensively with NSSF staff on a daily basis for
five months. This constant presence helped equip NSSF staff with necessary knowledge to
operate the new system, and won acceptance of the system. However, the NSSF does not possess
the IT capacity to run the new system. In addition, the specific capacity building that ESPISP
aimed at NSSF did not materialize, namely that an actuarial unit would be formed. The MOSA
benefited significantly in terms of capacity building as there is today a core team (of about 12
staff) who understand the PMT targeting mechanism, who can run the program, and who have
developed the field expertise for the national rollout.

52.     One change that appears necessary to the success of NSSF reforms is to ensure that the
NSSF Board's mandate and composition are consistent with fiscal responsibility and respond to
the needs of patients and doctors.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)

53.     None reported.




                                                14
3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

54.     Neither a specific beneficiary survey, nor a stakeholder workshop was conducted as this
ICR is not an Intensive Learning ICR.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: High

55.      The country context for achieving more efficient public expenditures and developing and
implementing social protection tools was known to be difficult. Although the important gains,
such as the NSSF claims system and the PMT, were achieved, there is disconcerting evidence of
lack of commitment in certain areas of the GOL to implement these tools. The NSSF Board
continues to obstruct progress in the follow up ESPISP II by withholding contract signing
authority from the DG at NSSF, and after 15 months of effectiveness, not a single contract has
been signed. As mentioned, the credibility of the PMT exercise has also been jeopardized
because the benefit payment to qualifying households is severely delayed and still held up in the
Court of Accounts. This delay is difficult to explain, given that the government support for the
initiative was secured prior to the project. On the positive side, it was reported that not only the
MOF, but also various ministries, are strongly in favor of applying the PMT as a means to
improve targeting of programs and making more efficient use of public funds. The next few
months will be critical in determining whether the achievements of ESPISP I will have any
lasting impact.

56.     An encouraging development is that the GOL has finally formed a National Unity
Government (November 2009), and is giving priority to reform of the NSSF and other aspects of
the Social Action Plan. There is a new Minister of Labor who has declared support for the NSSF
reforms. The new Government appears committed to greater fiscal discipline which the ESPISP
outputs could potentially promote. Taking all the above factors into account, the ICR concurs
with the most recent Aide-Memoires, which acknowledge that the risk to development outcome
remains high.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry (i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

57.     The Bank responded alertly to the appeal of the GOL to support its SAP. The ESPISP
was an important part of this response, which was based on ESW in the form of the ESIA, and
policy support through the RIDPL. The Bank-executed operation ensured that the components of
ESPISP were stated Government priorities. There was additional management review because of
the waiver required to implement the ESPISP as a Bank operation. Management weighed the
pros and cons of this decision with the main con being the potential for less ownership by the
implementing agencies. The waiver was justified in large part by the fact that the main
implementing agency (NSSF) was not in a position to carry out fiduciary roles. The Bank also
helped ensure that the components of the project were closely tied into the GOL's need to become
more committed to fiscal discipline. Without meaningful controls in health expenditures and




                                                15
without rationalizing public expenditures for the poor, there could be no meaningful progress
toward fiscal discipline.

58.      Two areas where the Bank could have performed better are with respect to risk
assessment and the results framework for ESPISP. The Bank could have better assessed the
potential implementation obstacles of the NSSF Board (Component 1) and the lack of leadership
at the MOPH (Component 3). Ultimately, it is not clear that there was anything the Bank could
have done to ease these obstacles. However, it is clear that the program document
underestimated these risks. Another area where the Bank could have performed better was in
developing a results framework which was more relevant and useful in terms of measuring
project outcomes and outputs. It is true that ESPISP was processed under simplified procedures,
as OP 8.00 provides. It is also true that the ESPISP consists mainly of completing activities and
developing tools. However, it would still have been possible during project preparation to
identify meaningful indicators to measure benefits of the operation.

(b) Quality of Supervision (including M&E arrangements)
Rating: Satisfactory

59.     As a Bank-executed project, supervision was more demanding for the Bank
administratively than if it had been recipient-executed. Hiring and paying consultants, for
example, was conducted by Bank staff. On the other hand, ISRs were not required for a Bank-
executed project. (Aide-Memoires constituted the official record of implementation.) In terms of
engagement with counterparts, the Bank was fully engaged in both the administration and
substance of the project. The Bank-executed project was completed, with qualifications noted
above, within the originally envisioned 18-month timeframe. The Bank is currently witnessing
the contrast of the greater challenge to implementation of a recipient-executed project through the
slow implementation of the ESPISP 2.

60.      As discussed in Section 2, ESPISP was implemented in an extraordinarily challenging
political environment. Because of the factionalism in the country, implementation is difficult
under normal circumstances. Bank execution also had to contend with a near standstill in
political decision-making for the life of the project. The specific challenges included the fallout
from the hostilities with Israel and the run up to the elections in June 2009.

61.     The Bank also made successful use of an existing model for medical claims, which
consultants were able to adapt to the Lebanese context. It was an impressive feat to balance all of
the rules governing medical claims in the country. The NAPS activity also had to navigate
through political obstacles that created issues for the technical architecture of the system. The
ESPISP NAPS consulting team decided to maintain good working relations by not interfering
with ongoing efforts to resurrect a problematic out-patient claims system (which NSSF had
previously outsourced). Instead, the consultants focused on the in-patient claims system. They
also determined that it would not be feasible, initially, to create a claims system that would be
compatible with the pre-approval system. In both instances, the team showed good judgment in
terms of maintaining a high level of cooperation in NSSF and in determining a feasible, but still
challenging, scope of the assignment.

62.      As discussed, the M&E framework to be used during supervision should have been more
substantial, even for a process-oriented project in which the main outputs were completed actions.
Still, the real outcomes would not be realized until perhaps several years after project closing
when the payment system and targeting mechanism and other process improvements were rolled



                                                16
out. The project was run fully out of the Bank's Country Office, which satisfactorily provided
daily oversight to the project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

63.      The combination of moderately satisfactory performance of the Bank at preparation and
satisfactory performance at supervision leads to a moderately satisfactory performance overall.
Advocating on behalf of the GOL's own reform program arguably serves the interests of the
client. The efficiency of resource use also was satisfactory, given how much was achieved with
the modest envelope of resources.

64.      An additional issue of performance, though it is not clear what the impact would be on
rating of Bank overall performance, is the ratio of Bank budget costs to overall project costs. As
Annex 1 shows, BB lending phase costs for ESPISP were US$206,210 and supervision phase
costs were US$386,280, for total BB costs of US$592,490. This total is more than 60 percent of
total project disbursements (US$957,923), which must be considered high by any standard.
Mitigating this high BB to project cost ratio are that most of the BB costs were a result of the fact
that ESPISP was Bank-executed and that Bank staff were providing a high level technical support
to the component activities.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

65.      The Ministry of Finance spearheaded initiatives in the GOL to rationalize public
expenditures. The ESPISP responded to that effort. Although ESPISP was Bank-executed, the
MOF laid much of the political groundwork in the three implementing agencies for the activities
of the project. However, the MOF could not control everything, including the slow (still pending)
approval by the Court of Accounts of the PMT incentive to pilot participants. Although there
have been roadblocks to completing the vision of ESPISP, the MOF remains committed to rolling
out the achievements of ESPISP. For its sustained commitment and strong preparatory work, the
MOF deserves a satisfactory performance rating. Difficulties elsewhere in the Government, e.g.,
the excessive delay at the Court of Accounts in paying the benefit to qualifying participants in the
PMT pilot, lower the Government performance rating to moderately satisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

66.     The three implementing agencies had a mixed performance. Overall, the implementing
agencies (IAs) struggled and relied heavily on consultants. Table 3 provides the basis for
government and individual ratings of the IAs.




                                                 17
              Table 3: Summary of Individual Implementing Agency Ratings
                Agency                      Rating                        Comment
Ministry of Finance                    Satisfactory      Performed well in building networks to
                                                         support ESPISP. Encouraged other
                                                         ministries to comply with program.
NSSF                                   Moderately        While the DG was supportive of the
                                       Unsatisfactory    project, the NSSF Board took steps to
                                                         undermine it.
MOSA                                   Satisfactory      The component implemented well and with
                                                         participation of MOSA staff and building
                                                         of MOSA capacity.
MOPH                                   Moderately        MOPH only partially completed the
                                       unsatisfactory    activities for which it was responsible.

67.      In addition to the difficulties already mentioned at NSSF, there was a serious issue of
reliable, uninterrupted electricity supply that the NSSF Board appeared unwilling to address.
During weekends, power to the building which housed the servers for the NAPS was routinely
shut off. This interruption corrupted the software application and created havoc for the servers
(there were five clustered servers), which had to be reloaded each Monday, a process that could
take 48 hours or more to complete. The DG appeared powerless to remedy the problem in the
face of inaction from the NSSF Board. The failure of the NSSF to appoint a project coordinator
was a large part of the reason that the NAPS has not advanced further.

68.     The performance of MOSA was constructive and through the project, the Ministry
acquired an understanding of the PMT methodology and is applications.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

69.     The moderately satisfactory performance of the Government, combined with an
unsatisfactory performance of the NSSF and a weak performance of the MOPH, leads to a
moderately unsatisfactory Borrower performance overall.

6. Lessons Learned

70.     The Bank needs to address more aggressively the issue of governance structures,
which can foil project implementation. It was clear from the ESPISP that the NSSF Board
intended to obstruct any type of reform of the NSSF programs. Leaving the Board un-reformed
during the design and implementation of the follow-up ESPISP 2 has proven destructive to the
potential outcomes of ESPISP achievements. The Bank understands that reforming the NSSF
Board is essential to successful implementation, but does not have the power to ensure that this
reform is undertaken. However, the Bank will need to explore other actions to mitigate such risks.

71.     The option of Bank-execution to implement projects in fragile/post-conflict states is
only a partial solution. The waiver that allowed the project to operate as a BETF rather than
RETF clearly helped implementation occur on time. Bank execution made a difference because
the nature of the activities was mainly hiring consultants. The streamlined execution, however,
cannot substitute for managerial and political decisions that implementing agencies must take to
ensure successful implementation. In addition, the ability to bypass the NSSF Board was only a
temporary benefit of ESPISP I.




                                               18
72.     The Bank needs to develop a new approach to project execution that will work
better in post-conflict/fragile states, particularly for Bank-execution. The BETF proved to be
an unwieldy tool to implement ESPISP, as Bank policies and procedures are more oriented to
Recipient-execution. Throughout the preparation process of the project, and during
implementation, many guidelines had to be reinterpreted to fit them to Bank-execution. One
possible solution would be for the Bank to assume a higher risk profile in such environments,
which would necessitate revisiting existing guidelines to allow them to better facilitate Bank-
execution.

73.     Ownership at working levels can be developed in Bank-executed or consultant-
implemented projects, but not necessarily at the decision-making levels. The case of the
development of the NSSF hospital claims system (NAPS) demonstrated how consultants working
long hours side-by-side with staff could help staff develop knowledge and acceptance of new,
more efficient and effective processes in service delivery. This sustained work with counterparts
does not ensure, however, that decision-makers will carry through in supporting a framework for
implementation.

74.      The Bank should improve its efforts to advertise the benefits of a project to win the
support of the general populace. It was reported in the MOPH component that one reason for
the resistance to the Bank project was that there was not enough understanding of what the
project benefits would be, on one hand, compared with too much cynicism spawned by too many
failed projects of the past, on the other. During the ICR mission, MOPH made the suggestion to
hold workshops for stakeholders to inform them of what the project was attempting to achieve as
this would provide the opportunity to lower resistance to reforms.

75.     It is also well to reiterate a lesson from the ISN:

76.      "The complexity of the political environment for decision making in Lebanon should
not be underestimated. The Bank, like other donors, has often made the erroneous assumption
that simply because a piece of policy reform is in the national interest of Lebanon, it will be
implemented. In Lebanon, the confessional system of governance and the resulting diffusion of
political authority make such reforms subject to collective action, and such collective action is,
for the same reasons, far from guaranteed."

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/Implementing agencies

77.     The ICR generally concurs with the GOL review of the operation (Annex 7). It needs to
be reiterated, however, that until the tools created with the support of ESPISP I (the claims
system and the PMT) are actually rolled out, the development impact will be minimal.

78.     Two of the three of the lessons learned in the GOL review speak to the need to do a better
job up front of communicating the benefits of the project to the stakeholders. The ICR also
presents a lesson learned in this vein.

79.     With regard to the MOPH comment on the evaluation of its component, the moderately
unsatisfactory rating of the component is based on the fact that two of the three subcomponents
were fundamentally not implemented. These shortfalls in implementation are specified in section
3.2. In the GOL comments, no additional data or explanation are provided with which to




                                                  19
reconsider the rating. Therefore, the ICR maintains the original rating of moderately
unsatisfactory for Component 3: Health Sector Cost Rationalization.

(b) Cofinanciers

80.     There were no formal co-financiers of the project. However, the Italian Government
provided substantial resources to conduct the PMT pilot. Regarding the comment to extend social
protection to Lebanese women who are non-Lebanese (see Annex 8), Italian Cooperation has the
opportunity to support this goal during its continuing work with ESPISP II.




                                              20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

   a. Project Cost by Component (US$)

               Component                        Allocation   Disbursed
   1. Modernization of the Social                700,000      679,812
        insurance System
   2. Strengthening Social Safety Nets            200,000     201,393
   3. Health Sector Cost Rationalization          100,000      74,808
Operating costs (translations, etc.)                           1,910
Total                                            1,000,000    957,923

   b. Financing (US$)

Source of Financing                             Allocation   Disbursed
Total IBRD/IDA Trust Funds                      1,000,000     957,923




                                           21
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Outputs by component are presented in Table 2 of the main text.




                                              22
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

An economic and financial analysis was not envisioned for this operation and was not carried out.




                                               23
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                              Responsibility/
              Names                           Title                  Unit
                                                                                Specialty
Lending
Haneen Sayed                 Lead Operations Officer              MNSHE     Task Team Leader
David Robalino               Senior Economist                     MNSHE     Pensions
Celine Gavach                Operations Analyst                   MNSHE     Operations
Ghassan N. Alkhoja           Senior Operations Officer            MNSSP     Social Protection
Aleksandra Posarac           Lead Human Development Economist     HDNSP     Safety nets
Sophie Urnelshian            Program Assistant                    MNCLB     Administrative
                                                                            Support
Supervision/ICR
Haneen Sayed                  Lead Operations Officer             MNSHE Task Team Leader
David A. Robalino             Senior Economist                    HDNSP Pensions
Firas Raad Zaid Al-Hussein    Senior Health Specialist            MNSHH Health
Ghassan N. Alkhoja            Senior Operations Officer           MNSSP Social Protection
Lina Fares                    Procurement Specialist              MNAPR Procurement
Celine Gavach                 Operations Analyst                  MNSHE Operations
Aleksandra Posarac            Lead Human Development Economist    HDNSP Safety nets
                                                                        ICR Task Team
Surat Nsour                   Operations Officer                  MNSHD
                                                                        Leader
Amy Champion                  Operations Analyst                  MNSHH Quality team
                                                                        Administrative
Hala Ballout                  Program Assistant                   MNCLB
                                                                        Support
Richard Carroll               Consultant                          MNSHD Completion Report


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                             Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                  Stage                                           USD Thousands (including
                                           No. of staff weeks
                                                                  travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY07                                               0.85                      1.96
  FY08                                              19.59                    204.25
                             Total:                 20.44                    206.21
Supervision/ICR
  FY08                                              34.26                    201.62
 FY09                                               16.75                    148.00
 FY10                                                3.61                     36.66
                             Total:                 54.62                    386.28




                                               24
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not Applicable




                                      25
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

Not Applicable




                                    26
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                              27
28
29
30
31
32
33
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

The comments of Italian Cooperation are as follows:

 In the next Proxy Means Testing (PMT) phase, appropriate methodological measures should be
 identified and agreed upon with the GOL in order to extend social protection to Lebanese
 women who are married to non-Lebanese (ex. revisiting the definition of `head of household'
 and criteria for eligibility to receive social assistance accordingly), so as to enhance the pro-
 poor targeting of the mechanism.

 Securing consensus on the prompt establishment of the administrative link between the PMT
 database and the public provision of whatsoever form of social assistance (cash and in-kind)
 should be given the highest priority. However, enhancing the Ministry of Finance's perception
 of `administrative ownership' of the PMT should not be perceived as undermining the `political
 ownership' of the ministries and agencies directly affected by the re-structuring of social
 assistance provision. Rather, constructing a common discourse among these latter is key to the
 overall success of this reform process. Finally, potential opportunities and obstacles already
 embedded ­ or to be created - in the new decentralization draft law should be timely weighed
 [comment referred to section 3.5.(b)].




                                               34
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents available in the project portal

      Aide-Memoires for ESPISP I

      Documents on waiver/designation of ESPISP as BETF

      Emergency Social Protection Implementation Support Project, Program Documents,
      August 30, 2007

      Interim Strategy Note for the Republic of Lebanon for the Period FY08-09, July 2007

      Lebanon Economic and Social Impact Assessment, December 2006

      Reform Implementation Development Policy Loan, Program document, August 2007

      Reform Implementation Development Policy Loan, ICR, October 2009

      Second Emergency Social Protection Implementation Support Project, Program
      Document, July 24, 2008




                                            35
Map 33433




            36
