Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 4146-KE 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Institutional Reform and Capacity Building Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF KENYA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated April 24, 2006
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4146-KE 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated April 24, 2006, between the REPUBLIC OF KENYA 
(the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower, a letter dated 
October 24, 2005, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
reform, strengthen and 
improve the Borrower’s capacity in the delivery of public services 
(the Program); 
(B) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to 
assist in the financing of the Project; 
(C) 
the Borrower intends to obtain from various development partners grants 
or loans to assist in the financing of Parts A and C.1 of the Project; 
(D) 
the Borrower and the Pooling Development Partners (as hereinafter 
defined) intend to enter into a Joint Financing Agreement providing for common 
arrangements and procedures on procurement, disbursement, accounting, monitoring, 
reporting, auditing, coordination and exchange of information required for the 
implementation of Parts A and C.1 of the Project; 
(E) 
the Borrower, the Pooling Development Partners and Non-Pooling 
Development Partners (as hereinafter defined), shall enter into a Memorandum of 
Understanding (as hereinafter defined), which shall, 
inter alia,
 provide for exchange of 
information, reporting and coordination required for the effective implementation of the 
Program; 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia,
 of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 
2004) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Capacity Building Facility” or “CBF” means the facility set up under 
Part B.1 of the Project; 
(b) 
“Capacity Building Subprojects” means a program of activities to be 
financed by the CBF under Part B.1 of the Project in Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
(c) 
“Capacity Building Facility Technical Committee” means the committee 
referred to in paragraph 1(c) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(d) 
“Capacity Building Facility Manual” or “CBF Manual” means the 
manual of procedures outlining the rules for accessing the CBF including information on 
ineligible activities, as the same may be amended from time to time with prior agreement 
of the Association; 
(e) 
“DFID” means the United Kingdom Government Department for 
International Development; 
(f) 
“Economic Recovery Strategy” means a policy document establishing 
the Borrower’s economic development priorities for 2003-2007; 
(g) 
“External Resources Department” means a department within the 
Ministry of Finance responsible for coordinating foreign assistance; 
(h) 
“EU” means the European Union; 
(i) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) set forth 
in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(j) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement; 
(k) 
“Finance Committee” means a committee established pursuant to 
Standing Order No. 151 of the Standing Orders of the National Assembly of the Republic 
of Kenya or any legal successor thereto; 
(l) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(m) 
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the Borrower’s fiscal year commencing on 
July1 and ending on June 30 of the following year; 
(n) 
“GTZ” means the Gesellschaft fur technische Zusammenarbeit; 
(o) 
“IAPSO” means the Inter-Agency Procurement Service Organization of 
the United Nations; 
(p) 
“Internal Audit System” means the internal audit functions undertaken 
by the Internal Auditor General’s department in the Ministry of Finance pursuant to the 
Borrower’s Financial Management Act 2004; 
(q) 
“Investment Program for the Economic Recovery Strategy” means a 
framework for implementing the Borrower’s Economic Recovery Strategy; 
(r) 
“Kenya Institute of Administration” means a body corporate established 
and operating pursuant to the State Corporation Act, Cap 446 of the Laws of Kenya or 
any legal successor thereto; 
(s) 
“Kenya National Audit Office” means an agency of the Borrower 
established and operating pursuant to the Public Audit Act, 2003 of the Laws of Kenya or 
any legal successor thereto; 
(t) 
“Kenya Revenue Authority” or “KRA” means a body corporate 
established and operating pursuant to Cap. 469 of the Laws of Kenya or any legal 
successor thereto;  
(u) 
“KEPSA” means the Kenya Private Sector Alliance; 
(v) 
Kenya Shilling” or “KES” means the currency of the Borrower; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(w) 
“Ministerial Audit Committees” means the committees established by the 
Borrower pursuant to Circular No. 16/2005 of October 4, 2005; 
(x) 
“MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance; 
(y) 
“Non Pooling Development Partners” means USAID, UNDP, GTZ and 
any other development partners who will support the Program through bilateral 
arrangements with the Borrower or channel their support through multilateral 
development partners; 
(z) 
“Public Accounts Committee of Parliament” means a committee 
established and operating pursuant to Standing Order No. 147 of the Standing Orders of 
the National Assembly of Kenya or any legal successor thereto; 
(aa) 
“Public Financial Management Coordination Unit” means the unit 
referred to in paragraph 1 (f) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(bb) 
“Public Financial Management Reform Strategy” or “PFMRS’ means a 
plan describing the Borrower’s comprehensive program of prioritized and sequenced 
reform efforts in public financial management for the period 2006-2010; 
(cc) 
“Public Financial Management Reform Technical Advisory Committee” 
means a committee set up under the PFMRS to advise the Borrower on the PFM reform 
strategy; 
(dd) 
“Public Investment Committee” means a committee established pursuant 
to Standing Order No. 148 of the Standing Orders of the National Assembly of Kenya or 
any legal successor thereto; 
(ee) 
“Public Procurement Oversight Authority” means a body corporate 
established and operating pursuant to the Public Procurement and Disposal Act of 2005, 
or any legal successor thereto; 
(ff) 
“Public Procurement Review Board” means a procurement review board 
established and operating pursuant to the Procurement and Disposal Act of 2005 or any 
legal successor thereto; 
(gg) 
“Public Service Reform Secretariat” means a secretariat set up in the 
Borrower’s Cabinet Office for the purpose of coordinating public civil service reforms; 
Page  6
-
5
-
(hh) 
“Public Sector Service Reform and Development Secretariat Strategic 
Plan” means a plan for 2005-2008 for coordinating public services reforms, 
implementing and institutionalizing Results Based Management, and transformative 
leadership and ethics in the Borrower’s public service; 
(ii) 
“Public Sector Governance Trust” means the trust referred to in 
paragraph 1 (c) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(jj) 
“Pooling Development Partners” means collectively, the Association, 
DFID, SIDA, EU and any other international agency or organization pooling at least a 
part of their funds for financing Parts A and C.1 of the Project, who have signed the Joint 
Financing Agreement and Memorandum of Understanding; 
(kk) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, dated 
November 8, 2005 covering the initial 18-month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18-month period (or 
longer) of Project implementation; 
(ll) 
“Program Procurement Manual” means the Borrower’s guidelines for 
procuring goods, works and services and referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 3 to this 
agreement as the same may be amended from time to time; 
(mm) “Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for 
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(nn) 
“Results Based Management” or “RBM” means a management approach 
for achieving agreed upon targeted results in the public sector; 
(oo) 
“SIDA” means the Swedish Agency for International Development 
Corporation; 
(pp) 
“Special Accounts” means Special Accounts A and B referred to in 
Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement; 
(qq) 
“Subprogram” means a set of eligible public sector institutional related 
reforms and capacity building, project management and coordination activities set out 
under Parts A and C.1 of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and 
included in the Work Plan; 
Page  7
-
6
-
(rr) 
“Transformative Leadership and Ethics for Results Based Management 
Program” means a capacity building program to institutionalize RBM, change 
management, values and ethics in the public service; 
(ss) 
“Transformative Leadership and RBM Review Committee” means a 
committee referred to in paragraph 1(d) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(tt) 
“UNDP” means the United Nations Development Program; 
(uu) 
“USAID” means the United States Agency for International 
Development; and 
(vv) 
“Work Plan” means each program of work and budget prepared annually 
by the Borrower in accordance with paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
ARTICLE II
 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to seventeen million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 17,300,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable costs of: (i) goods and services required for Parts A and C of the Project and 
(ii) goods and services required for the Capacity Building Subprojects under Part B of the 
Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purpose of Parts A and C.1, and Part B of the 
Project, open and maintain in Dollars two special deposit accounts in a commercial bank 
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of the Special 
Account for Parts A and C.1 (hereinafter referred to as Special Account A) shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of the Joint Financing Agreement and payments out of 
the Special Account for Part B.2 and C.2 (hereinafter referred to as Special Account B) 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Part B of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
Page  8
-
7
-
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be November 30, 2010 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 
15 and November 15 commencing May 15, 2016 and ending November 15, 2045. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on November 15, 2025 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Page  9
-
8
-
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
Page  10
-
9
-
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. For the purpose of implementing the Project, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
open and maintain an account (Project Account) in Kenya Shillings in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Association, wherein it shall deposit an amount from 
its own resources sufficient to cover the portion of counterpart financing requirements for 
local expenditures for which the Borrower is responsible under the Project financing plan 
and which are projected to be made under the Project in the three months succeeding the 
preceding Project quarter. The balance in the Project Account, as of the first day of each 
quarter, shall not be less than three million Kenya Shillings (KES 3,000,000) or such 
other amount as may be approved by the Association on the basis of criteria agreed upon 
with the Borrower. 
(b) 
ensure that funds deposited in the Project Account in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this section shall be used only to finance the Borrower’s contribution to 
the expenditures under the Project which are not financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit. 
Section 3.03. For the purpose of implementing Parts A and C of the Project, the 
Borrower shall open and maintain an account (the Pooled Account) in Kenya Shillings in 
a
commercial bank acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment 
wherein it shall deposit development partners’ financial contribution to the Project. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, this Pooled Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of the Joint Financing Agreement. 
Section 3.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the Association not 
later than 12 months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the 
Association’s approval. 
Page  11
-
10
-
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan ; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with 
consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Association, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
Page  12
-
11
-
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for, or covering, the Fiscal Year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each Fiscal Year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Paragraph 6 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association a Financial Monitoring Report (FMR), in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter. 
Page  13
-
12
-
ARTICLE V
 
Remedies of the Association 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events is specified; namely; a situation has arisen which shall make 
it improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a) 
the Borrower has pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement opened 
a
Project Account and deposited therein an initial amount of KES 3,000,000; 
(b) 
the Borrower has signed a Joint Financing Agreement with at least one 
Development Partner satisfactory to the Association; 
(c) 
the Borrower has selected short term consultants for procurement, project 
accounting and project management; all under terms of reference and recruitment 
processes that are open, transparent and satisfactory to the Association; 
(d) 
the Borrower has submitted a Public Financial Management Reform 
Strategy and Public Sector Service Reform and Development Secretariat Strategic Plan 
with their relevant work plans satisfactory to the Association; 
(e) 
the Borrower has submitted reports indicating outputs of the completed 
pilot activities under the Transformative Leadership and Ethics for Results Based 
Management Program satisfactory to the Association; and 
(f) 
the Borrower has finalized a Financial Management Manual and a 
Program Procurement Manual satisfactory to the Association. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  14
-
13
-
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
P.O Box 30007 
Nairobi 
Kenya 
 Cable 
address: 
 
  Facsimile: 
FINANCE 
254 20 330 426 
NAIROBI 
 
 
254 20 218 475 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  15
-
14
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF KENYA 
 
By: 
     /s/ 
Amos 
Kimunya 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: 
     /s/ 
Colin 
Bruce 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
Part A
.
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent)
%
of
Expenditures  
to be Financed
(1) 
 
Subprograms under 
Parts A and C.1 of the 
Project 
 
11,030,000 
 
90% of Eligible 
Expenditures for FY 
2006/2007 and thereafter 
such % of Eligible 
Expenditures as the 
Association may determine 
from time to time; 
 
(2) 
 
(3) 
 
(4) 
 
Capacity Building Facility 
under Part B.1 of the 
Project 
 
Goods under Parts B.2 and 
C.2 of the Project 
 
Consultants Services & 
Training under Part B.2 of 
the Project 
 
3,700,000 
 
450,000 
 
1,200,000 
 
90% of expenditures of 
amounts disbursed
100% of foreign 
expenditures and 94% of 
local expenditures 
 
100% of foreign 
expenditures and 94% of 
local expenditures 
 
(5) 
 
Operating Costs 
 
20,000 
 
90% 
 
(6) 
 
Unallocated 
 
900,000 
 
Page  17
-
16
-
Total 
__________ 
17,300,000 
========= 
 
2. 
(a) the term
 “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory 
of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
(c) 
the term “Operating Costs” means the costs incurred for the purpose of 
the Project management and coordination under Part C of the Project, maintaining 
vehicles, fuel, equipment, office supplies, utilities, consumables, travel per diems and 
allowances, travel and accommodation, and office rental but excluding salaries of the 
Borrower’s civil servants. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments: 
(a) 
made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and 
(b) 
under category 2 unless, the beneficiaries have complied with the set of 
broad eligibility criteria and rules of access developed by the Borrower pursuant to 
paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods 
costing less than $200,000 equivalent per contract; (b) services of individual consultants 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; and (c) services of consulting firms 
under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, all under such terms 
and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the 
case of the first such request submitted to the Association before any withdrawal has been 
made from the Credit Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Association only a 
statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-
month period following the date of such request. 
B. Special 
Accounts
Page  18
-
17
-
1. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account A and Special Account B have been opened, withdrawals from the Credit 
Account of amounts to be deposited into the Special Accounts shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Accounts, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Accounts: 
 
(a) 
if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to 
in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-
based Disbursements; 
 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be. 
4. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may 
Page  19
-
18
-
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination. 
5. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Accounts was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the respective Special Accounts (or, if the 
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Accounts shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Accounts will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. 
Page  20
-
19
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $ 400,000 allocated to Parts B and C of the Project to be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account B pursuant to paragraph 2 of this 
Annex. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account B shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account B of an 
amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account B such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account B, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account B at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account B such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account B for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account B shall 
be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the 
Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account B, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to Eligible 
Categories (2), (3), 4 and 5 minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Page  21
-
20
-
Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account B as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  22
-
21
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Accounts 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the respective Special Accounts shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is 
required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following the date of such reports. 
Page  23
-
22
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) strengthen
 the Borrower’s public 
financial management systems to enhance transparency; accountability and 
responsiveness to public expenditure policy priorities, and (b) enhance public service 
delivery through effective implementation of Results Based Management. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Public Financial Management (PFM):
Carrying out of Subprograms for: 
1. 
Strengthening the budget formulation process through: (a) capacity building of 
staff of institutions benefiting from the Project, simplification of policy tools and 
instruments for the budget process; development of information systems and databases; 
(b) embedding the budget structure into the chart of accounts and subsequent reports 
produced from the financial system; (c) provision of technical assistance to link 
ministerial strategic plans, annual work plans and annual budgeting processes; and (d) 
streamlining, target setting, policy planning, budgeting, and monitoring and evaluation 
within the Borrower’s government. 
2. 
Strengthening budget execution, accounting and financial reporting through: (a) 
providing technical support and other capacity building interventions to improve cash 
management, containing occurrence of further expenditure arrears; improving payment 
systems and ensuring proper payroll management and integrity; and (b) implementing an 
action plan for clearing expenditure arrears and preventing new ones which shall, 
inter 
alia,
 include (i) development of a policy for prevention of new expenditure arrears; (ii) 
reviewing contract administration procedures; (iii) establishing a project implementation 
and monitoring system; (iv) promulgating procurement regulations; (v) establishing a 
system for managing pending bills; and (c) capacity building and training of management 
consultancy staff services division staff on payroll management. 
3. 
Strengthening the use of information technology in public financial management 
through: (a) establishing a public sector budget that is integrated with the core accounting 
system; (b) improving and automating controls to ensure the accuracy and reliability of 
information in files and reports to prevent or discourage fraud; (c) automating 
Page  24
-
23
-
reconciliation of bank accounts; (d) ensuring timely integration of payroll data; and (e) 
improving capacity of PFM staff. 
4. 
Strengthening the external audit system through: (a) supporting ongoing 
initiatives to clear the substantial backlog of overdue local 
authorities’ audit reporting and 
preventing occurrence of new audit arrears; (b) strengthening the relationship between 
the Public Accounts and Public Investments Committees of Parliament and the Kenya 
National Audit Office through technical and advisory services; (c) preparation and 
finalization of audit manuals; and (d) training in alternative audit approaches including 
performance, forensic audit, “value for money” audit risk based auditing and change 
management approaches. 
5. 
Strengthening the Internal Audit System, through: (a) provision of support to the 
Internal Audit Department to complete its risk-based audits in order to develop and 
document a new internal audit methodology and plan and preparing for its 
implementation; (b) training staff and members of the Ministerial Audit Committees on 
the risk based internal audit methodology, and planning and preparing for its 
implementation; (c) reviewing audit processes and systems in order to align them; and, 
(d) establishing the core competencies to implement the revised audit approach. 
6. 
Strengthening the national procurement system through: (a) implementing the 
new legal and regulatory framework for procurement; (b) provision of training to the 
Public Procurement Oversight Authority staff and other public procuring entities based 
on a training needs assessment; (c) supporting the implementation of capacity building 
and training programs for staff of public procuring entities, the Public Procurement 
Administrative Review Board and anti-corruption institutions; and (d) supporting the 
implementation of information, education and communication for the public procurement 
system. 
7. 
Supporting key parliamentary committees for effective oversight of public 
financial management through: (a) provision of technical assistance training on macro-
economic and financial management with a particular focus on budget processes, 
preparation, budget execution and expenditure control; (b) supporting an independent 
parliamentary budget office through training to ensure that members of parliament have 
access to independent budget information and analyses; (c) strengthening the capacity of 
the Public Accounts Committee to review audit reports and monitor corrective actions; 
(d) strengthening the capacity of the Finance Committee to oversee the budget process; 
and (e) provision of technical and logistical support to strengthen the relationship 
between the Public Accounts Committee and the Kenya National Audit Office. 
8. 
Strengthening the capacity of the KRA to enhance its revenue collection and tax 
administration through: (a) provision of technical assistance, training and equipment to 
the Domestic Taxes Department in order to restructure it’s current tax-based structure 
Page  25
-
24
-
into a unified function-based tax administration; (b) acquisition and implementation of a 
new modern integrated information technology system for tax administration for KRA 
including a disaster recovery site; and (c) provision of training and technical assistance to 
upgrade and diversify the skill base requirements of the program to promote change 
management. 
Part B
:
Capacity Building For Results
1. 
Setting up and providing financing to a Capacity Building Facility for the 
purpose of assisting selected ministries to achieve benchmarks set by the Borrower under 
its Economic Recovery Strategy and the ministries’ performance contracts including the 
benchmarks on leadership and RBM. 
2. 
Implementing the Transformative Leadership and Ethics for Results Based 
Management Program to enhance change management and mainstream public service 
values and ethics in service delivery through: (a) developing and implementing an 
analytical work to generate global best practices and comparative lessons to provide the 
Borrower with global knowledge to implement good practices in the content, pace and 
sequencing of reform initiatives; (b) purchasing of office equipment such as  computers 
and their relevant software and vehicles; (c) strengthening the capacity of the 
participating ministries through: (i) conducting of analytical work in the participating 
ministry to understand the specific environment of reform in each ministry; (ii) 
establishing baseline, (iii) implementing and monitoring progress; (iv) conducting 
workshops/retreats for leaders to exchange ideas and enhance the political leadership for 
reforms to succeed; (v) establishing peer coaching or other close advisory relationship 
between reform leaders at various levels to have a ready network of technical, process 
and professional support; and (vi) provision of technical support for adoption of various 
re- engineering processes such as implementation of RBM, rapid results methodologies, 
that is, information, education and communication and stakeholder partnership; (d) 
implementing RBM, leadership and ethics capacity building in critical institutions of the 
Borrower such as the Kenya Institute of Administration through training on leadership 
and oversight and mainstreaming public sector ethics; (e) building capacity, coordinating, 
monitoring and evaluating activities to ensure the effective and continuous evaluation of 
leadership, value and ethics execution; and (f) capacity building of the Public Service 
Reform Secretariat staff to deliver the program. 
Part C
:
Project Management and Coordination
1. 
Strengthening the capacity of the PFM Coordination Unit through provision of 
equipment, technical assistance and financing for contracting short term consultants to 
promote effective coordination and monitoring of the Project. 
Page  26
-
25
-
2. 
Strengthening the capacity of the Public Sector Reform Secretariat through 
provision of equipment, technical assistance and financing for contracting short term 
consultants to promote effective coordination and monitoring of Part B of the Project. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by May 31, 2010. 
Page  27
-
26
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement 
Section I.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and the 
Program Procurement Manual.
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and the Program Procurement 
Manual. 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National 
Competitive Bidding. 
2. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
3. Direct 
Contracting
.
Goods and works which the Association agrees meet the 
requirements for Direct Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of said procurement method. 
Page  28
-
27
-
4. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured directly from IAPSO
 
in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.9 of the Procurement. 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this 
Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection. For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
.
Services for assignments which the Association 
agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of a Fixed Budget in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Association agrees 
meet the requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
4. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
5. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
Page  29
-
28
-
Section IV
.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association: (a) each 
contract for 
goods and services (other than consultants’ services) estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more procured on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding or Direct Contracting; (b) each contract for consultants’ services provided by a 
firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000
 
or more; (c) each contract for an 
individual consultant estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000
 
or more; and (d) all 
contracts procured on the basis of Single Source Selection. All other contracts shall be 
subject to Post Review by the Association. 
Page  30
-
29
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
Institutional Arrangements 
1. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
designate the Public Financial Management Coordination Unit in the 
Ministry of Finance, (consisting of staff from the public service and short-term 
consultants (in charge of staff training) with the overall coordination of the Project, 
monitoring and evaluating the reform process, integrating the various donor activities into 
the Project and publishing progress reports on a regular basis; 
(b) 
establish a Steering Committee comprising the Permanent Secretaries of 
the selected beneficiary ministries with the responsibility for overseeing the 
implementation of all reform programs/initiatives including the RBM; 
(c) 
set up a Capacity Building Facility Technical Committee with 
representatives from the ministries participating in the Project, representatives from 
KEPSA and the Public Sector Governance Trust with the responsibility for reviewing all 
proposals for accessing the CBF and making final recommendations to the Steering 
Committee which shall finally approve the use of the funds; 
(d) 
set up a Transformative Leadership and Results Based Management 
Review Committee consisting of the five Permanent Secretaries from the participating 
ministries being fast tracked in the leadership and capacity building program chaired by 
the Secretary, Public Sector Reform and Development, with the responsibility for 
providing leadership in the implementation of RBM and providing advice on broader 
leadership, ethics, and effective Project implementation; 
(e) 
set up a PFM Technical Advisory Committee with representatives from 
stakeholder agencies involved in PFM implementation both within and outside the 
government, with the responsibility for providing advice on financial management and 
effective Project implementation; 
(f) 
no later than June 30, 2006 or any other date to be agreed with the 
Association set up a National Public Procurement Oversight Authority to oversee public 
procurement. 
Page  31
-
30
-
Capacity Building Facility
2. 
In implementing Part B.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall: (a) develop a set of 
broad eligibility criteria and rules of access, and (b) indicate the amount of funds to be 
allocated each year to selected ministries that will benefit from the CBF including their 
requirements for participating the CBF which shall 
inter alia
 include: (i) developing a 
strategic plan oriented towards achieving the Economic Recovery Strategy objectives; (ii) 
preparing a capacity building plan including its costs and an implementation/procurement 
plan; (iii) developing an asset register; (iv) preparing a capacity building report for the 
previous year; and (v) submitting an annual financial statement. 
3. 
The Borrower shall monitor and supervise the use of the CBF and ensure that it is 
managed and used in a financially prudent manner; and meets the CBF objectives.  
Annual Joint Reviews
4. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
in respect of Parts A and C.1 of Schedule 2 of this Agreement, conduct a 
technical and financial performance progress for the previous year to inform the annual 
joint review involving Pooling Development Partners; 
 
(b) 
carry out jointly with the Association, on or about February 28 each year, 
or such later date as the Association may agree, a comprehensive review (annual review) 
aimed at: (i) reviewing the technical and financial performance progress report on the 
Project; (ii) documenting progress towards Project objectives; (iii) identifying and resolving 
obstacles to Project implementation; and (iv) adjusting, in agreement with the Association, 
targets and corresponding Subprograms to reflect progress achieved in the implementation 
of the Project as of the date of the review; and 
 
(c) 
promptly after completing the annual review, take all measures required to 
fulfill the recommendations arising out of said reviews, with due diligence and efficiency 
and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into account the Association and other 
development partners’ comments thereon. 
Annual Work Plan Planning Meeting
5. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
following the annual joint review, held not later than October 31, of each 
year or such other date as the Association may agree, jointly in consultation with the 
Page  32
-
31
-
Association and the other Development Partners conduct a budget planning meeting to 
discuss the draft annual Work Plan for the coming Fiscal Year for Parts A and C of the 
Project. 
(b) 
not later than March 31 of each Fiscal Year during the implementation of 
the Project or such later date as the Association may agree in consultation with the 
development partners, prepare and furnish to the Association for its approval a final 
Work Plan containing each proposed Subprogram to be carried out in the following 
Fiscal Year, modified in a manner satisfactory to the Association, taking into account the 
comments and views of the Association and the development partners. 
6. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about October 31, 2007 or any other date to be agreed 
with the Association, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by November 15, 2007, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
Page  33
-
32
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Monitoring Indicators 
1. 
National budget is aligned with explicitly stated 
Borrower’s priorities in the 
Investment Program for the Economic Recovery Strategy; 
2. 
Budget allocation and actual expenditure disparities are reduced; 
3. 
Improved predictability of the Borrower’s Treasury department’s annual/mid 
term allocation flows to line ministries; 
4. 
Risk based external audit reports prepared and published in a timely fashion in 
accordance with the Public Audit Act, 2003; 
5. 
Adoption of a risk based internal audit approach and establishment of effective 
Ministerial Audit Committees; 
6. 
Skilled Public Accounts, Public Investment and Finance Committees of 
Parliament that undertake their statutory functions meet in a timely manner to 
discuss and act on reports; 
7. 
Procurement entities adhere to the national procurement law. 
8. 
Accountability and capacity of public servants are enhanced for the delivery of 
public services through the introduction of RBM, which are linked to the delivery 
of specific outputs/results; 
9. 
Ministries accessing funds under the Credit develop strategic plans and show 
good performance in implementing them; 
10. 
External Resources Department is strengthened and develops and adopts an aid 
policy that brings order to donor support for capacity building.
 
