Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1861 
Project Name 
Institutional Reform and Capacity Building Technical Assistance 
Project 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P090567 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Treasury Building 
Government of Kenya 
Nairobi, Kenya. 
 
Joseph Kinyua Tel 0722 317144. 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[
]
S
2
[
]
S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
September 30, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
September 22, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
December 15, 2005 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Problems of governance in public sector management have hampered Kenya’s efforts to create a 
stable macroeconomic environment, increased the cost of doing business in the country, 
discouraging private investment, and proved an obstacle to addressing widespread poverty and 
improving the quality of life of its citizens. Key governance problems include: the absence of 
efficient, transparent, and accountable decision-making and management in the country’s public 
sector, institutionalized corruption, poor economic and financial management, weak rule of law, 
inefficient service delivery mechanisms, and weak administrative practices. Several reform 
initiatives to deal with these problems since the since the 1970s and 1980s have achieved only 
modest results. 
The Kenya African National Unity Party  Government, under President Daniel arap Moi, , which 
ruled the country for 24 years (1978-2002), made ambitious efforts in its last two years to 
improve and reform public sector governance. Its measures included restructuring the public 
sector by reducing the number of ministries from 28 to 15, eliminating some permanent 
secretaries, implementing a staff retrenchment program combined with improved pay and 
benefits, reforming the legal and judicial system, and promoting greater engagement with civil 
society. On December 27, 2002, a new Government took office, and inherited this ongoing 
reform program with the determination to address governance challenges and undertake key 
Page  2
policy and institutional reforms to improve both the environment for private sector investment 
and service delivery to the people. 
The new Government’s strategy to improve public sector effectiveness was outlined in its 
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), titled the Investment Program for the Economic 
Recovery Strategy for Wealth and Employment Creation (IP-ERS, 2003-2007), prepared with 
the full participation of the Parliament, non-governmental organizations, development partners, 
and other stakeholders. The Strategy centers on three inter-linked pillars: (a) strengthening 
economic growth; (b) enhancing equity and reducing poverty; and (c) improving governance. 
The World Bank’s Board discussed and approved the Strategy on May 6, 2004 and the 
International Monetary Fund’s Board discussed and approved it on May 10, 2004. 
In response to these initial steps taken by the Government, the Bank’s Country Assistance 
Strategy (CAS, Report # 29038-KE, May 19, 2004) proposed a program for re-engagement of 
the Bank Group with Kenya that is aligned with the IP-ERS and rooted in its results-based 
framework, from which the CAS’s own result-based framework is drawn. 
The new Government made some progress on reforms under the public sector management 
technical assistance project with specific reforms, including, for example: eliminating backlogs 
in the audits of Government accounts; taking steps to strengthen the civil service wage policy, 
including retrenchment and abolition of overmanned posts approved by Government by 
establishing a Remuneration Board to oversee the implementation of the pay reform policy 
approved by Cabinet.  It has established an institutional framework comprising a Cabinet Sub-
Committee, a National Steering Committee on Public Sector Reforms, and a Public Sector 
Reforms Secretariat responsible for coordinating the implementation of on-going reform 
initiatives in public sector.  As part of its efforts to develop an integrated sector-wide monitoring 
and evaluation (M&E) system to improve the allocation and use of public resources, the 
Government has established a Monitoring and Evaluation Department within the Ministry of 
Planning and National Development (MPND). To improve management and the quality of public 
service delivery, performance contracts have been introduced for chief executive officers and 
Boards of Directors of 16 state-owned corporations, and the Government is planning to introduce 
performance contracts for all Permanent Secretaries as part of the new results-based management 
approach in Government. 
The Government has also taken a number of actions to root out corruption, including: (a) 
implementing the Economic Crimes Act (2003), which provides for the establishment of an Anti-
Corruption Commission; (b) creating a new Department of Governance and Ethics in the Office 
of the President; (c) enacting the Public Officers Ethics Act in 2003, requiring all public officials 
(including the President) and employees, as well as their families, to declare their assets, and 
more recently, taking steps to make these declarations public; and (d) undertaking judicial 
reform, including establishing the Ministry of Justice and Constitutional Affairs, appointing a 
new Chief Justice, and firing corrupt and inefficient judges. The Cabinet has also approved the 
Government Financial Management Bill, Public Procurement Bill and Public Audit Bill. The 
Government also launched an enquiry into a large corruption case (Goldenberg), which it 
broadcasts nightly on Kenyan television, and suspended procurement officials associated with 
corruption. Further, it also took action against those involved in the Bank-funded project—the 
Page  3
Kenya Urban Transport Infrastructure Project (KUTIP), in which  both Government officials and 
Bank staff members were found to have involved in corruption. 
More recently, both the Kenyan public and the international community have grown skeptical of 
the Government’s determination in fighting corruption following new procurement scandals, and 
the resignation of a key senior civil servant involved in anti-corruption programs. However, 
some promising overarching, sectoral and grassroots initiatives are evolving including the 
involvement of civil society and the private sector in the fight against corruption in procurement 
and in monitoring the implementation of reforms; plans to conduct a governance baseline survey 
that would cover major areas included in the IP-ERS as well as in various sectoral work plans 
and programs, and introducing performance contracts and results-based management in 
Government as an approach to help deliver “results for Kenyans”. 
The Government also presented an Anti-Corruption Action Plan in the recently concluded 
Consultative Group meeting, covering the period April 2005–June 2006, aimed at accelerating 
and consolidating reforms. Although it is not meant to represent the totality of the Government’s 
action on anti-corruption, the strategy has five planks: 
·
Enactment of the necessary legislation to establish a legislative platform on which to 
anchor the war on corruption. 
·
Vigorous enforcement of anti-corruption laws through investigation of offences of 
corruption and economic crimes as well as recovery of corruptly acquired property. 
·
Identification and sealing of loopholes through institution of effective public sector 
management controls. 
·
National public education aimed at stigmatizing corruption and inducing behavioral 
change. 
·
Implementing macroeconomic and structural reforms to reduce the incidence and 
demand for corruption by scaling down the role of the public sector and bureaucracy. 
Beyond the initiatives in the Government’s anti-corruption action plan, there are others in 
various sectors, e.g. water, education, and more recently, immigration.  In a recent press briefing, 
the Minister of Finance highlighted some specific actions taken by the Government to arrest any 
systemic weaknesses in financial management, including: (a) timely completion of annual 
project audits; (b) clearance of public accounts backlog; (c) introduction of risk-based internal 
audit throughout Government; (d) simplification of payment processes, and more importantly, 
governance review of selected projects, whose objective was to identify areas of governance 
weaknesses that expose projects to fraud risks. 
 
Additionally, the 2005/2006 budget, for the first time, has been compiled without factoring in 
donor support.  Although donor support remains critical, government officials have argued for a 
strategy that allows them to plan within their own resource constraints. The success of this 
strategy depends crucially on addressing broader economic and fiscal governance challenges, 
including efficient revenue collection by the Kenya Revenue Authority and prudent spending by 
line ministries. The Government also took a major step in passing the Public Procurement and 
Disposal Bill, 2005, which aims to: (a) enhance economy and efficiency; (b) increase 
competition; (c) improve integrity, transparency, and public confidence; (d) create a conducive 
Page  4
investment climate; (e) build a strong organizational framework with a strong oversight 
mechanism, including well defined Procuring Units and Tender Committees, and (h) reduce 
delays in procurement. The above initiatives in procurement anti-corruption, financial 
management and other improvements in the various sectors are aimed at improving the quality of 
governance and service delivery for communities, the private sector, and civil society in general. 
A
number of development partners have offered to provide assistance to support the Government 
implement various governance activities, including support to the justice and law and order 
sector, based on the Government demonstrating its strong leadership in the effort to eradicate 
corruption and pursue reforms.  For example, the Governance, Justice, Law and Order Sector 
Reform Programme (GJLOS-RP), which is supported by at least fifteen development partners is 
a
Government-led initiative which lays out a five-year plan on a sector-wide, coordinated and 
coherent approach to reform of public sector institutions to be able to execute their mandate 
effectively.  The key outcomes of the programme include a safe and secure environment, a fair 
humane and expeditious justice delivery system, and a more democratic state that respects 
human rights and the rule of law. 
The Government has also entered into partnership with development partners to plan and 
implement the Public Financial Management Reform Programme with the aim of enhancing 
financial governance in the public sector for effective and efficient resource utilization for 
economic growth and poverty reduction.  The UNDP is also supporting the government through 
a
programme to alleviate poverty through strengthening capacity and participation of governance 
institutions and civil society organizations including NGO's and Community Based 
Organizations on public governance. This programme aims to promote participatory 
development planning by involving grassroots communities and all parties concerned in public 
policy debates to build consensus, eliminate corruption, enhance transparency and 
accountability, and institutionalize integrity systems and other programs and regulations that 
impact poverty eradication. 
Additionally, Kenya is one of the first four African countries (others are Rwanda, Ghana, and 
Mauritius) to be scrutinized by the African Peer Review Mechanism by volunteering to be 
reviewed on good governance, democratic standards and economic policy. The NEPAD peer 
review is seen as a vital part of the African economic recovery plan and sixteen African 
governments already have signed up to the review mechanism, which is to assess whether they 
are following NEPAD aims of good governance, economic reform and democracy. 
However, despite the government’s renewed commitment to improve governance and improve 
the delivery of services to its citizenry, coupled with the support from the development partners, 
significant systematic challenges remain that still need to be addressed. For instance, the Civil 
service is still not lean and service quality is highly variable and often poor. Issues of its bloated 
size and limited human capacity continue to be a significant challenge in terms of delivering 
services to its citizenry. Pay reform continues to be a challenge because the government has been 
dragging its feet on retrenchment because it does not have money pay off the retrenched workers 
and more importantly, because the failure to deliver on its ambitious election promise to create 
2.5 million jobs in the five years after winning the election will have political implications. 
Page  5
There is evidence that ‘big graft’ is more difficult because of stringent attention to procurement, 
and intense media and general public security. The Government recently commissioned forensic 
audits of three Bank-financed operations under-implementation. The audit reports found direct 
evidence of fraud in the Kenya HIV/AIDS Disaster Response Project (KHADREP), significant 
risk management and control weaknesses (though little direct evidence of fraud) in the Kenya 
Decentralized HIV/AIDS and Reproductive Health Project (DARE), and shortcomings in the 
control environment in the Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Project (PSMTAP), 
which do not appear to have translated into fraud. The report also notes that poor government 
management against fraud risk, weak oversight, low capacity (particularly in accounting staff), 
project supervision that focuses more on documentation rather than physical evidence of 
implementation, and confusion over World Bank and Government requirements allow for a high 
possibility of corruption. There is also insufficient managerial accountability for overall 
performance, service delivery and corruption, and the Government could make greater use of 
administrative sanctions. 
Intense donor interest in Kenya also has a downside.  Multiple donor activities (e.g. PFM, 
governance statistics and accountability frameworks), fragmentation of support (some of which 
is very small e.g. UNDP), is a huge drain on the capacity of the Government. There have also 
been several missed opportunities for organized scaling up (e.g. rapid results approaches, etc), 
throughout the Government, but the approach has only been piloted in a few government 
ministries (health and water ministries with successes) rather than been mainstreamed to ensure 
“results” are delivered to the people.  All of this runs counter to the commitments made under the 
Paris Declaration on aid effectiveness. 
The Government recognizes the above weaknesses and has recently articulated a  new vision and 
institutional framework for improving public sector performance (especially on governance) and 
service delivery as part of its broader strategy for reinvigorating its programme of growth and 
structural reforms for wealth creation as stated in the ERS.  This approach focuses on enhancing 
the 
change management capacity
 of leaders in the Public Service and their teams in delivering 
‘Results for Kenyans’. It will also enhance the development and promotion of a value system and 
code of ethics
 developed from the existing legislation as well as best global practice as a tool to 
rejuvenate the service orientation and accountability for public servants. 
As part of this new initiative, the Government has recently embraced a Results-Based 
Management (RBM) system as a tool for helping public sector institutions to focus their work, 
plan strategically and demonstrate candidly the difference that each organization is making to 
development.  It is presumed that by introducing RBM, the Government seeks to improve overall 
programme effectiveness as well as accountability to its citizens, donors and other development 
partners. Both the public and development partners want to see faster development and to know 
what use their resources are being put into and how efficiently. 
The Government has also introduced performance contracts to all its senior officials including 
those in parastatals. The performance contracts are supposed to create incentives for public 
sector managers and their staff, to improve performance and accountability by undertaking to 
deliver specific outputs in line with their annual work plans, strategic plans and the ERS as well 
as Millennium Development Goals. By focusing on results and by providing a clear picture of 
Page  6
what areas and outcomes the Government is engaged in, RBM presents the opportunity of 
creating a synthesized alignment between capacities and the tasks undertaken by ministries and 
other public organizations. It also raises the challenge of finding the right skills mix for each 
public organization and the incentives necessary for enhanced performance. 
The focus of the new program will be on public financial management to reduce discretionary 
powers accorded to its chief executives, and improving its service delivery system and enhancing 
transparency in government transactions, including procurement reforms, and consequently 
create the environment for needed foreign investment. To help implement its public sector 
management reform program, the Government is seeking assistance from the Bank and other 
development partners that will: 
(a) 
Support demand-driven capacity building that is aligned with and directly supportive of 
the performance-based management system that the Government is rapidly putting in 
place, including performance contracting and components piloted earlier under the ‘rapid 
results’ label. 
(b) 
Focus on some key ministries (that are key for successful implementation of the ERS, 
e.g, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Planning and National Development, Ministry of 
Trade and Industry, Ministry of Local Government, and Ministry of Agriculture).  
However, because several others are important to the achievement of ERS goals and/or 
are moving ahead quickly to significantly enhance their focus on operational efficiency 
and results, the assistance program would need to accommodate a larger group of 
ministries that satisfy agreed eligibility requirements such as leadership and results 
orientation. 
(c) 
Assist Parliament in its oversight role by supporting the various parliamentary 
committees in the area of economic management (budget preparation, budget execution, 
and expenditure control), and providing technical and logistical support for effective 
political oversight by the Public Accounts and Public Investment Committees; and 
(d) 
Improve the effectiveness of donor support in these critical areas of capacity building, 
governance, etc, by ensuring that they are better aligned and coordinated, especially in 
areas such as public financial management (PFM). 
Several bilateral donors in close collaboration with IDA have responded favorably with 
commitments to support the Sector-Wide Approach (SWAP) and the pooling of funds around a 
single design solution including DFID, SIDA, and EU, along with anticipated support from 
CIDA, and Norway. Non-pooling donors that have committed to leverage support to the SWAP 
include USAID and UNDP. The SWAP approach to support the Government’s institutional 
reform and capacity development program has been conveyed to the Government in regular 
meetings between Government and various Donor Coordinating Mechanisms including the PFM 
Donor Coordination Group and in various preparation missions. The support from donors would 
incorporate the various commitments within the Government’s overall macroeconomic fiscal 
framework including its annual budgeting, planning, and monthly SOE-based disbursement 
procedures. 
The proposed project is consistent with the strong emphasis on improving governance and 
restoring the rule of law articulated both in the Investment Program for Economic Recovery 
Page  7
Strategy (IP-ERS), and the joint World Bank-IFC CAS, 2004-2007. Through concessional 
financing, the project will directly contribute to the CAS objective of building institutional 
capacity for improved service delivery. The project will be linked to the Economic Recovery 
Strategy Support Credit (ERSSC), which is currently under preparation, and will complement 
other lending instruments for institutional reform and capacity building such as the Financial 
Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC). It will also provide technical inputs on various reforms 
currently being undertaken by the Government, including financial management, accounting 
reform, and procurement reform. 
The Bank brings considerable cross-country experience in several of the reform areas under 
implementation as part of this project, including financial management, procurement, enhancing 
change management, and strengthening institutional capacity. It is also leveraging its experience 
as a lead or strategic partner in supporting large scale capacity building programs in a number of 
African countries (for example IDA’s support to Ethiopia’s Public Sector Capacity Building 
Program in 2004, to improve governance, accountability, and the scale, efficiency, and 
responsiveness of public service delivery at the federal, regional, and local levels). 
As mentioned earlier, there are firm indications that a number of bilateral donors are currently 
supporting various programs to improve governance and deliver “results for Kenyans”.  The 
Bank is playing a catalytic role in harmonizing, and leveraging its support for capacity building 
and institutional reforms, including public financial management reforms, leadership and ethics 
reforms as well as mainstreaming results-based management in Government with a number of 
other donors, including DFID, SIDA, EU, CIDA, USAID, and NORAD, who participated in 
several of the preparation missions.  The donors, together with Government, have agreed that 
support for the various governance reforms mentioned inter alia would be in the form of a Sector 
Wide Approach (SWAp), and have jointly funded a team of consultants to assist the Government 
in developing a log frame and an implementation plan for all proposed reforms in government. 
2. Preliminary description 
 
This will be a Technical Assistance/Investment Loan for five years, linked closely to 
Development Policy Lending. 
 
Component 1. Budget and Public Financial Management
 
(US$16.59M): 
Strengthening the management of public expenditure is central.  There is an urgent need to 
improve fiscal discipline, bring resource allocations in line with development priorities 
articulated in the IP-ERS, and improve the budgeting preparation and execution, reporting and 
evaluation processes.  The objective of this component is to make budget processes and public 
financial management (PFM) more transparent, accountable, and responsive to policy priorities. 
It will therefore aim at strengthening financial resource planning, budget preparation and 
implementation, strengthening financial controls, ensuring that allocation of government 
resources is consistent with policy priorities outlined in IP-ERS, and reducing fiduciary risks by 
making procurement transparent and efficient and enhancing expenditure monitoring and audit. 
This component will have the following sub-components. 
Page  8
Sub-program 1.1 Strengthening budget formulation 
This subcomponent supports the Governmen
t’s on-going efforts at streamlining budget 
formulation processes, strengthening the MTEF consultative mechanisms with stakeholders and 
alignment of expenditure with ERS priorities. It will also support various activities undertaken 
before budget formulation such as providing technical assistance to strengthen Sector Working 
Groups and in preparing sector reports. In the short term
,
budget formulation will be improved 
by building capacity of the Budget Supply/MTEF department in the Ministry of Finance and 
budget units in line ministries and government agencies. Specific activities will include helping 
line ministries prepare expenditure plans, training staff in program costing, and strengthening 
budget submissions by line ministries as well as helping Ministry of Finance with development 
of budget strategy paper and project appraisal system. In the medium term
,
the project will 
support the development of an organic budget law which codifies existing practices in Public 
Financial Management. By the end of the project life cycle, the means to support implementation 
of the new organic budget law will have been developed. 
Sub-program 1.2 Strengthening budget execution, accounting, and financial reporting   
This subcomponent supports the Government in implementing the recommendations contained 
in its Enhanced Financial Management Action Plan (EFMAP). Several elements of EFMAP are 
under implementation and others are to be implemented in the next two years. In the short term, 
the sub-component is likely to include technical support to: (i) improve cash management; (ii) 
contain occurrence of further expenditure arrears; (iii) improve predictability of cash flow to 
spending units; (iv) improve payment systems; and (v) ensure payroll integrity. In the medium 
term the principles, methodology and processes would have been established for: (i) a system for 
financial reporting by semi-autonomous government agencies and local authorities on budget 
and contingent liabilities; (ii) expenditure classification systems along the principles outlined in 
the international standard classifications such as the UN Classification of the Functions of the 
Government (COFOG) and the IMF’s Government Financial Statistics (GFS); and (iii) a 
framework for the preparation and presentation of timely and comprehensive periodic financial 
management accounts and annual financial statements based on generally accepted accounting 
principles and professional best practices. By the end of the project life cycle, the means to 
support implementation of the revised principles, methodology and processes for reporting 
would have been developed. 
Sub-program 1.3 Strengthening Public Financial Management through the use of 
Information Technology
 
The subcomponent supports the Government in achieving two objectives: (i) timely capturing of 
accurate and verifiable data of budget execution, for improved financial reporting thereby 
reducing the opportunities for unaccountable discretion on the part of the executive: and (ii) 
providing enhanced internal controls to improve public expenditure management (including pay-
roll management). In the short term, technical assistance will be provided to achieve “live” status 
of the new IFMIS in the Ministry of Finance and one pilot department. Activities will include 
Page  9
completion of the pilot test phase, resolution of the connectivity issues and data integration 
issues. In the medium term, alignment of PFM and IT architectures will be achieved in tandem 
with preparation for further roll-out of the system. Activities will include resolution of policy 
differences and process issues, as well as development of the required capacity and resources to 
support full roll-out of the system. By the end of the project life cycle, full implementation of the 
system would have been initiated. Activities will include finalization of manuals and training 
courses, set up of Ministries on the system, data take-on for priority Ministries, and 
establishment of change management and user support processes. 
Sub-program 1.4 Strengthening the External Audit System
 
The subcomponent supports the strengthening of capacity of the National Audit Office to 
become an effective institution that will enhance financial accountability in the public sector. In 
the short term, the focus will be on supporting ongoing initiatives to clear the substantial backlog 
of overdue Local Authorities audit reporting arrears, to prevent occurrence of new audit arrears 
and to consider more effective and efficient audit approaches, such as risk-based auditing and 
performance auditing. Support will also be provided under this sub-component to strengthen the 
relationship between the Office of the Public Accounts Committee of Parliament and the Kenya 
National Audit Office. In the medium term risk-based external audits will be piloted, and if 
acceptable to stakeholders, full scale implementation will be planned and resourced. By the end 
of the project life cycle, full implementation of alternative audit approaches would have been 
initiated. Activities will include finalization of manuals and establishment of training courses and 
change management processes.  
Sub-program 1.5 Strengthening the Internal Audit System
 
The subcomponent supports design and rollout of a risk-based systems audit approach to 
ministries and departments. In the short term, support will be provided to the Internal Audit 
Department to complete their pilot risk-based audits in order to develop and document a new 
standard internal audit methodology and plan and prepare for its implementation. In the medium 
term implementation will be initiated, together with the establishment of Ministerial Risk 
Management Committees to whom internal audit, external audit and other independent oversight 
entities will typically provide their findings for implementation. By the end of the project life 
cycle, use of audit results to improve internal control systems will be visible and the risk-based 
systems approach to internal audit would have been institutionalized.  
Typical activities will include development of manuals, processes, systems and staff, well 
resourced for implementation. 
Sub-program 1.6 Strengthening the National Procurement System 
 
Following the passage of the Public Procurement and Disposal Bill 2005, a new Procurement 
Authority would be established, whose principal function is to provide oversight of the 
procurement regulations. The sub-component would provide support to this Authority as well as 
to the establishment of an effective framework and control process for the procurement of goods, 
Page  10
works, and services, and establish an effective monitoring and tracking system. In the short term, 
measures to implement the new Procurement Bill will be designed and resourced. In the medium 
term, the project will finance a sensitization program to disseminate the new procurement law 
and system to promote transparency and accountability in procurement, and training of 
procurement staff on the new law, regulations and systems. By the end of the project cycle, 
implementation of the new Bill, framework and procurement systems will have been initiated. 
Typical activities will include technical assistance, some logistical support, and intensive training 
to procurement oversight institutions, tender boards, and procurement staff, finalization of 
procedure manuals; integration with financial processes and IFMIS; implementation training; 
data take-on; change management; monitoring of results, and provision of user support. 
Sub-program 1.7 Support to key Parliamentary Committees for effective political oversight of 
public financial management  
To enable the Parliament to play its oversight role in the area of economic management more 
effectively and to professionalize its interaction with the government, this subcomponent will 
support the various parliamentary committees in the area of economic management (budget 
preparation, budget execution, and expenditure control). It will provide technical and logistical 
support for effective political oversight by the Public Accounts and Public Investment 
Committees. In the short term, research capacity and operational support of the committees will 
be improved. In the medium term, their responsiveness to audit findings and follow up of their 
recommendations would have improved. By the end of the project cycle, the backlog of reports 
not dealt with would have been completed and new processes would be operational. 
Sub-program 1.8 Strengthening Revenue Collection and Management for the Kenya 
Revenue Authority  
The Kenya Revenue Authority’s ongoing Reform and Modernization Programme seeks to help 
the Government collect all the taxes due and in the process free Kenya from donor dependency 
and make the country a truly sovereign nation. In general, KRA has exhibited good performance 
in various areas, including
 r
evenue collection which has increased gradually from Kshs. 122 
billion in 1995/1996 to Kshs. 229 billion in the 2003/04 financial year (FY), accounting for over 
93% of total government revenue. However, the institution is yet to operate as a fully integrated 
organization, which has inhibited the full potential of gains accruing from its creation.  The 
objective of this sub-component is to improve the Government’s overall fiscal objectives, 
including revenue collection, enhance efficiency in utilization of resources, and improve 
effectiveness by adopting procedures and processes with the tax administration system. 
Activities will focus on three main areas: (i) 
Domestic Taxes Department (DTD) Reform and 
Modernization Project
:
Technical Assistance, training and equipment in order to restructure the 
Domestic Tax Department (TDT) from the current tax-based structure into a unified function-
based tax administration; (ii) 
KRA Automation Project
:
Overhauling of the KRA’s information 
systems through the acquisition and introduction of a new modern integrated IT system for tax 
administration and; (iii)
 Training and Change Management Project:
Training and Technical 
Assistance to upgrade and diversify the skills base in the organization to international best 
practice standards to the extent of supporting the skill base requirements of the reform program. 
Page  11
Component 2. Capacity Building for “Results for Kenyans” 
Sub-program 2.1: Capacity Building Fund
 
(US$4.94 million):
 
The primary objective of this component is to support the overall shift toward effective 
management of key parts of the economy to fulfill their commitments under the ERS, and their 
related performance contracts. This will include, but not be limited to, providing capacity 
building support to the five key ministries (Finance, Agriculture, Planning and Development, 
Trade and Industry and Local Government). While the operation will continue to focus on some 
key ministries, it is clear that several others are important to the achievement of ERS goals 
and/or are moving ahead quickly to significantly enhance their focus on operational efficiency 
and results. This component will therefore include arrangement for a larger group of key 
ministries to receive assistance when they satisfy certain agreed requirements such as leadership 
and results orientation. 
This fund will be demand-driven, i.e., the inputs are to be specified by the targeted ministries 
who would demonstrate how they intend to use the funds to achieve the benchmarks.  To provide 
for an efficient management of the CBF, a set of eligibility criteria and rules of access have been 
established. In addition, a technical committee will be established that screens all proposals to 
ensure proposed activities are consistent with ministerial objectives and support the attainment of 
the benchmarks in the ERSSC. 
Eligible/ineligible activities under the CBF component 
Eligible capacity building interventions 
Ineligible capacity building interventions 
Interventions that are eligible for CBF 
financing should support the 
operationalization and  implementation of 
their performance contracts  and may 
include:  
 
·
Technical support at all stages of the in 
the development of the participating 
Departments’ strategic plans, annual 
work plans and implementing them.
 
·
Specific training activities within the 
Region.
 
·
CBF will only support results-oriented 
incremental investments. This will 
include for instance, resources required 
to re-engineer processes; to put in place 
systems for monitoring and evaluation; 
and/or to foster organizational learning. 
·
Re-tooling in participating Departments 
t
i
b
th w
king facilities and 
CBF is not to be used for investments 
where the contributions to services 
improvements are not readily 
demonstrable. These include:  
·
Investment into commercial 
ventures. 
 
·
The purchase of motor vehicles.
 
·
Civil works for general 
administrative purposes.
 
·
General administrative 
expenditures.
 
·
Staff salaries. 
 
·
Activities funded from other 
sources. 
Page  12
to improve both working facilities and 
the environment, in the context of 
IRCBP’s implementation. 
·
Support to the rationalization of 
participating Departments’ roles and 
functions. 
·
Soft assets including computers and 
software. 
·
Support work aimed at reinforcing 
results-based approach at sub-national 
levels, including efforts to enhance 
dissemination of service contracts, and 
monitoring and evaluation of service 
delivery by beneficiaries, civil society 
groups and the private sector. 
 
·
Training activities outside of the 
Africa Region. 
 
Sub-program 2.2 Transformative Leadership and Ethics for Results Based Management 
(RBM) (US$1.58 million): 
Given, the challenge of undertaking comprehensive and sequenced reforms within a very fluid 
coalition government, the government and task team have identified transformative leadership, 
change management, and public sector values and ethics as critical elements to be addressed as 
part of the capacity building process for Public Sector Reform to succeed in Kenya. This 
component will focus on enhancing the 
change management capacity
 of leaders in the Public 
Service and their teams in delivering ‘Results for Kenyans’. It will also enhance the development 
and promotion of a value system and 
code of ethics
 developed from the existing legislation as 
well as best global practice as a tool to rejuvenate the service orientation and accountability for 
public servants. It will build on a pilot program underway on changing the ethos and practices of 
the leaders to be more effective in transforming the public service in support of the Economic 
Recovery Strategy, especially in leading teams to accept and implement Results Based 
Management as the main vehicle for driving reforms.  
 
Transformative leadership is necessary for the successful installation and institutionalization of 
the 
Results Based Management (RBM)
 
regime. Transformative leadership entails not simply 
directing change but managing it in a way that ensures broad ownership, legitimacy and self-
directed sustenance and replication of change in all associated systems. It is essential to the kind 
of work culture change necessary to effect RBM; moreover the motivational aspects entailed in 
building up the transformative leadership capacities of supervisors and unit heads is necessary to 
revisit all work processes in each unit toward making results a core pursuit and building teams 
focused on results at every level of the bureaucracy. 
 
Page  13
Given precipitate decline in public service ethics and professionalism in the last two decades, the 
Government views a revival of an ethical environment as integral to an effective and accountable 
results-oriented public service. Values and ethics guide the way people think and behave and 
thus the noted erosion of professionalism, team work, and leadership ethos are clear threats to 
achieving results in the broader reform program. Over the last year, the government has piloted a 
program to revamp the values orientation of the public service and has gone a long way in 
establishing the necessary foundation to retrain public servants, establish curricula at government 
training facilities (including the Kenya Institute of Administration) and produced a coherent 
Information Education and Communication (IEC) programme, including a simplified principles 
derived from the Public Officer Ethics Act. Further pilot initiatives have resulted in a new 
“Growing Our Leaders” programme in universities focused on building leadership capacity and 
ethics among university students, especially those in leadership positions. 
 
There is already broad ownership of this component, as indicated, for example, by endorsement 
of the ethics and transformative leadership work by a two-day meeting of Permanent Secretaries 
lead by the Minister for Public Service and the Head of the Public Service. This meeting, the 
culmination of technical work to design the program, curricula, and propagation materials, and to 
get approval for a work plan involving the Permanent Secretaries as principal movers of the 
leadership agenda, committed to the transformative agenda, including RBM.  
Component 3. Technical Support and Capacity for Project Implementation
 
(US$1.89 
million):
 
The overall IRCB SWAP will be managed by the existing Public Financial Management 
Coordination Unit (PFMCU)
 
at the Ministry of Finance.  The Unit will serve as the coordinating 
body that ensures that IRCBP implementation, especially in Financial Management, complies 
with the Sector Wide Approach Financial Management Guidelines. The Unit will report directly 
to the Permanent Secretary – Ministry of Finance, who will be the Accounting Officer of the 
project.  Resources will be provided under this sub-component to help this Unit in accessing, and 
then mainstreaming, the required technical support for achieving the development objectives of 
the Government’s public sector management improvement program. The Unit is expected to 
require expertise in addressing cross-cutting themes such as Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E), 
and in developing and implementing a communication strategy. 
Sub-component 2.2 (Transformative Leadership and Ethics for RBM) will be coordinated by the 
Secretary, Public Service Reform Secretariat, in the Office of the Cabinet Secretariat. The 
coordination of this component by the Secretariat will allow the immediate application of lessons 
being learnt in on-going pilots and also allow a ‘whole-of-government’ approach to capacity 
building efforts aimed at strengthening RBM. 
The implementation process will be coordinated with other development partners contributing 
financially to PFM reforms through a Sector Wide Approach (SWAp) arrangement. 
 
Institutional Arrangements
 
The project execution agency will be the Ministry of Finance. 
Page  14
Cabinet Standing Committee on Public Service Reform
 
A
Cabinet Standing Committee on Public Service Reform has been set up to oversee the reform 
process. The Government will provide regular briefings to Parliament. Individual Ministers will 
be responsible for providing policy guidance on the public sector reform programs that fall 
within their purview as well as the use of the capacity building funds. Members of the committee 
are: 
·
Minister for State in the Office of the President in charge of Public Service (Chairperson) 
·
Minister for Finance (Alternate Chairperson) 
·
Minister for State in the Office of the President in-charge of Provincial Administration 
and National Security 
·
Minister for Planning and National Development 
·
Minister for Education and, Science and Technology 
·
Minister for Local Government 
·
Minister for Justice and Constitutional Affairs; and 
·
Minister for Labor and Human Resources Development 
National Steering Committee: 
This committee will be chaired by the Permanent Secretary, 
Secretary to the Cabinet and Head of Public Service, and will include all the Permanent 
Secretaries/Accounting Officers. The committee will oversee the implementation of all reform 
programs/initiatives including Results Based Management and the Capacity Building Fund.  
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Finance 
The PS/MoF will be the Accounting Officer for the project. As such, he will assume the 
responsibilities and obligations set out in Chapter 5 of the Government Financial Regulations 
and Procedures (GFRP) of the Government of Kenya, and will be accountable to Parliament.
 
PFM Advisory Committee 
This committee will be appointed by the PS, Finance, who is the Accounting Officer of the 
project to advice him on broader financial management issues in government and more 
importantly on effective project implementation. 
Technical Committee for Capacity Building Fund 
This committee will review all proposals submitted for accessing the capacity building fund and 
provide recommendations to the National Steering Committee who will approve the use of the 
funds. This committee will draw from expert support familiar with the eligibility criteria of the 
funds as well as the agreed benchmarks in the ERSSC matrix and future budget support 
operations. 
Public Financial Management Coordination Unit (PFMCU)  
Page  15
The PS, MoF, will be supported by a small team, which will be in the PFMCU in the Ministry of 
Finance. This team will consist of a program manager, financial officer, procurement officer, 
monitoring and evaluation officer, and an information, education, and communication (IEC) 
officer. 
Coordinators 
Coordinators in each of the implementing ministries, departments or agencies will be responsible 
for managing the resources provided to produce the outputs required for the project to achieve its 
objectives as follows: 
 
Table 1. Committees, composition and functions 
 
Name Composition 
Functions 
1.
Cabinet 
Standing 
Committee  on 
PSR 
 Minister for State in the Office of 
the President in charge of Public 
Service (Chairperson); Minister 
for Finance (Alternate 
Chairperson); Minister for State in 
the Office of the President in-
charge of Provincial 
Administration and National 
Security; Minister for Planning 
and National Development; 
Minister for Education and, 
Science and Technology; Minister 
for Local Government; Minister 
for Justice and Constitutional 
Affairs; and; Minister for Labor 
and Human Resources 
Development 
Oversee the reform process 
2.
National  
Steering 
Committee 
PS, Secretary to the Cabinet and Head 
of Public Service (Chair); Permanent 
Secretaries of Finance (Alternate 
chairperson), Provincial 
Administration and National Security, 
Local Government, Planning and 
National Development, Public Service 
Reforms, Justice and Constitutional 
Affairs, Labor and Human Resources 
Development 
Responsible for the overall 
development and coordination of 
the public sector reform agenda 
3.
Technical 
Committee 
Capacity Building 
Fund 
Program  Coordinator,  
Other members to be appointed by the 
National Steering Committee
 
Review all proposals submitted for 
accessing the capacity building 
fund and provide 
recommendations.  
4.
Advisory 
To be appointed by the PS Finance 
Advice the PS on broad PFM 
Page  16
Committee issues 
5
PFM 
Coordinating Unit
Coordinator; Financial Management 
Officer; Procurement Officer; M&E 
Manager; IEC Manager 
Provide day-to-day management 
of the project including M&E 
activities. 
Project Management 
Effective project management is essential to assure the achievement of project inputs, outputs 
and impact, as well as providing financial accountability with due diligence, and to conduct 
transparent procurement procedures in the award of contracts. The institutional arrangements for 
managing the project and for ensuring the sustainability of results build upon experience gained 
from previous projects and from earlier stages of reform as indicated earlier from lessons learned 
during the implementation of PSMTAP. The key executing agencies have been fully involved in 
the design of the current reform program and will participate in execution and management 
through ministerial and departmental committees and via component-specific secretariats.  
Project management will be coordinated by the recently established Public Financial 
Management Coordination Unit reporting to the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Finance. 
Procurement  
Procurement will be carried out through the respective Government Departments and units that 
are directly responsible for the components and sub-components of the Project under the 
coordination and supervision of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) within the Ministry of 
Finance. The Implementation Departments and Units will be responsible for, but not limited to, 
the following aspects of the procurement activities and processes of their respective components 
and sub-components: 
1.  Preparation of annual work plans and procurement plans; 
2. Development of Terms of Reference (TOR), short-lists, and Requests for 
Proposals including technical specifications for goods and contracts; 
3. Setting up a good procurement filing system and maintaining procurement 
documentation; and 
4.  Preparation of plans for annual training programs that set out the objective of the 
training, areas of training, and the number of trainees, cost estimates, timing and 
venue (e.g. local or overseas) for each training activity. 
The Implementation Departments and Units will clear their plans and procurement 
documentation with the PCU, which will play a central role in: 
1.  Consolidating the annual plans of all components and sub-components of the 
project into annual plans of the whole project; 
2.  Vetting procurement documents prepared by the Implementing Departments and 
Units, and providing technical advice (when necessary) to procurement staff of 
implementing Departments and Units; 
Page  17
3.  Advertising contracts (where appropriate) and disclosure of contract awards; 
4. Participating in the evaluation of bids and proposals submitted by invited 
suppliers and consultants; 
5.  Preparing no objection letters for the PS, MoF for onward transmittal to the Bank 
for approval; 
6.  Advising the PS, MoF on matters pertaining to the implementation of the project; 
and 
7.  Maintaining a good procurement record-keeping and disclosure system. 
The major risks for the implementation of the Program are the numerous ministries/departments 
involved in implementation and the low capacity at all levels. In order to mitigate these risks and 
based on the results of the assessment, a procurement specialist will be recruited to strengthen 
their capacities. 
Financial Management 
The principal objective of the Project’s financial management system will be to support 
management in their deployment of limited resources with the purpose of ensuring economy, 
efficiency and effectiveness in the delivery of outputs required to achieve desired outcomes. 
Specifically, the system must be capable of producing timely, understandable, relevant and 
reliable financial information that will enable management to plan, implement, monitor and 
appraise the Project’s overall progress towards the achievement of its objectives. 
 
The PIU financial officers shall provide technical oversight, capacity building, monitoring, and 
coordination functions. They shall also be responsible for quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports 
and Project financial statements. Financial and accounting manuals shall be prepared to guide 
reporting at respective levels. 
 
Qualified, experienced and independent auditors will be appointed in consultation with the 
Auditor General on approved terms of reference. The external audit will cover all World Bank 
and counterpart funds at all levels of Project execution. The control environment of 
implementing agencies will be assessed and appropriate accounting and reporting systems will 
be developed according to Operational Policy requirements through separate technical assistance 
(see Annex 7 on Financial Management Assessment). 
The implementation arrangements will be reviewed on a regular basis to take into account 
technical and political changes as well as progress within the overall public sector reform effort.  
Each World Bank supervision mission will review the implementation arrangements within the 
Government and other contributing donors to suggest improvements or changes as necessary.  
 
3.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
There are no perceived safeguard policies which might apply. 
 
Page  18
4. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT  
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
25 
 Total 
25 
 
5. Contact point 
Contact: Sahr John Kpundeh 
Title: Sr Public Sector Mgmt. Spec. 
Tel: (202) 473-6783 
Fax:  
Email: Skpundeh1@worldbank.org
 
