Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  10/07/2005 
Report No.:  AC1850
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Kenya 
Project ID:  P090567 
Project Name:  Institutional Reform and Capacity Building Technical Assistance Project 
Task Team Leader:  Sahr John Kpundeh 
Estimated Appraisal Date: October 3, 2005 
Estimated Board Date: December 15, 2005 
Managing Unit:  AFTPR 
Lending Instrument:  Technical Assistance 
Loan 
Sector:  General public administration sector (100%) 
Theme:  Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (P);Other public 
sector governance (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
25.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
10.00
10.00 
Environmental Category: C - Not Required 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [ ] 
2. Project Objectives 
The development objective of the project is to strengthen public financial management 
(PFM) systems to enhance transparency, accountability, and responsiveness to public 
expenditure policy priorities as well as to enhance public service delivery through the 
effective implementation of Results Based Management (RBM).   
 
3. Project Description 
This will be a Technical Assistance/Investment Loan for five years, linked closely to 
Development Policy Lending.  
 
Component 1. Budget and Public Financial Management (US$16.59M):  
 
Strengthening the management of public expenditure is central. There is an urgent need 
to improve fiscal discipline, bring resource allocations in line with development priorities 
articulated in the Investment Program for the Economic Recovery Strategy (IP-ERS), and 
improve the budgeting preparation and execution, reporting and evaluation processes. 
The objective of this component is to make budget processes and public financial 
management (PFM) more transparent, accountable, and responsive to policy priorities. It 
will therefore aim at strengthening financial resource planning, budget preparation and 
implementation, strengthening financial controls, ensuring that allocation of government 
Page  2
resources is consistent with policy priorities outlined in IP-ERS, and reducing fiduciary 
risks by making procurement transparent and efficient and enhancing expenditure 
monitoring and audit. This component will have the following sub-components.  
 
Sub-program 1.1 Strengthening budget formulation  
 
This subcomponent supports the Government's on-going efforts at streamlining budget 
formulation processes, strengthening the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) 
consultative mechanisms with stakeholders and alignment of expenditure with Eonomic 
Recovery Strategy (ERS) priorities. It will also support various activities such as 
providing technical assistance to strengthen Sector Working Groups and in preparing 
sector reports. In the short term, budget formulation will be improved by building 
capacity of the Budget Supply/MTEF department in the Ministry of Finance and budget 
units in line ministries and government agencies. Specific activities will include helping 
line ministries prepare expenditure plans, training staff in program costing, and 
strengthening budget submissions by line ministries as well as helping the Ministry of 
Finance with development of budget strategy paper and project appraisal system. In the 
medium term, the project will support the development of an organic budget law which 
codifies existing practices in Public Financial Management. By the end of the project life 
cycle, the means to support implementation of the new organic budget law will have been 
developed.  
 
Sub-program 1.2 Strengthening budget execution, accounting, and financial reporting  
 
This subcomponent supports the Government in implementing the recommendations 
contained in its Enhanced Financial Management Action Plan (EFMAP). Several 
elements of EFMAP are under implementation and others are to be implemented in the 
next two years. In the short term, the sub-component is likely to include technical support 
to: (i) improve cash management; (ii) contain occurrence of further expenditure arrears; 
(iii) improve predictability of cash flow to spending units; (iv) improve payment systems; 
and (v) ensure payroll integrity. In the medium term the principles, methodology and 
processes would have been established for: (i) a system for financial reporting by semi-
autonomous government agencies and local authorities on budget and contingent 
liabilities; (ii) expenditure classification systems along the principles outlined in the 
international standard classifications such as the UN Classification of the Functions of the 
Government (COFOG) and the IMF's Government Financial Statistics (GFS); and (iii) a 
framework for the preparation and presentation of timely and comprehensive periodic 
financial management accounts and annual financial statements based on generally 
accepted accounting principles and professional best practices. By the end of the project 
life cycle, the means to support implementation of the revised principles, methodology 
and processes for reporting would have been developed.  
 
Sub-program 1.3 Strengthening Public Financial Management through the use of 
Information Technology  
 
The subcomponent supports the Government in achieving two objectives: (i) timely 
capturing of accurate and verifiable data of budget execution, for improved financial 
reporting thereby reducing the opportunities for unaccountable discretion on the part of 
the executive: and (ii) providing enhanced internal controls to improve public 
expenditure management (including pay-roll management). In the short term, technical 
assistance will be provided to achieve "live" status of the new IFMIS in the Ministry of 
Finance and one pilot department. Activities will include completion of the pilot test 
Page  3
phase, resolution of the connectivity issues and data integration issues. In the medium 
term, alignment of PFM and IT architectures will be achieved in tandem with preparation 
for further roll-out of the system. Activities will include resolution of policy differences 
and process issues, as well as development of the required capacity and resources to 
support full roll-out of the system. By the end of the project life cycle, full 
implementation of the system would have been initiated. Activities will include 
finalization of manuals and training courses, set up of Ministries on the system, data take-
on for priority Ministries, and establishment of change management and user support 
processes.  
 
Sub-program 1.4 Strengthening the External Audit System  
 
The subcomponent supports the strengthening of capacity of the National Audit Office 
to become an effective institution that will enhance financial accountability in the public 
sector. In the short term, the focus will be on supporting ongoing initiatives to clear the 
substantial backlog of overdue Local Authorities audit reporting arrears, to prevent 
occurrence of new audit arrears and to consider more effective and efficient audit 
approaches, such as risk-based auditing and performance auditing. Support will also be 
provided under this sub-component to strengthen the relationship between the Office of 
the Public Accounts Committee of Parliament and the Kenya National Audit Office. In 
the medium term risk-based external audits will be piloted, and if acceptable to 
stakeholders, full scale implementation will be planned and resourced. By the end of the 
project life cycle, full implementation of alternative audit approaches would have been 
initiated. Activities will include finalization of manuals and establishment of training 
courses and change management processes.  
 
Sub-program 1.5 Strengthening the Internal Audit System  
 
The subcomponent supports design and rollout of a risk-based systems audit approach to 
ministries and departments. In the short term, support will be provided to the Internal 
Audit Department to complete their pilot risk-based audits in order to develop and 
document a new standard internal audit methodology and plan and prepare for its 
implementation. In the medium term implementation will be initiated, together with the 
establishment of Ministerial Risk Management Committees to whom internal audit, 
external audit and other independent oversight entities will typically provide their 
findings for implementation. By the end of the project life cycle, use of audit results to 
improve internal control systems will be visible and the risk-based systems approach to 
internal audit would have been institutionalized.  
 
Typical activities will include development of manuals, processes, systems and staff, 
well resourced for implementation.  
 
Sub-program 1.6 Strengthening the National Procurement System  
 
Following the passage of the Public Procurement and Disposal Bill 2005, a new 
Procurement Authority would be established, whose principal function is to provide 
oversight of the procurement regulations. The sub-component would provide support to 
this Authority as well as to the establishment of an effective framework and control 
process for the procurement of goods, works, and services, and establish an effective 
monitoring and tracking system. In the short term, measures to implement the new 
Procurement Bill will be designed and resourced. In the medium term, the project will 
finance a sensitization program to disseminate the new procurement law and system to 
promote transparency and accountability in procurement, and training of procurement 
Page  4
staff on the new law, regulations and systems. By the end of the project cycle, 
implementation of the new Bill, framework and procurement systems will have been 
initiated.  
 
Sub-program 1.7 Support to key Parliamentary Committees for effective political 
oversight of public financial management  
 
To enable the Parliament to play its oversight role in the area of economic management 
more effectively and to professionalize its interaction with the government, this 
subcomponent will support the various parliamentary committees in the area of economic 
management (budget preparation, budget execution, and expenditure control). It will 
provide technical and logistical support for effective oversight by the Public Accounts 
and Public Investment Committees. In the short term, research capacity and operational 
support of the committees will be improved. In the medium term, their responsiveness to 
audit findings and follow up of their recommendations would have improved. By the end 
of the project cycle, the backlog of reports not dealt with would have been completed and 
new processes would be operational.  
 
Sub-program 1.8 Strengthening Revenue Collection and Management for the Kenya 
Revenue Authority  
 
The Kenya Revenue Authority's ongoing Reform and Modernization Programme seeks 
to help the Government collect all the taxes due and in the process free Kenya from donor 
dependency and make the country a truly sovereign nation. In general, KRA has 
exhibited good performance in various areas, including revenue collection which has 
increased gradually from Kshs. 122 billion in 1995/1996 to Kshs. 229 billion in the 
2003/04 financial year (FY), accounting for over 93% of total government revenue. 
However, the institution is yet to operate as a fully integrated organization, which has 
inhibited the full potential of gains accruing from its creation. The objective of this sub-
component is to improve the Government's overall fiscal objectives, including revenue 
collection, enhance efficiency in utilization of resources, and improve effectiveness by 
adopting procedures and processes with the tax administration system. Activities will 
focus on three main areas: (i) Domestic Taxes Department (DTD) Reform and 
Modernization Project: Technical Assistance, training and equipment in order to 
restructure the Domestic Tax Department (TDT) from the current tax-based structure into 
a
unified function-based tax administration; (ii) KRA Automation Project: Overhauling 
of the KRA's information systems through the acquisition and introduction of a new 
modern integrated IT system for tax administration and; (iii) Training and Change 
Management Project: Training and Technical Assistance to upgrade and diversify the 
skills base in the organization to international best practice standards to the extent of 
supporting the skill base requirements of the reform program.  
 
Component 2. Capacity Building for "Results for Kenyans"  
 
Sub-program 2.1: Capacity Building Fund (US$4.94 million):  
 
The primary objective of this component is to support the overall shift toward effective 
management of key parts of the economy to fulfill their commitments under the ERS, and 
their related performance contracts. This will include, but not be limited to, providing 
capacity building support to the five key ministries (Finance, Agriculture, Planning and 
Development, Trade and Industry and Local Government). While the operation will 
Page  5
continue to focus on some key ministries, it is clear that several others are important to 
the achievement of ERS goals and/or are moving ahead quickly to significantly enhance 
their focus on operational efficiency and results. This component will therefore include 
arrangement for a larger group of key ministries to receive assistance when they satisfy 
certain agreed requirements such as leadership and results orientation.  
 
This fund will be demand-driven, i.e., the inputs are to be specified by the targeted 
ministries who would demonstrate how they intend to use the funds to achieve the 
benchmarks. To provide for an efficient management of the CBF, a set of eligibility 
criteria and rules of access have been established. In addition, a technical committee will 
be established that screens all proposals to ensure proposed activities are consistent with 
ministerial objectives and support the attainment of the benchmarks in the ERSSC.  
 
Eligible/ineligible activities under the CBF component  
 
*
Eligible capacity building interventions  
 
Interventions that are eligible for CBF financing should support the operationalization 
and  implementation of their performance contracts  and may include:  
 
.
Technical support at all stages of the in the development of the participating 
Departments' strategic plans, annual work plans and implementing them.  
 
.
Specific training activities within the Region.  
 
.
CBF will only support results-oriented incremental investments. This will include for 
instance, resources required to re-engineer processes; to put in place systems for 
monitoring and evaluation; and/or to foster organizational learning.  
 
.
Re-tooling in participating Departments to improve both working facilities and the 
environment, in the context of IRCBP's implementation.  
 
.
Support to the rationalization of participating Departments' roles and functions.  
 
.
Soft assets including computers and software.  
 
.
Support work aimed at reinforcing results-based approach at sub-national levels, 
including efforts to enhance dissemination of service contracts, and monitoring and 
evaluation of service delivery by beneficiaries, civil society groups and the private sector.   
 
*
Ineligible capacity building interventions  
 
CBF is not to be used for investments where the contributions to services improvements 
are not readily demonstrable. These include:   
 
.
Investment into commercial ventures.  
 
.
The purchase of motor vehicles.  
 
.
Civil works for general administrative purposes.  
 
.
General administrative expenditures.  
 
.
Staff salaries.  
 
.
Activities funded from other sources.  
 
Page  6
.
Training activities outside of the Africa Region.  
 
Sub-program 2.2 Transformative Leadership and Ethics for Results Based Management 
(RBM) (US$1.58 million):  
 
Given, the challenge of undertaking comprehensive and sequenced reforms within a 
very fluid coalition government, the government and task team have identified 
transformative leadership, change management, and public sector values and ethics as 
critical elements to be addressed as part of the capacity building process for Public Sector 
Reform to succeed in Kenya. This component will focus on enhancing the change 
management capacity of leaders in the Public Service and their teams in delivering 
"Results for Kenyans". It will also enhance the development and promotion of a value 
system and code of ethics developed from the existing legislation as well as best global 
practice as a tool to rejuvenate the service orientation and accountability for public 
servants. It will build on a pilot program underway on changing the ethos and practices of 
the leaders to be more effective in transforming the public service in support of the 
Economic Recovery Strategy, especially in leading teams to accept and implement 
Results Based Management as the main vehicle for driving reforms.  
 
Transformative leadership is necessary for the successful installation and 
institutionalization of the Results Based Management (RBM) regime. Transformative 
leadership entails not simply directing change but managing it in a way that ensures 
broad ownership, legitimacy and self-directed sustenance and replication of change in all 
associated systems. It is essential to the kind of work culture change necessary to effect 
RBM; moreover the motivational aspects entailed in building up the transformative 
leadership capacities of supervisors and unit heads is necessary to revisit all work 
processes in each unit toward making results a core pursuit and building teams focused 
on results at every level of the bureaucracy.  
 
Given precipitate decline in public service ethics and professionalism in the last two 
decades, the Government views a revival of an ethical environment as integral to an 
effective and accountable results-oriented public service. Values and ethics guide the way 
people think and behave and thus the noted erosion of professionalism, team work, and 
leadership ethos are clear threats to achieving results in the broader reform program. Over 
the last year, the Government has piloted a program to revamp the values orientation of 
the public service and has gone a long way in establishing the necessary foundation to 
retrain public servants, establish curricula at government training facilities (including the 
Kenya Institute of Administration) and produced a coherent Information Education and 
Communication (IEC) program, including a simplified principles derived from the Public 
Officer Ethics Act. Further pilot initiatives have resulted in a new "Growing Our 
Leaders" program in universities focused on building leadership capacity andethics 
among university students, especially those in leadership positions.  
 
Component 3. Technical Support and Capacity for Project Implementation (US$1.89 
million):  
 
The overall IRCB SWAP will be managed by the existing Public Financial Management 
Coordination Unit (PFMCU) at the Ministry of Finance. The Unit will serve as the 
Page  7
coordinating body that ensures that IRCBP implementation, especially in Financial 
Management, complies with the Sector Wide Approach Financial Management 
Guidelines. The Unit will report directly to the Permanent Secretary - Ministry of 
Finance, who will be the Accounting Officer of the project.  Resources will be provided 
under this sub-component to help this Unit in accessing, and then mainstreaming, the 
required technical support for achieving the development objectives of the Government's 
public sector management improvement program. The Unit is expected to require 
expertise in addressing cross-cutting themes such as Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E), 
and in developing and implementing a communication strategy.  
 
Sub-component 2.2 (Transformative Leadership and Ethics for RBM) will be 
coordinated by the Secretary, Public Service Reform Secretariat, in the Office of the 
Cabinet Secretariat. The coordination of this component by the Secretariat will allow the 
immediate application of lessons being learnt in on-going pilots and also allow a 'whole-
of-government' approach to capacity building efforts aimed at strengthening RBM.  
 
The implementation process will be coordinated with other development partners 
contributing financially to PFM reforms through a Sector Wide Approach (SWAp) 
arrangement.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
Nairobi, Kenya.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
 X 
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
Not applicable   
 
Page  8
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
Not applicable   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
Not applicable   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
Not applicable   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
Not applicable   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management, Cultural Property and/or the Safety 
of Dams policies, the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of 
the Environmental Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
BP 17.50 - Public Disclosure 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
 
Page  9
documents? 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Sahr John Kpundeh 
10/04/2005 
Environmental Specialist: 
 
 
Social Development Specialist 
 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Thomas E. Walton 
 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Ms Helga W. Muller 
10/04/2005 
Comments:   
