                                          Documentof
                                     The World Bank

                           FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY



                                                                     ReportNo: 31028-KE




                         PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                             ONA

                                  PROPOSEDCREDIT

                      INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR 17.3 MILLION
                           (US$25MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                           TO THE

                                REPUBLIC OF KENYA

                                           FORAN

              INSTITUTIONAL REFORMAND CAPACITY BUILDING
                        TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT


                                    December27,2005




Public Sector Reformand CapacityBuildingUnit
Country Department5
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective: November 14,2005)


                           Currency Unit = Kenya Shillings (KES)
                                  KES 1 = US$0.0133
                                 US$l.O = K E S 75.3

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                                 July 1 - June 30

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAP      Africa Action Plan
AIE      Authorizations to Incur Expenses
BMS      BudgetMonitoringSystem
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA     Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CIDA     Canadian InternationalDevelopment Agency
DARE     Kenya Decentralized HIV/AIDS and Reproductive Health Project
DFID     Department for InternationalDevelopment
DPM      Department for Personnel Management
EFMAP    Enhanced Financial Management Action Plan
ERS      Economic Recovery Strategy
ERSSC    Economic Recovery Strategy Support Credit
EU       European Union
FLSTAC   Financial and Legal Sector Technical Assistance Credit
FMISS    Financial Management Information Systems Strategy
GFRP     Government Financial Regulations and Procedures
GITS     Government Information and Technology Service
GJLOS    Governance, Justice, Law and Order Society
GOK      Government o fKenya
GTZ      German Technical Cooperation
HIPC     Heavily-IndebtedPoor Country
IDA      International DevelopmentAssociation
ICT      Information Communication and Technology
IFC      International Finance Corporation
IFMIS    Integrated FinancialManagement Information System
IP-ERS   InvestmentProgram for Economic Recovery Strategy
IPPD     Integrated Payroll andPersonnel Database
IPR      Independent ProcurementReview
IT       Information Technology
K A C A  Kenya Anti-Corruption Authority
KHADREP Kenya H N / A I D S Disaster Response Project
KANU     Kenya African National Union
K C A    Kenya Coffee Auctions
KENAO    KenyaNational Audit Office

                                                11
                                                ..      FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


     K M C     Kenya Meat Company
     KRA       KenyaRevenue Authority
     LA        Local Authority
     MOA       Ministryo fAgriculture
     MOF       Ministryof Finance
     MTEF      MediumTerm ExpenditureFramework
     MTR       Mid-Term Review
     M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
     NARC      National Alliance Rainbow Coalition
     NEPAD     New Partnership for Africa's Development
     NGO       Non-governmental Organization
     N O W     NorwegianAgency for Development
      PBK      Pyrethrum Board o f Kenya
      PE       Procuring Entities
      PEM      Public Expenditure Management
      PEMAAP   Public Expenditure Management Assessment and Action Plan
      PFM      Public Financial Management
      PIP      Project ImplementationPlan
      PPD       Public Procurement Directorate
      PPOA      Public Procurement Oversight Authority
      PRGF      Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility
      PS        Permanent Secretary
      PS/AO     Permanent Secretary/Authorizing Officers Coordinating Committee
      PSC       Public Service Commission
      PSMTAP    Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Project
      PSR       Public Sector Reform
      RE3M      Results-BasedManagement
      SA        Special Account
      SAGA      Semi Autonomous Government Agencies
      SIDA      Swedish InternationalDevelopment Agency
      SOE       Statement o f Expenditure
      TOR       Terms o fReference
      TTL       Task Team Leader
      UNDP      United Nations Development Program
      USAID     United States Agency for International Development




                                 Vice President : GobindNankani
                               Country Director : Colin Bruce
                                Sector Manager : Helga Muller
                              Task Team Leader : Sahr Kmndeh


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwisedisclosed
without World Bank authorization.


                                                                  ...
                                                                  111



                                                            KENYA
       InstitutionalReformandCapacityBuildingTechnicalAssistance Project

                                                         CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                               Page

A.   STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                              .............................................................     3
 1.  Country and sector issues....................................................................................................                  3
 2.  Rationale for Bank Involvement.........................................................................................                        9
 3.  Higher level objectives to which the project contributes ..................................................                                   10
 4.  Lendinginstrument...........................................................................................................                  11
 5.  Program objective and Phases ..........................................................................................                       11
 6.  Project development objective andkey indicators............................................................                                   11

 7.  Project components ...........................................................................................................                11
 8.  Lessons learned andreflectedinthe project design..........................................................                                    20
 9.  Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection............................................................                                 22

B.   IMPLEMENTATION                     ....................................................................................................       23
  1. Partnership arrangements (ifapplicable) ..........................................................................                            23
 2.  Institutional and implementation arrangements ................................................................                                23
 3.  Monitoring and Evaluation o f Outcomeshesults ..............................................................                                  30
 4.  Sustainability.....................................................................................................................
           . . .                                                                                                                                   30
 5.  Critical risks and possible controversial aspects...............................................................                              31
 6.  Credit conditions and covenants .......................................................................................                       33
 7.  Economic and financial analyses ......................................................................................                        33

 8.  Technical...........................................................................................................................          34
 9.  Fiduciary ........................................................................................................................... 34
  10 Social.................................................................................................................................
    .                                                                                                                                              34
  11. Environment......................................................................................................................             34
  12 Safeguard policies.............................................................................................................
    .                                                                                                                                              34
  13. Policy Exceptions andReadiness......................................................................................                          35

Annex 1: Countryand Sector or ProgramBackground                                      .........................................................      36

Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and/or other Agencies                                                            .................43
Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring                               ........................................................................       44

                                                           iv


Annex 4: Detailed Project Description          ......................................................................................      57

Annex 5: Project Costs...............................................................................................................      76

Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements                 .................................................................................     77

Annex 7: Financial Management and DisbursementArrangements                                           ..................................... 80

Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements              ......................................................................................      92

Annex 9: Economic and FinancialAnalysis                  .............................................................................     99

Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues        ..........................................................................................        100

Annex 11:Project Preparation and Supervision                     ...................................................................       101

Annex 12: Documents inthe Project File               ...............................................................................       103

Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits                ............................................................................       104

Annex 14: Country at a Glance       ...............................................................................................        106

Annex 15: Letter of Development Policy               ...............................................................................       107


MAPNO IBRD33426
         .

                                                  KENYA
                  InstitutionalReformand CapacityBuildingTechnicalAssistanceProject




                                               Local                     Foreign                Total
Borrower                              I        12.85            I          0.00          I      12.85
IDA                                             8.16                      16.84                 25.OO
Government of Japan (PHRD Grant)                1.05                       2.10                   3.15
Other Donors                                   15.60                      3 1.40                47.00
                                               37.66                      50.34                 88.00

Responsible agency: MinistryofFinance
Address: P.O.Box 30007-00100, Nairobi, Kenya
Contact Persons:

  Mr.B.S.Mwencha
  Head, P.F.M.R. Coordinating Unit
  Ministryo fFinance
  P.O. Box 30007-00100,Nairobi, Kenya
  Tel. 254-20-252299 ext. 33080        Fax: 254-20-33080         Email: bmwencha@treasury.go.ke

  Ms.Joyce NyamweyaNyakeya
  Secretary, Public Service Reform & Development Secretariat
  Office o f the President
  Harambee House
  P.O. Box 30050-00100,Nairobi, Kenya
  Tel. 254-20-213011                   Fax: 254-20-213029        Email: jnyamweyanyakeya@treasury .go,ke

                                                              2




                           FY06                FY07                  FY08               FY09                 FYlO
Annual                       0.2                  5.6                  9.5                7.4                   2.2
Cumulative                   0.2                  5.8                 15.3                22.8                 25.0

Projectimplementationperiod: February2006 -May 31,2010
Expectedeffectivenessdate: March 1,2006




Project developmentobjective:
The development objective o f the project i s to strengthen public financial management (PFM) systems to enhance
transparency, accountability, and responsiveness to public expenditure policy priorities as well as enhance public
service delivery through the effective implementation of Results BasedManagement (RBM).
Project description:
The project will help support GOK's program to strengthen the management o f public expenditure inorder to improve
fiscal discipline, bringresource allocations in line with development priorities articulated inthe IP-ERS, and improve
the budgeting preparation and execution, reporting and evaluation processes. Activities to be initiated are intended to
make budget processes and public financial management (PFM) more transparent, accountable, and responsive to
policy priorities. It will aim at strengthening financial resource planning, budget preparation and implementation,
strengthening financial controls, ensuring that allocation o f government resources i s consistent with policy priorities
outlined inIP-ERS, and reducing fiduciary risks by making procurement transparent and efficient and enhancing
expenditure monitoring and audit. Activities to be undertaken will also include those that will enhance public service
delivery through the effective implementation o f Results BasedManagement (RBM).
Which safeguardpoliciesare triggered, ifany?
None.
Significant,non-standardconditions,if any, for:
Boardpresentation:
None.
Credit effectiveness:
         (i)      The Borrower GOK has opened a Project Account and deposited the initial amount required as their
                  counterpart contribution to the project;
         (ii)     The Borrower has PFM strategy and Work Plans signed and launched by the Minister o f Finance as
                  well as a PSR Strategic Plan and Work Plans that have been signed by the Head o f the Public Service;
         (iii)    The Borrower has submitted reports indicating outputs o f the completed pilot activities under the
                  Leadership and Ethics Program satisfactory to the Association; and
         (iv)     The Borrower has selected short term consultants for procurement, project accounting and project
                  management; all under terms o f reference and recruitment processes that are open, transparent and
                  satisfactory to the Association;
         (v)      The Borrower has finalized a Financial Management Manual and a Program Procurement Manual
                  satisfactory to the Association;
         (vi)     The Borrower has signed a Joint Financing Agreement with at least one Development Partner
                  satisfactory to the Association.
Covenantsapplicableto projectimplementation:
None

                                                3


A. STRATEGICCONTEXT AND RATIONALE
1. Country and sector issues

Public sector management has been hampered by several governance challenges during the last
two decades. This has had a negative impact on Kenya's economic growth and development,
increased the cost o f doing business inthe country, discouraging private investment, and proved
an obstacle to addressing widespread poverty and improving the quality o f life o f its citizens.
Key governance problems include: lack o f efficient, transparent, and accountable decision-
making and management inthe country's public sector, existence o f high level corruption, weak
economic and financial management and weak rule o f law, inefficient service delivery
mechanisms, and weak administrative practices. Several reform initiatives to deal with these
problems since the 1970s and 1980s have achieved only modest results.

The previous government under the Kenya African National Union (KANU) party, which had
ruled the country since independence in 1963, made ambitious efforts in its last two years to
improve and reform public sector governance. Its measures included restructuring the public
sector by reducing the number o f ministries from 28 to 15, implementing a staff retrenchment
program combined with improved pay and benefits, reforming the legal andjudicial system, and
promoting greater engagement with civil society. A new Government, formed by the National
Alliance Rainbow Coalition (NARC) which won the General Election and took office in
December 2002, promised to enhance the public sector reform program with increased
determination to address governance challenges, opening up o f democratic space and undertake
key policy and institutional reforms to improve both the environment for private sector
investment and service delivery to the people.

The new Government's strategy to improve public sector effectiveness was outlined in its
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), titled the Investment Program for the Economic
Recovery Strategy for Wealth and Employment Creation (IP-ERS, 2003-2007), prepared with
the full participation o f non-governmental organizations, Development Partners, and other
stakeholders, and was debated and approved by parliament. The Strategy centers on three inter-
linked pillars: (i)strengthening economic growth; (ii)   enhancing equity and reducing poverty;
and (iii) improving governance. The World Bank's Board discussed the Strategy on May 6,2004
and the International Monetary Fund's Board discussed it on May 10, 2004. Inresponse to these
initial steps taken by the Government, the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS, Report No.
29O38-KEy M a y 19, 2004) proposed a program for re-engagement o f the Bank Group with
Kenya that is aligned with the IP-ERSand rooted inits results-based framework, from which the
CAS'S own result-based framework i s drawn.

The new Government made some progress on reforms under the public sector management
technical assistance project with specific reforms, including, for example: reducing backlogs in
the audits o f Government accounts; taking steps to strengthen the civil service wage policy,
including retrenchment and abolition o f overmanned posts, and by establishing a Remuneration
Board to oversee the implementation o f the pay reform policy approved by Cabinet. It has
established an institutional framework comprising a Cabinet Sub-Committee, a National Steering
Committee on Public Sector Reforms, and a Public Sector Reform and Development Secretariat
responsible for the implementation o f Results Based Management (RBM) and coordinating the
implementation o f on-going reform initiatives in the public sector. As part o f its efforts to
develop an integrated sector-wide monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system to improve the

                                                  4


allocation and use o f public resources, the Government has established a Monitoring and
Evaluation Department within the Ministryo f Planning and National Development (MPND). To
improve management and quality o f public service delivery, performance contracts have been
introduced for all Permanent Secretaries and Accounting Officers in all Government ministries
and departments. These performance contracts are tied to the ministerial or departmental
strategic plans and require that they report their performance and resource utilization in the
delivery o f services to the people through parliament and other communication channels. All
chief executive officers and board o f directors o f all state-owned corporations are also expected
to sign these performance contracts.

Specific anticorruption actions taken since 2003 include ending `land grabbing' and state
sponsored `harambees' or fund-raising, removing 16 judges and 73 magistrates (or almost one
third o f those in place), replacing all senior civil service procurement officers, and establishing
the Kenya Anti-Corruption Commission (KACC) with real power to investigate.                In 2003
Parliament passed The Public Officer Ethics Act (2003) requiring civil servants to file annual
declarations o f assets and liabilities, and The Anti-corruption and Economic Crimes Act (2003)
which set up the KACC. The Government also launchedan enquiry into a major corruption case
(Goldenberg) that took place in last decade; the report i s due early in 2006. Further, it took
action against those involved in corruption in the Bank-funded projects-especially       the Kenya
UrbanTransport Infrastructure Project (KUTIP), inwhich both Government officials and Bank
staff members were found to have been involved in corruption. The Government has also
enacted key legislation aimed at improving governance and public service delivery which
include: the Government Financial Management Act (2004), the Public Audit Office Act (2004).

Earlier this year, the Government's relations with its key stakeholders (including development
partners) became quite strained following new procurement scandals inthe summer of 2004, and
the resignation o f a key senior civil servant involved in anti-corruption programs in early 2005.
Partly inresponse, the Government presented an Anti-Corruption Action Plan inthe Consultative
Group meeting in April 2005, covering the period April 2005-June 2006, aimed at accelerating
and consolidating reforms. Although it i s not meant to represent the totality o f the Government's
action on anti-corruption, the strategy has five planks:

        0   Enactment o f the necessary legislation to establish a legislative platform on which to
            anchor the war on corruption;
        0   Vigorous enforcement o f anti-corruption laws through investigation o f offences o f
            corruption and economic crimes as well as recovery o f corruptly acquired property;
        0   Identification and sealing o f loopholes through institution o f effective public sector
            management controls;
        0   National public education aimed at stigmatizing corruption and inducing behavioral
            change; and
        0   Implementing macroeconomic and structural reforms to reduce the incidence and
            demand for corruption by scaling down the role o f the public sector andbureaucracy.

Beyond the initiatives in the Government's anti-corruption action plan, there were others in
various sectors, e.g. water, health, education, and immigration. In addition, `administrative
actions' were taken against senior civil servants (including the Public Works Department), police
and military personnel, while the K A C C launched investigations inthe Immigration Department
and the Nairobi and Mombassa City Councils, and steps were taken to improve significantly the

                                                  5


governance arrangements for the Constituency Development Funds administered by Memberso f
Parliament.

At a stakeholders meetingfor the private sector, civil society and development partnersconvened
by the Government in September 2005 to review progress, there was agreement that
implementation of the Action Plan was largely on schedule.              For example, a landmark
Procurement Bill was enacted in August 2005, establishing an autonomous Public Procurement
Oversight Authority that will be responsible for the regulation o f procurement in the public
sector, including procurement o f security related contracts-transactions  which were shrouded in
secrecy inthe past and associated with highlevel graft. Subsequently, the Government requested
and the World Bank agreed to second a Bank manager to help set up the new Procurement
Authority and assist in finalizing appropriate Regulations which are at an advanced stage o f
preparation. The secondee i s expected to take up his position early in2006.

The Privatization Act received Presidential assent in October 2005 setting the stage for the
privatization o f public assets and operations including state corporations, as part o f privatization
program under a new Privatization Commission. Meanwhile, there was a four-fold increase in
the professional staff o f the KACC, recruitment o f 23 magistrates and other legal staff, and the
launcho f public education campaigns. ByJanuary 2006, the Attorney General's Office will have
126 new state attorneys significantly increasing its capacity. Early in2006, the Government also
expects to (i) complete the reports on the impediments to prosecutions (including the uses and
abuses o f appeals to the Constitutional Court, injunctions and adjournments), (ii) measures
                                                                                     adopt
in the financial sector to address anti-money laundering; and (iii)    consider new legislation on
political campaign financing. The Ethics and Governance Committee of the Judiciary will also
complete its work, including proposals for dealing with ethical breaches that may not require
removal from office.

Public mobilization to fight corruption i s also increasing, partly because o f the strengthening o f
the KACC and the launch o f its public education campaign.          One measure o f this increased
engagement i s that the number o f complaints receivedby K A C C grew from 308 inJanuary 2005
to 608 in October 2005. During the same period the number o f investigations launched by the
KACC after reviewing these complaints also grew, from 27 to 97, while the number o f cases
forwarded each quarter to the Attorney General's Office for action rose steadily, from four
during the last quarter o f 2004 to 21 by the third quarter o f 2005. At present, the Government is
prosecuting 6 former Permanent Secretaries and 14 former heads o f parastatals for alleged
corruption.

Meanwhile, measures were taken to improve governance o f public finances. They included
enhancing the capacity o f the National Audit Office which was then able to clear the long-
standing backlog of public accounts audits.        In October 2005, the Government established
independent audit committees in all ministries, departments, state corporations and local
authorities. This step i s part of a new risk-based internal audit approach, supported by several
donors, that involves identifying the potential for fraud in advance and building the necessary
riskmitigation processesinto the design of government systems andprocesses. The prospects for
reducing rent seeking were hrther enhanced in November 2005 through additional measures
such as the liberalization o f coffee marketing (after over a decade o f policy debate about it), and
a request to Parliament to eliminate 35 licenses previously required for setting up a business.
Additional licenses will be eliminated in2006 as part o f the guillotine approach that i s underway.

                                                 6



In addition, stakeholders encouraged the Government to increase political accountability for
corruption and some action on this front occurred recently.        Following defeat for the new
Constitution in a public referendum on November 21, 2005, the President sacked his entire
Cabinet. In announcing his Cabinet appointments, the President indicated that he would accord
", ,,highpriority to integrity in the public service.." and stipulated that all new Ministers and
Assistant Ministers would have to sign and adhere strictly to "a new Code o f Conduct and a
Management Accountability Framework intended to enhance collective responsibility, ethics,
accountability and results in government." The Code requires verification o f declarations by the
K A C C and address issues related to conflicts o f interest. He also appointed a new Minister o f
Justice and Constitutional Affairs, who will be pivotal to the continuing fight against corruption,
andwho had led successful and widely celebrated reforms (including governance aspects) inthe
water sector during 2003-2005. At the same time, he excluded a Minister whose visas had been
revoked by the United Kingdom and the United States for reasons perceived to include
corruption. To further reinforce a culture o f performance and accountability, the President also
said that Ministers and their leadership teams will be expected to report publicly on development
results achieved at the end o f the next 4-6 months.

Stakeholders at the September 2005 meeting also encouraged the Government to make greater
use o f administrative actions and not simply rely on prosecutions which can take a very long
time to be completed.    On December 16, 2005, the Government annulled the recruitment o f
3,000 police officers and suspended 175 senior officers involved in the recruitment exercise,
pendinghrther investigation. Mindfulo f longstandingrumors o f corruption inthe police force,
the Government requested KACC to monitor the process and found evidence o f bribes. Inless
than 24 hours, the Government took disciplinary action. Later that day, the Kenya Revenue
Authority also announced that it was suspending several senior officers that work at the Port
pending investigation into why they were not achieving performance targets for customs
revenues. Around the same time, the Government fired the Managing Trustee o f the National
Social Security Fund following investigation by the KACC. Efforts are now underway to work
with the private sector, including professional bodies, to address corruption within their own
ranks, and to support evolving grassroots initiatives aimed at increasing social accountability
within public andprivate sectors.

A number o f Development Partners have offered to provide assistance to support the
Government implement various governance activities, including support to the justice and law
and order sector, based on the Government demonstrating its strong leadership in the effort to
eradicate corruption and pursue reforms. For example, the Governance, Justice, Law and Order
Sector Reform Programme (GJLOS-RP), which i s supported by at least fifteen Development
Partners is a Government-led initiative which lays out a five-year plan on a sector-wide,
coordinated and coherent approach to reform o f public sector institutions inthe legal sector to be
able to execute their mandate effectively. The key outcomes o f the programme include a safe
and secure environment, a fair humane and expeditious justice delivery system, and a more
democratic state that respects humanrights andthe rule o f law.

The Government has also entered into partnership with Development Partners to plan and
implement the Public Financial Management Reform Programme with the aim o f enhancing
financial governance in the public sector for effective and efficient resource utilization for
economic growth andpoverty reduction. The United Nations Development Program (UNDP) i s

                                                   7


also supporting the government through a programme to alleviate poverty through strengthening
capacity and participation o f governance institutions and civil society organizations including
NGO's and Community Based Organizations on public governance. This programme aims to
promote participatory development planningby involving grassroots communities and all parties
concerned in public policy debates to build consensus, eliminate corruption, enhance
transparency and accountability, and institutionalize integrity systems and other programs and
regulations that impact poverty eradication.

The UNDP i s also coordinating support from bi-lateral donors to the Public Sector Reform and
Development Secretariat (PSRDS), in the Cabinet Office, Office o f the President on improving
public sector management, coordination and networking. The long-term objective o f this support
i s to improve public sector management for more efficient, transparent, and accountable delivery
of public services. The intended outcomes o f the support are: (i)   restructured Cabinet Office and
rationalized functions in support o f the Presidency; ii)institutionalized RBM in public service
achieving national goals and the ERS targets iii)an enabling environment for RBMto achieve
national goals, and inthe mediumterm, ERS targets, (iv) a developed longer-term public service
Strategy including a national vision and "branding Kenya" (Kenya Incorporated), towards the
achievement o f national priorities inthe mediumto longterm, and (v) capacity o f Public Service
Leaders to champion change in the implementation o f RBM and mainstreaming o f values and
ethics in the public service vi) develop Information, Education and Communication (IEC)
strategy for disseminating `Results to Kenyans' and vii) resource mobilization Strategy for
coordinated implementation o f the project Additionally, Kenya i s one o f the first four African
countries (others are Rwanda, Ghana, and Mauritius) to be scrutinized by the African Peer
Review Mechanism by volunteering to be reviewed on good governance, democratic standards
and economic policy. The New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD) peer review i s
seen as a vital part o f the African economic recovery plan and sixteen African governments
already have signed up to the review mechanism, which i s to assess whether they are following
NEPAD aims o f good governance, economic reform and democracy.

However, despite the government's renewed commitment to improve governance and improve
the delivery o f services to its citizenry, coupled with the support from the Development Partners,
significant systematic challenges remain that still need to be addressed. For instance, the Civil
service i s still not lean and service quality i s highly variable and poor in key economic sectors
such as the telecommunication, ports, and energy. Issues of its bloated size continue to be a
significant challenge interms o f delivering services to its citizenry. Pay reform continues to be a
challenge because of lack o f a pay policy.

While there i s evidence that `big graft' i s more difficult because o f stringent attention to
procurement, and intense media and general public security, there are indications that other
problems still exist. Recently, the Government commissioned forensic audits o f three Bank-
financed operations under-implementation. The audit reports found direct evidence o f fraud in
the Kenya HIV/AIDS Disaster Response Project (KHADREP), significant risk management and
control weaknesses (though little direct evidence o f fraud) in the Kenya Decentralized
HIV/AIDS and Reproductive Health Project (DARE), and shortcomings in the control
environment in the Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Project (PSMTAP), which
do not appear to have translated into fraud. The report also notes that poor government
management against fraud risk, weak oversight, low capacity (particularly in accounting staff),
project supervision that focuses more on documentation rather than physical evidence of

                                                 8


implementation, and confusion over World Bank and Government requirements allow for a high
possibility o f corruption. There is also insufficient managerial accountability for overall
performance and service delivery andcorruption.

Poor harmonization o f donor support to Kenya had led to uncoordinated interventions. This
fragmentation has been a huge drain on the capacity o f the Government and runs counter to the
commitments made under the Paris Declaration on aid effectiveness. There has also beenseveral
missed opportunities for organized scaling up o f implementation (e.g. in using rapid results
approaches, etc), throughout the Government. However, the approach has now been piloted ina
few government ministries (health, agriculture, local government, trade and industry and water
ministries) with successes. This approach i s now being mainstreamed to ensure "results" are
delivered to the Kenyan people.

The Government recognizes the above weaknesses and has recently articulated a new vision and
institutional framework for improving public sector performance (especially on governance) and
service delivery as part o f its broader strategy for reinvigorating its programme o f growth and
structural reforms for wealth creation as stated inthe ERS. This approach focuses on enhancing
the change management capacity o f leaders in the Public Service and their teams in delivering
`Results for Kenyans'. It will also enhance the development and promotion o f a value system
and code of ethics developed from the existing legislation as well as best global practice as a tool
to rejuvenate the service orientation and accountability for public servants.

As part o f this new initiative, the Government has recently embraced a Results-Based
Management (RBM) system as a tool for helping public sector institutions to focus their work,
plan strategically and demonstrate candidly the difference that each organization i s making to
development. It i s presumedthat by introducing RBM,the Government seeks to improve overall
programme effectiveness as well as accountability to its citizens, donors and other Development
Partners. Both the public and Development Partners want to see faster development andto know
what use their resources are beingput into andhow efficiently.

The Government has also introduced performance contracts to all its senior officials including
those in parastatals. The performance contracts are supposed to create incentives for public
sector managers and their staff, to improve performance and accountability by undertaking to
deliver specific outputs in line with their annual work plans, strategic plans andthe ERS as well
as Millennium Development Goals. By focusing on results and by providing a clear picture o f
what areas and outcomes the Government i s engaged in, RBM presents the opportunity o f
creating a synthesized alignment between capacities and the tasks undertaken by ministries and
other public organizations. It also raises the challenge o f finding the right skills mix for each
public organization and the incentives necessary for enhancedperformance.

The focus o f the new program will be on public financial management to reduce discretionary
powers accorded to its chief executives, and improving its service delivery system and enhancing
transparency in government transactions, including procurement reforms, and consequently
create the environment for needed foreign investment. To help implement its public sector
management reform program, the Government is seeking assistance from the Bank and other
Development Partners that will:

                                                 9


               Support demand-driven leadership capacity building that i s aligned with and
               directly supportive o f the performance-based management system that the
               Government i s rapidly putting in place, including performance contracting and
               components piloted earlier under the transformative leadership for RE3M pilots
               using the `rapid results' approach.

               Focus on some key ministries (that are critical for successful implementation o f
               the ERS, e.g., Ministry o f Finance, Ministry o f Planning and National
               Development, Ministry o f Trade and Industry, Ministry o f Local Government,
               and Ministry o f Agriculture). However, because several others are important to
               the achievement o f ERS goals and/or are moving ahead quickly to significantly
               enhance their focus on operational efficiency and results, the assistance program
               would initially focus the support on the five ministries, but will during the mid-
               term review explore the need to accommodate a larger group o f ministries that
               satisfy agreed eligibility requirements such as leadership and results orientation.

               Assist Parliament in its oversight role by supporting the various parliamentary
               committees in the area o f economic management (budget preparation, budget
               execution, and expenditure control), and providing technical and logistical
               support for effective oversight by the Public Accounts and Public Investment
               Committees; and

               Improve the effectiveness o f donor support in these critical areas o f capacity
               building, governance, etc, by ensuring that they are better aligned and
               coordinated, especially inareas such as public financial management (PFM).

Several bilateral donors in close collaboration with International Development Association
(IDA) have responded favorably with commitments to support the pooling o f funds around a
single design solution including Department for International Development (DFID), Swedish
International Development Agency (SIDA), and European Union (EU), along with anticipated
support from Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), and Norwegian Agency for
Development ( N O W ) . Non-pooling donors that have committed to leverage support to the
PFM reform program include United States Agency for International Development (USAID),
German Technical Cooperation (GTZ) and UNDP. The harmonized approach to support the
Government's institutional reform and capacity development program has been conveyed to the
Government in regular meetings between Government and various Donor Coordinating
Mechanisms including the PFMDonor Coordination Group and invarious preparation missions.
The support from donors would incorporate the various commitments within the Government's
overall macroeconomic fiscal framework including its annual budgeting, planning, and monthly
Statement o f Expenditure (S0E)-based disbursement procedures.

2. Rationale for Bank Involvement

The proposed project is consistent with the strong emphasis on improving governance and
restoring the rule o f law articulated both in the Investment Program for Economic Recovery
Strategy (IP-ERS), and the joint World Bank-IFC Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), 2004-07.
Through concessional financing, the project will directly contribute to the CAS objective o f
building institutional capacity for improved service delivery. The project will be linked to other

                                                 10


operations currently under preparation and will provide targeted support to specific Ministries
considered critical in achieving the Government's Economic Recovery Strategy benchmarks. It
will also complement other lending instruments for institutional reform and capacity building
such as the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC) which i s currently under preparation as
well as provide technical inputs on various reforms currently being undertaken by the
Government, including financial management, accounting reform, andprocurement reform.

Additionally, the planned support inthis project links closely with the objectives o f the recently
developed World Bank Group Action Plan to support the "Challenge o f Africa's Development",
which provides a results-oriented framework to support critical policy and public actions led by
African countries to achieve well-defined goals, such as the Millennium Development Goals
(MDGs). The principal means available to African countries to achieve these goals include
buildinghonest and capable states through governance reforms; raising the rate o f growth; and
enabling the poor and women to participate in, andbenefit from growth.

The Bank brings considerable cross-country experience in several o f the reform areas under
implementation as part of this project, including financial management, procurement, enhancing
change management, and strengthening institutional capacity. It i s also leveraging its experience
as a lead or strategic partner insupporting large scale capacity buildingprograms in a number o f
African countries (for example IDA'Ssupport to Ethiopia's Public Sector Capacity Building
Program in 2004, to improve governance, accountability, and the scale, efficiency, and
responsiveness o fpublic service delivery at the federal, regional, and local levels).

As mentioned earlier, there are firm indications that a number o f bilateral donors are currently
supporting various programs to improve governance and deliver "results for Kenyans".           The
Bank i s playing a catalytic role inharmonizing, and leveraging its support for capacity building
and institutional reforms, including public financial management reforms, leadership and ethics
reforms as well as mainstreaming results-based management in Government with a number o f
other donors, including DFID, SIDA, EU, CIDA, GTZ, USAID, UNDP and NORAD, who
participated in several o f the preparation missions. The donors, together with Government, have
agreed that support for the various governance reforms mentioned inter alia would be inthe form
o f a harmonized approach, initially in the area o f PFM, and have jointly funded a team of
consultants to assist the Government in developing a log frame and an implementation plan for
all proposed PFM reforms in government.           Such broad partnerships among Development
Partners to align behind a country-led strategy help in sustaining a reform momentum in
government.

3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes

The proposed IRCB project will support the Government of Kenya's Investment Program for the
Economic Recovery Strategy for Wealth and Employment Creation (IP-ERS) 2003-2007, which
lays out the Government's plan to reinvigorate and sustain economic growth and poverty
reduction.   This plan, which was prepared with the full participation o f Parliament, non-
governmental organizations, Development Partners and other stakeholders, rests on three pillars:
(a) economic growth, (b) equity and poverty reduction, and (c) governance. The project aims at
supportingthe governance pillar which seeks to fight corruption, establish a lean, efficient, and
accountable public service that concentrates financial and human resources on the delivery o f
core government services to businesses and citizens.

                                               11



PROJECTDESCRIPTION

4. Lendinginstrument
This will be a Technical Assistancehvestment Loan for five years, linked closely to
Development Policy Lending.

5. ProgramobjectiveandPhases

Not applicable.

6. Projectdevelopmentobjectiveandkey indicators

The development objective o f the project i s to strengthen public financial management (PFM)
systems to enhance transparency, accountability, and responsiveness to public expenditure policy
priorities as well as enhance public service delivery through the effective implementation o f
Results Based Management (RBM). The Key Performance Indicators capture the emphasis on
sound fiduciary arrangements in the context of an evolving framework o f results based
management and assess whether the development objectives have been achieved. These
indicators are:

               National budget i s aligned with explicitly stated government priorities in the IP-
               ERS;
               Budget allocationand actual expenditure disparities are reduced;
               Improved predictability o f Treasury's annuaymid term allocation flows to line
               ministries;
               Risk based external audit reports prepared and published in a timely fashion in
               accordance with the Public Audit Act, 2003;
               Adoption o f a Risk Based Internal Audit approach and establishment of an
               effective Ministerial Audit Committee;
               Skilled Public Accounts, Public Investment and Finance Committees o f
               Parliament that undertake their statutory functions meet in a timely manner to
               discuss and act on reports;
               Procurement entities adhere to the national procurement law;
               Accountability and capacity o f public servants are enhanced for the delivery o f
               public services through the introduction o f RBM,which are linked to the delivery
               of specific outputshesults;
               Ministries accessing funds under the credit develop strategic plans and show good
               performance inimplementing them; and
               External Resources Department i s strengthened and develops and adopts an aid
               policy that brings order to donor support for capacity building.

7. Projectcomponents

Component1. BudgetandPublicFinancialManagement(US$16.65 million):

Strengthening the management o f public expenditure is central.       There is an urgent need to
improve fiscal discipline, bring resource allocations in line with development priorities

                                                 12


articulated in the IP-ERS, and improve the budgetingpreparation and execution, reporting and
evaluation processes. The objective o f this component i s to make budget processes and public
financial management (PFM) more transparent, accountable, and responsive to policy priorities.
It will therefore aim at strengthening financial resource planning, budget preparation and
implementation, strengthening financial controls, ensuring that allocation o f government
resources i s consistent with policy priorities outlined inIF-ERS, and reducing fiduciary risks by
makingprocurement transparent and efficient and enhancing expenditure monitoring and audit.

This component will have the following sub-components.

Sub-program 1.1: Strengthening budgetformulation

This subcomponent supports the Government's on-going efforts at streamlining budget
formulation processes, strengtheningthe MTEF consultative mechanisms with stakeholders and
alignment o f expenditure with ERS priorities. It will also support various activities undertaken
before budget formulation such as providing technical assistance to strengthen Sector Working
Groups and inpreparing sector reports. Inthe short term, budget formulation will be improved
by building capacity o f the Budget SupplyMTEF department in the Ministry of Finance and
budget units in line ministries and government agencies. Specific activities will include helping
line ministries prepare expenditure plans, training staff in program costing, and strengthening
budget submissions by line ministries as well as helping Ministry o f Finance with development
of budget strategy paper and project appraisal system. In the medium term, the project will
support the development o f an organic budget law which codifies existing practices in Public
Financial Management. By the end of the project life cycle, the means to support implementation
o f the new organic budget law will have been developed.

Sub-program 1.2: Strengthening budget execution, accounting, andfinancial reporting

This subcomponent supports the Government in implementing the recommendations contained
inits Enhanced Financial Management Action Plan (EFMAP). Several elements ofEFMAPare
under implementation andothers are to be implemented inthe next two years. Inthe short term,
the sub-component is likely to include technical support to: (i)  improve cash management; (ii)
contain occurrence o f further expenditure arrears; (iii)   improve predictability o f cash flow to
spendingunits; (iv) improve payment systems; and (v) ensure payroll integrity. Inthe medium
term the principles, methodology andprocesses would have been established for: (i)system for
                                                                                       a
financial reporting by semi-autonomous government agencies and local authorities on budget
and contingent liabilities; (ii)
                               expenditure classification systems along the principles outlined in
the international standard classifications such as the UN Classification o f the Functions o f the
Government (COFOG) and the IMF's Government Financial Statistics (GFS); and (iii)a
framework for the preparation and presentation o f timely and comprehensive periodic financial
management accounts and annual financial statements based on generally accepted accounting
principles and professional best practices. By the end o f the project life cycle, the means to
support implementation o f the revised principles, methodology and processes for reporting
would have beendeveloped.

                                                13


Sub-program 1.3: Strengthening Public Financial Management through the use of
I nformation Technology

The subcomponent supports the Government inachievingtwo objectives: (i) capturing o f
                                                                                timely
accurate and verifiable data of budget execution, for improved financial reporting thereby
reducing the opportunities for unaccountable discretion on the part o f the executive: and (ii)
providing enhanced internal controls to improve public expenditure management (including pay-
roll management). Inthe short term, technical assistancewill be provided to achieve "live" status
of the new IFMIS in the Ministry o f Finance and one pilot department. Activities will include
completion o f the pilot test phase, resolution o f the connectivity issues and data integration
issues. In the medium term, alignment o f PFM and I T architectures will be achieved in tandem
with preparation for further roll-out of the system. Activities will include resolution o f policy
differences and process issues, as well as development o f the required capacity and resources to
support fbll roll-out o fthe system. Bythe endo fthe project life cycle, full implementation o fthe
system would have been initiated. Activities will include finalization o f manuals and training
courses, set up o f Ministries on the system, data take-on for priority Ministries, and
establishment o f change management and user support processes.

Sub-program 1.4: Strengthening the External Audit System

The subcomponent supports the strengthening o f capacity o f the Kenya National Audit Office to
become an effective institution that will enhance financial accountability in the public sector. In
the short term, the focus will be on supporting ongoing initiatives to clear the substantial backlog
of overdue Local Authorities audit reporting arrears, to prevent occurrence o f new audit arrears
and to consider more effective and efficient audit approaches, such as risk-based auditing and
performance auditing. Support will also be provided under this sub-component to strengthenthe
relationship between the Public Accounts and Public Investments Committees o f Parliament and
the Kenya National Audit Office. In the medium term (i)         risk-based external audits will be
piloted, and if acceptable to stakeholders, full scale implementation will be planned and
resourced (ii)implementation o f alternative audit approaches would have been initiated.
Activities will include finalization of manuals and establishment of training courses and change
management processes. By the end o f the project cycle annual financial reporting by government
ministries and departmentswill be fblly compliant with the Public Audit Act 2003.

Sub-program 1.5: Strengthening the Internal Audit System

The subcomponent supports design and rollout o f a risk-based audit approach to ministries and
departments. In the short term, support will be provided to the Internal Audit Department to
complete their pilot risk-based audits in order to develop and document a new standard internal
audit methodology and support its implementation. Inthe medium term implementation will be
initiated, together with the establishment o f Ministerial Audit Committees to whom internal
audit, external audit and other independent oversight entities will typically present their findings
to enable monitoring of implementation. By the end o f the project life cycle, use o f audit results
to improve internal control systems will be visible and the risk-based systems approach to
internal audit would have been institutionalized.

Typical activities will include development of manuals, processes, systems and staff, well
resourced for implementation.

                                                 14



Sub-program 1.6: Strengthening the National Procurement System

Following the enactment o f the Public Procurement and Disposal Act 2005, a new Procurement
Authority would be established, whose principal function i s to provide oversight o f the
procurement regulations. The sub-component would provide support to this Authority and also
assist to develop an effective framework and control process for the procurement o f goods,
works, and services.      The project will further assist to develop an effective procurement
monitoring and tracking system. In the medium term, the project will support a sensitization
program to disseminate the new procurement law and system to promote transparency and
accountability inprocurement. It will also support training o f procurement staff on the new law,
regulations and systems as well as provide support for the review of, and promulgation o f new
regulations in accordance with the new Act. By the end o f the project cycle, implementation o f
the new Act, framework and procurement systems will have been initiated.

Typical activities will include technical assistance, some logistical support, and intensive training
to procurement oversight institutions, tender boards, and procurement staff, finalization o f
procedure manuals; integration with financial processes and IFMIS; implementation training;
data take-on; change management; monitoring o fresults, andprovision o f user support.

Sub-program 1.7: Support to key Parliamentary Committeesfor effective oversight of public
financial management

To enable the Parliament to play its oversight role in the area o f economic management more
effectively and to professionalize its interaction with the government, this subcomponent will
support the various parliamentary committees in the area o f economic management (budget
preparation, budget execution, expenditure control and financial reporting). It will provide
technical and logistical support for effective oversight by the Public Accounts and Public
Investment Committees. In the short term, research capacity and operational support of the
committees will be improved. In the medium term, their responsiveness to audit findings and
follow up o f their recommendations would have improved. By the end o f the project cycle, the
backlog o f reports not dealt with would have been completed and new processes would be
operational.

Sub-program 1.8: Strengthening Revenue Collection and Managementfor the Kenya
Revenue Authority

The Kenya Revenue Authority's ongoing Reform and Modernization Programme seeks to help
the Government collect all the taxes due and in the process free Kenya from donor dependency
and make the country a truly sovereign nation. Ingeneral, KR4has exhibited good performance
in various areas, including revenue collection which has increased gradually from Kshs. 122
billion in 1995/96 to Kshs. 229 billion in the 2003/04 financial year (FY), accounting for over
93% o f total government revenue. However, the institution is yet to operate as a fully integrated
organization, which has inhibited the full potential o f gains accruing from its creation. The
objective o f this sub-component i s to improve the Government's overall fiscal objectives,
including revenue collection, enhance efficiency in utilization o f resources, and improve
effectiveness by adopting procedures and processes with the tax administration system,
Activities will focus on three main areas: (i)   Domestic Taxes Department (DTD) Reform and

                                                       15


Modernization Project: Technical Assistance, training and equipment in order to restructure the
Domestic Tax Department (TDT) from the current tax-based structure into a unified function-
based tax administration; (ii)       K M Automation Project: Overhauling o f the KRA's information
systems through the acquisition and introduction o f a new modem integrated IT system for tax
administration and supporting infrastructure for business continuity includinga disaster recovery
site; (iii) Training and Change Management Project,: Training and Technical Assistance to
upgrade and diversify the skills base inthe organizationto international best practice standards to
the extent o f supporting the skill base requirements o fthe reformprogram.

Component2. CapacityBuildingfor "Resultsfor Kenyans"

Sub-program2.1: CapacityBuildingFacility(US$5.31million):

The primary objective of this component is to support the overall shift toward effective
management o f key parts o f the economy to fulfill Government commitments under the ERS,
and the related performance contracts for relevant ministries. This will include, but not be
limited to, providing capacity building support to the five key ministries (Finance, Agriculture,
Planning and Development, Trade and Industry and Local Government). While the operation
will continue to focus on some key ministries, it is clear that several others are important to the
achievement o f ERS goals and/or are moving ahead quickly to significantly enhance their focus
on operational efficiency and results. At the mid-term review o f the project, this component will
review the eligibility criteria to include arrangements for a larger group o f key ministries to
receive assistance when they satisfy certain agreed requirements such as leadership and results
orientation.

This fund will be demand-driven, Le., the inputs are to be specified by the targeted ministries
who would demonstrate how they intend to use the funds to achieve the benchmarks. To ensure
there i s complete disclosure and transparency o f the use o f these funds, the costs and details o f
the approved plans for implementation will be made available to the public in a website.
Additionally, to provide for an efficient management o f the CBF, a set o f eligibility criteria and
rules o f access have beenestablished and a Technical Committee will be established that screens
all proposals to ensure proposed activities are consistent with ministerial objectives and support
the attainment of the benchmarks in the ERS. The Technical Committee will not only include
nominated experts from the beneficiary ministries, but will also include the participation of
various stakeholders including representatives from the Kenya Private Sector Alliance (KEPSA),
and other public sector governance civil society bodies.

TABLE 1:ELIGIBLE~NELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES UNDERTHE CBFCOMPONENT

Eligible capacitybuildinginterventions                Ineligible capacitybuilding interventions

Interventions that are eligible for CBF financing
should support the operationalization and             CBFis not to be used for investments where the
implementation o f their performance contracts and    contributions to services improvements are not
may include:                                         Ireadily demonstrable. These include:
                                                               Investment into commercial ventures.
0   Technical support at all stages o f the inthe
    development of the participating Departments'
    strategic plans, annual work plans and                     The purchase o f motor vehicles.
    implementingthem.                                          Civilworks for general administrative

                                                     16


    Specific training activities within the Region.     purposes.

    CBFwill only support results-oriented               General administrative expenditures.
    incremental investments. This will include for
    instance, resources required to re-engineer         Staff salaries.
    processes; to put inplace systems for
    monitoring and evaluation; and/or to foster         Activities fbnded from other sources.
    organizational learning.

    Re-tooling inparticipating Departments to           Training activities outside o f the Africa

    improve both working facilities and the             Region.

    environment, inthe context o f IRCBP's
    implementation.                                     Single proposals exceeding U S $300,000

    Support to the rationalization o f participating
    Departments' roles and functions.

    Soft assets including computers and software.

    Support work aimed at reinforcing results-
    based approach at sub-national levels, including
    efforts to enhance dissemination o f service
    contracts, and monitoring and evaluation o f
    service delivery by beneficiaries, civil society
    groups and the private sector.



Sub-program2.2: Transformative Leadership and Ethics for Results BasedManagement
(RBM) (US$2.30 million):

Given, the challenge o f undertakingcomprehensive and sequenced reforms, the government and
task team have identified transformative leadership, change management, and public sector
values and ethics as critical elements to be addressed as part of the capacity buildingprocess for
Public Sector Reform to succeed inKenya. This component will focus on enhancing the change
management capacity o f leaders in the Public Service and their teams in delivering `Results for
Kenyans' It will also enhance the development and promotion o f a value system and code of
ethics developed from the existing legislation as well as best global practice as a tool to
rejuvenate the service orientation and accountability for public servants. It will build on a pilot
program underway on changing the ethos and practices of the leaders to be more effective in
transforming the public service in support o f the Economic Recovery Strategy, especially in
leading teams to accept and implement Results Based Management as the main vehicle for
driving reforms. These on-going pilots are been coordinated closely with the UNDP-led bi-
lateral support to the Office of the President for improving public sector management,
coordination and networking.

Transformative leadership i s necessary for the successhl installation and institutionalization of
the Results Based Management (RBM) regime. Transformative leadership entails not simply
directing change but managing it ina way that ensures broad ownership, legitimacy, self-directed
sustenance and replication of change in all associated systems. It i s essential to the kind o f work
culture change necessary to effect RBM; moreover the motivational aspects entailed inbuilding
up the transformative leadership capacities of supervisors and unit heads is necessary to revisit
all work processes in each unit towards building teams focused on results, making it a core
pursuitat every level of the bureaucracy.

                                                17



Given precipitate decline inpublic service ethics and professionalism inthe last two decades, the
Government views a revival o f an ethical environment as integral to an effective and accountable
results-oriented public service. Values and ethics guide the way people think and behave and
thus the noted erosion o f professionalism, team work, and leadership ethos are clear threats to
achieving results inthe broader reform program. Over the last year, the government has piloted a
program to revamp the values orientation o f the public service and has gone a long way in
establishing the necessary foundation to retrainpublic servants, establish curricula at government
training facilities (including the Kenya Institute o f Administration) and produced a coherent
Information Education and Communication (IEC) programme, including a simplifiedprinciples
derived from the Public Officer Ethics Act. Further pilot initiatives have resulted in a new
"Growing Our Leaders" programme in universities focused on building leadership capacity and
ethics amonguniversitystudents, especially those inleadership positions.

There is already broad ownership o f this component, as indicated, for example, by endorsement
of the ethics and transformative leadershipwork by a two-day meeting o f Permanent Secretaries
lead by the Minister for Public Service and the Head of the Public Service. This meeting, the
culmination of technical work to design the program, curricula, and propagation materials, and to
get approval for a work plan involving the Permanent Secretaries as principal movers o f the
leadership agenda, and explicitly committed to the transformative agenda, including RBM.

Component 3. Technical Support and Capacity for Project Implementation (US$0.74
million):

The overall IRCBP will be managed by the recently established Public Financial Management
Coordination Unit (PFMCU) at the Ministryof Finance. The Unit will serve as the coordinating
body that ensures that IRCBP implementation, especially in Financial Management, complies
with the pooled arrangements and agreements in the Memorandum o f Understandingbetween
the Government of Kenya and Development Partners and the signatories to the Joint Financing
Agreement, which defines the pooled-funding guidelines. The Unit will report directly to the
Permanent Secretary - Ministry of Finance, who i s the Accounting Officer of the project.
Resources will be provided under this sub-component to help this Unit in accessing, and then
mainstreaming, the required technical support for achieving the development objectives o f the
Government's institutional reform and capacity buildingprogram. Since the implementation of
the overall program is going to be mainstreamed within Government, the Coordination Unit will
initially require the expertise of short-term Consultants who will help build the capacity o f the
government officials and act as "mentors"          to guide them in understanding various
implementation issues such as procurement, project accounting, project management, and other
cross-cutting themes such as Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E), and in developing and
implementing a communication strategy.

Sub-component 2.2 (Transformative Leadership and Ethics for RBM)will be coordinated by the
Secretary, Public Sector Reform and Development Secretariat, in the Cabinet Office, Office o f
the President. The coordination of this component by the Secretariat will allow the immediate
application of lessons being learnt in on-going pilots and also allow a `whole-of-government'
approach to capacity buildingefforts aimed at strengthening RBM.

                                                  18


The implementation process will be coordinated with other Development Partners contributing
financially to PFMreforms through bothpooled and non-pooled funding arrangements.

Linkages between IRCBP, ERSSC, STATCAP, CAS andERS

As indicated in the previous section, the proposed project links closely with several on-going
projects supported by the Bank and other Development Partners. For example, the Statistical
Capacity Building Project (STATCAP) is designed to develop improved statistical information
on governance issues, as well as strengthen and harmonize the monitoring and evaluation
framework and, more importantly, to mainstream governance statistics as a way to monitor and
evaluate the implementation of anti-corruption measures, including with civil society
participation. One o f the objectives o f STATCAP i s the improvements in collections o f GFS
which usually i s manual, slow and unreliable. GFS data comes out late, takes a long time to be
corrected and audited, which hinders the corrective steps to be taken by both the Comptroller and
Auditor General and the Public Accounts Committee. Supporting IFMIS under the IRCBP will
complement this initiative by strengtheningthe production o f accurate and reliable Government
Financial Statistics (GFS), especially government expenditure and appropriation inaid data.

The project's support to IFMISwill lead to timely and accurate GFS data, which will be useful
for PER analysis, PSIA analysis, targeting and poverty work, and determining progress in
meeting PEFA indicators. Inaddition, the quality o f data useful for IMF monitoring work would
be enhanced. Additionally, the project links closely with other ongoing analytical work such as
the poverty mapping work, which aims at showing the spatial distributiono f the poor inKenya at
the national, regional, district, division, location and constituency administrative levels, as well
as to capture information on the quality o f service delivery. The project will also benefit from
other non-lending services from the World Bank Institute, including customized training
programs and cutting-edge empirical work on governance indicators, as well as in-depth,
country-specific governance diagnostics to establish a baseline to monitor progress at the
'systemic' level. The linkages with the CAS, ERSSC andERS are depictedinthe diagrambelow,

                                                        19


Figure 1:LinkagesbetweenIRCBP, ERSSC, STATCAP, CAS andERS




                                  Economic Recovery Strategy (2003-07)
                                  Pillar 1:Economic Growth
                                  Pillar 2: Equity & Poverty reduction
                                  Pillar 3: Governance




                                                 World Bank
                                         Country Assistance Strategy
                                                   (2004-2007)
                            Theme 1: Strengthening Public Sector Management
                            Theme 2: Reducing the cost o f doing business &
                                      improving the investing climate
                            Theme 3: Reducing vulnerability & strengthening
                            communities
                            Theme 4: Investing inpeople




                          Reform

                          Capacity                                4
                                                      Economic

                          Building                    Recovery            Programs

                          Project                     Strategy
                          (IRCBP)                     Support
                                                      Credit

                         I   n

 Component 1: Public Financial Manage



 Component 2: Capacity Building for results



  Component 3: Project Management and
  Coordination              \I

                                                 20


Monitoring and Evaluation

One of the key objectives o f the IRCBP support is to provide support for building capacity for
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) o f the Government's expenditure framework to ensure value
for money from public services, and also to ensure that outcomes are delivered in return for
resources provided in the budget. Specifically, the project will provide technical assistance
strengthen and build capacity in monitoring o f financial and other economic activities in key
priority sectors outlined in the IP-ERS. Efforts will also be made to develop a framework for
monitoring the Government's performance in the area o f public financial management by: (a)
assessing the cost effectiveness and quality o f services delivered; and (b) encouraging
involvement o f the beneficiaries inthe M&Eprocess.

The project team will work closely with the staff o f the recently established Monitoring and
Evaluation Department inthe Ministry o f Planning, the Public Sector Reform and Development
Secretariat in Office of the President, and the Central Bureau o f Statistics to build capacity for
coordinating M&E activities and developing tools and methods for public expenditure studies
being undertaken by various groups in the country. Information from these surveys will help
reorient management to focus on outputs and results, and provide an objective for planning and
formulating hture programs for public services. These surveys will also provide quantitative
data necessary for performance indicators, which are essential to the results-based management
framework. The project team will also work with MEDto develop an institutional mechanism to
ensure that monitoring o f public expenditure programs i s accompanied by systematic and timely
dissemination o f the M&Einformation.

8. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design


The designo f this project builds on lessons learned inthe implementation o fpublic sector reform
programs in Kenya and incorporates some o f lessons learnt worldwide. The design i s also
guided by the findings o f the Public Expenditure Review, the recently completed forensic audits
of on-going Bank projects, as well as assessmentson financial accountability andprocurement.


    0   The main lesson o f these reviews is that for the more challenging reforms to take root, the
        commitment o f upper level technical staff needs to be complemented by strong political
        ownership and leadership.

    0   The Forensic Audits o f the four Bank projects in Kenya made several recommendations
        that have been incorporated inthe project design, including that:

        (i)    Steering Committees must take active leadership roles in project governance. To
               ensure that the Steering Committee for this project play an active role inoversight
               of the project, the Government has agreed to include non-government officials on
               the committee including professional organizations, civil society organizations,
               and also representatives o f the users o f public services. The Government officials
               on the Steering Committee have been restricted to only beneficiary ministries
               represented by the Permanent Secretaries. This restricted group o f permanent
               secretaries coupled with the involvement o f other stakeholders (especially service

                                            21


            recipients) would ensure they meet regularly and provide adequate oversight and
            the necessarypolicy guidance to project implementation.

    (ii) the project institutional arrangement in the current design now includes a
            Technical Advisory Committee whose composition includes professional bodies
            and experts that will follow the implementation progress of the project and
            provide advice and guidance to the Accounting Officer o f the project on effective
            project implementation; and

    (iii) fraud-riskmanagementmustbecomeanintegralpartofallhtureprojects. The
            project designhas paid great attention to fraud risk by including transparency and
            accountability mechanisms in accessing funds under the credit as well as
            supporting the development o f institutional risk management policies and
            independentand effective ministerial risk management oversight committees. One
            lesson reflected in the design following the forensic audits recommendations i s
            the development o f a framework for the preparation and presentation o f timely
            and comprehensive periodic financial management accounts and annual financial
            statements based on generally accepted accounting principles and professional
            best practices.

Strong leadership i s required from the Cabinet which demonstrates political will, as well as
Permanent Secretaries and Accounting officers, who have the primary responsibility o f
spearheading public Sector Reforms.          This i s particularly important during project
implementation as we learned during the implementation o f the current PSM-TAP. Under
PSM-TAP, there was no visible presence o f top leadership in the Government to drive the
reform efforts, which consequently led to poor implementation and a failure to meet the
project development outcomes.

Appropriate institutional arrangements are crucial for managing the reform process to ensure
reforms are institutionalized and linked to a clearly defined strategic framework.         The
current project has benefited from the lessons learned in the institutional arrangements o f
previouspublic sector projects inthe country and elsewhere.

A long-term strategic approach to technical assistance, which is not donor driven, is needed
to achieve results. The current project i s designed to support the needs o f all key ministries
involved in the implementation o f the IP-ERS, as well as strengthen financial management
systems in government.     The design o f the current project has discarded the use o f the
traditional Project ImplementationUnits(PIU) staffed by Consultants rather than government
officials. The implementation o f this project will be mainstreamed within the day-to-day
operations of the government, and the project coordination unit will be staffed by civil
servants (hired through a competitive market process) to ensure that the capacity built for
project management, procurement, accounting, etc. are retainedwithin the government.

Based on extensive experience across a wide range o f institutional settings, the Bank has
identifiedseveral lessons of good practice that has been incorporated inthe design o f public
sector reform programs, including support for a broad range o f mechanisms that promote
public sector reform, and emphasis on "good-fit" over best practice rather than a one-size fits
all reform proposal. The current project has been designed to address the needed reforms

                                                 22


    within the current political economy of the local context by seeking to improve public
    financial management, enhance change management capacity o f leaders inthe public service
    for deliver "results for Kenyans", as well as promote a value system and code o f ethics
    within government.

    Greater harmonization and alignment of operational policies, procedures, and practices
    between development agencies with the Government's medium-term planning, budgeting,
    and disbursement procedures can help enhance the effectiveness o f support to developing
    countries. The current project has been designedto effectively integrate ongoing support of
    other Development Partners, in particular, the Development Partners contributing to the
   public financial management reform program in both pooled and non-pooled arrangements,
    as well as the UNDP-coordinated bi-lateral donor support to the office o f the President to
    improve public sector management.

    From the pilots undertaken in leadership and ethics as well as from lessons from global
   practice, it is clear that both leadership capacity and inculcating values and ethics require a
    deliberate and dedicated effort that includes training, peer to peer activities, and institutional
    support as well as conscious modeling by peers and supervisors. Such efforts also work best
    when integratedand reinforcedinan actual work environment.

9. Alternativesconsideredandreasonsfor rejection

Broadversus Narrow Focus

The project could address a broader agenda which would have built on the previous Public
Sector Management Technical Assistance Project that addressed civil service management;
public service wage bill management, functional reviews and the development o f strategic plans
for all ministries, performance management, etc. This was originally envisaged but'was rejected
during the Project Concept Review because it was recognized that the new project should be
focused and designed to provide support to activities related to the Government's Economic
Recovery Strategy rather than build on the PSM-TAP project which had achieved only moderate
results.

LendingInstrument

The Country Team considered both an Adaptable Program Lending (APL) program and a
traditional Technical Assistance Credit.     While acknowledging the usefulness o f APL as an
instrument in public sector reforms efforts, it was agreed that the proposed five-year technical
assistance (TA) was more appropriate for the current Kenyan political and economic context,
because it i s linked closely to a budget support operation that i s currently under preparation. The
project focuses on key systems and capacity building that are needed to improve accountability
andtransparency inthe public service.

                                                23



B. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Partnershiparrangements(if applicable)

A numbero fDevelopment Partners are keenlyinterested and/or are already involved inthe PFM
sector. The Swedish Agency for International Development (SIDA) i s providing support to the
Government in the areas o f public financial management as well as chairing the donor group on
financial management; The European Union (EU) is also providing support for financial
management; the United Kingdom's Department for International Development (DFID) have
also been providing support to the government not only on financial management but for other
broader governance issues as well including anti-corruption. The UnitedNations Development
Program (UNDP) i s coordinating bi-lateral support to the Government to improve public sector
management and networking, including intensive training in results based management as an
organizing principle of the public sector reform agenda.

There is a donor coordination group and several coordination meetings have been held with
representatives o f SIDA, EU, DFID, NORAD, USAID, UNDP and others. The main purpose o f
the donor meetings i s to ensure that all support from Development Partners are done in a
coordinated manner and within a common framework. The setting up o f a PFM Coordinating
Unit at the MinistryofFinancewill further serve as a platform to strengthen coordinationof all
donor support inthe area o f PFMreforms.

The proposed project has been designed to allow other developing partners to align behind the
Government's program in financial management in both pooled and non-pooled financial
                                       '
arrangements that complement the development objectives being supported by the Bank.

2. Institutionaland implementationarrangements

The project will, as much as possible, rely on mainstream Government financial management
systems. It will also build on existing systems relied upon during implementation o f the
preceding IDA-financed project, PSMTAP with modifications to take account o f (i)
Development Partnerspooled funding and shared reporting arrangements; (ii)     institutionalization
of an effective independent internal audit and risk management function, including an audit
committee; and (iii)  arrangements for external auditors' assessment and increased reliance on the
work o finternal audit.

Theproject execution agency will be the Ministry of Finance.

 Steering Committee: This committee will be chaired by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of
Finance and will include all the Permanent Secretaries of the beneficiary Ministries (Local
Government, Planning and National Development, Agriculture, Trade and Industry, and
Finance), including the Secretary Public Sector Reform and Development in the Office o f the
President. This Committee will also include nominated non-government members from civil
society including professional bodies. The committee will oversee the implementation o f all
reform programs/initiatives including Results Based Management and the Capacity Building
Facility, and will provide overall policy guidance as well as assume risk-management
responsibilities o fthe project.

                                                24



Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Finance

The PS/MoF will be the Accounting Officer for the project. As such, he will assume the
responsibilities and obligations set out in Chapter 5 o f the Government Financial Regulations
andProcedures (GFRP)o fthe Government o fKenya, andwillbe accountable to Parliament.

PFM TechnicalAdvisory Committee

This committee will be appointed by the PS, Finance, who is the Accounting Officer o f the
project, drawn from relevant people involved in PFM implementation within and outside o f
government to provide advice to on broader financial management issues in government and
more importantly on effective project implementation.

Technical Committeefor Capacity Building Facility

This committee will review all proposals submittedfor accessing the Capacity BuildingFacility
and provide recommendations to the National Steering Committee who will approve the use o f
the finds. This committee will draw from expert support familiar with the eligibility criteria of
the finds. The Permanent Secretaries o f the five beneficiary ministries will each nominate one
technical person to be on the committee, and will also include representatives o f the private
sector such as the relevant sector Chairs o f the Kenya Private Sector Association (KEPSA), and
other civil society organizations.

Transformative Leadership and Results Based Management (RBM)Review Committee

This committee will be chaired by the Secretary, Public Sector Reform and Development, and
will comprise o f the Permanent Secretaries o f the five ministries (Local Government, Planning
and National Development, Agriculture, Trade and Industry, and Finance) being fast tracked in
the leadership and capacity building program. This committee will provide leadership in the
implementation of RBM and will also advice on broader leadership, ethics, and more
importantly, on effective project implementation.

Public Financial Management Coordination Unit (PFMCU)

The Permanent Secretary, MoF, will be supported by a small team o f civil servants who will be
inthe PFMCU inthe Ministry of Finance. Since the implementation of the overall program is
going to be mainstreamed within Government, the Coordination Unit will initially require the
expertise o f short-term Consultants who will help build the capacity o f the government officials
and act as "mentors" to guide them in understanding various implementation issues such as
procurement, project accounting, project management, and other cross-cutting themes such as
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E), and in developing and implementing a communication
strategy. The Unit will in a competitive process identify government officials who will assume
responsibilities for program management, project accounting, procurement, monitoring and
evaluation, and for information, education, andcommunication (IEC).

                                             25


Coordinators

Coordinators in each o f the implementingministries, departments or agencies will be responsible
for managing the resources provided to produce the outputs required for the project to achieve its
objectives.

                                                       26


                                      InstitutionalArrangements

The following depicts the institutional set up for the coordination o fthe program described above
(details are inAnnex 6):

Table 2. Committees, CompositionandFunctions

                                Composition                           Functions


     1. Steering           PS, Finance (Chair); PS Local               Responsible for the overall development
        Committee          Government, Planning andNational            and coordination o f the public sector
                           Development, Secretary Public Service       reform agenda and provide overall policy
                           Reformand Development, Local                guidance.
                           Government, Agriculture and nominated       Provide oversight o f effective
                           non-government members from civil           implementation
                           society including professional bodies.
     2. Technical          Technical persons nominated by the          Review all proposals submittedfor
        Committee          Permanent Secretaries o f the five          accessing the Capacity BuildingFacility
        Capacity Building  beneficiary ministries; additional          and provide recommendations on
        Facility           members will include representatives o f    funding.
                           the private sector such as the relevant
                           sector Chairs o f the Kenya Private Sector
                           Association (KEPSA), and other civil
                           society organizations.



     3. P F M Technical    T o be appointed by the PS, Finance,        Advice the PS onbroad P F M issues,
        Advisory           members will be technically proficient      including policy and technical concerns
        Committee          individuals or members o f entities         pertinent to the P F M reform agenda
                           involved inPFM implementation and
                           related technical activities within and
                           outside o f government.

     4. Transfomtive       Chaired by the Secretary, Public Sector     Provide leadership inthe implementation
        Leadership and     Reform and Development; the committee       o f RBMand advice on broader
        Results Based      will comprise o fthe Permanent              leadership, ethics, andproject
        Management         Secretaries o f the five ministries (Local  implementation.
        (RBM)Review        Government, Planning and National
        Committee          Development, Agriculture, Trade and
                           Industry, and Finance) being fast tracked
                           inthe leadershipand capacity building
    1                      program; and representatives from DPM,
                           PSC, and KACA.
     5. P F M Coordinating Coordinator; Project Manager, Financial     Provide day-to-day management o f the
        unit               Management Consultant, Procurement          project including M&E activities.
                           Officer; M&E Consultant; IEC consultant

                                               27


                            Figure2: InstitutionalArrangements



                                       b       Steering Committee




P F M Technical Advisory                       Permanent Secretary,
Committee                            b         MinistryofFinance
                                                        t
                                              PFMCoordinatingUnit          1
2.1 ProjectManagement

Effective project management i s essential to assure the achievement o f project inputs, outputs
and impact, as well as providing financial accountability with due diligence, and to conduct
transparent procurement procedures inthe award o f contracts. The institutional arrangements for
managing the project and for ensuring the sustainability o f results build upon experience gained
from previous projects and from earlier stages o f reform as indicated earlier from lessons learned
duringthe implementationo fPSMTAP. The key executing agencies have been fully involved in
the design o f the current reform program and will participate in execution and management
through ministerial and departmental committees and via component-specific secretariats.
Project management will be coordinated by the recently established Public Financial
Management Coordination Unit reporting to the Permanent Secretary, Ministryof Finance.

2.2 Procurement


Procurement under the project will be carried out under two (2) components: (a) Public Financial
Management (PFM); and (b) Capacity Buildingfor Results for Kenyans (CBRK).

PFM Component.           The following institutions will be responsible for procurement
implementationunderthe PFM component:


    0   Departments within the Ministry o f Finance:

        (i) InternalAuditDepartment
        (ii) BudgetSupplyDepartment
        (iii)   Public Procurement Department (until such a time when the minister shall by
                notice in the gazette bring the Public Procurement and Disposal Act into
                operation)
        (iv)    E-government
        (v)     Accountant General
        (vi)    Government Information and Technical Services (GITS)

                                                  28


    0   Semi-autonomous Agencies:

        (i) KenyaNationalAuditOffice
        (ii) KenyaRevenueAuthority
        (iii)  PPOA (after the Procurement law has been promulgated and PPOA has been
               created and thus will take over the PPD responsibilities.


    0   Autonomous Agencies

        (i) Parliament

Fundingfor the procurement of goods and services under the PFM component will be financed
jointly by GOK and a number o fDevelopment Partners through a pooling arrangement.

CapacityBuildingfor `Results for Kenyans' Component: Procurementunder this component
will be managed by the Public Service Reform Secretariat in the Office o f the Cabinet
Secretariat.

Coordination o f the procurement activities under PFM component will be managedby the Head
of the PFMR Coordinating Unit at the Ministry o f Finance. Coordination o f procurement
activities under the CBRK component will be managed by the Secretary, Public Service Reform
& Development Secretariat at the Cabinet Office, Office o f the President. The respective
Implementation Departments and Units will be responsible for, but not limited to, the following
aspects o f the procurement activities and processes o f their respective components and sub-
components:

        (0     Preparation o f annual work plans and procurement plans;
        (ii) DevelopmentofTermsofReference(TOR),short-lists,andrequestsforproposals
               including technical specifications for goods and contracts;
        (iii)  Setting up a good procurement filing system and maintaining procurement
               documentation; and
        (iv)   Preparation o f plans for annual training programs that set out the objective o f the
               training, areas o f training, and the number o f trainees, cost estimates, timing and
               venue (e.g. local or overseas) for each training activity.

The Implementation Departments and Units will submit their work plans and procurement
documentation to the PCU, which will play a central role in:

        (i)    Consolidating the annual plans o f all components and sub-components o f the
               project into annual plans o fthe entire project;
        (ii)   Vetting procurement documents preparedby the Implementing Departments and
               Units, and providing technical advice (when necessary) to procurement staff o f
               implementing Departments andUnits;
        (iii)  Advertising contracts (where appropriate) anddisclosure o f contract awards;
        (iv)   Participating in the evaluation o f bids and proposals submitted by invited
               suppliers and consultants;
        (v)    Preparing no objection letters for the PS, M o F for onward transmittal to the Bank
               for approval;

                                                29


       (vi)    Advisingthe PS, MoF on matters pertaining to the implementationo f the project;
                and
       (vii)   Maintaining a good procurement record-keeping and disclosure system.

The major risks for the implementation o f the Program are the numerous ministrieddepartments
involved inimplementation and the low capacity at all levels. Inorder to mitigate these risks and
based on the results of the assessment, a short-term procurement consultant will be recruited to
strengthen the capacities o f the various procuring entities through mentoring and intensive
training as part of their "mentorship".

2.3 FinancialManagement

Implementationand institutionalarrangements

The project will, as much as possible, rely on mainstream Government financial management
systems. It will also build on existing systems relied upon during implementation o f the
preceding IDA-financed       project, PSMTAP with modifications to take account o f (i)
Development Partners pooled funding and shared reporting arrangements; (ii)    institutionalization
of an effective independent internal audit and risk management function, including an audit
committee; and (iii)  arrangements for external auditors' assessment and increased reliance on the
work o f internal audit.

Fiduciary

The project's financial management risk i s assessed as being moderate provided that the
following proposed critical actions are implemented as provided in the financial management
action plan:

       (9      An effective internal audit function is established by the Government Internal
               Auditor General and the Program Steering Committee composes an audit
               committee to which this function will report directly;

       (ii) Recruitment, mandateandfunctioningoftheFinancialManagementCoordinator
               are completed. Specific responsibilities will include (a) preparation o f
               consolidated Financial Monitoring Reports including fund accountability, project
               progress, procurement progress and projected periodic cash flow requirements;
               (b) follow-up o f implementation o f audit findings and related risk management
               recommendations on behalf o f the Program Steering Committee; (c) donor
               coordination; and (d) providing technical advice to the Program Steering
               Committee;

       (iii) Inefficiencies inthe flow of funds andaccountability are eliminated through
               adoption o f simplified accounting procedures and elimination o f bureaucratic
               payment approval processes; and

       (iv)    Development Partners participating in the pooled funding arrangement enter a
               memorandum o f understanding (MOU) that spells out, among other matters,
               agreed procedures to be adopted under the program including (a) financial

                                                 30


                management and disbursement, (b) interim and annual reporting, (c) annual audit
                 and(d)joint program support missions.

3. Monitoring and Evaluation of Outcomes/results


The complex nature o f expenditure accountability and institutional reform requires particularly
strongmonitoring and evaluation. For this reason, Monitoring and Evaluation will be essential in
determining the effectiveness o f the project. Subsequently, M&E has been designed as an
integral part o f the implementation process of the project. M&Eplans will be developed for each
sub-component. Key indicators have been developed to measure progress in the attainment o f
the development objectives of the project as indicated inthe Results Framework (Annex 3). For
the PFM component, annual assessmentswill be undertaken usingthe performance indicator set
developed by the Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA) Secretariat in June
2005.

The PFM Coordinating Unit in coordination with the newly established Monitoring and
Evaluation Department inthe Ministryo f Planning, the Public Sector Reform and Development
Secretariat will develop a framework for regular reporting to the Government and the World
Bank on input and output targets and progress. Outcome indicators will also be monitored on a
semi-annual basis bothby the Government Team, the Development Partners and the World Bank
duringimplementation support missions.

An M&E short-term consultant will berecruitedto help develop a framework for monitoring and
evaluating the project. The framework will lay the basis o f monitoring the expected inputs,
outputs and outcomes and will regularly assess the efficacy o f project management systems,
particularly regarding the collection o f data, compilation o f analysis and the development of
conclusions and recommendations. The consultant in coordination with the Coordination Unit
will assist sub-component headdmanagers in establishing reporting schedules, identifying
existing data sets, and drawing conclusions from studies and analysis.

Annual reviews will be undertaken. In addition, a Mid-TermReview (MTR) will be undertaken
in June 2008 and an independent evaluation to be linked to annual Peer Reviews will be
undertaken by the Bank in2006-08 as indicated inthe CAS.

4. Sustainability

The sustainability of the IRCBP depends on the following factors, which were identifiedduring
project preparation. These factors are:

    0   It i s supporting the government's program which is already under implementation and
       has support at the highest political level. The project was designed to take account o f the
        Government's framework o f public financial management, PER recommendations, the
       Public Expenditure Management Assessment and Action Plan (PEMAAP), Country
       Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA), the Enhanced Financial Management
       Action Plan (EFMAP) diagnostics and the Results-Based Management (RBM) approach
        as the vehicle that i s driving Public Sector Reforms. This will encourage government
       ownership o f the project.

                                                   31



    0    A key factor for the sustainability of the project is a continuous coordination among key
          Government agencies and Development Partners, and appropriate public disclosure that
          frames expectations, promotes accountability o f all parties and facilitate monitoring and
          evaluation. The coordination mechanism that was built during the project preparation
         needs to be sustained. Consequently, the Government has set up a PFM coordinating unit
         to serve as a rallying point for the coordination o f Donor support in the area o f PFM.
          Subsequently, the Donor Working Group on PFM will be involved inreviewingquarterly
         reports on the progress o fthe project.


    0     The project addresses cross-cutting issues that impact various sectors and institutions.
         The existence o f the PSRD Secretariat in the Office o f the President responsible for
         coordinating the Transformative Leadership and Ethics program for Results Based
         Management, capacity buildingwork o f the Results Unitsinall the key ministrieswill be
         crucial for the proposed reforms.


    0    Regular reviews: Joint Annual Reviews and other regular participatory reviews
          (involving all stakeholders) and Development Partners will be used to promote
          institutional change and transparency.

5. Critical risks and possible controversialaspects


                Risks                  Risk Rating                     Risk Rlitigatioii RIeasiires

                                           with
                                        &litigation
     TOProJectObjectives
Political leaders will have weak             H        The project i s being linkedclosely to the ERS. Because  ~




incentives to improve accountability                  the latter i s the Government's strategy, this brings
and transparency, which can lead to                   political support and guarantees that the envisaged
delays inimplementation.                              reforms remainat the forefront o f the political and
                                                      development policy dialogue and debate.
                                      I
     To component Results

Capacity (managerial,                        H        Buildinto the reformproject a substantialamount o f
administrative, technical) to                         training, coaching and technical assistance; set
implement the comprehensive                           timelines/schedules for the implementationprocess.

IFMIS may overwhelm the                      S        Government and the Bank have focused on realistic
implementing agencies and slow                        targets and phasing o f implementation. Additionally, the
down other expenditure management                     pooling o f resources with other donors who provide
reforms                                               omortunistic technical assistance will share this risk
New IFMIS and associated                     S        Continuing extensive stakeholder participationduringthe
guidelines are not sufficiently used                  roll-out o f IFMIS and continuous adjustment o f system
inthe public sector environment                       design and guidelines, strict enforcement o f new rules and
                                                      guidelines after IFMIS implementation. Provide sufficient
                                                      technical assistance to ensure installationand roll-out i s
                                                      done effectively.
Future Governments or senior civil           H        Component managers responsible for the project are

                                                 32


                Risks                 RiskRating                  Risk MitigationMeasures

                                         with
                                      Mitigsrtion

     T o Project Objectives
servants will not be as committed to               technical-level civil servants; thereby a two-level
improving expenditure                              Commitment to the project i s designed to maintain
accountability.                                    uromess regardless o f uolitical chanee.
The Capacity BuildingFacility may         S        Design a set o f eligibility criteria, rules o f access and the
be captured and end up beenusedto                  establishment o f a strong Steering and technical
hndactivities that may notrelate to                committee that screens all proposals to ensure proposed
the ERS and other priorities from                  activities are consistent with ministerial objectives and
relevant Ministries.                               support the attainment o f Result-basedmanagement
                                                   approach and relatedperformance contracts
Political collapse o f the coalition      H        Broadenthe scope o f people involved beyond cabinet
government and weak commitment                     members and PSs to include other senior civil servants
of leaders, as well as frequent                    and heads o f departments.
changes at the level o f PSs may                   Current pilot underway would also provide goino go
affect the transformative leadership               guidance and lessons for replication, including risk
and ethics drive.                                  mitigation .
Demand-driven Capacity Building
                    -     -               S        Provide technical support to manage the fund with a
Facility may be complex and takes                  transparent process and strong oversight that will also help
time to access and manage such a                   with preparing proposals for the ministries to access
funds
Faulty Procurement procedures             H        Contracting out procurement support such as reviews o f
                                                   technical evaluations. Insist o n publication o f contract
                                                   award information to uromote transuarencv.
Risks o f tryingto promote stronger       S        More regular meetings among donors participating inthe
donor alignment andharmonization                   SWAP as well as annualjoint reviews and a common M
within a SWAP framework                            &Eframework
Risks o fnot having a traditional PIU     H        Train more government officials on project management,
                                                   accounting and procurement procedures.
Misuse o f and failure to account for     S        0  Institutiono f independent and effective internal audit
project funds                                         and riskmanagement function.
                                                      Consolidation o f fund accountability follow-up
                                                      responsibility under FMC.
                                          S           Institutiono f a risk based approach by internal audit
~
Ineffective audit functions                        0
                                                      and employ international best practices.
                                                      Institutiono f a RiskManagement function to be vested
                                                      inthe ProgramSteeringCommittee.
                                                      CAGassessment andreliance on internalaudit
                                                      function.
Delayed funds flow                        S            Streamlining o f quarterly FMR reporting
                                                      arrangements.
                                                      Removal o f unnecessary bureaucratic approvals in
                                                       Special Account fimd remittances.
Ineffectiveprogram oversight and          S        0  Institution o f a RiskManagement function to be vested
riskmanagementfunctions                                inthe ProgramSteeringCommittee.
                                                   0   Institutiono f a risk based approach by internal audit
                                                       and employ international best practices.
                                                       CAG assessment andreliance on internal audit
                                                       function.

                                                   33


6. Credit conditionsandcovenants

1.     EffectivenessConditions

                The Borrower, GOK, has opened a Project Account and deposited the initial amount
                requiredas their counterpartcontribution to the project;

                The Borrower has PFM strategy and Work Plans signed and launched by the
                Minister o f Finance as well as a PSR Strategic Plan and Work Plans that have
                been signedby the Head o fthe Public Service;

                The Borrower has submitted reports indicating outputs o f the completed pilot
                activities under the Leadership and Ethics Program satisfactory to the
                Association;

                The Borrower has selected short term consultants for procurement, project
                accounting and project management; all under terms o f reference and recruitment
                processes that are open, transparentand satisfactory to the Association;

                The Borrower has finalized a Financial Management Manual and a Program
                Procurement Manual satisfactory to the Association; and

                The Borrower has signed a Joint Financing Agreement with at least one
                Development Partner satisfactory to the Association.


Other Conditions

        (i)     establish the Public Financial ManagementCoordination Unit inthe Ministryof Finance
                with the overall coordination of the program;

        (ii)    establisha SteeringCommittee ;

        (iii)   set up a Capacity BuildingFacility Technical Committee;

        (iv)    set up a Transformative Leadership and Results Based Management Review
                Committee; and

        (v)     set up a PFMTechnical Advisory Committee


APPRAISAL SUMMARY

7. Economicandfinancial analyses

The project i s expected to have a positive fiscal impact. The introduction and deployment o f the
IFMIS and related sub-systems Integrated Payroll and Personnel Database (IPPD) will
significantly improve management and control o f national and foreign financial resources.
Consequently, these interventions would result inmore efficient use o f public resources and save
funds, although the implementation o f IFMIS could also create recurrent and replacement costs.

                                                    34


The project would also increase transparency and accountability o f government operations and
thus, ultimately contribute to effectively control government expenditures and to provide more
and better public services.

8. Technical
The proposed project design, inparticular the design o fthe IFMIS, organizations and procedures
corresponds to financial management, Information Technology (IT) and public sector standards
developed insimilar projects all over the world. The IFMIS design, which i s based on a modular
IT architecture, is open for the development o f responsibilities to other institutional levels o f
government and is able to cater for the needs o f all levels o f governments inthe area o f economic
management. Focus will therefore be given to the building o f capacity to manage the IFMIS at
all the levels.

The PFMcomponent will significantly improve management and control o f national and foreign
financial resources. Consequently, these interventions would result inbetter utilization o f public
resources.


9. Fiduciary
The project's financial management risk is assessed as being moderate provided that the
following proposed critical actions are implemented as provided in the financial management
action planmentioned earlier

10. Social
Not applicable.

11. Environment
Not applicable
12. Safeguard policies


   Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                Yes                   N o
 ~~




   EnvironmentalAssessment (OPBP/GP 4.01)                                      [I                   [XI
   Natural Habitats (OPBP 4.04)                                                [I                   [XI
   PestManagement (OP 4.09)                                                    [I                   [XI
   Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, beingrevised as OP 4.11)                      [I                   [XI
   Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                       [I                   [XI
   IndigenousPeoples (OD 4.20, beihgrevised as OP 4.10)                        [I                   [XI
   Forests (OP/BP 4.36)                                                        [I                   [XI
   Safety o fDams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                 [I                   [XI
   Projects inDisputed Areas (OPBP/GP 7.60)*                                   [I                   [XI
   Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                         [I                   [XI



'Bysupportingtheproposedproject,theBankdoesnotintendtoprejudicethefinaldeterminationof theparties'claimsonthe
disputed areas

                                               35



13.   PolicyExceptionsand Readiness

The project i s not seekingany policy exception.

                                                36



                     Annex 1: Country andSector or ProgramBackground

     KENYA: InstitutionalReformandCapacityBuildingTechnicalAssistance Project

Public sector management has been hampered by several governance challenges during the last
two decades. This has had a negative impact on Kenya's economic growth and development,
increased the cost o f doing business inthe country, discouraging private investment, and proved
an obstacle to addressing widespread poverty and improving the quality o f life o f its citizens.
Key governance problems include: lack o f efficient, transparent, and accountable decision-
making and management inthe country's public sector, existence o f highlevel corruption, weak
economic and financial management and weak rule o f law, inefficient service delivery
mechanisms, and weak administrative practices. Several reform initiatives to deal with these
problems since the 1970sand 1980shave achieved only modest results.

The previous government under the Kenya African National Union (KANU) party, which had
ruled the country since independence in 1963, made ambitious efforts in its last two years to
improve and reform public sector governance. Its measures included restructuring the public
sector by reducing the number of ministries from 28 to 15, implementing a staff retrenchment
program combined with improved pay and benefits, reforming the legal andjudicial system, and
promoting greater engagement with civil society. A new Government, formed by the National
Alliance Rainbow Coalition (NARC) which won the General Election and took office in
December 2002, promised to enhance the public sector reform program with increased
determination to address governance challenges, opening up o f democratic space and undertake
key policy and institutional reforms to improve both the environment for private sector
investmentand service delivery to the people.

The new Government's strategy to improve public sector effectiveness was outlined in its
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP), titled the Investment Program for the Economic
Recovery Strategy for Wealth and Employment Creation (IP-ERS, 2003-2007), prepared with
the full participation o f non-governmental organizations, Development Partners, and other
stakeholders, and was debated and approved by parliament. The Strategy centers on three inter-
linked pillars: (i)strengthening economic growth; (ii)   enhancing equity and reducing poverty;
and (iii) improving governance. The World Bank's Boarddiscussed the Strategy on M a y 6,2004
and the International Monetary Fund's Board discussed it on May 10, 2004. Inresponse to these
initial steps taken by the Government, the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS, Report No.
29038-KE, May 19, 2004) proposed a program for re-engagement o f the Bank Group with
Kenya that i s aligned with the IP-ERS and rooted inits results-based framework, from which the
CAS'S own result-based framework i s drawn.

The new Government made some progress on reforms under the public sector management
technical assistance project with specific reforms, including, for example: reducing backlogs in
the audits o f Government accounts; taking steps to strengthen the civil service wage policy,
including retrenchment and abolition of overmanned posts, and by establishing a Remuneration
Board to oversee the implementation of the pay reform policy approved by Cabinet. It has
established an institutional framework comprising a Cabinet Sub-committee, a National Steering
Committee on Public Sector Reforms, and a Public Sector Reform and Development Secretariat
responsible for the implementation o f Results Based Management (RBM) and coordinating the

                                                 37


implementation of on-going reform initiatives in the public sector. As part o f its efforts to
develop an integrated sector-wide monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system to improve the
allocation and use o f public resources, the Government has established a Monitoring and
Evaluation Department within the Ministryo f Planning and National Development (MPND). To
improve management and quality o f public service delivery, performance contracts have been
introduced for all Permanent Secretaries and Accounting Officers in all Government ministries
and departments. These performance contracts are tied to the ministerial or departmental
strategic plans and require that they report their performance and resource utilization in the
delivery o f services to the people through parliament and other communication channels. All
chief executive officers and board of directors o f all state-owned corporations are also expected
to sign these performance contracts.

Specific anticorruption actions taken since 2003 include ending `land grabbing' and state
sponsored `harambees' or fund-raising, removing 16 judges and 73 magistrates (or almost one
third of those inplace), replacing all senior civil service procurement officers, and establishing
the Kenya Anti-Corruption Commission (KACC) with real power to investigate.                In 2003
Parliament passed The Public Officer Ethics Act (2003) requiring civil servants to file annual
declarations o f assets and liabilities, and The Anti-corruption and Economic Crimes Act (2003)
which set up the KACC. The Government also launched an enquiry into a major corruption case
(Goldenberg) that took place in last decade; the report i s due early in 2006. Further, it took
action against those involved in corruption in the Bank-hnded projects-especially        the Kenya
Urban Transport Infrastructure Project (KUTIP), in which both Government officials and Bank
staff members were found to have been involved in corruption. The Government has also
enacted key legislation aimed at improving governance and public service delivery which
include: the Government Financial Management Act (2004), the Public Audit Office Act (2004).


Earlier this year, the Government's relations with its key stakeholders (including development
partners) became quite strained following new procurement scandals inthe summer o f 2004, and
the resignation o f a key senior civil servant involved in anti-corruption programs in early 2005.
Partly inresponse, the Government presented an Anti-Corruption Action Plan inthe Consultative
Group meeting in April 2005, covering the period April 2005-June 2006, aimed at accelerating
and consolidating reforms. Although it i s not meant to represent the totality o f the Government's
action on anti-corruption, the strategy has five planks:

           Enactment o f the necessary legislation to establish a legislative platform on which to
            anchor the war on corruption;
           Vigorous enforcement o f anti-corruption laws through investigation o f offences o f
           corruption and economic crimes as well as recovery o f corruptly acquired property;
           Identification and sealing o f loopholes through institution o f effective public sector
           management controls;
           National public education aimed at stigmatizing corruption and inducing behavioral
           change; and    `
           Implementing macroeconomic and structural reforms to reduce the incidence and
           demandfor corruption by scaling downthe role o fthe public sector andbureaucracy.

Beyond the initiatives in the Government's anti-corruption action plan, there were others in
various sectors, e.g. water, health, education, and immigration. In addition, `administrative

                                                 38


actions' were taken against senior civil servants (including the Public Works Department), police
and military personnel, while the KACC launched investigations inthe Immigration Department
and the Nairobi and Mombassa City Councils, and steps were taken to improve significantly the
governance arrangements for the Constituency Development Funds administered by Members o f
Parliament.

At a stakeholders meetingfor the private sector, civil society anddevelopment partners convened
by the Government in September 2005 to review progress, there was agreement that
implementation of the Action Plan was largely on schedule.              For example, a landmark
Procurement Bill was enacted in August 2005, establishing an autonomous Public Procurement
Oversight Authority that will be responsible for the regulation o f procurement in the public
sector, includingprocurement o f security related contracts-transactions   which were shroudedin
secrecy inthe past and associated with highlevel graft. Subsequently, the Government requested
and the World Bank agreed to second a Bank manager to help set up the new Procurement
Authority and assist in finalizing appropriate Regulations which are at an advanced stage o f
preparation. The secondee i s expected to take up hisposition early in2006.

The Privatization Act received Presidential assent in October 2005 setting the stage for the
privatization o f public assets and operations including state corporations, as part o f privatization
program under a new Privatization Commission. Meanwhile, there was a four-fold increase in
the professional staff o f the KACC, recruitment of 23 magistrates and other legal staff, and the
launch o f public education campaigns. By January 2006, the Attorney General's Office will have
126 new state attorneys significantly increasing its capacity. Early in2006, the Government also
expects to (i) complete the reports on the impediments to prosecutions (including the uses and
abuses o f appeals to the Constitutional Court, injunctions and adjournments), (ii) measures
                                                                                     adopt
in the financial sector to address anti-money laundering; and (iii)    consider new legislation on
political campaign financing. The Ethics and Governance Committee of the Judiciary will also
complete its work, including proposals for dealing with ethical breaches that may not require
removal from office.

Public mobilization to fight corruption is also increasing, partly because o f the strengthening o f
the KACC and the launch o f its public education campaign. One measure o f this increased
engagement is that the number o f complaints received byKACC grew from 308 inJanuary 2005
to 608 in October 2005. During the same period the number o f investigations launched by the
KACC after reviewing these complaints also grew, from 27 to 97, while the number o f cases
forwarded each quarter to the Attorney General's Office for action rose steadily, from four
duringthe last quarter of 2004 to 21 by the third quarter o f 2005. At present, the Government is
prosecuting 6 former Permanent Secretaries and 14 former heads o f parastatals for alleged
corruption.

Meanwhile, measures were taken to improve governance of public finances. They included
enhancing the capacity of the National Audit Office which was then able to clear the long-
standing backlog of public accounts audits.       In October 2005, the Government established
independent audit committees in all ministries, departments, state corporations and local
authorities. This step i s part of a new risk-based internal audit approach, supported by several
donors, that involves identifying the potential for fraud in advance and building the necessary
riskmitigation processesinto the design of government systems andprocesses. The prospects for
reducing rent seeking were further enhanced in November 2005 through additional measures

                                                 39


such as the liberalization o f coffee marketing (after over a decade o f policy debate about it), and
a request to Parliament to eliminate 35 licenses previously required for setting up a business.
Additional licenses will be eliminated in2006 as part o fthe guillotine approach that i s underway.

Inaddition, stakeholders encouraged the Government to increase political accountability for
corruption and some action on this front occurred recently.         Following defeat for the new
Constitution in a public referendum on November 21, 2005, the President sacked his entire
".Cabinet. priority to integrity in the public service.." and stipulated that all new Ministers and
   .,      Inannouncing his Cabinet appointments, the President indicated that he would accord
     high
Assistant Ministers would have to sign and adhere strictly to "a new Code o f Conduct and a
Management Accountability Framework intended to enhance collective responsibility, ethics,
accountability andresults ingovernment."      The Code requires verification o f declarations bythe
KACC and address issues related to conflicts o f interest. H e also appointed a new Minister o f
Justice and Constitutional Affairs, who will be pivotal to the continuing fight against corruption,
and who had led successful andwidely celebrated reforms (including governance aspects) inthe
water sector during2003-2005. At the same time, he excluded a Minister whose visas hadbeen
revoked by the United Kingdom and the United States for reasons perceived to include
corruption. To further reinforce a culture o f performance and accountability, the President also
said that Ministers and their leadership teams will be expected to report publicly on development
results achieved at the endo f the next 4-6 months.

Stakeholders at the September 2005 meeting also encouraged the Government to make greater
use o f administrative actions and not simply rely on prosecutions which can take a very long
time to be completed. On December 16, 2005, the Government annulled the recruitment of
3,000 police officers and suspended 175 senior officers involved in the recruitment exercise,
pending fbrther investigation. Mindfulo f longstanding rumors o f corruption inthe police force,
the Government requested KACC to monitor the process and found evidence o f bribes. In less
than 24 hours, the Government took disciplinary action. Later that day, the Kenya Revenue
Authority also announced that it was suspending several senior officers that work at the Port
pending investigation into why they were not achieving performance targets for customs
revenues. Around the same time, the Government fired the Managing Trustee o f the National
Social Security Fund following investigation by the KACC. Efforts are now underway to work
with the private sector, including professional bodies, to address corruption within their own
ranks, and to support evolving grassroots initiatives aimed at increasing social accountability
within public and private sectors.

A number o f Development Partners have offered to provide assistance to support the
Government implement various governance activities, including support to the justice and law
and order sector, based on the Government demonstrating its strong leadership in the effort to
eradicate corruption and pursuereforms. For example, the Governance, Justice, Law and Order
Sector Reform Programme (GJLOS-RP), which is supported by at least fifteen Development
Partners is a Government-led initiative which lays out a five-year plan on a sector-wide,
coordinated and coherent approach to reform o fpublic sector institutions inthe legal sector to be
able to execute their mandate effectively. The key outcomes o f the programme include a safe
and secure environment, a fair humane and expeditious justice delivery system, and a more
democratic state that respects humanrights andthe rule o f law.

                                                   40


The Government has also entered into partnership with Development Partners to plan and
implement the Public Financial Management Reform Programme with the aim o f enhancing
financial governance in the public sector for effective and efficient resource utilization for
economic growth and poverty reduction. The UnitedNations Development Program (UNDP) i s
also supporting the government through a programme to alleviate poverty through strengthening
capacity and participation o f governance institutions and civil society organizations including
NGO's and Community Based Organizations on public governance. This programme aims to
promote participatory development planning by involving grassroots communities and all parties
concerned in public policy debates to build consensus, eliminate corruption, enhance
transparency and accountability, and institutionalize integrity systems and other programs and
regulations that impact poverty eradication.

The UNDP is also coordinating support from bi-lateral donors to the Public Sector Reform and
Development Secretariat (PSRDS), in the Cabinet Office, Office o f the President on improving
public sector management, coordination and networking. The long-term objective o f this support
i s to improve public sector management for more efficient, transparent, and accountable delivery
of public services. The intendedoutcomes o f the support are: (i)    restructured Cabinet Office and
rationalized functions in support o f the Presidency; ii)institutionalized RBM in public service
achieving national goals and the ERS targets iii)an enabling environment for RBMto achieve
national goals, andinthe mediumterm, ERS targets, (iv) a developed longer-term public service
Strategy including a national vision and "branding Kenya" (Kenya Incorporated), towards the
achievement o f national priorities inthe medium to long term, and (v) capacity o f Public Service
Leaders to champion change in the implementation o f RBM and mainstreaming o f values and
ethics in the public service vi) develop Information, Education and Communication (IEC)
strategy for disseminating `Results to Kenyans' and vii) resource mobilization Strategy for
coordinated implementation o f the project Additionally, Kenya i s one o f the first four African
countries (others are Rwanda, Ghana, and Mauritius) to be scrutinized by the African Peer
Review Mechanism by volunteering to be reviewed on good governance, democratic standards
and economic policy. The New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD) peer review i s
seen as a vital part o f the African economic recovery plan and sixteen African governments
already have signed up to the review mechanism, which i s to assess whether they are following
NEPAD aims o f good governance, economic reformand democracy.

However, despite the government's renewed commitment to improve governance and improve
the delivery o f services to its citizenry, coupled with the support from the Development Partners,
significant systematic challenges remain that still need to be addressed. For instance, the Civil
service i s still not lean and service quality i s highly variable and poor in key economic sectors
such as the telecommunication, ports, and energy. Issues o f its bloated size continue to be a
significant challenge interms o f delivering services to its citizenry. Pay reform continues to be a
challenge because of lack o f a pay policy.

While there i s evidence that `big graft' is more difficult because o f stringent attention to
procurement, and intense media and general public security, there are indications that other
problems still exist. Recently, the Government commissioned forensic audits o f three Bank-
financed operations under-implementation. The audit reports found direct evidence o f fraud in
the Kenya HIV/AIDS Disaster Response Project (KHADREP), significant risk management and
control weaknesses (though little direct evidence o f fraud) in the Kenya Decentralized
HIV/AIDS and Reproductive Health Project (DARE), and shortcomings in the control

                                                 41


environment in the Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Project (PSMTAP), which
do not appear to have translated into fraud. The report also notes that poor government
management against fraud risk, weak oversight, low capacity (particularly in accounting staff),
project supervision that focuses more on documentation rather than physical evidence o f
implementation, and confusion over World Bank and Governmentrequirements allow for a high
possibility o f corruption. There is also insufficient managerial accountability for overall
performance and service delivery and corruption.

Poor harmonization o f donor support to Kenya had led to uncoordinated interventions. This
fragmentation has been a huge drain on the capacity o f the Government and runs counter to the
commitments made under the Paris Declaration on aid effectiveness. There has also been several
missed opportunities for organized scaling up o f implementation (e.g. in using rapid results
approaches, etc), throughout the Government. However, the approach has now been piloted in a
few government ministries (health, agriculture, local government, trade and industry and water
ministries) with successes. This approach i s now being mainstreamed to ensure "results" are
delivered to the Kenyanpeople.

The Government recognizes the above weaknesses and has recently articulated a new vision and
institutional framework for improving public sector performance (especially on governance) and
service delivery as part o f its broader strategy for reinvigorating its programme of growth and
structural reforms for wealth creation as stated inthe ERS. This approach focuses on enhancing
the change management capacity o f leaders in the Public Service and their teams in delivering
`Results for Kenyans'. It will also enhance the development and promotion o f a value system
andcode of ethics developed from the existing legislation as well as best global practice as a tool
to rejuvenate the service orientation and accountability for public servants.

As part of this new initiative, the Government has recently embraced a Results-Based
Management (RBM) system as a tool for helping public sector institutions to focus their work,
plan strategically and demonstrate candidly the difference that each organization i s making to
development. It i s presumed that by introducing RBM,the Government seeks to improve overall
programme effectiveness as well as accountability to its citizens, donors and other Development
Partners. Both the public and Development Partners want to see faster development and to know
what use their resources are being put into andhow efficiently.

The Government has also introduced performance contracts to all its senior officials including
those in parastatals. The performance contracts are supposed to create incentives for public
sector managers and their staff, to improve performance and accountability by undertaking to
deliver specific outputs in line with their annual work plans, strategic plans and the ERS as well
as MillenniumDevelopment Goals. By focusing on results and by providing a clear picture of
what areas and outcomes the Government i s engaged in, RBM presents the opportunity o f
creating a synthesized alignment between capacities and the tasks undertaken by ministries and
other public organizations. It also raises the challenge of finding the right skills mix for each
public organization and the incentives necessary for enhanced performance.

The focus o f the new program will be on public financial management to reduce discretionary
powers accorded to its chief executives, and improvingits service delivery system and enhancing
transparency in government transactions, including procurement reforms, and consequently
create the environment for needed foreign investment. To help implement its public sector

                                                42


management reform program, the Government i s seeking assistance from the Bank and other
Development Partnersthat will:

              Support demand-driven leadership capacity building that is aligned with and
              directly supportive o f the performance-based management system that the
              Government i s rapidly putting in place, including performance contracting and
              components piloted earlier under the transformative leadership for RBM pilots
              using the `rapid results' approach.

              Focus on some key ministries (that are critical for successful implementation o f
              the ERS, e.g., Ministry o f Finance, Ministry o f Planning and National
              Development, Ministry o f Trade and Industry, Ministry o f Local Government,
              and Ministry o f Agriculture). However, because several others are important to
              the achievement o f ERS goals andor are moving ahead quickly to significantly
              enhance their focus on operational efficiency and results, the assistance program
              would initially focus the support on the five ministries, but will during the mid-
              term review explore the need to accommodate a larger group o f ministries that
              satisfy agreed eligibility requirements such as leadership and results orientation,

              Assist Parliament in its oversight role by supporting the various parliamentary
              committees in the area o f economic management (budget preparation, budget
              execution, and expenditure control), and providing technical and logistical
              support for effective oversight by the Public Accounts and Public Investment
              Committees; and

              Improve the effectiveness o f donor support in these critical areas o f capacity
              building, governance, etc, by ensuring that they are better aligned and
              coordinated, especially inareas such as public financial management (PFM).

Several bilateral donors in close collaboration with International Development Association
(IDA) have responded favorably with commitments to support the pooling o f funds around a
single design solution including Department for International Development (DFID), Swedish
International Development Agency (SIDA), and European Union (EU), along with anticipated
support from Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), and Norwegian Agency for
Development ( N O W ) . Non-pooling donors that have committed to leverage support to the
PFM reform program include United States Agency for International Development (USAID),
German Technical Cooperation (GTZ) and UNDP. The harmonized approach to support the
Government's institutional reform and capacity development program has been conveyed to the
Government in regular meetings between Government and various Donor Coordinating
Mechanisms including the PFMDonor Coordination Group and invarious preparation missions.
The support from donors would incorporate the various commitments within the Government's
overall macroeconomic fiscal framework including its annual budgeting, planning, and monthly
Statement of Expenditure (S0E)-based disbursement procedures.

                                                  43


         Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and/or other Agencies

      KENYA: InstitutionalReformandCapacityBuildingTechnicalAssistance Project

      Sector issues                    BankfinancedProjects                  Latest      Latest
        addressed                                                            PSRIP      PSRDO
                                                                              rating     rating
 Civil Service Reform      Public Sector Management Technical Assistance        S           S
 Legal Reform              Financial and Legal Sec TA                           S            S

 Distance Learning         Development Learning Center LIL                      S            S


 Sector Issues                                         Donor Involvement
 Legal Sector Reform       DFID, SIDA, EU, CIDA, NORWAY,USAID
 Public Financial          EU,DFID, SIDA, Norway, USAID, GTZ
 Management
 Public Service Reform     DFID,SIDA, EU,UNDP, Netherlands, CIDA
 Parliament                CIDA, USAID, WBI

                                           PI 4 Stocktaking
 ReformArea         EC                         SIDA                  GTZ                 DFID
 Macroeconomic      Ongoing Support to IMF
                             -
 planningand        secondedstaff
 framework          No further supportbeyond
                    this
 Budgeting          Ongoing-Support to PER     ongoing - PFMReform   ongoing- Support to Ongoing PEMIPER
                                                                                                 -
                    50,000 euro available      Plan                  PER andFiscal       400,000 UK f
                                                                     Reporting
                                               planned- PFMReform    planned-Tracking
                                               Plan                  surveys andBudget
                                                                     preparation
                                                                     200,000 euro
 Revenue-taxes,     Ongoing- Y2K project                                                 Ongoing- Support to
~




 customs, excise    with KRA to be closed.                                               KRA Change
                    200,000 euro                                                         managementICT
                                                                                         300,000 UK E
 Procurementand     Ongoing- Independent
 stores             ProcurementReview
                    400,000 euro
 Audit -internal    Ongoing-ClearingLA
 andexternal        audit backlog.
                    Audit ofAdvanced Budget
                    support.
                    700,000 euro
 IFMIS                                         Ongoing-IFMISStage                        Ongoing hnding of
                                                                                                 -
 (Accountingand                                1                                         consultant (TA)
 reporting; Payment                            SEK 22 million
 andcash                                       Planned-1FMIS Stage
 management)                                   2
                                               SEK 50-80 Million

                                                       44


                             Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring
     KENYA: InstitutionalReformandCapacityBuildingTechnicalAssistance Project

                                            ResultsFramework
                PDO                        OutcomeIndicators                Useof OutcomeInformation
Strengthenpublic financial                                                  The purpose is to measure
management (PFM) systems to          1.Nationalbudget is aligned with       iggregate improvement intax
enhance transparency, accountability explicitly stated government           idministration andbudgetary
and responsiveness to policy         priorities inthe IP-ERS                xocedures; and improve
priorities and support capacity                                             ransparency and accountability in
buildinginkey ministries involved                                           :overnment fiscal management.
inthe implementation o fthe          2. Budget allocation and actual
Economic Recovery Strategy.          expenditure disparities reduced.


                                     3. Predictability o f annual /mid term
                                     cash allocation flows to line
                                     ministries improvedby Treasury.
                                     4. External audit reports prepared     Provide basis to hold government
                                     and published ina timely fashion in    accountable
                                     accordance with the Public Audit
                                     Act 2003.

                                     5. Adoption o f a Risk Based           Parliament i s able to provide
                                     InternalAudit approach and             oversight role over the executive vis-
                                     establishment o f effective            &vis public financial management
                                     Ministerial Audit Committees.

                                     6. Skilled Public Accounts and         Provides data on pre-audits to
                                     Public Investments committees o f      determine whether there i s value for
                                     parliament inundertaking their         money inthe use o f government
                                     statutory functions, submitting        funds
                                     reports on an annual basis and
                                     eliminate backlog within the second
                                     year o fproject implementation.

                                     7. Skilled finance Committee in
                                     undertaking its statutory functions
                                     complies with the budget cycle.

                                     8. Accountability and capacity o f     T o determine whether the ministries/
                                     public servants enhanced for the       departments and their leadership are
                                     delivery o fpublic service             able deliver efficient services.


      IntermediateResults             ResultsIndicatorsfor Each                Use of ResultsMonitoring
      Oneper Component                           ComDonent
Component1:PublicFinancialM a igementReform
Subprogram 1.1 Strengthening         Within year deviations o f actual       To ensure mediumtermplanning
budget formulation                   expenditure fromprinted estimates       and budgeting are synchronized.
                                     reducedby 30% by 2009
Subprogram 1.2 Strengthening         1. Payment arrears reduced to no        T o ensure improved control over and
budget execution, accounting and          more than average monthly          reporting o f expenditure and inthe
financial reporting                       expenditure o f Government         use o f public h d s
                                     2.   Financial reporting by semi-
                                          autonomous government

                                                    45


                                        OutcomeIndicators                 Useof OutcomeInformation
                                      agencies and local authorities on
                                      budget and contingent liabilities
                                  3.  Timely and reliable financial
                                      statements inaccordance with
                                      acceptable accounting standards
                                      are produced through the IFMIS

                                  1. IFMIS is operational inthe           Effective and reliable IT support for
                                      MoF, Agriculture, Trade and         PFMrequirements andprocesses.
                                      Industry, Local Government,
                                      Planning and National
                                      Development.
                                  2.  Timely and reliable financial
                                      statements are produced through
                                      the IFMIS.
                                  3.  IPPD i s rolled out to MoF,
                                      Agriculture, Trade and Industry,
                                      Local Government, Planning
                                      andNational Development.
                                  4.  An IT strategy is developed and
                                      owned by government.
                                  1. Annual audits are executedina        Provides basis to hold government
ExternalAudit System                  timelyeffective and efficient       agencies accountable
                                      fashion.
                                  2. Compliance with Public Audit
                                      Act reporting requirements
                                      achieved
Subprogram 1.4 Strengthening the  1. MoF, Agriculture, Trade and          T o improve effectiveness and
InternalAudit System                  Industry,Local Government,          efficiency o f internal control
                                      Planning and National               systems.
                                      Development have well
                                      established internal audit units
                                  2. Management inthe above
                                      ministries/departments
                                      implements recommendations
                                      o f internal audit units.
Subprogram 1.5 Strengthening the  Public Procurement entities have        1. Enhance transparency and
National Procurement System       achieved full capacity to comply             efficiency inthe use o f public
                                  with procurement procedures.                 resources
                                                                          2.   T o institute controls inpublic
                                                                               procurement

Subprogram 1.6 Support to key     Quality and use o f reports o f         T o ensure that parliament exercises
Parliamentary Committees for      recommendations o f Parliamentary       its accountability responsibilities.
effective oversight o fpublic     Committees improved
financial management

Subprogram 1.7 Strengthening      1. timeliness o fproductiono f          T o provide data for better cash
Revenue Collection and                statistics                          management at the treasury.
Management for the Kenya National 2.  Cost o f collection to be
Revenue Agency                        maintained below 2% o f printed
                                      estimates
Component 2: Capacity Buildingfo Results
Subprogram2.1: Capacity Building The targeted ministries use the        I T o determine whether the ministries
Facility                          Capacity BuildingFacility to            and departments are capable o f
                                  support RapidResult Action Plans.     IIsupporting the achievements o f the

                                                    46


               PDO                     OutcomeIndicators                 Use of OutcomeInformation
                                                                         policy goals o f the ERS.
Subprogram 2.2: Transformative     '  Results units established to roll  To ensure greater efficiency and
Leadership and Ethics for RBM         out RBMinthe focus ministries      sustainability o f reforms adopted
                                      Leaders inthe Public Service       through innovative and effective
Change Management Capacity            and senior ministry staff trained  leadership within IRCB focus
Enhanced                              inRBMandchange                     Ministries
                                      management;
                                      Clarity and documentation o f      Enhance leadership, and self-
                                      roles and responsibilities o f     management and staff management
                                      leaders inthe Public Service       for results and sustaining self-
                                      established; accountability for    directed reform;
                                      results clarified.                 Enhance accountability, and a results
                                      Senior staff i s more effective in culture through conscious decision-
                                      institutingand sustaining reform   making
                                      and modeling behavior
                                      consistent with Code o f values
                                      and Ethics.

Code o f Values and Ethics Adopted    Code o f Ethics developed inline   To ensure more efficient and
                                      withthe guide for values and       accountable and citizen-service
                                      Ethics inRBMand adopted            oriented actions by public servants
                                      within eachfocus ministry
                                      75% o f regular staff and 100%
                                      o f management staff and 100%
                                      o f all new staff exposed and
                                      evaluated o n behavior consistent
                                      with Code o f Values and Ethics
                                      Within two years public
                                      perception o fpublic servants
                                      ethical & service orientation
                                      behavior changed positively as
                                      measured by pre- and post-
                                      implementation survey.

Rapid Results Approach Adopted     1. Rapid Results methodologies        To ensure that short term targeted
                                      are adopted inthe                  results lead towards the achievement
                                      implementation o fprojects         o fthe overall goals inthe ministries.
                                      within each focus ministries and
                                      project staff trained.             RRA institutionalizedas a tool and
                                   2. 75% o fprojects identify lOOday    process of reformto energize and
                                      targets that can use RRIintheir    improvements inservice delivery

Component 3: Project Managemen
Effective coordination of the
components o f the project well                                          coordination.
established

                                            47


                                  OutcomeIndicators           Use of OutcomeInformation
~            PDO
Imdementationofmoiectactivities    Annual work planand
complies withWorid BankFinancial   procurementplanare
ManagementandProcurement           producedbyNovemberof
Guidelines                         the precedingyear (2005
                                    onwards).

                                   Financialmanagementof
                                    the project funds i s
                                    complaintwithIDAFM
                                    Guidelines.

                                    Procurementpracticeunder
                                    the project is complaint
                                    with IDA Procurement
                                    Guidelines

c
Y     0     9



E
Y    n      d



m
W
Y     'c)




z,
0
     3




             I

             U
             0




     vi
      m 9




2
* $          F
  vi
  r-         2

                        4
                        4
                        29




      s            R            P
      In                        3
      00    IE
             00    a            3
                              -
0
v)                              P
                                3
                                3
                               g       g
                               3       3




      a
      3a2
      4 9    *
             .3
             WJ
             8          zWmL!a          i3
                        3       ze,mL!a zWmL!
                                3       3
                        3       3
                                2       z"
                        Y       Y       Y

      Z
      0                 Z0

                                  51


                  Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
KENYA: InstitutionalReformandCapacityBuildingTechnicalAssistance Project

                                                52




Component 1. PublicFinancialManagement(US$16.65 million):

Among the many areas o f public sector improvement, strengthening the management o f public
expenditure i s central.    There i s urgent need to improve fiscal discipline, bring resource
allocation in line with development priorities articulated in the IP-ERS, by improving the
budgetingpreparationand execution processes.

The objective o f this component i s to make budget processes and public financial management
(PFM) more transparent, accountable, and responsive to policy priorities. It will therefore aim at
strengthening financial resource planning, budget preparation and implementation, strengthening
financial controls, ensuring that allocation o f government resources is consistent with policy
priorities outlined in IP-ERS, and reducing fiduciary risks by making procurement transparent
and efficient and enhancing expenditure monitoring and audit. It i s also aimed at an efficient
generation and management o f revenue. This component will have the following sub-
components.

Sub-program 1.1: Strengthening budgetformulation


Status: The budget i s not aligned to government policy objectives and ERS priorities. Budgets
are also not realistic due to inadequate attention during formulation o f macro-fiscal assumptions
andprogram costings.

Objective: This subcomponent supports the Government's on-going efforts at streamlining
budget formulation processes, strengthening the MTEF consultative mechanisms with
stakeholders and alignment o f expenditure with ERS priorities. It will also support various
activities undertaken before budget formulation such as providing technical assistance to
strengthen Sector Working Groups and inpreparing sector reports.

Proposed activities:

In the short term, budget formulation will be improved by building capacity of the Budget
SupplyMTEF department in the Ministry o f Finance and budget units in line ministries and
government agencies. Specific activities will include helping line ministries prepare expenditure
plans, training staff inprogram costing, and strengtheningbudget submissions by line ministries
as well as helping Ministry o f Finance with development o f budget strategy paper and project
appraisa1system  .

Ministries will be encouraged to incorporate the IP-ERS core indicators and annual targets in all
ministerial strategic planning and annual reporting documents. Many ministries have not yet
organized their work programs on an objective-led basis with appropriately identified inputs and
outputs linked to outcomes. The M&E department will work with the line ministries to ensure
that the final versions o f the strategic plans and annual work plans for 2005/06 are suitably
constructed to permit outcome-based monitoring and evaluation. This will help to eliminate
inconsistencies between the new sector strategic plans and the IP-ERS. Annual reporting systems

                                                53


will be reviewed and amended to ensure an adequate reporting framework that supports the
evaluationo f service deliveryPerformance.

The proposed project will also be usedto implement the following recommendations, which aim
at strengtheningthe PERprocess and its elements in2004-05:


               The terms o f reference for Ministerial PERs (MPERs) should have both generic
               elements and customized elements. Examples of generic elements include (a)
               analysis of updated and reconciled expenditure data at the sub-vote level,
               explaining any significant changes in expenditure trends; (b) reporting on
               performance indicators; (c) identifying policy changes, new programs and
               projects, and their expenditure implications in the medium term and for the next
               budget year; and (d) reporting on the functional reviews and identifyingthe scope
               for savings over the mediumterm. The customized elements would be specific to
               each ministry and would be agreed upon between the PER Secretariat and the
               ministryat the beginningofthe process inSeptember of every year. Ways should
               be found to mergeMTEF submissions with MPERs.

               The calendar o f the PER process should be completely harmonized with the
                annual budget and MTEF. The PER Report should be prepared in end- March or
                early April so that there can be a good discussion o f its findings among all
                stakeholders.

               Action on PER recommendations should be monitored through the Steering
                Committee. Short- andmedium-termaction plans could be developed.

                Jointly with line ministries, the Budget Monitoring Division should develop a
               historical database on expenditures by sub-vote. This will allow consistent
                analysis o f expenditures, notwithstanding several reorganizations o f ministries.
                Lineministries shouldusethe samedata for their own analysis inMPERs.

Inthe medium term, the project will support the development of an organic budget law which
codifies existing practices inPublic Financial Management. By the end o f the project life cycle,
the means to support implementationo fthe new organic budget law would have beendeveloped.

Activities will include training, development o f information systems and databases, provision o f
technical support to help embed the budget structure into the Chart o f Accounts and subsequent
reports produced from the financial systems. It will further support streamlining the functioning
of the planning units in the line ministries and Sector Working Groups through linking o f
ministerial strategic plans and annual budgetingprocess.

Specific attention will be given to key buildingblocks for evaluation. Good quality independent
evaluations o f government programs can provide information needed to improve the
effectiveness and efficiency o f government operations. The M&E department i s taking steps to
develop capacity for evaluation of government programs. It has recently entered into a contract
with the Institute of Development Studies at the University o f Nairobi to jointly perform

                                                54


evaluations o f government programs.        This activity is expected to familiarize the M&E
department with the key issues and methodologies o f evaluation, and, ultimately, to the
establishment o f capacity within the department to lead evaluations o f government programs.


Expected resultsAndicator: Budget allocations consistent with the ERS priorities; budgets will
be based on more realistic expectations; budgets more embedded in medium term fiscal
framework; budget allocations will be closely aligned with explicitly stated priorities; and budget
formulation process will be more contestable and involve all stakeholders in a transparent
manner.

Sub-program 1.2: Strengthening budget execution, accounting andjZnuncial reporting

Status: The government i s implementing the Enhanced Financial Management Action Plan
(EFMAP) that draws upon PEMAAP and CFAA diagnostics. EFMAP addresses the following
weaknesses inthe domain o fpublic financial management. Some o f these are:

                (i)    there i s weak cash management due to the presence o f multiple bank
                       accounts used for government transactions and unpredictability of the
                       quantum amount o fweekly cash releases from the Ministry o f Finance;

                (ii)   the existing accounting system cannot produce complete, accurate and
                       reliable financial statements.

Objective: This subcomponent supports the Government in implementing the recommendations
contained inits EFMAP.

Proposed activities:
Inthe short term the sub-component is likely to include technical support to: (i)     improve cash
management; (ii)  contain occurrence o f further expenditurearrears; (iii)improve predictability o f
cash flow to spending units; (iii)improve and streamline payment systems; and (iv) ensure
payroll integrity. Regarding expenditure arrears, the Government has already made the settling
old expenditure arrears (from before June 2003) a priority, there i s also an urgent need to
implement an action plan that will prevent new arrears from accumulating. Such an action plan
would include, among other things, (i)   announcing a transparent policy for clearing accumulated
arrears and formulating rules and regulations that will prevent accumulation o f fresh arrears, (ii)
reviewing contract administration procedures, (iii)establishing a project implementation and
monitoring system, (iv) instituting procurement laws and regulations, and (v) establishing a
system for managing pendingbills.

Inthe mediumterm, the principles, methodology andprocesses wouldhavebeen established for:
(i)a system for financial reporting by semi-autonomous government agencies and local
authorities on budget and contingent liabilities; (ii)expenditure classification systems along the
principles outlined in the international standard classifications such as the UN Classification of
the Functions of the Government (COFOG) and the IMF's Government Financial Statistics
(GFS); and (iii)framework for the preparation and presentation of timely and comprehensive
                 a

                                                55


periodic financial management accounts and annual financial statements based on generally
accepted accountingprinciples and professional best practices.

By the end of the project life cycle, the means to support implementation of the revised
principles, methodology and processes for reportingwould have been developed.

Expected resultshndicators: Payment arrears are reduced to no more than average monthly
expenditure o f Government. Financial reporting by semi-autonomous government agencies and
local authorities on budget and contingent liabilities are implemented. Timely and reliable
financial statements in accordance with acceptable accounting standards are produced through
the IFMIS.

Sub-program 1.3:        Strengthening Public Financial Management through the use of
InformationTechnology

Status: From 1997-2000, the Government undertook a series o f diagnostic reviews that resulted
in the production of detailed task force reports elaborating the issues and problems of finance
and accounting in the Government o f Kenya (GOK) and the production o f a Comprehensive
Project Framework (CPF) for reform o f Public Financial Management. Concurrently, a Financial
Management Information Systems Strategy (FMISS) was developed. From the second quarter o f
2000, GOK beganthe implementation o f a program o f output-based activities designed to result
inimproved financial management, accounting, accountability andinternal audit offunds.

The program encompassed systemic (including an IFMIS), procedural, human resource, and
legislative reforms in the areas o f planning, budgeting, financial management, accounting,
internal auditing and financial reporting. A new Financial Administration Billhas been prepared
and is before Parliament, a new chart o f accounts has been developed and a financial
management system i s currently under development: Given the complexity and scale o f the
activities, it was expected that this phase would involve a number of stages. The first stage was
originally expected to end in 2003 but due to internal resistance and delays in procurement, it
was extended to June 2005. Currently, pilot testing is ongoing inthe Ministries o f Finance and
Planning and National Development. The pilot testing phase involves parallel running o f the
existing manuaVIT based accounting system.

IFMIS rollout to other ministries and departments is delayed due to lack o f infrastructure,
hardware, overall ICT policy, and lack o f direction. ICT plans are poorly conceptualized,
documented and not based on any comprehensive ICT strategy.

An Integrated Payroll and Personnel Database System (IPPD) project has been ongoing in the
DPM. However linkages between the two systems are weak. This clearly poses a problemgiven
the considerable overlap in the issues that both projects address (ICT, Data Centre, WAN,
staffing, skills development etc) andthe fact that the IFMIS system depends on information from
the IPPS for production o fcomprehensive financial information.

Objectives: The subcomponent supports the Government in achieving two objectives: (i)      timely
capturing o f accurate and verifiable data o f budget execution, for improved financial reporting

                                                  56


.reducing the opportunities for unaccountable discretion on the part o f the executive: and (ii)
providing enhanced internal controls to improve pubic expenditure management (including pay-
roll management).

Proposed Activities:

IFMIS features to strengthen the PFM system will include:

        (9      Public sector budgeting integrated with the core accounting system;
        (ii) Improved and automated controls to ensure the accuracy and reliability of
                information infiles and reports and to preventor discourage fraud;
        (iii)   Automated reconciliationo fbank accounts;
        (iv)    Timely integration o fpayroll data to the IFMIS to ensure availability o f up to date
                expenditure within GOK; and
        (v)     Improved PFM capacity o f staff.

In the short term, technical assistancewill be provided to achieve "live" status o f the new IFMIS
in the Ministry o f Finance and one pilot department. Activities will include completion o f the
pilot test phase, resolution o fthe connectivity issues and data integration issues.

In the medium term, alignment o f PFM and IT architectures will be achieved intandem with
preparation for further roll-out o f the system. Activities will include resolution o f strategy and
policy differences and process issues, as well as development o f the required capacity `and
resources to support full roll-out o f the system. This strategy would cover (i) the development o f
the technology specifications to be used across Government - hardware, interface between
various systems, and communication networks to be used, and (ii)       the development o f a global
strategy for maintaining and upgrading the IT systems. The strategy will require that the
technology used i s simple, breeds greatest familiarity with potential users, allows for interface
betweenthe various components or sub-systems.

Bythe end o fthe project life cycle, full implementationo fthe system would havebeen initiated.
Activities will include finalization o f manuals and training courses, set up o f Ministries on the
system, data take-on for priority Ministries and establishment of change management and user
support processes.

Expected results/indicators: (i)IFMIS i s operational in the MoF, Agriculture, Trade and
Industry, Local Government, Planning and National Development. (ii)             Timely and reliable
financial statements are produced through the IFMIS. (iii)IPPD i s rolled out to MoF,
Agriculture, Trade and Industry, Local Government, Planning and National Development. (iv)
An IT strategy is developedandowned by govemment.

Sub-program 1.4: Strengthening the External Audit System

Status: The Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Project provided support to the
National Audit Office since 2001. Through the support, over 60 staff members acquired
professional accounting and auditing skills. As a result, the performance o f the external audit

                                                57


function has improved, especially as regards the audit o f central ministries. However, local
authorities have not prepared accounts for auditing for many years and the audit o f Semi
Autonomous Agencies (SAGAS) i s delayed by non-submission o f accounts and operational
difficulties. Despite the improvements recorded, techniques for auditing need to be improved.
Forensic auditing, performance auditing, and computer assisted auditing techniques are not used
inmost auditing assignments.

Objective: The objective here i s to strengthen the capacity o f the National Audit Office to
become an effective institutionthat will enhance financial accountability inthe public sector.

Proposed activities:

In the short term, the focus will be on supporting ongoing initiatives to clear the substantial
backlog o f overdue Local Authorities audit reporting arrears, to prevent to occurrence o f new
audit arrears and to consider more effective and efficient audit approaches, such as risk-based
auditing and performance auditing. Support will also be provided under this subcomponent to
strengthen the relationship between the Office o f the Public Accounts Committee o f Parliament
andthe KenyaNational Audit Office.

Inthe mediumterm, risk-based external audits will bepiloted, and ifacceptable to stake holders
full scale implementationwillbeplannedandresourced.

By the end o f the project life cycle, full implementation o f alternative audit approaches would
have been initiated. Activities will include finalization o f manuals and training courses and
establishment o f change managementprocesses.

Expected results/indicators: (i) Annual audits are executed in a timely, effective and efficient
fashion and (ii)Compliance with Public Audit Act reporting requirements achieved.

Sub-program 1.5: Strengthening the Internal Audit System

Status: The Internal Audit Departmenthas developed a new a draft manual for internal auditing.
Internal auditing improved over the years resulting in changes from traditional pre-audit
procedures to risk-based systems and compliance reviews. Roll-out is, however, hindered by
ineffectiveness o f Ministerial Audit Committees that are expected to oversee the action on audit
findings andrecommendations. Improvements havebeenrecordedincentral ministries butthis is
not the case insome departments and local authorities.

Objective: The objective of this subcomponent is to continue to support the rollout o f a risk-
based systems audit approach to all ministries, departmentsand local authorities. Support will be
provided to the Internal Audit Department to develop and document an updated standardized
internal audit methodology in line with best practice for use by audit staff; institutionalize the
risk-based approach in order to prioritize and plan the internal audit work load. It will also
support the institutionalization o f Ministerial Audit Committees to whom internal audit will
typically report and the development of internal risk management processes. Support will also be
directed towards effective monitoring o fthe implementationo f audit recommendations.

                                                58


Proposed activities:

Inthe short term, support will beprovidedto the InternalAudit Department to complete its pilot
risk-based audits in order to develop and document a new standard internal audit methodology
and plan and prepare for its implementation. Staff training will be initiated, audit processes and
systems will be reviewed and aligned and core competencies to implement the revised audit
approach will be established.

In the medium term, implementation will be initiated, together with the establishment of
Ministerial Risk Management Committees, to whom internal audit, external audit and other
independent oversight entities will typically provide their findings for implementation.

By the end of the project life cycle, the use o f audit results to improve internal control systems
will be visible and the risk-based systems approach to internal audit would have been
institutionalized.

Expected results/Indicators: MoF, Agriculture, Trade and Industry, Local Government,
Planning and National Development have well established internal audit units. Management in
the above ministrieddepartments implements recommendations o f internal audit units.

Sub-program 1.6: Strengthening the National Procurement System

Status: Public procurement reforms started as far back as 1978 but progress has been very slow.
Some o f the challenges in the reform o f the procurement reform process are; lack o f a strong
public procurement reforms implementation team, lack o f adequate and competent staff in the
Public Procurement Directorate, lack o f effective monitoring and evaluation system for the
public procurement system, poor staffing in the public procurement units in the procuring
entities, a weak legal framework for procurement and poor enforcement o f rules and regulations.
Procurement i s not transparent enough and delays inawarding contracts and inmaking payments
create opportunities for corruption.

Following the passage o f the Public Procurement and Disposal Bill 2005, a new Procurement
Authority would be established, whose principal hnction i s to provide oversight o f the
procurement regulations. The sub-component would provide support to this Authority as well as
to the establishment o f an effective framework and control process for the procurement o f goods,
works, and services, and establish an effective monitoring and tracking system. Inthe short term,
measures to implement the new Procurement Billwill be designed and resourced. Inthe medium
term, the project will finance a sensitization program to disseminate the new procurement law
and system to promote transparency and accountability in procurement, and training of
procurement staff on the new law, regulations and systems. By the end o f the project cycle,
implementation o fthe new Bill, framework andprocurement systems will have been initiated.

Objective: The objectives o f this subcomponent are to streamline the procurement o f goods,
works and services and establish an effective monitoring and tracking system.

                                                 59


Proposed activities: The project will support the implementation o f a new legal and regulatory
framework for procurement. Specifically, this subcomponent will provide technical assistance,
logistical support (office equipment), and intensivetraining to the Public Procurement Oversight
Authority and other public procurement entities based on a training needs assessment. It will also
support the implementation o f capacity building and training programs for staff o f public
procurement entities, the Appeals Board and anti-corruption institutions, as well as support the
implementation o f a strategy for Information, Education and Communication (IEC) for the
public procurement system.

Expected results/indicator: Annual Procurement audits indicate 30% o f compliance with
procurement regulations.

Sub-program 1.7: Support to key Parliamentary Committeesfor effective oversight of public
j h a ncia1management

Status: The Parliament has important control and oversight functions. The Finance Committee,
among others, is responsible for the oversight and examination o f the annual estimates o f
revenue and expenditure, and the Public Accounts Committee's main function i s to examine the
report o f audited accounts submitted to Parliament by the Auditor General. Other scrutiny
functions are also assigned to other parliamentary committees dealing with specific sectors. The
 efficiency o f parliamentary oversight has been constrained by various factors, key among them
being the grossly inadequate capacity and professionalism o f the Finance and Public Accounts
 Committee.

 Objective: The objective o f this component would be two-fold: (i)to professionalize
Parliament's interaction with the government; and ii)to improve the legislative scrutiny o f audit
reports.

Proposed activities: With regard to (i) capacity buildingat both the individual level (Member o f
 Parliament and parliamentary staff) and institutional level are envisaged. Specialized training in
 macro-economic and financial management, with a particular focus on budget process (budget
 preparation, budget execution, and expenditure control) would boost the skills o f Members and
 staff, while support to an independentparliamentary budget office would ensure that Parliament
 has access to independent budget information and analyses. Together, such capacity buildingwill
 result in Members o f the key parliamentary committees (Finance and Public Accounts) being
 able to understand key budget issues and information and able to interact with Treasury officials
 on a more equal footing.

 With regard to (ii), capacity o f the Public Accounts Committee to review audit reports and
                       the
 monitor necessary corrective actions will be enhanced.        This will also involve specialized
 training for both the Members of, and the parliamentary staff supporting, that Committee. At the
 same time, it i s envisagedthat Members will also benefit from the analyses o f the budget office,
 and that technical and logistical support will be given to strengthen the relationship between the
 Public Accounts Committee and the Office o f the Controller andAuditor General.

                                                60


Expected results/indicator: Improvements in parliamentary oversight o f the budget process
(both ex-ante and ex-poste) will be measurable by:


    0   Number and quality o fMP statements on economichudget affairs
    0   PAC recommendations on improvements to government financial operations
    0   Parliamentary follow-up to PAC recommendations, determining if and how government
        responded to PAC recommendations

Sub-program 1.8: Support to Kenya Revenue Authority for enhancing revenue collection and
administration.

Statushackground: The Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) was established in 1995 as a semi-
autonomous government agency responsible for revenue administration. The main objective for
its establishment was to provide operational autonomy in revenue administration and enable its
evolution into a modern, flexible and integrated revenue collection agency. The ongoing Reform
and Modernization Programme seeks to help the Government collect all the taxes due and inthe
process free Kenya from donor dependency and make the country a truly sovereign nation. In
general, KRA has exhibited good performance in various areas, including revenue collection
which has increased gradually from Kshs. 122 billion in 1995/96 to Kshs. 229 billion in the
2003/04 financial year (FY), accounting for over 93% o f total government revenue.

However, KRA i s yet to operate as a hlly integrated organization, which has inhibited the hll
potential o f gains accruing from its creation. Specifically, the lack o f integration of the various
tax units (Income tax, VAT, Customs) and/or joint initiatives has impeded the creation o f
common practices/procedures/culture across KRA and inhibited the timely and efficient
exchange of information. A great number o f business procedures remain manual, cumbersome
and susceptible to manipulation and abuse.

Aware o f the situation, KRA has already committed itself to an ambitious "Revenue
Administration Reform & Modernization Program 2004/05-2007/08 ",which incorporates all o f
the most important reforms in its current three-year corporate plan. Unfortunately, progress on
implementation has been slow and critical activities have been under-resourced and inadequately
coordinated. Urgent attention i s now requiredto assist the KRA hnd and implement this sound,
effective and sustainable reform and modernization program, which will allow it to make an
important contribution to the achievement o f Kenya's overall development goals.

Objective: The objective of this component i s to support the implementation o f the KRA
Modernization and Reform Program 2004/05-2007/08, which will transform it into a modem and
fully integrated revenue administration agency.

Proposed activities: Activities will focus on three main areas: (i)   Domestic Taxes Department
(DTD) Reform and Modernization Project; Technical Assistance, training and equipment in
order to restructure the Domestic Tax Department (TDT) from the current tax-based structure
into a unified hnction-based tax administration; (ii)   KRA Automation Project: overhauling o f
their information systems, through the acquisition and introduction o f a new modem integrated
IT system for tax administration and supporting infrastructure for business continuity including a

                                                 61


disaster recovery site; (iii)Training and Change Management Project: Training and Technical
Assistance to upgrade and diversify the skill base in the organization to international best
practice standards to the extent o f supporting the skill base requirements o f the reform program.

Expected resultshdicators: Improvements in the efficiency and efficacy o f revenue collection
andadministrationwill be measuredby:

        (i)    Improved tax compliance by 5% per annum (assuming an overall compliance
               level o f 60%).
        (ii)   Enhanced revenue collection by an additional Kshs. 15 billion per annum on
               account o f improved compliance
        (iii)  Maintenance o f cost o f collection at below 2% o fprinted estimates.
        (iv)   Number o fKRA functions fully integrated.
        (v)    Numbero fITbusiness solutions successfully implemented.
        (vi)   Quality andtimeliness o fproduction o f statistics.

Component2. CapacityBuildingfor Results

Subprogram2.1:CapacityBuildingFacility (US$5.31 million):

Status: On March 12, 2004, GOK published the IP-ERS which is a results based program o f
priority actions designed to meet the ERS. The Bank i s responding by preparing various
programs to support the Government fulfill their commitments under the ERS, and the related
performance contracts for relevant ministries. The various programs will identify issues that
affect some sectors and the benchmarks that government needs to attain to meet their ERS goals.
Some of the indicative issues and their corresponding benchmarks are listed under the expected
results section below. The issues identified are handled by five ministries (Finance, Agriculture,
Planning and Development, Trade and Industries and Local Government). However, capacities
inthe above ministries are weak. It is also expected the other ministries will benefit from the
fundupon satisfactory meeting o f agreed conditions.

Objective: The primary objective o f this component i s to support the overall shift toward
effective management o f key parts o f the economy to fulfill their commitments under the ERS,
and their related performance contracts. This will include, but not be limited to, providing
capacity building support to the five key ministries (Finance, Agriculture, Planning and
Development, Trade and Industry and Local Government). While the operation will continue to
focus on some key ministries, it i s clear that several others are important to the achievement o f
ERS goals and/or are moving ahead quickly to significantly enhance their focus on operational
efficiency and results. This component will therefore include arrangement for a larger group of
key ministries to receive assistance when they satisfy certain agreed requirements such as
leadership and results orientation.

Proposed activities: This fund will be demand-driven, Le. the inputs will be specified by the key
ministries who would develop capacity buildingsub-projects to demonstrate how they intend to
use the funds to achieve the benchmarks o f the ERS and/or implement their strategic plans under
the performance contracts.

                                                       62


All the participatingministries are expectedto meet the following conditions:

                   (i)       The development o f a strategic plan that i s oriented towards achieving the
                             ERS benchmarks;

                   (ii)      The development o f a well-costed capacity building sub-projects and an
                             implementatiodprocurementplan;

                   (iii)     The development o f an assets register;

                   (iv)      Preparation o f a capacity building report for the previous year (applicable
                             for the second year); and

                   (v)       Timely submissionofan annual financial statement.

Inaddition, a set of broad eligibility criteria and rules of access (developed by the Government)
will be used to determine the quantum of funds to be allocated to the ministries each year for
supporting their capacity buildingsub-projects.         ,


ELIGIBLE~NELIGIBLE            ACTIVITIES UNDERTHE CBFCOMPONENT

Eligible capacity buildinginterventions              Ineligible capacitybuildinginterventions

Interventions that are eligible for CBF financing
should support the operationalization and             CBF is notto be used for investments where the
implementation o f their performance contracts and    contributions to services improvements are not
may include:                                          readily demonstrable. These include:

    Technical support at all stages o f the inthe              Investment into commercial ventures.

    development o f the participating Departments'
     strategic plans, annual work plans and                    The purchase o f motor vehicles.
    implementing them.                                         Civil works for general administrative
     Specific training activities within the Region.           purposes.

    CBF will only support results-oriented
     incremental investments. This will include for            General administrative expenditures.
    instance, resources required to re-engineer
    processes; to put inplace systems for                      Staff salaries.
    monitoring and evaluation; andor to foster
     organizational learning.                                  Activities funded from other sources.

    Re-tooling inparticipating Departments to                  Training activities outside o fthe Africa
    improve both working facilities and the                    Region.
    environment, inthe context o f IRCBP's
    implementation.                                            Single proposal exceeding US$300,000
     Support to the rationalization o f participating
    Departments' roles and functions.

     Soft assets including computers and software.

     Support work aimed at reinforcing results-
    based approach at sub-national levels, including
    efforts to enhance dissemination o f service
    contracts, and monitoring and evaluation o f
    service delivery by beneficiaries, civil society

                                          63


Eligible capacity buildinginterventions  Ineligiblecapacitybuildinginterventions

    groups and the private sector.



Expected resultshdicators: The benchmarks (stated in the following table) for each ministry
are met.

                                                            64


Indicative areas of engagen nt for IRCB support to benchmarks inERSL                             1
                                                                                                   d

Issues                                Benchmarks in ERSSC                                          Responsible
                                                                                                   Ministry
Strengthenbudget process,             For the 2005/06 budget, the authorities have prepared, and   viinistryo f
monitoring, MediumTerm                cabinethas approved,aBudget Strategydocument(MTEF)           jinance
ExpenditureFramework(MTEF),           byMarch2005 that lays downbudgetpriorities andceilings
and capacityof MOF.                   byvote to IDA'Ssatisfaction. The BudgetStrategydocument
                                      forms the basisfor the 2005106 line itembudget.

                                      The 2006/07-2008/09MTEF is consistent with the ERS
                                      prioritiesandfindings ofthe annualPER and annual ERS
                                      review.
Poor governanceandmanagementof        The government implementsimprovements inthe regulatory       Ministryof
cooperatives.                         and legalframeworkfor the coffee sector, which allow for     4griculture
                                      increasedprivate sector investment andhigherreturns to the
                                      smallholder farmer, includingregulatoryfunction


Improvethe enablingenvironment        Continueto implementrecommendationsofthe Strategy for
for agriculturalgrowth                RevitalizingAgriculture, including:
                                           Irrigation Boardreformsto reducepublic role inrice
                                           mills, develop irrigation policy andbuild capacity of
                                           producersandprivate sector to manageirrigation assets


ImplementPrivateSector Reforms        The cabinet has approved the privatization strategy and       Ministry o f
                                      privatization bill has beenpublishedfor presentation to       Finance
                                      theNationalAssernbIy                                          (Investment
                                                                                                    Secretary's
                                                                                                    Office)
There are serious impedimentsto       The government completes a thorough review o f
businessenny (for both                business entry procedures for bothunincorporated and
unincorporatedand incorporated        incorporatedfirms, with a view to streamlining and
businesses) and transaction costs are
high.                                 minimizingregistrationrequirements, including a
                                      thorough review o fKenya's Companies Act.


Excessiveandoutdatedlicensing         The Government takes a radical approach to                    Ministryo f Trade
regime. the cost of doingbusinessin   overhauling the licensing regime, by establishing a           and Industry
Kenya                                 legal framework and a Task Force to review the license
                                      inventory, developing a plan for a phased review, and
                                      reviewing 50 licenses as first phase o f plan whereby
                                      licenses no longer serving usefilpurpose are eliminatec
 SystematicMonitoring of Economic     An annual ERS progressreport is preparedthat                  Ministryo f
Indicators                            proposes appropriate changes to the ERS while taking          Planning and
                                      into account the recommendations o f the JSA o f the          National
                                      ERS preparedby the Bank-Fund staff.                           Development



Externalaudit of local authorities    A new accountingandreportingframework is approved for         Ministryo f Local
brought up to date.                   centralgovernment, FAs, SAGAS,andLas;                         Government
                                      Recommendationsof the audit are implemented.

                                                65


Subprogram2.2: TransformativeLeadershipandEthicsfor ResultsBasedManagement
(US$2.30 million):

Status: Kenya faces the challenge of undertaking comprehensive and sequenced reforms within
a very fluid coalition government crafted from very diverse constituent parties and partners.
Moreover, there i s need to recover clarity o f roles and enhance leadership capacity within the
executive, where, over time, a number o f constitutional and legal requirements governing
Cabinet and higher Civil Servant roles have been neglected with dire consequences on delivery
o f service, staff performance and accountability. To focus on service delivery, the Government
has embarked on an agenda to transform the Public Service from being a process oriented
organization to one focused on results. The Results Based Management (RBM) approach i s the
vehicle through which these reforms will be achieved.

Objective: The objective o f this component i s to enhance the Government's ability to deliver on
the public sector reform objectives set out inthe broader program. This component will focus on
enhancing the change management capacity o f leaders in the Public Service and their teams. It
will also enhance the development andpromotion o f a value system and code of ethics developed
from existing legislation as well as best global practice as a tool to rejuvenate the service
orientation and accountability o f public servants. It will build on a pilot program o f activities on
changing the ethos and practices of the leaders to be more effective in transforming the public
service in support of the Economic Recovery Strategy, especially in leading teams to accept and
implementResultsBasedManagement as the mainvehicle for drivingreforms.

Proposed Activities: Specifically, four types o f activities are envisaged to support the focus
ministries in enhancing change management capabilities and resuscitating an ethical orientation
inpublic management as acomplement to institutional reforms.

                Analytical Work to Generate Global Best Practices and Comparative Lessons:
                This set o f activities will provide Government with global knowledge to
                implement good practices in the content, pace and sequence o f programming to
                support the leadership and ethics component across Government. This research
                and analysis will provide a rigorous and constantly updated knowledge base for
                the program to integrate the best lessons in this relatively new field in policy
                practice and academic research and inwhich new knowledge and experiences are
                constantly emergingfrom comparable reform programs across the world.

         (ii)   Implementation of Leadership and Ethics capacity building in the Five Focus
                Ministries: Through various instruments (see below), this component will
                inculcate and propagate anew values and ethical principles based on the Public
                Officer Ethics Act (2003) as well as provide training and support to enable public
                servants to model transformative leadership principles inthe reform effort and in
                regular service to the public and to adopt ethical frames in decision-making. The
                following are some o fthe instruments that will be usedto achieve this goal:

                        Analytical work to support a better understanding o f the specific
                        environment o f reform in each ministry or management unit and to

                                     66


            establish a baseline and support planning, implementation and monitoring
            o f progress. Such analysis would also support specific technical
            methodologies (e.g. 360-degree feedback) for leadership training;

         0  Workshops, RetreatsAIialogues for leaders in each ministry focused on
            intensive peer-to-peer learning; experiential learning; and technical
            knowledge workshops to enhance the political leadership necessary for the
            reforms to succeed. Workshops/dialogues will also include globally
            recognized faculty and practitioners on transformative leadership, ethics
            and values inpublic sector management;

            Coaching/Twinning for selected leaders in the focus ministries and
            management units to establish peer-coaching or other close advisory
            relationship between reform leaders at various levels (ministers,
            permanent secretaries, agency heads) to have a ready network o f technical,
            process, and professional support. Coaches will be technically-savvy
            persons leading change in similar environments in other countries could
            provide guidance and support for leading change;

         0  Technical support for specific re-engineering processes beyondleadership
            and ethics,     such as technical assistance in the adoption and
            implementation     o f   Results-Based    Management,      Rapid   Results
            methodologies, stakeholder analysis, etc.

(iii) Implementation of Leadership and Ethics capacity building in critical
      Government institutions with across-the-boardfunctions, including in training,
      leadership and oversight:

            Workshops and RetreatslDialogues for leaders in government focusing on
             a) Cabinet ministers and Assistant Ministers, andb) Permanent Secretaries
             and Accounting Officers inall ministries focused on intensive peer-to-peer
             learning; experiential learning; and technical knowledge workshops to
             enhance the political leadership necessary for the reforms to succeed.
            Workshops/dialogues will also utilize globally recognized faculty and
            practitioners on transformative leadership, ethics and values in public
            sector management.


         0  A related sub-component will be building up technical and human
            resource capacity at Kenya Institute of Administration, the principal
            govemment training institutions for the specific tasks o f government (e.g.
            induction courses for new administrators at all levels). The capacity
            buildingwill focus on mainstreaming public sector ethics inthe Institute's
            regular curricula, establishing a leadership resource center for civil
            servants, and re-training through coaching and mentorship support o f the
            Institute's trainers to be able to replicate and propagate the new
            interventions so they become a regular offering at the Institute.

                                                 67



       (iv)    Monitoring and Evaluation:         Apart from regular and typical monitoring and
               evaluation o f the activities and results, this sub-component will provide technical
               assistance to strengthen and build capacity inmonitoring o f leadership and ethics
               capacity buildingwork and their impact on broader reform and performance. The
               project team will work closely with other agencies tasked with monitoring and
               evaluation as well as M&E departments o f the focus ministries to build capacity
               for coordinating M&E activities and developing tools and methods for effective
               continuous evaluation o f leadership and value and ethics capacity and execution.
               The project team will also ensure that monitoring o fprograms includes systematic
               and timely dissemination o f the M&Einformation.

Expected Results: The following result/outcomes are expected from the implementation o f this
component:


           0   A reinforcedrespect for shared values and ethics inPublic Service; this shouldbe
               modeled by leaders inthe Executive and be invigorated throughout all levels and
                arenas o f government;


           0    A transformed team oriented and cohesive Public Service, motivated by
                corporate discipline, and an alignment to a shared vision and strategic direction;


           0    Enhanced and high performance standards in the delivery o f timely and cost
                effective services, as a result o f the implementation o f the Results Based
                Management (RBM)approach; and


           0    A clarity on the roles, relationships, responsibilities, and accountabilities of
                leaders as in the Public Service in change management, especially in the focus
                ministries but with expected spillover effects.

Component3. ProjectManagementandCoordination(US$0.74 million):

Status: The Ministry o f Finance established a PFM coordinating unit in February 2005 to
coordinate the PFMreform. However, the unit lacks the expertise infiduciary issues. The task o f
coordinating project activities requires a strong monitoring and evaluation system to collect and
analyze data that would be used to assess progress in the reform areas. A reform o f this nature
also requires systematic information, education and communication to all stakeholders to
understand the rational for the reforms and progress been made. This, therefore, requires the
recruitment o f short-term consultants to perform both M&E and IEC work on an as-needed basis.

Objective: The objective o f this component i s to provide an effective and efficient coordinating
body and process that ensures that ensures that IRCBP implementation, especially in Financial
Management, complies with the Sector Wide Approach Financial Management Guidelines.
Resources will be provided under this sub-component to help this Unit in accessing, and then
mainstreaming, the required technical support for achieving the development objectives o f the
Government's public sector management improvement program. The Unit i s expected to require

                                                68


expertise in addressing cross-cutting themes such as Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E), and in
developing and implementinga communication strategy.

Proposed activities: The component will provide h d s for technical assistance and equipment
contract short-term consultants for the effective coordination and monitoring o fproject activities.
These include:

               Coordinating the preparation o f annual work plans o f all the implementing
               agencies;

               Coordinating the preparation, monitoring and reporting on the execution o f the
               procurement plano f the Project for the procurement o f goods, works and services
               consistent with the provisions o f the Development Credit Agreement and the
               Procurement Guidelines o fthe world Bank;

               Ensuring that implementation of project activities is in compliance with the
               Project ImplementationManual;

               Managing the project Special Account in compliance with financial covenants o f
               the project and the World Bank Financial Management Guidelines;

               Managing Government Counterpart Project Account in compliance with the
               Project ImplementationManual;

               Providing logistical and any other support to both international and local
               consultants recruited under the project;

                Coordinating and commissioning M&E activities under the project; and

               Preparation o f a Quarterly Project Progress Report for the Government and the
               World Bank Task Team Leader o f the Project.

In addition to the above, this component will work closely with the staff o f the recently
established Monitoring and Evaluation Department inthe Ministry o f Planning, the Public Sector
Reform and Development Secretariat in Office o f the President, and the Central Bureau o f
Statistics to buildcapacity for coordinating M&E activities and developing tools and methods for
public expenditure studies being undertaken by various groups in the country. The expected
output here i s the information from these surveys will help reorient management to focus on
outputs and results, and provide an objective for planning and formulating hture programs for
public services. Additionally, these surveys will also provide quantitative data necessary for
performance indicators, which are essential to the results-based management framework. The
project team will also work with MED to develop an institutional mechanism to ensure that
monitoring o f pubic expenditure programs is accompanied by systematic and timely
dissemination o fthe M&E information.

                                              69


It will also provide support to the newly created Public Sector Reform and Development Unit
within the Office of the President to implement a system of performance management geared
towards delivering "Results for Kenyans". The introduction o f performance contracts for public
sector managers and their staff are supposed to create incentives to improve performance and
accountability by undertaking to deliver specific outputs in line with their annual work plans,
strategic plans andthe ERS as well as MillenniumDevelopment Goals.

Expected results:
        (i)    Timely production o f annual work plans andprocurement plans;

        (ii)   Annual audited project accounts are complaint with the IDA FMGuidelines; and

        (iii)  Procurement practices under the project consistent with IDA Procurement
                Guidelines.

                                             70



                                   Annex 5: ProjectCosts

      KENYA: InstitutionalReformand CapacityBuildingTechnicalAssistance Project



Project Cost By Componentand/or Activity             Local        Foreign      Total
                                                       US$          US$          US%
                                                   (in million) (in million) (in million)
1.PublicFinancialManagement                           3.54         12.05         15.59
2. Capacity Buildingfor Results                       3.90          3.56         7.46
   a. Capacity BuildingFacility                       3.01          2.30         5.31
  b. TransformativeLeadership andEthicsfor RBM         0.89         1.26         2.15
3. Project Coordination & Management                  0.23          0.47         0.70
                                TotalProject Costs    7.67         16.08         23.75
                                      Contingency      0.42         0.83          1.25
                           TotalFinancingRequired      8.09        16.91         25.00

                                                71


                              Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements

     KENYA: InstitutionalReformand CapacityBuildingTechnicalAssistance Project

The project execution agency will bethe Ministryo fFinance.

Steering Committee: This committee will be chaired by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry o f
Finance and will include all the Permanent Secretaries o f the beneficiary Ministries (Local
Government, Planning and National Development, Agriculture, Trade and Industry, and
Finance), including the Secretary Public Sector Reform and Development in the Office of the
President. This Committee will also include nominated non-government members from civil
society including professional bodies. The committee will oversee the implementation o f all
reform programshnitiatives including Results Based Management and the Capacity Building
Facility, and will provide overall policy guidance as well as assume risk-management
responsibilities o f the project.

Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Finance:

The PS/MoF will be the Accounting Officer for the project. As such, he will assume the
responsibilities and obligations set out in Chapter 5 of the Government Financial Regulations
and Procedures (GFRP) of the Government o fKenya, and will be accountable to Parliament. H e
will beresponsible for the project achieving the objectives set forth inthe logical framework. H e
will issue all Authorizations to Incur Expenses (AIEs) to other Government Ministries or
departments and will thereby assume the responsibilities set out inParagraph 5.7.3 o f the GFRP.
H e will submit all requests for no objection to the Bank. H e will have overall responsibility for
all project financial, procurement and progress reporting, and will bring to the attention o f the
Bank in his reports any issues that might prevent any component o f the project from delivering
its plannedoutputs on time and within budget.

PFM TechnicalAdvisory Committee:

This committee will be appointed by the PS, Finance, who is the Accounting Officer o f the
project, drawn from relevant people involved in PFM implementation within and outside o f
government to provide advice on broader financial management issues in government and more
importantly on effective project implementation.

Technical Committeefor Capacity Building Facility:

This committee will review all proposals submitted for accessing the Capacity BuildingFacility
and provide recommendations to the National Steering Committee who will approve the use o f
the finds. This committee will draw from expert support familiar with the eligibility criteria of
the finds as well as the agreed benchmarks in the ERS. The Permanent Secretaries o f the five
beneficiary ministries will each nominate one technical person to be on the committee, and will
also include representatives of the private sector such as the relevant sector Chairs o f the Kenya
Private Sector Alliance (KEPSA), and other public sector governance civil society organizations.

                                                  72




Transformative Leadership and Results BasedManagement (RBM) Review Committee:

This committee will be chaired by the Secretary, public sector reform and development, and will
comprise o f the Permanent Secretaries o f the five ministries (Local Government, Planning and
National Development, Agriculture, Trade and Industry, and Finance) being fast tracked in the
leadership and capacity building program.         This committee will provide leadership in the
implementation of RBM and will also advice on broader leadership, ethics, and more
importantly, on effective project implementation.

Public Financial Management Coordination Unit (PFMCU):

The PS, MoF, will be supported by a small team o f civil servants who will be inthe PFMCUin
the Ministry o f Finance. Since the implementation o f the overall program i s going to be
mainstreamed within Government, the Coordination Unit will initially require the expertise o f
short-term Consultants who will help build the capacity o f the government officials and act as
"mentors" to guide them in understanding various implementation issues such as procurement,
project accounting, project management, and other cross-cutting themes such as Monitoring and
Evaluation (M&E), and in developing and implementing a communication strategy. The Unit
will in a competitive process identify government officials who will assume responsibilities for
program management, project accounting, procurement, monitoring and evaluation, and for
information, education, and communication (IEC). The unit will help the PS MoF to meet his
responsibilities as the Accounting Officer o f the project, and will assist the component managers
in the implementation agencies with procurement, financial management, reporting, and
communications about the project. The role of the CoordinatingUnit i s to catalyze, monitor and
evaluate the reform process, to integrate the various donor activities, and to publish progress
reports on a regular basis. Consequently, they will contract out all needed consultancy
assignments. At the level of ministries, departments, and agencies, the heads would be
responsible for the integrationo f the different components into government operations.

Coordinators:

Coordinators ineach of the implementingministries, departments or agencies will be responsible
for managing the resources provided to produce the outputs required for the project to achieve its
objectives. These resources are defined inthe logical framework andthe project implementation
plan. Eachimplementing agency will appoint the necessary staff to support the Coordinators.

Each component o f the project would be implemented according to terms and conditions
acceptable by the Bank. These would generally provide the basis for time-bound action plans.
Training and capacity building activities will be carried out according to agreed timetables either
with government training institutions or through contracts awarded through competitive bidding.
A detailed implementation plan will be agreed upon between the Government and the Bank
before project effectiveness. The implementation plan will be regularly updated and discussed
with the Bankduringproject implementation.

                                                         73


The implementationprocess will be coordinated with other Development Partners contributing to
PFM reform.


InstitutionalArrangements for Managing the CBF.

Objective:The objective of this component i s to provide capacity buildingsupport to the five key
ministries that are critical to the achievement o fthe prior actions identified inthe ERS.

                                                                       .
                                National Steering Committee Reviews
                                recommendations and approvesidisapprove
                                funding ofproposals



                                   Technical Committeeevaluates and
                                   appraiseproposalsand make
                                   recommendationsto the PS/AOSC




                                             Proposalsare
                                            preparedby the
                                              participating
                                             ministries and
                                               forwarded




        Finance
                                            Development            and Industry    Government

                                                  74


              Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
    KENYA: InstitutionalReformandCapacityBuildingTechnicalAssistance Project


A.      FINANCIALMANAGEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
FINANCIAL    MANAGEMENTASSESSMENT SUMMARY

1.      The purpose o f the project's financial management assessment is to determine whether
the financial management system i s capable o f producing timely, understandable, relevant, and
reliable financial information that would allow the Bank, other donors and Government to plan
and implement the project, monitor compliance with agreed procedures, and appraise progress
towards its objectives. The assessment aimed at determining the project's readiness to adopt
report-based disbursement, the preferred method o f disbursement under pooled financing
arrangements.

2.     The project will, as much as possible, rely on mainstream Government financial
management systems. It will also build on systems relied upon during implementation of the
preceding IDA - financed project, Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Project
(PSM-TAP). A brief o fthe findings following financial management assessment is as follows:

        (i)     Risk management and internal control arrangements - A number o f significant
                fund accountability weaknesses observed in previous Bank funded projects are
                attributed to the absence o f an effective risk management function. The following
                institutional arrangements are proposed:

                0   Internalaudit function-An internal audit function responsible for oversight
                    o f the activities o f project accounting and internal control functions i s
                    required. The function will also conduct independent institutional risk
                    assessments on an ongoing basis, monitoring compliance with laid down
                    policies and procedures, and reviewing and recommending enhancement of
                    accounting and internal controls. To ensure effectiveness, it i s proposed that
                    this function be carried out by the Government Internal Auditor General
                    whose office i s being supported by the project and other donor initiatives to
                    adopt an effective risk-based audit approach.

                0   Audit committee - The Program Steering Committee will be expected to
                    compose a risk management function to which auditors will report.
                    Responsibilities o f this committee will include (i)monitoring overall project
                    implementation progress and ensuring timely resolution of emerging issues;
                    (ii)reviewing quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports; (iii)  reviewing reports
                    o f Internal Auditors, External Auditors, Development Partners and other
                    independent reviewers        and    monitoring   timely   implementation     o f
                    recommendations; (iv) overseeing the enforcement o f effective project risk
                    management function; (v) monitoring the performance o f key project staff
                    against approved performance contracts; and (vi) ensuring compliance with
                    corporate governance best practices.

                                                75



     (iii) Funding arrangements - The project proposes a diversity of funds flow
            arrangement comprising pooled and non-pooled funding arrangements for IDA
            funded activities and parallel financing by some Development Partners for selected
            program activities. This arrangement poses management challenges regarding the
            retention o f a sufficiently coherent yet simple project.

3.     Fundsflow and accountability arrangements - While it i s intended that reliance be
placed, as far as possible, on mainstream Government funds flow arrangements, there are a
number o f critical weaknesses that must be addressedbefore such arrangements are considered
acceptable under proposed funding arrangements. These comprise:

       (0      Simplification of accounting processes - Unnecessarily long fund remittance
               andpaymentprocesses shouldbe reviewed. Programmanagement should conduct
               internal reviews and assessments o f payment processing procedures with a view
               to improving efficiency, effective control and timeliness. Key considerations in
               the process will include (i)adoption of simplified accountability guidelines and
               procedures for implementingentities; (ii) realigning the role o ftechnical oversight
               functions from involvement in routine transaction processing to conducting
               independentreviews; (ii)   developing effective accountability follow-up processes
               by consolidating the responsibility under a Program Coordinating Unit, and (iii)
               development o f benchmark transaction processing timelines to be adopted and
               monitored.

       (ii) OperationofSpecialAccounts-Bureaucraticdelaysintheremittanceofproject
               funds from Special Accounts through CBK, MoF and ultimately to respective
               Project Accounts should be reviewed and unnecessary approval processes
               eliminated.

       (iii) Accountabilityarrangements-ItisproposedthatnonMoFbasedactivitiesare
               budgetedcentrally under MoF. This calls for effective coordination and collation
               o f funds flow and accountability information so that negative effects o f inter-
               ministeriavinter-institutional bureaucracies are minimized.

4.     Quarterlyfinancialmonitoringreporting- FinancialMonitoring Reports (FMR) have
been identified as the preferred basis o f funding disbursement under proposed funding
arrangements. A number o f difficulties are envisaged inrolling out this fundingmechanism:

       (i) Collation of monthly accountabilities - Given the large number of
               implementing and reporting entities, it is critical that the capacity o f respective
               units to prepare comprehensive, yet simplified and standardized monthly
               statements o f expenditure and fund balances i s developed as soon as possible.
               Under this arrangement, it is expected that the ProgramCoordinating Unitcollates
               and submits implementing entities'          financial accountability and project
               implementationprogress information on a timely basis.

                                                 76


        (ii)    FMR preparation capacity - Program management's capacity to prepare and
                submit quarterly FMRs i s assessed as weak. It i s recommended that a sufficiently
                large pool o f competent personnel be developed ahead o f credit effectiveness.


5,      Financial management manual - The project's accounting and internal control
procedures will be documented ina Financial Management Manual. The manual will incorporate
MoF financial management guidelines tailored to project-specific requirements. The manual is
expected to take account o f proposals in this assessment, notably the role o f internal audit,
responsibilities o f the Program Coordinating Unit and risk management oversight responsibilities
o f the Program Steering Committee. The manual should also include guidelines for financial
operations of respective implementing entities. It will be subject to review and approval by the
IDA and other Development Partners participating inthe pooled funding arrangements ahead o f
credit effectiveness.

6.      Institutional and staffing arrangements - The Program Coordinating Unit will be
responsible for the overall financial management o f the project. Project activities will as far as
possible, be based on existing institutional arrangements, including implementing entities'
accounting and reporting systems. Matters requiring attention in order to ensure the
establishment o f reliable accounting and internal control systems include:

        (9      Appointment o f a Financial Management Coordinator - Owing to (i) diversity
                                                                                        the
                o f implementing entities;      (ii)the need for timely follow-up of fund
                accountabilities; and (iii) requirement to collate large volumes o f financial
                                             the
                information for preparation o f quarterly FMRs; it i s recommendedthat the project
                establishes a Financial Management Coordinating (FMC) role at the coordinating
                unit.

        (ii) FMCtermsofreference-Itisproposedthatthemandateandfunctioningofthe
                F M C be clearly set out in mutually agreed terms o f reference. Specific
                responsibilities will include (i)preparation of consolidated Financial Monitoring
                Reports including fund accountability, project progress, procurement progress and
                projected periodic cash flow requirements; (ii)    follow-up o f implementation o f
                audit findings and related risk management recommendations on behalf o f the
                Program Steering Committee; (iii)donor coordination; and (iv) providing
                technical advice to the Program Steering Committee.

        (iii) Financialmanagementstaffing-Thereisneedtoenhancethetechnicalcapacity
                o f the project's proposed financial management staff, particularly the filling o f
                vacant positions and trainingo fkey staff infinancial monitoring reporting.

7.      Annual financial reporting and independent audit arrangements - Under Kenyan
legislation, the responsibility to audit all Government funds and activities is vested inthe Kenya
National Audit Office, which i s mandated to subcontract such services inthe event o f capacity or
other constraints. Due consideration will be taken o f the KNAO capacity and commitment to
ensuring compliance with Government and Development Partners' requirements for timely

                                                77


auditing and reporting. There has been significant improvement in the office's ability to ensure
timely auditing and reporting o f donor-funded projects' financial statements. The CAG i s
agreeable to placing reliance on the work o f internal audit, subject to the effectiveness of
proposedindependent internal oversight arrangements.

8.      Joint Financing Agreement - Development Partners participating inthe pooled funding
arrangement will enter a Joint Financial Agreement (JFA) that spells out, among other matters,
agreed procedures to be adopted under the project including (i)     institutional arrangements, (ii)
procurement, (iii)  financial management and disbursement, (iv) interim and annual reporting, (v)
annual audit and (vi) joint consultation, information, monitoring and evaluation arrangements.
The draft JFA was agreed byDevelopment Partners duringproject appraisal.

9.      Financial management action plan - The outcome o f this review i s included in a
financial management improvement plan comprising actions to be completed prior to credit
effectiveness andongoing actions to be followed up duringproject implementation.


COUNTRY ISSUES

10.     The current Government that came into office in December 2002 has made a
commitment to strengthenthe financial management and control environment inorder to achieve
economy, efficiency and effectiveness inthe use o f public funds. With the support o f a number
o f donor assisted initiatives, including the PSM-TAP, Government is seeking to rapidly enhance
the financial accountability framework, particularly through strengthening legislation related to
public financial management andthe audit o fpublic funds.

11.     The most recent piece o f diagnostic work that provides an up to date critical assessment
o f issues that may impact on this operation at country level i s an ongoing Country Integrated
Fiduciary Assessment (CIFA). A new Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) was effected in May
2004. Both these works have reviewed government's performance since the last Country
Financial Accountability Assessment (in 2001) and CAS (in 1998). A recurring theme is that
policy changes agreed under past and ongoing projects have not been implemented consistently.
Project implementation has generally been slowed down by constraints in the flow o f resources
and limitedabsorptive capacity arisingfrom bureaucratic processes inGovernment.

12.     The 2004 Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) highlights Government's
commitment to improving portfolio performance, particularly in the last three years, and
agreement was reached on several key issues, some o f which have been applied inthe design o f
this operation. These include actions to improve audit compliance, closer monitoring o f project
performance by MoF and improvements inthe flow o f project resources.

13.     More recently, a forensic audit o f selected projects in IDA'S portfolio highlighted
significant fund accountability and risk management weaknesses in Government systems, The
report notes that poor Government management against fraud risk, weak oversight, low capacity
(particularly in accounting staff), project supervision that focuses more on documentation rather
than physical evidence o f implementation, and conhsion over World Bank and Government
requirements allow for a high possibility o f corruption. There is also insufficient managerial

                                                  78


accountability for overall performance, service delivery and corruption, and the Government
could make greater use o f administrative sanctions. Issues raised in this report are core subject
matters underlying the project's objectives.


FINANCIAL    MANAGEMENTSYSTEMS

14.     Internal controls andfinancial management guidelines - The project's internal controls
are based on Government's established accounting and internal control systems and documented
in financial operations manual and guidelines. A project specific manual will be developed and
subject to reviewby the IDAFMSprior to project effectiveness.

15.     Planning and budgeting Budgeting for the program has been undertaken centrally by
                                    -
MoF in consultation and with extensive detailed input by the respective implementingentities.
The budget is based on the Government Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF).
Proposed periodic reporting guidelines require periodic activity, cash flow and procurement
projection, analysis and review on an ongoing basis, included in quarterly FMRs that will form
the basis o frequests for reimbursemento f funds.

16.     Books of accounts and list of accounting codes - The project's accounting records will
be maintained on respective implementingentities' accounting systems. The codes relating to the
project will be integrated in Government's existing Chart o f Accounts that matches the
classification o f financial statements.


AUDIT ARRANGEMENTS

17.     Internal audit    -  There are ongoing initiatives at the Government Internal Auditor
General's department to realign the functioning o f internal audit along best practice guidelines
issued by the international Institute o f Internal Auditors, including implementation of systems
compliance and risk based approach. The effectiveness o f internal audit is expected to be
complemented by the institution o f Ministerial Audit Committees that will support the demand
for internal audit services and follow-up o f internal audit findings. It i s recommended that a risk
management oversight function to be vested in the Program Steering Committee be established
as soon as possible, ahead o f credit effectiveness.

18.     External audit    - Under Kenyan legislation, the responsibility to audit all Government
funds and activities is vested in the Kenya National Audit Office, which is mandated to
subcontract such services in the event o f capacity or other constraints. There have been
significant improvements in the office's ability to ensure timely auditing and reporting. The
office i s considered to be sufficiently independent, applied internationally acceptable auditing
guidelinesand therefore, acceptable to IDA.


REPORTINGAND MONITORING

19.     Financial monitoring reports - The form and content o f periodic financial monitoring
reports were developed and agreed ahead o f project negotiation. Primary contents of quarterly
FMRs should comprise (i)      FinancialReports, including a statement o f sources and uses o f funds

                                                79


by funding source, a statement o f uses of funds byproject activity/component; and fundbalance
statements supported by bank statements (ii)   Physical progress (output monitoring) report and
(iii)procurementplanandprogressreport. FMRswillcover allproject activities, including
     a
Government counterpart funding, resources provided by partners not participating in the SWAp
arrangement and non-cash contributions wherever reasonably quantifiable.

20.     As FMRs will form the basis of periodic funding disbursements by Development
Partners, they will include a detailed report o f projected cash requirements for each ensuing 6
months period supported by (i)procurement progress report and related cash flow projection
                                a
and (ii)a fund balance statement supported by bank balance certificates and reconciliation
statements.

21.     Annual financial statements - The program's financial statements shall be prepared in
accordance with International Public Sector Accounting Standards (which inter alia includes the
application o f the cash basis of recognition o f transactions). Indicative formats o f financial
statements will be agreed duringnegotiations.

22.     IDA funding agreements require the submission of audited financial statements, taking
into consideration the 2003 Audit Policy Guidelines o f the World Bank, within six months after
the year-end. Similar agreement with Development Partners will be included inthe JFA.

IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT PLAN

23.     Joint implementation support missions by Development Partners will be conducted at
least every six months.     The mission's objectives will include that o f ensuring that strong
financial management systems are maintained for the project throughout its life. In addition,
Statement o f Expenditure reviews will be carried out regularly to ensure that expenditures
incurredby the project remain eligible.

B.       OVERALL RISKASSESSMENT

SUMMARY OF PROJECT-SPECIFICRISKS AND PROPOSEDMITIGATING ARRANGEMENTS

24.     The summary o fproject-specific risks andproposedmitigating arrangements is as

               Risk             Rating                    Mitigating arrangements
     Misuse o f and failure to      S         Institution o f independent and effective internal
     account for project                      audit and riskmanagement function.
     funds                                    Consolidation o f fund accountability follow-up
                                              responsibility under FMC.

     Ineffective audit              S         Institution o f a risk based approach by internal audit
     functions                                and employ international bestpractices.
                                              Institution o f a RiskManagement function to be
                                              vested inthe Program Steering Committee.
                                            0 C A G assessment and reliance on internal audit
                                              function.

                                             80



                                S
       ~Delayed funds flow             0   Streamlining of quarterly FMR reporting
                                           arrangements.
                                       0   Removal of unnecessary bureaucratic approvals in
                                           Special Account fundremittances.

        Ineffective program     S      0   Institution o f a Risk Management function to b e
        oversight andrisk                  vested inthe Program Steering Committee.
        management functions           0   Institution of a risk based approach by internal audit
                                           andemploy internationalbest practices.
                                       0   CAG assessment andrelianceon internal audit
                                           function.


OVERALLRISKASSESSMENT:

                                     :nt and summary ofmitigatingmeasures is as follows:
            Typeof Risk       Risk                      Risk Mitigating Measures
                             Rating
InherentRisk
1. Corruption                  S      Government and sector-specific anti-corruptionactionplan
                                      to be considered and monitored.
2. Poor governance             S      Government and sector-specific anti corruption action plan
                                      to be considered and monitored.
3 ,Weak Judiciary              S      Government has prepared a governance actionplan that has
                                      been considered andis beingmonitored.
4. Weak Management            M       Appropriately qualified and competent management staff to
       capacity                       be employed at the ProgramCoordinating Unit.

                                      Proposeddeployment and training o f competent financial
                                      management staff at remective imdementine entities.
Overall Inherent Risk          S

ControlRisk                 I
1. ImplementingEntities
                   -          M     IIThere   are ongoing- initiatives to improve the technical
                                                    -
                                      capacity o f various implementing entities
2. FundsFlow                   S      The 2004 CPPR action plan i s monitored on a quarterly
                                      basis
3. Staffing                   M       There are ongoing initiatives to improve the technical
                                      capacity o f various implementing entities
4. Accounting Policies and    M       The project's FMmanual will be modified to take account
   Procedures                         o f lessons learnt under PSM-TAP
5. Internal Audit              S      Significant strengthening o f the function i s included inprior
                                      actions
6. ExternalAudit              M       The capacity of the National Audit Office has improved
                                      simificantlv and i s being: monitored
                                    ,  Y                         Y

7. Reporting and            I M    IA report     based disbursement mechanismi s proposedunder

                                                 81


     Monitoring                           this operation
  8. Information Systems           M      Existingsystems are assessedas sufficiently capable of
                                          accounting for project activities
  Overall Control Risk             M



26.      The project financial management risk i s assessed as beingmoderate provided that the
financial management arrangements are properly implemented and the financial management
action plan satisfactorily addressed.

                                                82



C.    FINANCIALMANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN

1.    Actions required prior to negotiations:
      Action
      0    No actions required

2.    Actions required prior to credit effectiveness:
      Action
       0  FinancialManagement Manual prepared, reviewed and agreed
      0   Recruitment o fFMConsultant completed for the Program Coordinating Unit
       0  Quarterly financial monitoring reporting arrangements inplace

3.    Actions required following credit effectiveness:
      Action
      0  Project independentaudit arrangements completed
      0  FMcapacity ofimplementing entities improved


D.     DISBURSEMENTARRANGEMENTS

27.    The project proposes a diversity o f funds flow arrangement comprisingpooled and non-
pooled funding arrangements for IDA funded activities and parallel financing by some
Development Partners for selected program activities. Expendituresrelated to components A
and C will be financed from the pooled account and those relating to B and C (Public Financial
Management Related Expenditures) will be financed from one Special Account afier which
funds will betransferred to the pooledaccount, andthose relating to B and C (Public Financial
ManagementRelatedExpenses pendingthe operationalization ofthe PooledAccount and Public
Service Reform Secretariat Related Expenditures)will be financed from another Special
Account, These are summarized as follows:

     DevelopmentPartner           Component               ProposedFunding Arrangements
                                                                                                ~




 1.  IDA and Development Public Financial Pooled funding with funds remitted through
     Partners                   Management           the pooled account and commingled in the
                                                     Exchequer and Project Accounts.

 2. IDA                         Capacity             Non-pooled funding with funds remitted
                                Building Facility through a Special Account through the
                                and         Project Exchequer Account to a Project Account.
                                Coordination
                                Unit
 3. Non-pooling                 Public Financial Parallel financing o f selected activities
     Development Partners       Management           thoughrespective Special Accounts and non-
                                                     commingled Project Accounts.

                        83


Government


              Building
                          arrangements.

                                                 84



POOLEDFUNDS

28.     Requests for disbursement by Development Partners for activities to be financed from
pooled funds will be made on the basis o f approved work planscash flow projections for eligible
expenditures (report-based disbursements). Development Partners will disburse Initial Deposits
inagreedproportions from the proceeds ofrespective Credits into respective Special Accounts to
expedite project implementation. The total Initial Deposit shall be determined on the basis o f
projectedcash flow requirements for the initial 6 months o fprogram operation. Advances will be
transferred to a commingled Project Account through the Government Exchequer Account in
line with normal practice. Funds in the Project Account, to be managed by the Program
Coordinating Unit will be usedby the borrower to find eligible program expenditures, based on
approved work plans. Such funds may be expended directly or transferred to respective
implementing entities' OperatingAccounts.

29.     Subsequent replenishment of respective Special Accounts to be made in agreed
proportions shall be on the basis o f projected cash requirements for the ensuing 6 months period
supported by work plans and cash flow forecasts and taking account o f reported fund balances as
presented inFMRs.
SPECIAL ACCOUNT FORNON-POOLED EXPENDITURES

30.     Disbursements would be made in accordance with traditional disbursement procedures
and not report-based disbursements. Should the Country request the use o f report-based
disbursements inthe future, the Association would consider their request.
31.      Replenishment o f funds to the Special Account will be made upon evidence o f
satisfactory utilization o f the advance, reflected in SOEs and/or on full documentation for
payments above SOE thresholds. Replenishment applications would be required to be submitted
regularly.

Directpayment

32.     The direct payment method, involving direct payments to suppliers for works, goods and
services may be made upon the borrower's request. Payments may also be made to a commercial
bank for expenditures against pre-agreed special commitments. Respective Development
Partners' Disbursement Letters will stipulate the minimum application value for direct payment
and special commitment procedures. This method of accessing funds will, however, be limitedto
large expenditures whose thresholds will be provided in respective funding agreements.
Expendituresunder this arrangement will be included inquarterly FMRs.
REMEDIES

33.     If ineligible expenditures are found to have been made from Special Accounts, the
borrower will be obligated to refund the same. Such refund would be in direct proportion to
respective partners' contributions in the case of pooled financing, as provided in the JFA. If
Special Accounts remain inactive for more than six months, Development Partners may reduce
the amount advanced.

                                                85


34.    Development Partners will have the right, as to b e reflected in respective funding
agreements, to suspend disbursement o f the funds if significant terms o f funding agreements,
including reporting requirements, are not complied with.


                                DISBURSEMENTSCHEDULE


                                       Amount o fthe
                                      Credit Allocated                      % of
         Category                      (Expressed in                           Expenditures
                                      SDREquivalent      to be Financed
                                                         90% of Eligible Expenditures and
         Subprograms                                     thereafter such % o f Eligible Expenditures
                                                         as the Association shall determine from
                                         11,030,000      time to time
        Capacity Building
        Subprojects under Part B          3,700,000      90% o f amounts disbursed
        of the Project

        Goods under                        450,000       100%of foreign expenditures and
        Part B.2 o f the Project                          94% of local expenditures

        Consultants     Services &
        Training under Part B.2 of                        100%of foreign expenditures and
        the Project                     1,200,000         94% o f local expenditures

        Operating Costs                     20,000       90% for FY2006l2007
        Unallocated                        900,000

         Total                           17,300,000

                                                86



                             Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements
     KENYA: InstitutionalReformand CapacityBuildingTechnicalAssistance Project

A.      General

Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out inaccordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement under IE3RD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004; and
"Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers'' dated May
2004, and the provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement. The various items under different
expenditure categories are described in general below. For each contract to be financed by the
Credit, the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for pre-
qualification, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank inthe Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated at least
annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements in
institutional capacity. Procurement activities will be carried out as follows:


    0   Procurement procedures for goods and services under the PFM component.
        Procurement o f goods and services will be carried out in accordance with the procedures
        agreed among the Development Partners participating in the pooled funding and as set
        out in the Program Procurement Manual. I C B contracts will be awarded in accordance
        with IDA Procurement Guidelines. Consultancy services that may require inputs from
        consultants with international experience will be procured in accordance with IDA
        Consultants Selection Guidelines. Procurement o f goods and services whose contract
        values are below the ICB threshold will follow the government's procurement
        procedures.    Whenever there i s conflict between the procedures in the Program
        Procurement Manual and the government procurement rules, the procedures in the
        ProgramProcurement Manual shall prevail.

    0   Procurement procedures for goods and services under the CBLE component.
        Procurement of ICB contracts for goods and services will follow IDA Procurement
        Guidelines. Consultancy services where the shortlist i s to be selected through a Request
        for Expressions o f Interest (REI) advertised internationally will be procured in
        accordance with IDA Consultants Selection Guidelines. Other goods and services and
        consultancy services will be procured in accordance with the government's procurement
        procedures agreed between government and IDA and prescribed in the Program
        Procurement Manual.

Procurement of Works: Works procured under this project would include rehabilitation of
offices. The procurement will be done using Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) for all ICB
and National SBD as outlined inthe Program Procurement Manual and which are consistent with
IDAguidelines.

Procurementof Goods: Goods procured under this project would include information systems
and related goods, vehicles and various office equipment. The procurement will be done using

                                                  87


the Bank's SBD for all ICB and National SBD as outlined inthe Program Procurement Manual
andwhich are consistent with IDA guidelines.


Procurementof consultingservices:

Selection of Consultants: Short lists of consultants for services estimated to cost less than
US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract may be composed entirely o f national consultants in
accordance with the provisions o fparagraph 2.7 o fthe Consultant Guidelines.

ParticularMethodsof Procurementof Consultants'Services

1.       Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in Part B o f this
Section, consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis o f Quality-
and Cost-based Selection. For purposes o f paragraph 2.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines, the short
list o f consultants for services estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per contract
may comprise entirely national consultants.

2.       Other Procedures:

                Selection under a Fixed Budget. Services for assignments which the Association
                agrees meet the requirements o f paragraph 3.5 o f the Consultant Guidelines may
                be procuredunder contracts awarded on the basis o f a FixedBudget inaccordance
                with the provisions o fparagraphs 3.1 and 3.5 o fthe Consultant Guidelines.

                Least-cost Selection. Services for assignments which the Association agrees meet
                the requirements o f paragraph 3.6 o f the Consultant Guidelines may be procured
                under contracts awarded on the basis o f Least-cost Selection in accordance with
                the provisions o fparagraphs 3.1 and3.6 o fthe Consultant Guidelines.

                Selection Based on Consultants ' Qualijkations. Services estimated to cost less
                than US$lOO,OOO      equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts
                awarded in accordance with the provisions o f paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 o f the
                Consultant Guidelines.

                Single Source Selection. Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the
                requirements o f paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source
                Selection, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance
                with the provisions o fparagraphs 3.9 through 3.13 o fthe Consultant Guidelines.

                Individual Consultants. Services for assignments that meet the requirements set
                forth in the first sentence o f paragraph 5.1 o f the Consultant Guidelines may be
                procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the
                provisions o f paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 o f the Consultant Guidelines. Under the

                                                88


              circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 o f the Consultant Guidelines, such
              contracts maybe awarded to individual consultants on a sole-source basis.

OperatingCosts: Operating costs to be financed by the Program would be procured using the
implementingagencies administrative procedures which are found to be acceptable.

The procurement procedures and Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs) to be used for each
procurement method, as well as model contracts for works and goods procured, are presented in
the Program Procurement Manual.

B.     Assessment of the agency's capacityto implementprocurement

With the exception of the Public Service Reform Secretariat, none o fthe other procurement units
of the other implementing agencies have staff with adequate experience in IDA procurement
procedures since the latter have not implemented IDA-supported operations before.              The
procurement capacity assessment has identifiedthe following procurement risks:

    0  Because o f the multitude o f implementing agencies with weak capacity in executing
       international procurement procedures, delay in procurement implementation may slow
       down project implementation.


    0  Due to weak capacity, the ability o f these units to adhere to the timeline prescribed inthe
       procurement plans may bejeopardized.

The recommended mitigation actions are the following:

    0  Recruitment of a short-term procurement consultant who would provide procurement
       advice and on the job training to procurement staff o f the relevant implementing
       agencies. Inaddition, the consultant will help the implementing agencies to carry out the
       full range of procurement activities, from the stage of procurement planning, tender
       document preparation (with basic technical input provided by the Client), inviting
       tenders, evaluating tenders, preparing contract agreements and amendments to be signed
       by the Client, inspection o f goods and ensuring that payment is received by the
       suppliers/contractors/consultants and assistanceindispute resolution with suppliers.


    0  Buildingthe capacity o fthe implementing unitsthrough formal training.

The overall project risk for procurement is high.

C.     ProcurementPlan

The Borrower, at appraisal, developed a procurement plan for project implementation which
provides the basis for the procurement methods. This plan has been agreed between the
Borrower, the Project Team and the relevant Development Partners on October 13, 2005 and i s
available at Ministry o f Finance, Nairobi, Kenya. It will also be available in the project's
database and inthe Bank's external website. The Procurement Plan will be updated inagreement

                                                    89


with the Project Team annually or as requiredto reflect the actual project implementation needs
and improvements ininstitutional capacity.


D.      Frequencyof ProcurementSupervision

In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, the capacity
assessment o f the ImplementingAgency has recommended semi-annual supervision missions to
visit the field to carry out post review o fprocurement actions.

E.      Detailsof the ProcurementArrangementsInvolvingInternationalCompetitionfor
the first 18 monthsof the program

1.      Goods, Works, andNonConsultingServices

        (i)      List o f contract packages to be procured following ICB:

                                                                       Domestic   Proc    Expected
                             Description                       cost     Pref.     Method    Bid
                                                                                          Opening




 DebtManagement

        03. Migration from CS-DRMS 7.2 to 2000+               I0.92   I  N       1 ICB   I 13-Aug-06
 Payroll& Pensions

        04. Procure 8 vehicles for use by field teams          0.22      N         ICB     13-Oct-06
        05, Computers & related equipment for ministries,      0.47                ICB     13-Oct-06

                                                   90


                                                                      Domestic      Proc   Expected
                             Description                       cost     Pref.      Method     Bid
                                                                                           Opening
      prov/districts                                                      N


      03. Establish offices for PPOA                           0.39
      05. Institutionalcapacity dev o fPPOA - Equipment      II           N          ICB    13-Sep-06
                                                               0.79       N          ICB    13-Oct-06
InternalAudit

      01.Conduct specialized capacity enhancements to
      staff infield o f CATTs, value for money &forensic
      audits, etc
      01. Development o f library & IT infrastructure
      including acquisition of server & IT networking                                       13-NOV-06
      04. Acquisition o f enabling RBAAsoftware &
      training on use                                          0.13
ExternalAudit

      01.Procure equipment & vehicles                          0.66       N          ICB    13-Oct-06
ProjectCoordination& Management

      02. Provision o f office space, equipment & furniture    0.22  I    N          ICB    13-Oct-06
      06. Establishment o f IT systems for PFM-CU              0.13  I               I C B  13-NOV-06

       (ii)     ICB contracts estimated to cost above US$lOO,OOO per contract and all direct
contracting will be subject to prior review by the Bank.

2.     ConsultingServices

       (i)      List of consulting assignments with short-list of international firms.

                                            91




ministries/deptsreview                         0.20   QCBS   Yes   2-Oct-06
17.Employee/infonnationdata                    0.09   QCBS   Yes   2-NOV-06
18.IPPD documentation                          0.13   QCBS   Yes   2-Dec-06

01. Systems development                        0.66   QCBS   Yes   7-Mar-07
02. Systems support                            0.22   QCBS   Yes   6-Apr-07

01,Develop programs for clearance of LA
backlog audit                                  0.66   QCBS   Yes  13-Mar-06


legislation                                    0.11   QCBS   Yes  13-Mar-06
06. Establish monitoring system for aid


01. Undertake study on requirements for
transfer from manual & fragmented systems to
ICT based systems                              0.33   QCBS   Yes   5-Oct-06
02. PrepareICT strategy for PFM & present to
Cabinet for approval                           0.20   QCBS   Yes   5-Dec-06

                                                           92


                                                              Est. Cost                                      Expected
                                                                 US$            Selection         Prior      Proposal
                            Description                        million           Method         Review       Submission
      01,Recruit, train & review scheme o f service              0.33             QCBS             Yes        2-Dec-06


      01,Develop a system program for expansion &
      strengthening o f existinginfrastructure                   1.97              QCBS            Yes        2-Jan-07
 To enhancethe researchcapacity
   II 01,Undertake needs assessment for research            I
      staff                                                      0.11              QCBS            Yes    I   2-Aug-06

      01. Review systems for implementing,
      monitoring & reporting o frecommendations                  0.13              QCBS            Yes        2-Oct-06


(b) Consultancy services estimated to cost above US$lOO,OOO                         equivalent per contract and all
single source selectionof consultants (firms) will be subject to prior review by the IDA.

(c) Short lists composed entirely of national consultants: Short lists of consultants for services
estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO                 equivalent per contract may be composed entirely o f
national consultants in accordance with the provisions o f paragraph 2.7 o f the Consultant
Guidelines.

The thresholds for Procurement methods andprior review are shown below:
                                                                                             f
                       Table 8.1 Thresholdsfor ProcurementMethodsandPria
                                     -                                                       - Review
                                                                                               ~~.~.
                                                                                               ContractsSubject

                                                                                                 PriorReview'
                                                                                              All contracts       I
                                                            N C B                             Firstcontract for
                                                                                              each Executing
                                                                                              Agency
                                   <100,000                 UN                                None
                                   <50,000                   Shopping                         None
                                                            Direct Contracting                All Contracts
                                   >= 100,000 firms         QCBS                              All contracts
       Services                    Below 100,000, firms     QCBS/LCS/SFB/SBCQ                 None
                                   >=50,000 individuals     Individual                        All contracts
                                   <5 0,000, individuals    Individual                        None
                                   All values               Single-Source Selection           All contracts

     ICB: International Competitive Bidding                 QCBS: QualificationsiCostBased Selection
     NCB: National Competitive Bidding                      LCs: Least Cost Selection
     LIB: Limited International Bidding                     UN: Procurementby aUNAgency
     SBCQ: Selectionbasedon Consultants' Qualifications     SFB: Selection under Fixed Budget

                                  93


                 Annex 9: EconomicandFinancialAnalysis
KENYA: InstitutionalReformandCapacityBuildingTechnicalAssistance Project

                           NOT APPLICABLE

                                           94


                           Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues
     KENYA: InstitutionalReformandCapacityBuildingTechnicalAssistance Project

This is a category "C" project and there are, therefore, no safeguard policies that will be
triggeredby this project.

                                                  95


                         Annex 11: ProjectPreparationandSupervision
     KENYA: InstitutionalReformandCapacityBuildingTechnicalAssistance Project

                                                    Planned                         Actual        ~




PCNreview                                        November 2004               November 30,2004
Initial PID to PIC                               November 2004               November 2004
InitialISDS to PIC                               November 2004               November 2004
Appraisal                                        October 2005                October 2005
Negotiations                                     November 2005               November 8-10,2005
BoardRVP approval                                January 2005
Planned date o f effectiveness                   March 2006
Planned date o fmid-term review                  June 2008
Planned closing date                             November 2010

Keyinstitutions responsible for preparation ofthe project:
    0   MinistryofFinance
    0   MinistryPlanningandNationalDevelopment
    0   NationalAudit Office
    0   KenyaRevenueAuthority
    0   Public Sector ReformSecretariat (inthe Office of the Cabinet)

Bankstaffandconsultantswho worked onthe project included:

Name                                Title                     Specialization              Unit
Sahr Kpundeh              Senior Public Sector      Public Administration and Political AFTPR
                          Specialist                Governance
Hany Garnett              Consultant                Public Administration               AFTPR
Smile Kwawukume           Public Sector Specialist  Public Administration               AFTPR
Reynaldo P. Castro        Consultant                Project Management/Operations       AFTPR
Frederick Stapenhurst     Senior Public Sector      Parliament                          WBIPR
                          Specialist
Stephen Ndegwa            Senior Public Sector      Political Governance                PRMPS
                          Specialist
DaryoushKianpour          Senior Information        Information Technology              AFTQKL
                          Officer
Lucas Ojiambo             Senior Economist          Economics                           AFTP2
Manuel D e la Rocha       Consultant                Tax Administration                  AFTP2
Gert Van der Linde        LeadFinancial             Financial Management                AFTFM
                          Management Specialist
Nightingale Rukuba-       Senior Legal Counsel      Legal Issues                        LEGAF
Ngiaza
Dahir Warsame             Senior Procurement        Procurement                         AFTPC
                          Specialist
Moses Wasike              Senior Financial          Financial Management                AFTFM
                          Management Specialist
Hyacinth Brown            Senior Finance Officer    DisbursementIssues                  LOAG2       I
NeliaDinkin               ProgramAssistant          Project processing                  AFTPR

                                            96



Bank funds expendedto date onproject preparation:

      (i) Bankresources:US$160,000
      (ii)   Trust funds: Not applicable
      (iii) Total:US$160,000

Estimated annual supervision cost: US$120,000

                                     97


                  Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile

KENYA: InstitutionalReformandCapacityBuildingTechnicalAssistanceProject

       CountryAssistance Strategy (2004 -2007)
       InvestmentProgramFor ERSFor Wealth andEmployment Creation(2003-2007
       PEMAAP
       EFMAP
       StrengtheningGovernment Finance & Accounting Functions- GOK, Ministryof
       Finance
       18-Month Work Plan and Procurement Plan, GOK, Ministryo f Finance
      Program Procurement Manual, GOK, Ministry o f Finance
      Procurement Assessment, IDA
      Financial Management Assessment, IDA
      Draft Memorandum o f Understanding
      Draft Joint Financing Agreement
       Capacity BuildingFacility - Operations Manual, PSRDS, October 2005
       Transformative Leadership & Ethics for Results-Based Management (RBM)-
       Program Work, October 2005
       Transformative Leadership & Ethics for Results-Based Management (RBM)- 18-
       MonthProcurement Plansfor Goods andConsultants, October 2005

                                                                                      98


                                                     Annex 13: Statementof LoansandCredits
            KENYA: InstitutionalReformandCapacityBuildingTechnicalAssistance Project

                                                                                                                                         Difference between
                                                                                                                                         expectedand actual
                                                                               Original Amount in US$Millions                               disbursements

Project      F Y    Purpose                                                 IBRD        IDA       SF       GEF    Cancel.    Undisb.     Orig.     Frm. Rev'd

r
ID
          I          KE-Financial & Legal Sec TA
PO83250    2005     (FY05)                                                   0.00       18.00     0.00     0.00    0.00       16.68      -0.11        -0.63
PO83131    2005     KE-Energy Sec Recovery Prj (FY05)                        0.00       80.00     0.00     0.00    0.00       75.30      10.15        0.00
                    u - wnrvr w
                    7,-       c   .I,T 7 F T...
                                       1\cmiccuaya ~vigmWL
                                                  F___.   -  lr-..L "7,
                                                                      i    I        I          I        I        I       I            1          I           I
PO72981    7nn5     (FVn5)
                    ,-                                                       0.00       0.00      0.00     4.10    0.00       3.70       -0.20        0.00
                                           ... .                           I        I          I        I       I         I                      I
                                                                                                                                         4.32    1     0.00
                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                                                      I
                          --I                                                                                    I        I           I
PO85007    2005  I,IKE-MSMECompetitiv (FY05)                                 0.00       22.00     0.00     0.00    0.00       19.18
                  I m-Apcuirurai rroaucriwty rrj
                                 2  1                    . . - .           I
                                                                           I        I
                                                                                    I           I
                                                                                                I       I
                                                                                                        I        I        I
                                                                                                                   0.00   I   33.10   I  10.55   I     0.00  I
                                                                                                                 I
                                                                                                                 I
PO82396    3finA  I                                                          0.00       40.00     0.00     0.00
                 I  fDVnA\
                           .,.:--!-:                                      II        1I         I        I       I         I           1          I
           LVVT  I                                                         I        I           I       I                 I           I          I
PO78209    2004     KE-Dev Learning Centre LIL (FY04)                        0.00       2.70      0.00     0.00    0.00       2.17       0.71          0.00
                 I  77-
                    u-iwiruui vv ti OL ~ w III~L
                                       77,-    0. P     ,___A
                                                          g WLn . r P T T
                                                                   DIL     I        I           I       I        I        I           I          I
                                                                             0.00       15.00   1 0.00  I  0.00  I 0.00   1   12.34   1  5.69    1     0.00   I
                                                                           I        I           I       I        I        I           I           I           I
PO82615          I  m-Nortnem Lomaor imspn~ I L
                          ."-,                                               0.00      207.00     0.00     0.00    0.00       190.05     33.28         0.00
           LVVT
           3nnA     fPVnA\                                                                                                            I
PO78058    2003     KE-Arid Lands 2 SIL (FY03)                               0.00       60.00     0.00     0.00    0.00       40.07    1  1.22         0.00
PO82378    2003  I  KE-Free Primary Edu Supt (FY03)                          0.00       50.00     0.00     0.00    0.00       5.35    I  2.59          0.00
                    T I T - r\^^^_c De.---,4
                    --ucGc'III         r\cp,vu     Ul+L P.
                                                   11,111 Lz              I         I           I       I        I        I            I
                                                                                                                                       I          1            1
 PO66486   2001     HTV/AIDSfFYO1)                                           0.00       50.00     0.00     0.00    0.00       29.50      24.80        26.10
                    ... . . ~ ~                                           I         I           I       I        I         1           1          I
                                      ~


 PO70718   2001     Regional Trade Fac. Proj. -Kenya                         0.00       25.00     0.00     0.00    0.00       14.33      12.39         0.00
                                  7.1..
                                  MKB      vicruna cnv XL
                                                       F..- "ll           I
                                                                          I         I
                                                                                    I           I
                                                                                                I       I
                                                                                                        I        I
                                                                                                                 I         I
                                                                                                                           I           I
                                                                                                                                       I          1
                                                                                                                                                  I            I
 PnAcIP71  1007     IFV07)                                                   0.00       0.00      0.00     11.48   0.00        1.68       1.71         1.71




                                                                                   KENYA
                                                                          STATEMENTOFIFC's
                                                                         HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                                          InMillionsof US Dollars


                                                                                  Committed                                   Disbursed

                                                                                IFC                                         IFC

   99




rI I  Approvals Pending Commitment   I

                                                                          100


                                                   Annex 14: Countryat a Glance
       KENYA:InstitutionalReformand CapacityBuildingTechnicalAssistance Project
                                                                      Sub-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                   Saharan        Low-
                                                           Kenya      Africa     Income
2004
Population,mid-year (millions)                                32.4      719        2,338
GNI percapita (Atlas method, US$)                              460      600         510                     Lifeexpectancy

GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                               14.9     432        1,184                          7


Average annual growth, 1998-04
Population(%)                                                  2.0       2.2         1.8
Laborforce (%)                                                 2.5       1.o         2.1       GNI                                  Gross
                                                                                               per                                 primaq
Most recent estimate (latest Year available, 1998-04)                                          capita                           enrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulationbelow nationalpovefty line)
Urbanpopulation(% of total POPulafion)                          40        37          31
Life expectancyat birth (years)                                 45        46          58
infantmortality(per 1.000 live births)                          79       101          79
Child malnutrition(% of children under5)                        20                    44            Access to improvedwater source
                                                                                               -
Access to an improvedwater source(% ofpopulation)               62        58          75
Literacy(% of populationage 75+)                                74        65          61
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)           92        95          94              Kenya         Low-incomegroup
   Male                                                         95       102         101
   Female                                                       90        88          88

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                  1984        1994    2003         2004        iconomlc ratios.
GDP (US$ billions)                                  6.2         7.1     14.4        15.6
Gross capitalformatlon/GDP                         17.3        16.4     12.9        12.5
Exports of goods and serviceSIGDP                  26.2       37.0      25.9        25.1                        Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                         15.9        19.6      7.7         4.2
Gross national savlngs/GDP                         13.5        16.2     10.8         5.1

Current account balance/GDP                        -7.6        -0.2     -2.1         -7.4
Interest paymentsiGDP                               2.5         4.1      0.7          0.4      Domestic                         Capital

Total debffGDP                                     55.7        99.7     47.9        44.9       savings                          formation

Total debt service/exports                         34.3       33.0      14.9         9.0
Present value of debt/GDP                                               37.1
Presentvalue of debffexports                                          141.9
                                                                                                              Indebtedness
                                      1984-94 1994-04        2003     2004       2004-08
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                       3.6       1.6         1.8      2.1          3.2       -
GDP per capita                            0.5      -0.6         0.0      0.4          1.7              Kenya         Low-incomegroup

Exports of goods and sewices              7.9       1.9         8.0      6.1          8.9


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY

I%of GDP)                                         1984        '994     2003        2004

Agriculture                                        33.9        33.3     15.8        15.7
Industry                                           18.9        17.2     19.6        19.7
  Manufacturing                                    11.9        10.7     13.6        13.7
Serfices                                           47.2       49.4      64.7        64.5

Householdfinal consumption expenditure             66.7        65.2     74.4        78.5
General gov't final consumption expenditure        17.4        15.2     17.9        17.3
Importsof goods and services                       27.6        33.9     31.0        33.4


                                                                                   2004      1 Growth ofexports and Imports (%)
(average annualgrowth)                         1984-94 1994-04        2003                                                                i
Agriculture                                         2.0         1.3      1.5          2.4      20

Industry                                            3.7         1.3      1.6          3.3      10
  Manufacturing                                     4.4         1.3      1.4          3.5
Serfices                                            4.5        2.2       1.9          2.4      0

Householdfinal consumptionexpenditure               3.8        0.9       2.3
General gov't final consumption expenditure         5.6        4.2       2.0
Gross capital formation                             0.5        0.9       3.0          8.4             -Exports          *Imports
Imports of goods and serfices                       7.6        2.1       7.9        17.6


Note: 2004 data are preliminaryestimates.
Thistablewas producedfromthe DevelopmentEconomicsLDB database.
* The diamonds show four key indicatorsinthe country(in bold) comparedwith its incomegroup average. If data are missing,the diamond will
   be incomulete.

                                                         101


                                 Annex 15: Letter of DevelopmentPolicy

KENYA: InstitutionalReformandCapacityBuildingTechnicalAssistance Project

FROM : M,INISTRY0 F FINRNCE                FRX NO. : 219365                    Jan. 02 2005 09:SPM     P2




                                         REPUBlIC OF KENYA
                                      MINISTRY OF FINANCE

            Telegraphic Addross:22921                                              THETREASURY
            FINANCE-NAIROBI
            Fax No. 330426                                                         P.O. Bax30007

            Whenreplyingpleasequote                                                NAIROBI.


            Ref:    22.71/01 1/`M1l(50I                              Date: 24`h October2005


            Dr. PaulWolfowitz
            President
            The World Bank Group
            1818 H Street, NOW.
            -
            Washington DC 20433
            USA



            KENYA- INSTITUTIONALREFORMAND CAPACITYBUILDING (IRCB) LETTER OF
            DEVELgPMENTPOLICY


            2003, itAs
            1.         you may be aware, when the NARC Governmentcameto power on the eve of
                    inherited a countrywith a legacy of steady economic decline, rising incidenceof
            poverty and serious economic and politlcal governance problems. There was little, if
            any, concern for efficiency, value for money, transparency and accountabillty in the
            management of the country`s public resources. Corruption was institutlonalized and
            observanceof the rule of law was done on a selectivebasis, which largely contributedto
            the deterioration in the environmentfor private sector development. The public sector
            reform initiatives launched and implemented in the previous two decades were too
            modest and lacked the commitmentnecessary to halt the deterioratinggovernance, and
            economicand povertytrends.

            2.     The new Government launched in 2003 its blue print development strategy the
            "Economic Recovery Strategy for Wealth and Employment Creation (ERS)", The
            preparation of the ERS was a national and non-partisan initiative that ensured wide
            participation by key stakeholders including: Parliament, civll society organizations, other
            NGOs, and development partners. This participatory process reflected the commltment
            of the Government to collaborate with a wide cross-section of Kenyans on ways to
            reverse the economic decline experienced during the last 15 years of the previous
           regime. Therefore, the Strategyreflectsourshared nationalcommitmentto (i)putKenya
           on a rising and high economic growth path; and (11)       reverse the rising trend in the
           incidenceof poverty.

                                                   102


FROM : MINISTRYB F FIWNCE                   FAX NO. : 219365                   Jan. 02 2005 09:54PM P3

                                                                                                       1 '




            3.      In early 2004, again in a widoly participatory process, thc Govornmont identified
            the ERS medium term strategic interventlons and priorities, which are reflected in the
            Investment Programme of the ERS (IP-ERS). The ERS spells out a comprehensiveand
            results-driven programme of government priorities designed to achieve reduction in
            poverty, the principal goal of our social-economic policy. The economic programme as
            articulatodin the ERS is anchoredon three key pillars, notably: (i)providing a conducive
            envlronment for economic growth underpinned by a stable macroeconomicframework;
            (ii)enhancingequity and reducingpoverty; and(iii) improvinggovernance.

            4.      The ERS accords top priority to combating corruption. The programme also
            specifies a range of interventions to enhance public sector capacity and performancefor
            efficiency, effectiveness, accountability,transparency and Integrity in the managementof
            public resources, and delivery of services, In the pursuit of improved governance, the
            ERS places emphasis on improving access and qualityof basicservices to the poor, and
            creating a more enabling environment for business and private sector activities, These
            strategies complement the overarching national goal, namely: to achieve rapid pro-poor
            economicgrowth.

            Laying foundation for goodgovernance

            5.      In order to lay the foundation for good governance and to send a clear signal on
            our commitmentto fight corruption and restore the rule of law, the new Government
            immediately commenced implementationof bold reforms In the judiciary and the police
            force. Most of the corrupt elements in these two institutions have since either been
            sacked or retired. Another important initiativeof the Governmentthat will ultimately have
            a major impact on improving the integrity and accountability of public officers in the
            future is thejudicial enquiry intothe infamous 'Goldenberg Affair.' While the Government
            is awaiting the recommendations of the enquiry for further action, the enquiry has
            publicly exposed corruption and weakness In public accountability that underlay the
            massive looting of public resourcesand the attendant economiccrisls of theearly 1990s.

            6,      The Government has also taken a number of Institutionalmeasures intended to
            help to root out corruption on a sustainable basis, These measures include:- (a)
            enactment of the Economic Crimes Act (2003), which provides for the establishment of
            the Kenya Anti-Comption Commission; (b) creating a new Ministry of Justice and
            Constitutional Affairs with clear mandate to formulate and Implement policies to foster
            constitutional governance; and (c) enactment of the Public Officer Code of Ethics Act
            (2003), which requires all public officials (including the President) and employees, as
            well as their families to declare their assets. Steps are being taken to make these
            declaratlons publlc, Other planned measures, which will complement and sustain the
            gains made in the areas of justice, rule of law, and publlc safety and security are now
            reflected in a comprehensive programme of Governance, Justice, Law and Order Sector
            (GJLOS) reform, which is supported by seventeen developmentpartners.

                                                    103


FROM : !INISTRY0    F FINQNCE               FAX NO. : 219365                  Jan. 02 2005 09:55PM ?4




            7.      Further, the Government has made noteworthy progress in strengthening the
            institutionalframework for tho management of public funds, including the enactment of a
            new legislatlori for public financQ management and public procurement. Toward the
            same end, the budgetingprocess has been improved to facilitate,through the a medium
            term expenditure framework (MTEF), a better alignment of the allocation of resources In
            line with the Government's key priorities as spelt out in the ERS. To improve use of
           public resources, the Government has embarked on the development of an integrated
           sector-wide monitoring and evaluation system.           Public sector management and
           accountability have improved as reflected in the clearing of the backlog of audits of
           government accounts, and the installation of the Integrated Financial Management
           InformationSystem (IFMIS) in eleven ministries, with plans to rollit out to the remaining
           line ministries during fiscalyear 2005/06.

           8.       Over the past two years, significant progress has been achieved in strengthening
           reforms in publlc service performance,efficiencyand accountability, under the on-golng
           public service reform programme. These reforms include; aligning public sector pay
           policy in line with the results of a comprehensive job evaluation exercise; and
           streamliningthe payroll managementthrough retrenchment and cleaning of the payrollto
           remove "ghost' workers. The Government has also established a quasi-autonomous
           Public Service Remuneration Review Board and Introduced performance contracts for
           top public service executives, beginningwith the chief executive officers of statpowned
           public enterprises and agencies.

           9.       Improving performance in the delivery of service by public servants contlnues to
           be one of the Governments main objectives. In the Economic Recovery Strategy for
           Wealth and Employment Creation, the Government stated its commitment to accelerate
           Public Service Reform in order to create a leaner, efficient, motivated and more
           productivePublic Service that concentrates on the delivery of core government services,
           One of the key elements targeted for introduction was "developing, introducing and
           institutionalizing performance based management practices in the Public Service". To
           this end, the Government launched recently the Results-Based Management (RBM) as
           the vehlcle through which it would deliver efficient, effective and ethical 'Resulk for
           Kenyans'.

           IO.     The RBMApproach is intended to enable the Government to realize its objective
           of delivering 'Results for Kenyans'. This objectivewill be achieved by transfwmlng public
           service managementfrom one that is a passiveand inwardlooking bureaucracy to one
           that is proactive, outward-looking, ethical and results-oriented. The publlc servants in
           this context will be expected to seek to satisfy their customers and in a manner that
           assures taxpayers valuefor-money. This approach encompasses dynamic and mutually
           supportive reforms to human and Onanclal resources management, and planning and
           performance. Italso entails supportfor the developmentof leadership,values and ethics
           Inthe publicservice.

           11,     Cognizant of the need to ensure effective and sustained leadership and
           coordination of the above reform initiatives, the Government has established an

                                                   104


FROM : MINISTRY8 F FINANCE                FAX NO. : 219365                     Jan. 02 2005 09:56PM P5


           claboratc institutional framework comprising: a Cabinot Sub-Committee, a National
           Steering Committeeon Public Sector Reforms, and a Public Sector Reforms Secretariat
           responsible for coordinating the implementation of on-going reform initiatives in the
           public sector. The Government has also established a Monitoringand Evaluation (M&E)
           Department in the Ministry of Planning and National Development (MPND) that will
           operate the M&E system, with a focus on ensuring that: (i) budgetary resources are
           allocated in line with ERS priorities; and (ti) more importantly,the ERS benchmarks and
           results are on track.

           12.     Notwithstanding the achievements enumerated above, the Government is fully
           aware that much more needs to be done to improve Kenya's record on governance.
           However, we expect to make further progress in fighting corruptlon with the
           operationalizationlater this year of the newlyenacted public procurementAct.

           Major challenges in publicsector reform

           13.     So far, achlevements in the reform of public service managementremain uneven
           and with major gaps. Public service reform is far from delivering a lean, efficient and
           effective public sector as envisaged in the ERS. Downsizing of the public service as
           planned has been held back by a.court Injunction that has lasted for more than a year.
           Commitmentsby the previous Governmentto excessively raisesalaries of teachers, and
           pressure to recruit more teachers and health workers in support of the free primary
           education and primary health care programmes, will continue to put pressure on the
           wage bill. An effective and comprehensivestrategy for public service reform, consistent
           with the targets in the ERS, is not yet in place and needs to be developedas a matter of
           priority.

           14.     The Government recognizes that unless the weaknesses in public sector
           managementsystems are addressed, they will continueto accentuate poor management
           and accountability, waste and corruption in the use of public resources. To achieve the
           targeted improvements and reforms planned for the systems of budgeting, accounting
           and treasury management and audit of publicfunds, will take some years, Furthermore,
           the capacity for operating and maintaining these systems, especially the iCT aspects,
           will have to be developed, Moreover, the functioning of these systems will, to a
           significant degree, depend on progress towards creating a culture of high performance,
           accountability, transparency and integrity in the public service, which will take
           considerable and sustained efforts to realize.

           15:     To implement and sustain the reform programmes in the areas of publlc sector
           management and good governance, much more resources will be needed now than in
           recent years. In this regard, the Kenya Government is seeking the necessary financial
           and technical support from our development partners. Several development partners
           have aiready indicated their willingness to support areas of priority, including
           restructuring of public enterprises and privatization; local government and fiscal
           decentralization; public financial management reform, public service reform; and legal
           and judicial reforms, However, funding gaps can be foreseen. The World Eank-funded

                                                          4

                                                     105


FROM : M,INISTRYB F FINANCE                  FAX NO.   : 219365                   Jan. 02 2005 09:56PM p6




            Public Sector Management Technical Asslstanco Project (PSMTAP) closed in June
            2005. In this context, therefore, Government soeks financial support from the World
             Bank and other developmont partners to help fund the priority reformprogrammes.

             Institutional reform and capacity building priorifies

            16.     Given the limited resources, the Government has Identified priorities in public
            sector reform for the medium term to constitute the institutional reforms and capacity
            building needed to achieve the priorities in the ERS, Alongside these reforms, the
            Government will continue to pursue prudent macro-economicpolicy characterizedby an
            appropriate fiscal and monetary pollcystance.

            17.     The institutionaland capacity building reforms that Government targets to fast-
            track with Bank support fall under three components: (a) public financial management;
            (b) capacity building in selected ministries; and (c) transformativeleadershipand results
            basedmanagement(RBM).

            18,     The focus of the public financial management component is to enhance
            transparency in government financial transactions in order to improve service delivery
            and create an enabling environment for investments. The implementation of the
            Integrated Financial Management System (IFMIS), which is planned to improve
            accounting, transparency and effectlve financial management of public funds, will be
            accelerated. The system will be supported by the operationalization of the Financial
            ManagementAct, which was enactedin December2004,

            19.     The implementation of the ERS requires an effective planning and a budgetary
            process that promotes fiscal discipline, strategic allocation of resources to pn'orities
            identified in the ERS wfthin a sustainable MTEF, and executlcn of the budget with
            minimum deviations. The Government has strengthened the credibility of the budget
            through the MTEF and Public ExpenditureReview Process, The achievementshave to
            be consolidated and institutionalizedthrough the following: (i) improving macroeconomic
            forecasting leading to better fiscal strategies; (ii) strengtheningof Sector Wide Approach
            to develop sectoraland ministerialprioritieswithin hard budget constraints; (iii) ensuring
            public expenditures allocations are justified by measurable outputs, costs and
            performance benchmarks; (iv) ensuring all public expenditure are reflected in the MTEF
            and annual Budgets; (v)undertaklng regular Public Expenditure Reviews to provide
            analysis of expenditure issues and inform on both effective use of public funds and
            strategiesto dealwith efficiency and effectiveness; (vi) buildinga comprehensivebudget
            management system that is properly linked to the IFMlS and the Integrated Personnel
            and PayrollData (IPPD)systems; and (vi) promoting financialdisciplinewithin the public
            enterprise sector and ensuringthat each enterprise maintainsa sound investmentpolicy,

            20.     To promote accountability, Integrity and value for money objectlves in publlc
            expenditure management, the project will strengthenboththe internaland external audit
            functlons. The capacity of the internalaudit departmentinthe Ministry of Financewill be
            strengthenedthrough recruitment of additionalqualified personnel, tralnlng of personnel

                                                     106


FROM : MINISTRYE F FINRNCE                  FAX NO. : 219365                      Jan. 02 2005 09:56PM P7


            in the state of the art audit techniques, provision of belter equipment and improved
            mobility. The external audit of public expenditures calls for the following lntervontions: (i)
            onhancing fiduciary transparency by improving the quality and timeliness of audit
            reports; (ii)extmding the function of Controller arid Auditor General to ail public
           agencies; (iii) increasing autonomy of the Controller and Auditor General's office; (iv)
           operationalizing the newly established National Audit Ofice with recruitment of
           appropriate staff and required capadty building in modern techniques; (v) developing
           and implementingof an integrated training and capacity building programmefor staff in
           accounting, auditing and flnanclal management; and (vi) strengthening the various
           parliamentary committees in the area of economic management (budget preparation,
           budget execution, and expenditure control). Thls will enable Parliament to play its
           oversight role In the area of economic management more effectively.

            21.    The Government,will through the proposed project, address itself to issues that
           constrain revenue enhancement and modernization of the Kenya Revenue Authority.
           Revenue collection has increased gradually from Kshs,122 billion in FY1995/96 to about
           a projected Kshs.310 billion in FY2005106, The Authority has proved to be a competitive
           employer      attracting   qualified,   competent     and      experienced      professionals.
           Notwithstanding these achlevements, there is urgent need to promote effective
           integration of adrninlstration of revenue, harmonize procedures across existing
           departments and also implementthe InformationTechnology plan for the Authority.

           22.     The Government plans to promote integrity, transparency and accountability of
           public procurement through improved procedures for the procurement of public goods
           spearheaded by the following actions: (a) Enactment of Publlc Procurement and
           Disposal Bill (2005); (b) Operationalization of the Public Procurement Directorate; (c)
           Revision of procurement regulations; (d) Strengthenlng of the recently established
           appeals process,

           23.     The development of the new public financial management systems will take full
           advantage of cost-effective application of modern information and communications
           technologies (ICT), In particular, the lmplementatlon of the IFMlS and the integrated            I

           personnel payroll database (IPPD) Is based on effective use of ICT, In'this regard and to
           ensure this reform programme Is implemented successfully, it is imperative to ensure
           coordination, compatibility and connectivity of the disparate systems, both current and
           future. In the latter context, three main interventlons are already considered crucial: (i)
           development of a common systems architecture for all the main government ICT
           applications, with IFMlS as a priority; (ii) specification of common standards that will
           ensure compatibility and ready connectivity of the major applications, especially the
           IFMlS and the IPPD; and systematic identiflcatlon, planning and implementation of the
           user requirements, The Government considers these Interventionsto be priorities under
           the proposed InstitutionatReformand Capacity Building project.

           24,    As regards the capacity building component of this reform programme, five
           ministries are targeted to spearhead the achievement of the main outcomes under the
           ERS. The five ministries are:

                                                        6

                                                 107


FROM : MINISTRY0 F FINRNCE                FAX NO. : 219365                     Jan. 02 2005 09:57PM   P8




              Ministry of Finance: The capacity building in this ministry aiins at ensuring that the
              annual budgets reflect the ERS priorities. To this end, there should be capacity for:
              integrating the MTEF process and the annual budget process; linking the ERS
              indicators directly with the budget process; Introducing political engagement in the
              MTEFIBudget process, especially in the development of the budget strategy paper
              and ministerial ceilings; analysis of line ministries' budget submissions; budget
              monitoring systems that reliably track funds flow to spending units below ministerial
              headquarters; and addresslng problems of cash flow to district and lower level of
              government departments.

              Minlstry of Plannlng and National Development: This ministry needs capacity to
              operationalizea systemfor effective M&Eof the ERS.

              Ministry of Agriculture: The ERS shows that achieving higher levels of economlc
              gro@ as well as equity demands strengthening andlor ratlonalizing the roles and
              structures of some key agricultural institutions, Including: co-operatives, the
              Pyrethrum Board; the National Cereals and Produce Board; and the Kenya Meat
              Commission.

              Ministry of Trade and Industry: This ministry has the role and mandate of trade
              and investment. The project should provide the ministry with technical assistance to
              support and improve trade and Investor climate and support private sector
              development.

              Ministry of Local Government: The Government recognizes the urgent need to
              strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Local Governmentto play its critical role In
              guidlng local authoritles to discharge effectively their mandate, which Includes,
              among others, provislon of infrastructure. Effective performance of iocal authorities
              is key to improvingthe investmentclimate.

           25,    The exact form and scope for capacity building in the above key ministries is not
           yet determined.    In this context, the project will also promote an integrated and
           beneflciary-driven approach to capacity building and performance monitoring by setting
           up a Capacity Buliding Fund. The Fund wili have rules to govern access by those key
           ministries that are both directly related to the government's plan In addressing
           governance and meet the agreed benchmarksfor future budget support operations.

           26.    Strong and committed transformative leadership is a necessary condition for
           achieving and sustaining institutional reforms. Accordingly, this programme Is also
           focuslng on enhancing the change management capacity of the executive, permanent
           secretaries and all public service leaders. The programme will support development of
           leadership skills and a code of ethics as a tool to Instill in public servants a culture of
           achieving results in service delivery and accountabiilty. Speciflcaliy, the project wlll
           support (i) implementing a programme to inculcate good values, ethics and discipline

                                                  108


FROM : MINISTRY8 F FINRNCE                 FRX NO. : 219365                   Jan. 02 2005 09:57PM P9

                                                                                                        , (



            for kar~sformativeleadership; (ii) mainslroaming RBM in ministries and departments to
            plan and achieve pre-dclorminedoutputs or targets.

           27.     The leadership initiative involves the following: (i) re-orienting the goals and
           objectives of the Institutions and workforce towards cost effectiveness and
           responsivenessto clientslcitizensdemands and needs: (ii) modernizing personnel policy
           and management so as to Improve staff productivity and service delivery; (ill) deslgnlng
           and introducing a new performance appraisal system; (iv) designing and Implementing
           an affordable and sustainable IT strategy to enhance computerization, connectivity and
           networking; (v) institutionalking Service Delivery Surveysand utilizing the findings during
           the review and development of key targets or results and strategic Interventions and
           plans; and (vi) developing and implementing a comprehensiveplan for capacity building
           and training to re-equlp the clvll service with Increased capacities to implement core
           functions and provide senior staff with managerialskills.

           28.    To generate wider participation, there is need to continue with sustained and
           coordinated efforts to inform and educate the general public on the goals and objectives,
           and the progress made in implementingthe reformprogrammes, The full rangeof public
           media will be utilized. The strategy would also have an important role to play in
           extending knowledge and awareness among those responsible for Implementing the
           reforms and reinforcing coordinationbetweenthe various componentsof this institutional
           and capacity building reform programme.

           29.    It is also important to note that development and implementation of the varlous
           reform componentsrequires careful coordinationso as to maximizethe potentialbenefits
           of synergy. A Sub-committee of Cabinet provides policy direction and guidance to the
           reform process.     Responsibility for overall coordination lies with the Coordinating
           Committee of Permanent Secretarles and Authorized Officers, chalred by the Head of
           Coordinating Unit A(IRCBCU) will undertake day-to-day working level coordination
           Public Service.         newly established Institutional Reform and Capacity Building

           between reform "streams". Appropriate technical secretariats or units will be set up in
           the relevant ministries and departments to be headed by the respective permanent
           secretaries to oversee the reform programmewithin each component.

           30. The Institutional Reform and Capacity Building Project will be implemented within
           the institutionalframework explained above. The Permanent Secretary in the Ministryof
           Finance, reporting to the Head of Public Service has been designated to be the
           Authorized Officer for the project. A Project Steering Committee made up df those
           Accounting Officers with immediate responsibility of the project components, will ensure
           overall coordination. Furthermore, a dedicated professional team will be created in the
           Ministry of Finance to provide support to Component Coordinators, monitor
           implementation, and ensure adherence to financial and procurement procedures.




                                                        8

                                                    109


FROM : MINISTRY0 F FINANCE                FAX NO. : 219365                     Jan. 02 2005 09:SEPM     PI0




          c0 clusion
             I1


          31. I wish at this point to reiterate the unqualified commitment of the Kenya
          Government to implementthe reform policles and actions outlined in the ERS. However,
          to effectively implement our development agenda, there is need to create additional
          capacity in the Public Sector. This capacity building process requires more financial
          resources to fully implement the reform programme.             In this regard, the Kenya
          Governmentseeks the collaborationand continued support of its developmentpartners.
          The Government appreciates the support it Is already receiving from the partners, but
          the required additionalsupport will enable it to consolidateand sustain the achievements
          that have been made in the area of public sector reform.

          32. The Government appreciates the commitment the World Bank has shown in the
          support of the implementation of the ERS, The Bank contributed slgnificanily to the
            -
          development of the strategy, and its investment programme. The Bank has also
          supported In the past institutional reforms and capacity building through the Public
          Sector Management Technical Assistance Project (PSMTAP), which closed in June
          2005. The Government is seeking a newjoint initiativewith the Bank to establisha line
          of credltto facilitatethe implementation of the reforminitiativeslaid out in the Institutional
          Reform and Capacity Building Project. Implementation will focus on the priorks
          identified and elaborated in this letter, which, we believe, will enormously advance the
          governance reformagenda promulgatedin the ERS.

          33.     Let me in conclusion take this opportunity to convey the gratitude of the
          Government and the Peopleof Kenyato the World Bankfor the strong supportthe Bank
          has extended to us in our development efforts,           We confidently look forward to
          enhanced cooperation and collaboration with the World Bank as we continue to
          earnestlyseek for prosperity and development for our people.

          Yours   e,
          HON. DAVID MWIRARIA,EGH, MP
          MINISTERFOR FINANCE

          COPV to:
          Mr,Gobind Nankanl
          Vice Presidentfor Africa Region
          World Bank
          Washlnuton, DC

          Mr. Colin Bruce
          Country Director
          Kenya, Eritreaand Somalia
          World Bank Office
          _c_
          Nalrobi


MAP SECTION


