Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1213 
Project Name 
Institutional Reform and Capacity Building Technical Assistance 
Project 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P090567 
Borrower(s) 
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA 
Implementing Agency 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[
]
S
2
[
]
S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
March 21, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
May 3, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
July 7, 2005 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Governance issues continue to weaken economic growth and slow down poverty alleviation in 
Kenya.  Administrative practices impede private sector investment and operations.  The 
Economic Recovery Strategy's (ERS) promise of a lean and effective public sector delivery and 
improved services to the poor has yet to be realized.  Corrupt practices by senior officials in 
Government are still very much in the news.  The early focus of the new Government has been 
on reforming the judiciary and putting in place institutions to fight corruption.  The Government 
is now turning its attention to improving governance in the public sector and is preparing a new 
Public Sector Reform Program with a focus on good governance and public sector development.  
The proposed Institutional Reform and Capacity Building Project (IRCBP) will support the 
Government of Kenya뭩 Investment Program for the Economic Recovery Strategy for Wealth 
and Employment Creation (IP-ERS), which lays out the government뭩 plan to reinvigorate and 
sustain economic growth and poverty reduction.  This plan, which was prepared with the full 
participation of Parliament, non-governmental organizations, development partners and other 
stakeholders rests on three pillars: (a) economic growth, (b) equity and poverty reduction, and (c) 
governance.  The governance pillar seeks to fight corruption, establish a lean, efficient, and 
accountable public service that concentrates financial and human resources on the delivery of 
core government services to businesses and citizens. The proposed project will support the 
governance pillar of the government뭩 poverty reduction strategy. 
 
The new Government has demonstrated its commitment to the achievement of the Economic 
Recovery Program  through  a number of actions in the area of anti-corruption, including: (a) 
Implementing the Economic Crimes Act (2003), which provides for the establishment of an 
Anti-Corruption Commission;  (b) Creating a new Department of Governance and Ethics in the 
Office of the President;  (c) Enacting  the Public Officers Ethics Act in 2003, requiring all public 
officials (including the President), employees, and their families to declare their assets, and more 
Page  2
recently, taking steps top make these declarations public;  and (d)  Establishing the Ministry of 
Justice and Constitutional Affairs, appointing a new Chief Justice, and firing corrupt and 
inefficient judges.  However, while laws have been passed, the framework is far from sound.  
Central areas of government activity, such as procurement and privatization continue to take 
place in a vacuum, and within the discretion of the executive, which has inevitably led to abuses. 
 
Conversely, some progress has been made with specific reforms in the public sector, including 
for example: the audits of Government accounts are now current; systems audit has replaced 
transactions audit; all ministries have prepared restructuring plans; the Integrated Financial 
Management Information System (IFMIS) is being rolled out; pay reform policy, including 
retrenchment has been approved by Government.  Additionally, the Government has also 
constituted a Cabinet Sub-Committee with specific responsibility for overseeing the reform 
program and has recently appointed a Permanent Secretary to head the newly established Public 
Service Reform Department reporting to the Head of Public Service, the Minister of State for the 
Public Service, and the Cabinet Sub-Committee.   
 
The proposed project is consistent with the strong emphasis on improving governance and 
restoring the rule of law articulated in the Investment Program for Economic Recovery Strategy 
(IP-ERS), and the joint World Bank- International Finance Corporation (IFC) Country 
Assistance Strategy (CAS) (2004-2007). Through concessional financing, the project will 
directly contribute to the CAS objective of building institutional capacity for improved service 
delivery. The project will be linked to the Economic Recovery Strategy Support Credit (ERSSC) 
and will complement other lending instruments for institutional reform and capacity building 
such as the Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (FSAC). It will also provide technical inputs on 
various reforms including financial management and accounting reform, and procurement 
reform.   
Concerns over Kenya뭩 governance strategy have deepened and are threatening external financial 
support as well as the investment climate.  Recent suspension of financial support from Canada, 
United States, and Germany to the government뭩 anti-corruption programs and the threat from 
other bi-laterals to curtail financial assistance to the country if governance outcomes do not 
materialize soon makes IDA best positioned to help the Government address the perennial 
corruption problem with acceptable levels of risk.  Additionally, IDA financing in the context of 
addressing corruption through a broad public sector governance agenda enables the Government 
to take a long-term approach to improving governance within an environment of fluctuating bi-
lateral aid resources. 
The Bank brings to bear considerable cross-country experience in several of the reform areas 
under implementation as part of this project, including financial management, procurement, and 
capacity building.  It is also leveraging its experience as a lead or strategic partner in supporting 
large scale capacity building programs in a number of African countries (for example IDA뭩 
support to Ethiopia뭩 Public Sector Capacity Building Program in 2004, to improve the scale, 
efficiency, and responsiveness of public service delivery at the federal, regional, and local levels, 
and to promote good governance and accountability).      
 
There are firm indications that a number of bi-lateral donors wish to pool resources to support 
the government뭩 public sector reform program. The Bank is playing a catalytic role in  
harmonizing, and leveraging its support for public financial management reforms and perhaps 
Page  3
the demand-driven fund with a number of other donors, including DFID, SIDA, EU, CIDA, 
USAID, and NORAD, who participated in the identification and pre-appraisal missions.  The 
donors have jointly funded a team of consultants to assist the Government in developing a 
reform strategy and an implementation plan in public financial management. A government team 
has also been working with the Bank and other donors in the preparation of this project, and has 
discussed project proposals with the donors during the preparation mission.  The Head of Public 
Service has established a donor coordination group that has been meeting jointly with 
Government Officials to discuss public sector issues in Kenya.  Other related reforms in 
governance are already covered by the multi-donor Governance Justice Law and Order Society 
(GJLOS) program, in which the Bank is participating through the Financial and Legal Sector 
Technical Assistance Credit (FLSTAC). 
 
2. Preliminary description 
 
Project components are based on the priority public sector reform components identified in the 
Economic Recovery Strategy as well as the updated Public Sector Reform Strategy. This will be 
a
Technical Assistance Investment Loan for 4 years, linked closely to an Adjustment Loan. 
 
Component 1. Budget and Public Financial Management
 
(US$15 m): The objective of this 
component is to make budget processes and public financial management (PFM) more 
transparent, accountable and responsive to policy priorities. It will therefore aim at strengthening 
financial resource planning, budget preparation and implementation, strengthening financial 
controls and reduction of fiduciary risks, making procurement transparent and efficient and 
expenditure monitoring and audit.  It is also aimed at an efficient generation and management of 
revenue.  It will have the following sub-components: 
 

Subcomponent 1.1 Strengthening Medium Term Expenditure Framework and budget 
processes; 

Subcomponent 1.2 Strengthening public financial management; 

Subcomponent 1.3 Implementation of IFMIS, IPPD and the development of an IT 
Strategy; 

Subcomponent 1.4 Strengthening the External Audit System; 

Subcomponent 1.5 Strengthening the Internal Audit System; 

Subcomponent 1.6 Strengthening the National Procurement System; 

Subcomponent 1.7 Support to key Parliamentary Committees for effective political 
oversight of public financial management; and 

Subcomponent 1.8 Strengthening Revenue Collection and Management for the Kenya 
Revenue Authority  
 
Component 2. Capacity Building Fund
 (US$7.0m):  
The objective of this component is to provide capacity building support to the five key ministries 
(Finance, Agriculture, Planning and Development, Trade and Industries and Local Government) 
that are critical to the achievement of prior actions identified in the ERSSC policy matrix as well 
as achieving benchmarks for future budget support operations.  This fund will be demand-driven, 
i. e. the inputs are to be specified by the targeted ministries who would demonstrate how they 
intend to use the funds to achieve the benchmarks.  
Page  4
Component 3. Project Management and Coordination
 (US$3.0m):  
The objective of this component is to provide an effective and efficient coordinating body and 
process that ensures that IRCBP implementation complies with the World Bank Financial 
Management Guidelines.  This component will also hire consultants for the duration of the 
project that addresses cross-cutting themes such as Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E), and a 
communication strategy and an action plan which are necessary for both components one and 
two.  
 
Institutional Arrangements
 
A
Cabinet sub committee to be chaired by the Minister of Public Service has already been 
formed to provide strategic policy guidance to the reform process. A technical committee 
comprising Permanent Secretaries from eight ministries will meet regularly to address major 
problems affecting project implementation. A Permanent Secretary in charge of public sector 
reform has already been appointed and reports to the Head of Public Service.  We anticipate that 
she will serve as the Government's executing agency, with project oversight and 
monitoring/evaluation responsibilities. The day to day management of the project will be 
delegated to a Project Coordinating Unit probably moved under the Permanent Secretary in 
charge of public service reform. This Unit will oversee the overall project implementation 
 
3.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
 
There are no perceived safeguard policies which might apply. 
 
4. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT  
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
25 
 Total 
25 
 
5. Contact point 
Contact: Sahr John Kpundeh 
Title: Sr Public Sector Mgmt. Spec. 
Tel: (202) 473-6783 
Fax:  
Email: Skpundeh1@worldbank.org
 
