                                                                                    58192 V1

                                KENYA
       INSTITUTIONAL REFORM AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT (IRCB)
                           PROJECT ID P090567
                         IDA CREDIT NO 4146-KE
                         RESTRUCTURING PAPER

1.      The closing date for Kenya Institutional Reform and Capacity Building Project (IRCB),
Project ID P090567, Credit No. 4146-KE will be extended from November 30, 2010 to August
31, 2011, in accordance with the Republic of Kenya's request dated August 16, 2010.



2.       The performance of the project is currently rated Marginally Satisfactory (MS), both in
terms of probability of achieving Development Objectives (DOs) and Implementation Progress
(IP). The project has been under implementation for about 4 years and 9 months. As at October
31, 2010, the project has disbursed about US$8.5 million, which represents about 34 percent of
the original amount approved by the Board. The project has a slow disbursement flag and
continues to face the challenge of lack of utilization of credit proceeds due to the pooled fund
arrangement with CIDA, DANIDA and EU. The project objectives remain achievable and the
likelihood of achieving these objectives will be increased by the completion of on-going project
activities during the period of extension of closing date. There are no overdue Interim Financial
Reports and audits reports from the implementing entity.



3.      The proposed extension will give the Borrower more time to complete the
implementation of on-going activities that are critical to the achievement of the project's
Development Objectives (DOs) through a project restructuring. The Borrower has prepared a
specific action plan acceptable to the International Development Association (IDA) to complete
the project. The main thrust of the restructuring proposal would be to align the project with the
requirements of the new Constitution (promulgated August 27, 2010) on public financial
management and devolution, and change some aspects of the project design and implementation
arrangement to reflect lessons learnt from over 4 years of project implementation. It will also
align the project with the timing of the existing Public Financial Management reform strategy.



4.     This will be the first extension of the project.
