                                                  Documentof
                                               The World Bank

                                     FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                                      ReportNo: 27880-MK




                                  PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                       ONA

                                              PROPOSEDLOAN

                                INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$9.8 MILLION

                                                    TO THE

                        FORMERYUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OFMACEDONIA

                                                      FORA

                      SOCIAL PROTECTIONIMPLEMENTATIONPROJECT

                                                APRIL 16,2004




HumanSector Development Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region




This document has a restricted distribution and may be usedby recipients only inthe performance o f their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                                 CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
                                             (Exchange Rate Effective April 16, 2004)
                                                Currency Unit = Macedonian Denars
                                                       lMKD = USO.02
                                                        U S $ l = MKD50.90
                                                         FISCALYEAR
                                                    January 1    - December31
                                               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy                             NEB        National Employment Bureau


CEM    Country Economic Memorandum                             NGO        Non-Government Organizations

CFAA   Country Financial Accountability Assessment             PAYGO      Pay-as-you-go
CPAR   Country Procurement Assessment Review                   PDCU       Policy Development and Coordination Unit

CPD    ChildProtection Department                              PDF        Pensionand Disability InsuranceFund

cs     Consultant Services                                     PEIR       Public Expenditure and Institutional Review

csw    Centers for Social Work                                 PFM        Public Financial Management

D C    Direct Contracting                                      P M U      Project Management Unit

DFID   Department for International Development                POM        Project Operational Manual

ECA    Europe and Central Asia                                 PCU        Project Coordination Unit

EU      European Union                                         PSMAL      Public Sector Management Adjustment Loan

FMR    Financial MonitoringReport                              QCBS       Quality and Cost Based Selection

FMS    Financial Management System                             QER        Quality Enhancement Review

G       Goods                                                  RFP        Request for Proposal

GDP     Gross Domestic Product                                 S A 0       State Audit Office

GOM     Government o f FYRMacedonia                            SH          Shopping

HSRP    Health Sector Reform Project                           SIL         Specific Investment Loan

IBRD    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development  SOE         Statement of Expenditures

I C     Individual Consultant                                  SP          Social Protection

ICB     International Competitive Bidding                      SPIL        Social Protection Investment Loan

IMF     International Monetary Fund                            SRTAP       Social ReformTechnical Assistance Project

IT      Information Technology                                 ss          Sole Source (for I C contracts)

L A N   Local Area Network                                     SSAC        Social Sector Adjustment Credit

LCS     Least Cost Selection                                   SSP         Social Support Project

MAF'AS  Agency for Supervision o f Fully FundedPension         SSP         Social Support Project
        Insurance
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation                              TA          Technical Assistance

M D G   MillenniumDevelopment Goal                             TORTA       Terms o f Reference Technical Assistance

MKD     Macedonian Denar                                       USAIDTOR US Agency for International Development Terms of
                                                                           Reference
MOF     Ministry o f Finance                                   WBUSAID World BankUS Agency for International Development

MOLSG   Ministry o f Local Self Government                     WGWB        Working Group World Bank

MLSP    MinistryofLabor and Social Policy                      WG          Working Group

NBRM    National Bank o f the Republic o f Macedonia


                                                Vice President:       Shigeo Katsu
                                              Country Director:       Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                                               Sector Manager:        H e n "   v o n Gersdorff
                                            Task Team Leader:         Snjezana Plevko

                                                                                             FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
                          FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OFMACEDONIA
                       SOCIAL PROTECTION IMPLEMENTATIONPROJECT

                                                                 CONTENTS
                                                                                                                                                        Page
        A.   STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                               .............................................................      1
          1. Country and sector issues....................................................................................................                    1
          2. Rationale for Bankinvolvement .........................................................................................                         4
          3. Government Strategy ..........................................................................................................                   5
          4. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes....................................................                                     5
        B.   PROJECTDESCRIPTION                           .............................................................................................       6
          1. Lending instrument.............................................................................................................                  6
          2. Project development objective andkey indicators..............................................................                                    6

          3. Project components .............................................................................................................                 7
          4. Lessons leamed and reflectedinthe project design............................................................                                     9
          5. Altematives considered and reasons for rejection ............................................................                                 10

        C .  IMPLEMENTATION                     ....................................................................................................       11
          1. Partnership arrangements ..................................................................................................                   11
          2. Institutional and implementation arrangements................................................................                                 11
          3. Monitoring and evaluation o f outcomesfresults................................................................                                13

          4. Sustainability.....................................................................................................................           13
          5. Critical risks and possible controversial aspects...............................................................                              13

          6. Loadcredit conditions and covenants...............................................................................                            15

        D .  APPRAISAL SUMMARY                          .............................................................................................15
          1. Economic and financial analyses ......................................................................................                         15
          2. Technical........................................................................................................................... 16
          3. Fiduciary ........................................................................................................................... 16
          4. Social.................................................................................................................................       17
          5.  Environment......................................................................................................................             18
          6. Safeguardpolicies.......................................................................................... :..................18
          7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness......................................................................................                         18

        ANNEXES:
        Annex 1: Country andSector or ProgramBackground                                       .........................................................    20
        Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and/or other Agencies                                                             .................28
        Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkand Monitoring                               ........................................................................     33

This document has a restricteddistributionand may be usedby recipients only in
the performance of their official duties Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
                                                                    .
without World Bank authorization                          .

Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription             ......................................................................................       39

Annex 5: ProjectCosts...............................................................................................................         43

Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements                  .................................................................................       44

Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements                                               .....................................  46

Annex 8: Procurement ................................................................................................................        50
Annex 9: EconomicandFinancialAnalysis                    .............................................................................       61

Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues          ............................................................................................        63

Annex 11: ProjectPreparationandSupervision                        .....................................................................      64

Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile                 .................................................................................       65

Annex 13: PSMALPolicyMatrix            ..............................................................................................        66

Annex 14: Statementof LoansandCredits                   ..............................................................................       69

Annex 15: Country at a Glance       .................................................................................................        70


Map: 28959R1

                   FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA

                 SOCIAL PROTECTIONIMPLEMENTATION PROJECT

Date: April 16,2004                                Team Leader: Snjezana Plevko
Country Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos           Sectors: Compulsory pensionand
Sector ManagerDirector: Hermann A. von             unemployment insurance (60%); Other social
Gersdorff                                          services (40%)
                                                   Themes: Social risk coping (P); Social risk
                                                   mitigation (P); Other social protection and risk
                                                   management (P)
Project ID: PO74358                                Environmental screening category: Not
                                                   Required
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan Safeguard screening category: N o impact


[XILoan     [ ] Credit    [ ] Grant     [ ] Guarantee   [ ] Other:

For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (uS$m.): 9.80
Proposed terms: VSL
Grace Period: 5 years                                Years to maturity: 17 years




Borrower:FYRMACEDONIA

ResponsibleAgency:
Ministry of Labor andSocial Policy
Dame Gruev 14
1000 Skopje
FYRMacedonia




Project implementation period: Start September 1,2004 End: December 31,2008
Expectedeffectiveness date: September 1,2004
Expectedclosing date: June 30,2009
Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?
Re$ PADA.3                                                                          [ ]Yes [XINO

Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?                         [ ]Yes [XlNo
Have these been approved by Bankmanagement?
5                                                                                   [ ]Yes [XINO
                                                                                    [ ]Yes [XINO
Does the project include any critical risks rated"substantial" or "high"?           [X ]Yes []No
Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?
Re$ PAD D.7                                                                         [XIYes [ ]No

Project development objective Ref: PAD B.2
The objective o f this proposed project are to improve the effectiveness and efficiency o f social
protection system through improved administration and long-term sustainability o f the pension
system andimproved targeting and administration o fcash benefits.

Project description Re$ PAD B.3, Annex 4
Component1: PensionSystemAdministration (US$7.99 million)
This component would improve the administration and efficiency o f the existing pension system
institutions, increase the efficiency and effectiveness in collection o f pension contributions
through the introduction o f a monthly pension contribution record-keeping on the individual
basis, build regulatory and supervisory capacities in the newly formed MAPAS and custodial
capacities in the NBFW, and improve public knowledge o f the pension system through the
extensive public education campaign.

Component2: SocialProtectionProgramSupport(US$2.58 million)
This component would support the implementationo f social protectionprogram reforms and the
development o f technical and organizational capacities for the identification o f strategies and
mechanisms to improve resource management and service delivery. The component would
support the development and refinement o f overall strategic goals, institutional mandates,
financial planning, and business planning, build systemic capacity to undertake consultations,
provide policy feed-back and communicate with the public; strengthen information management
and technology capacity o fthe social protection institutions, harmonize data systems across key
MLSP departments and social protection institutions and establish key indicator data for all
departments andinstitutions to support policy formulation and monitor program implementation.

Component3. ProjectManagement,MonitoringandEvaluation(US$0.51 million)
This component would ensure effective administration and implementation o f the project by
supporting the operation o f a Project Management Unit (PMU) which would report to the
Minister o f Labor and which would be responsible for all the day-to-day project implementation
activities, including procurement, disbursement and accounting functions.

Which safeguard policies are triggered, ifany? Ref: PAD D.5, Annex 10
None
Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for: Ref: PAD C.6
Loanhedit effectiveness:
    0    The Project Operational Manual (POM), satisfactory to the Bank, has been adopted by
         the Borrower.

Covenants applicable to project implementation:
Mid-termreview date: December,2006

Financial Covenants
The PMU will maintain a financial management system acceptable to the Bank. The project
financial statements (which include SOEs and Special Account) will be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank and on terms o f reference acceptable to the Bank. The audited
financial statements and audit report will be provided to the Bank within six months o fthe end of
each fiscal year or each fiscal period.

A. STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE

1. Country and sector issues

Country Overview

         Although the former Yugoslav Republic o f Macedonia (FYR Macedonia) was
economically among the least developed o f all the republics o f the former Yugoslavia and its
economy contracted even further inthe years immediately following independence, ,the country
made significant progress in macroeconomic stabilization and structural reforms during the
1995-1999 period. This progress was remarkable considering the country's difficult initial
conditions, its external and domestic conflicts, and external shocks that have hit its economy. In
that period, the economy experienced an average annual positive GDP growth rate o f 2.9
percent, inflation was reduced to 2.2 percent and fiscal deficit declined to 0.2 percent. Positive
trends were interruptedby Kosovo crisis (in 1999) and civil conflicts (in 2001) that resulted ina
significant decline o f industrial production and a severe deterioration of fiscal balance.

         In 2002, the economic recovery was slower than expected, with investment remaining
sluggish. The fiscal deficit o f the general budget rose to 5.7 percent o f GDP due to a significant
increase in security-related expenditures and fbrther rise in govemment spending due to larger
transfers to social funds, higher military spending, new public sector hiring, higher public wages
and exceptional financing o f failed pyramid schemes. Although the real GDP grew by 3.1
percent in 2003, significant challenges remain to achieve macroeconomic stability and to
advance toward a market economy and stable political situation required to achieve sustained
growth and higher living standards for people o fFYRMacedonia.

         The social protection programs in FYR Macedonia, aiming to alleviate a growing
incidence o f poverty and persistent high unemployment during transition, are costly, even
compared to other transition economies in the region. The Pension and Disability Fund (PDF)
expenditures alone account for more than 10 percent o f GDP, while, together with
unemployment insurance and social assistance programs (including health expenditures), they
represent an equivalent o f nearly one third o f GDP and comprise over two-thirds o f public
spending. The efficiency and the effectiveness o f those programs, however, remain relatively
low. The programs are generally not well targeted, the inclusion errors are high and they often
require additional transfers fiom the budget.

ThePension SystemIssues

         The financial situation in the FYR Macedonia's pension system worsened dramatically
duringthe 1990s. Facedwith an increased fiscal burdeninthe pension system andthe prospects
o f its further increase, the Government has taken major steps to reform the system. The Law for
changes and additions to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, enacted in 2000,
introduced a set of parametric changes to the existing PAYGO system and provided a framework
for a multi-pillarpension system. The parametric changes introduced inthe first pillar included
gradual increase in the retirement age, decrease in the replacement rate, change o f pension
indexation method, termination o f early retirement provisions and change o f a pension formula.



                                                  1

Although those changes will improve the viability o f the PAYGO system, further adjustments in
the PAYGO pension system policy will be necessary.

        Along with the reforms in the PAYGO pillar, the new pension system also includes a
fully funded second pillar. The second pillar, regulatedby the Law on Mandatory FullyFunded
Pension Insurance, enacted in2002, will be mandatory for new entrants to the labor force, while
current contributors will have an option to join the system during the first year o f its operation.
Although the preparations for the mandatory funded pension system implementation are well on
their way, several issues need to be addressed prior to implementation. Those issues include
preparation o f a plan for financing transition costs, availability o f a wider range o f investment
instruments for pension funds' investments, strengthened regulatory capacity in the system and
further elaboration o f the mechanics o f the second pillar (including custodial functions,
development o f necessary rules and regulations, continued public education, etc.).                     So far,
progress has been made on all conditions, and further support inmeeting these conditions would
be provided under the SPIL and through additional financing provided by USAID, the Dutch
Government andthe IMF(for Government securities market development).

        In addition, preparations have been made for improvements in the PDF business
processes and procedures and the establishment o f the Pension Supervisory Agency (MAPAS).
The PSMAL related trust fund supported the development o f a comprehensive management
program that includes a revision and modification o f PDF's accounting system, budgeting
process and internal controls, as well as a preparation o f institutional capacity development plan
in the areas o f strategic planning, business process development, human resource management
and communication. Also, although the MAPAS was established in 2002, building regulatory
and supervisory capacities remains one o f the preconditions for the beginningo f the second pillar
operations.

        The current system o f records on contributions, based on a single annual report for each
individual, makes the compliance control difficult and untimely, thus creating an incentive for
evasion. To address the issue, the Government intends to introduce a new system for monthly
collection and record-keeping on pension contributions on individual basis. The new system
should improve the transparency and administration o f the pension system.

Other Social Protection Program Issues

        Social protection benefits represent a very significant amount o f government
expenditures. These expenditures cover a large fraction o f Macedonian population and they are
an important source o f household income. In 2002, the total cash benefits amounted to 2.7
percent o f GDP and almost 9 percent o f government expenditure.' Over 270,000 benefits were
paid monthly to individuals and households and the estimates are that there were as many as 0.5

' Themain   cash benefits currently operating inthe country include unemployment benefits, various forms o f social
assistancebenefits, child protection benefits and the war veteran benefits. Due to poor budgeting and accounting
procedures expenditure data on various social assistance benefit programs are not easily disaggregated. Different
agencies (CSW, ISA and the NBS) use different categorizations, which make explicit links between beneficiaries
and various social assistance expenditures difficult to track. Systemic weaknesses in budgeting, accounting, and
categorization procedures make inter-country comparisons o f social assistance expenditures difficult.




                                                          2

million people (25 percent o f the entire population) living infamilies that received some form o f
benefits. In2000, social transfers (including pensions) represented 22 percent o ftotal income for
families. Given that the poverty line is set at 70 percent o f the median equivalent expenditure,
social transfers accounted for as much as a third o f the relative poverty line. Average monthly
social protection benefits in2002 amounted to around 2,000 MKD, which is over 10 percent o f
average monthly householdincome.

        Despite a small Policy Unit functioning in the MLSP, a clear outcome-based strategy,
policy and targeted programs for social protection still need to be put inplace. Technical quality
of policy formulation, needs assessment, systems for review (monitoring, evaluation and impact
assessment) and the overall quality o f information management and IT systems need to be
increased to strengthen evidence-based policy making. In addition, the mechanisms for the
identification o f policy options, improved financial management, the establishment o f technical
and process-oriented solutions and the benchmarks by which reform can be evaluated are
currently weak. Establishing such mechanisms through SPIL is essential for policy development
and for the roll-out o f improved operational practices that will strengthen systems and structures
for the cost effectiveness and efficiency o f social protection programs and improved targeting o f
cash benefits and social work services.

        Although the FYR Macedonia has appropriate legislation to regulate social protection
policies and programs, the real challenge inthe field o f social protectioni s weak implementation
capacity, the lack o f enforcement, the poor division between primary and secondary legislation,
the extent to which the public are aware o f their rights, and a tendency for legislation to be
adopted without fully considering the possible range o f options. The system is fundamentally
undermined by the absence o f a thorough process o f internal and external consultation involving
managers andprofessionals.

        The management and govemance system in Centers for Social Work (CSW) is very
centralized in terms o f management approaches and the allocation o f resources. Management
flexibility at the level o f the municipal CSW is limited regarding the number o f employees,
financial reallocations between budget lines and real budget responsibility, and information
management systems and information technology infrastructure i s                exceedingly weak.
Furthermore, norms for the management and supervision o f CSW staff are outdated when
measured against the number o f citizens withinmunicipalities andthe actual number andprofiles
o f clients they have to deal with. As a result, there is a need to: (i)  strengthen the roles and
responsibilities o f social workers and other staff in CSW; (ii)strengthen the professional
administration and managements o f cash benefits (iii)    support the development o f plans for the
decentralization and strategic planning o f residential care (including licensing, pricing and
quality control and standards), the deinstitutionalization o f social work services, and the
development o f local social planning structures; (iii)strengthen the system for resource
allocations for implementation and enforcement in full the Law on Social Welfare and the Law
on Family; and (iv) strengthen the key structural and systematic linkages (vertical and
horizontal), between the CSW the MLSP in Skopje, and between the MLSP and the National
Employment Bureau (NEB), the Pensions and Disability Fund (PDF) and the Health Insurance
Fund (HIF) i.e. to strengthen client and expenditure data management between cash benefits,




                                                  3

employment services, disability and social services, and (v) improve information management
systems and IT infrastructure.

         Reforms to the internal structures o f CSW and ensuring appropriate vertical linkages
between diverse, but related social protection programs are critical to plans for the
decentralization o f social protection policy is cost effective and administratively efficient.
Before decentralization3 can begin a number o f issues still need to be resolved, including the
number o f municipalities, and the introduction o f systems for auditing, control and budget
formulas and financing. In addition, a clear framework for the development o f social care needs
to be put in place, incorporating the management o f residential care services (licensing,
registration, quality control andstandards); the provision o f community based social services; the
development o f plans for deinstitutionalization; the provision o f home care services; and the
formation o f service delivery partnerships with for-profit and not-for-profit agencies. The
reform of CSW will also need to addressmajor issues concerning the systemic weaknesses inthe
current system o f inspection, supervision and quality assurance.                   The overview o f the current
organizational structures for management anddelivery o f social protection programs is presented
inAnnex 1.

2. Rationale for Bank involvement

         The Bank is recognizedby the Government as an important partner to trying to improve
the sustainability o f the pension system and to improve the effectiveness and efficiency o f social
protection programs in FYR Macedonia. In pensions, the Bank has supported a broad range o f
reforms, from parametric changes in the existing pension system to the introduction o f the
mandatory funded second pillar. Also, along with the policy design, the Bank has been
supporting the reforms o f management and administrative practices inpension system, including
the administration o f pension contributions and improved record-keeping on pension benefits
through the creation o f individual pension accounts.

         So far, the World Bank has been supporting the Government o f FRY Macedonia (GOM)
by providing technical advice through several Bank-financed investment projects as well as
through broader adjustment lending.                The proposed Project would build on previous Bank
operations (SRTAP, SSAC, PERTAP, SSP, HSTP, PSMAC) and analytical work, including the
FY99 Poverty Assessment, FYOO PEIR, FY02 CPAR, the FY03 CFAA and FY03 CEM. The
project would also assist the Government inmeeting the policy conditionalities identified under
the forthcoming PSMAL, the adjustment operation currently under preparation.

         Even though there are other donors currently supporting different areas o f the pension
and social protection programs reforms, the scope o f their support i s limited. The World Bank
has broad experience in these areas and it can provide the necessary resources for the
implementation o f the planned reforms. The proposed project would address a strong need for

  The Law on Local Self Government (2002) and the draft Law on Financing Units of Local Self Government
(2003) delineate competencies to be performed by municipalities. Article 22 o f the Law on Local Self Government
states that municipalities shall have responsibilities for kindergartens, homes for the elderly, social care for disabled
persons, children without parental care, children from single parent families, deserted children, persons exposed to
risk, persons exposed to social risk, and persons with drug and alcohol problems. These responsibilities will be
administered through the municipal CSW.


                                                             4

technical assistance, training and information systems development to support policy changes in
pensions and social protection programs. Without these investments, policy changes are not
likely to produce the desired benefits interms o f improved sustainability o f the pension system
and efficiency and effectiveness o f social protectionprograms.

3. Government Strategy

         The Government's strategy for pension and social protection system aims to address the
followingproblems:

             institutional and administrative weaknesses o f the social protection institutions and in
             the administration o fpensions, social assistance, child allowances and unemployment
             benefits;
             inefficient revenue collection, record-keeping and administration in the existing
             pension system;
             inflated unemployment numbers arising from the provision o f free health insurance
             to all registered unemployed, which reduces the population base for contributions,
             increases budget transfers for the HIF, andburdens the National Employment Bureau
             (NEB) with administrativetasks o fproviding health insurance documentation for the
             unemployed which detract from the development o f strategic employment policy and
             the provision o f active labor market services;
             long-term unsustainability o f the pension system; and
             poor targeting andadministration o f social protectionprograms.

4. Higher levelobjectives to which the project contributes

         The project would directly contribute to GOM's objectives o f economic development,
poverty reduction and the promotion o f social stability, and it would support the following goals
identified inthe recent CAS2:

    (i)      promote the efficient management o f public resources, strengthen public expenditure
             management andtackle corruption;
    (ii)     improve the quality, efficiency and effectiveness o f social protectionprograms; and
    (iii)    promote social cohesion, buildhumancapital, and protect the most vulnerable.

         The proposed project would contribute to all o f these goals through support to the
Government's strategy, one o f which is the creation o f a sustainable system o f social protection,
with improvements inthe design, management and targeting o f social assistance, social services
and labor market programs, andincreased efficiency o f the pension system.




  Stand alone CAS (Report Number-R2003-0153)was presented to the Board on September 9,2003.



                                                   5

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

1. Lendinginstrument

       The proposed project would be financed through a Specific Investment Loan (SIL) o f
US$ 9.80 million and by Government contribution o froughly US$ 1.38 million for the financing
o f specific project activities, for recurrent operating costs, and for taxes and duties. The Bank
loan would complement reforms supported by a planned series o f programmatic public sector
management adjustment loans (PSMAL) and the associated assistance being financed by Dutch
Trust Funds. Therefore, the total project cost o f US$ 11.18 million should be viewed as part o f
the overall program to support the reform o f the social protection system in FYR Macedonia.
Annex 13 includes the PSMALpolicy matrix which the proposed project supports. At this point,
no additional financing from donors is confirmed although possibilities o f donor parallel
financing are being explored.

2. Projectdevelopmentobjectiveand key indicators

       The objective o f this proposed project are to improve the effectiveness and efficiency o f
social protection system through improved administration and long-term sustainability o f the
pension system and improvedtargeting and administration o f cashbenefits.

Key Indicators:

       Project performance would be assessedthrough a number o f qualitative assessments and
quantitative indicators. The specified indicators would be regularly monitored and evaluated
through a management information system in the Policy Unit o f the MLSP. The following
indicators would be used to assess project performance:

       new business processes inthe PDF andthe MAPAS implemented;
       monthly reporting on pension contributions paid on individual basis introduced and
       individual pension accounts established;
       rate o f collection o fpension contributions improved;
       further pension reform measures identified and implemented to improve long-term
       sustainability, adequacy and transparency o f the pension system, including the changes in
       disability pensionpolicies and the treatment o f special groups o fprivileged beneficiaries;
       increased public knowledge on pensionreform and social protection programs;
       short- and long-term actuarial models for the pension system developed and Actuarial
       unit (PDF), Policy Unit (MLSP), MAPAS andMinistryof Finance (MOF) staff trained
       in modeling of the social protection systems, monitoring performance and developing
       policyoptions;
       Policy Unit inthe MLSP fully staffed (5 staffmembers) andoperational;
       financial and administrative structures for management o f cash benefits, social services,
       and employment and labor market policies developed and implemented, and staff skills
       and capacities enhanced;




                                                   6

(ix)   monitoring and evaluation system established, information and data management system,
       budget, accounting, audit and financial system, and inspection and quality assurance
       function established;
(x)    improved information management system is in place and is being used for its intended
       purposes, technical data management protocols and standards developed; and business
       processes developed anduser requirements established.

3. Projectcomponents

       The proposed project includes three components: (i)     pension system administration; (ii)
social protection program support; and(iii) management, monitoring and evaluation.
                                            project

COMPONENT 1: PENSIONSYSTEM ADMINISTRATION (US$7.99 million)

       This component would improve the long-term sustainability o f the pension system
through improving the administration and efficiency o f the existing pension system institutions;
increasing the efficiency and effectiveness in collection o f pension contributions through the
introduction of a monthly pension contribution record-keeping on the individual basis; building
regulatory and supervisory capacities in the newly formed MAPAS and custodial capacities in
the NBRM; and improving public knowledge o f the pension system through an extensive public
education campaign. This component includes four sub-components:

        Sub-component 1: Governance and management reform in the PDF. This sub-
component would improve the governance and management o f the PDF through the
implementation o f sound business plans/processes and improved financial management
practices, improved human resource management, development and implementation o f an
internal and external communication strategy for the PDF, as well as strengthening o f policy and
actuarial analysis capacities in the PDF. This sub-component would also provide assistance to
the PDF inthe analysis o f current disability pensionpolicy andpractices, as well as the practices
with respect to pension treatment o f specific types o f pension beneficiaries and identification o f
policy and administrative options for the improvements o f those practices. Also, this sub-
component would support the design and the implementation o f the reform o f the pension
contribution collection system and the introduction o f the individual accounts o f pension
contributors.

        Sub-component 2: Pension Supervision Agency (MAPAS) Development. This sub-
component would provide the support to the MAPAS in: (i)          development o f the regulatory
framework needed for proper functioning of the funded pension system; (ii)design and
implementation of the MAPAS business processes and MAPAS capacity building; and (iii)
enhancement ofpublic understanding o fthe funded pension system.

        Sub-component 3: MLSP Capacity Building for Pension System Analysis, Policy
Development and Public Education.           This sub-component would support the MLSP in:
@identification o f policy options and preparation o f draft pension legislation; (ii)     capacity
building for pension system analysis and the development o f future policy options; and the (iii)
preparation and implementation o f the integrated pension reform public education campaign,



                                                 7

including organization o f training, workshops and seminars, printing and distribution o f the
educationmaterials, and other activities as needed.

       Sub-component 4: Pension system custody capacity development at the NBRM. This
sub-component would support the development o f the Custody Department within the National
Bank o f the Republic o f Macedonia (NBRM) for the custody over the second pillar pension
assets. Inparticular, the component would provide support to the NBRMin: (i)        identification o f
business processes and adequate organizational structure for the development o f Custodial
Department; (ii)  preparation o f rules and regulations related to custody over the second pillar
pension assets, their evaluation, record-keeping and other custody-related activities; and (iii)
provision o f specialized training o f the Custody Department staff on the issues relevant to
Department's activities.

COMPONENT2: SOCIAL PROTECTION PROGRAMSUPPORT(US$2.58 million)

       This component would support the implementation o f social protection reforms and the
development o f technical and organizational capacities for policy formulation and mechanisms
to improve resource management and service delivery inthe MLSP and its strategic departments.
Inparticular, this component would support the development andrefinement o f overall strategic
goals, institutional mandates, financial and business planning; strengthen information
management and technological capacities in social protection institutions; harmonize data
systems across key MLSP departments and social protection institutions; establish key indicator
data to support policy formulation and monitoring o f program implementation; and capacity
building for decentralization modeling, policy feed-back and communication with the public.
The component includes two sub-components:

       Sub-component1: Policyframework for streamlined, cost effective and better targeted
cash benefits, implementation of local social planning and deinstitutionalization of social
work services, and establishment of inspection, supervision and quality assurancefunctions.
This sub-component would support the development o f strategic directions and options to
improve streamlining and financial management o f cash benefits (social assistance, child
allowances, disability allowances, home care allowances, special allowances etc); reorganization
and consolidation o f roles and functions o f MLSP and social protection institutions;
improvements in the balance o f technical and organizational responsibilities for the
administration o f cash benefits and the delivery o f broader range o f social work services
(including the development o f plans diversification o f community provision, licensing pricing
and quality control o f residential services, service partnerships with for profit and not-for-profit
actors in line with legislative requirements); and improvements in the administrative interface
management between CSW and local employment offices o f the NEB. In particular, the sub-
component will support the formulation o f social assistance policy; models for the decentralized
management o f social protection, interface between the cash benefit regime and labor market
measures managed by the NEB; design o f technical and organizational options for reform and
the formulation o f operational structures for monitoring and reviewing cash benefits and social
work services; and establishment o f a consolidated inspection and quality assurance function.




                                                  8

         Subcomponent 2: Information management systems and IT capacity strengthening.
This sub-component would strengthen the information management systems and information
technology capacity o f institutions and departments in charge o f the administration o f cash
benefits, the delivery o f social services and the interface between cash benefits managed by
CSW and active employment measures managed by the NEB. The sub-component would
support the design and implementationo fbusiness plans/processes relatedto the development o f
integrated system for administration o f social protection programs;      harmonization o f data
systems across key institutions and the development o f IT data transfer systems and
communication links between the MLSP and other institutions within the social protection
system, including data protection and security system upgrade o f the equipment and data
communications networks; as well as training on sound information management practices and
communication and information technology development.

COMPONENT 3: PROJECT MANAGEMENT, MONITORING AND EVALUATION
(US$0.51 million)

         This component would ensure effective administration and implementation of the project
by supporting the operation o f a Project Management Unit (PMU) which would report to the
Minister o f Labor and which would be responsible for all the day-to-day project implementation
activities, including procurement, disbursement and accounting finctions. Bank financing (US$
0.32 million) would be provided for consultants inthe PMU, as well as assistance andtraining to
all project staff, project audits, and some office equipment and incremental operating costs.
The Government would contribute to this component by financing the salary of the Project
Director, recurrent operating costs and taxes and duties.

         This component would also ensure effective monitoring and evaluation o f project
activities, achievements and outcomes during and after project implementation. The Policy Unit
which is already established inthe MLSP would provide assistance for this monitoring and work
jointly with the PMU staff. The Policy Unit currently has two full-time staff and the project
would support capacity buildingo fthe Unit through Government financing o f one more fill-time
staff and through Bank financing o f two additional staff for an initial period o f two years, until
September 1,2006. Subsequently, these two staff would be financedbythe Government budget.

4. Lessonslearnedand reflectedinthe projectdesign

         The proposed project would build on efforts made under the previous Bank operations
(SRTAP, SSAC, PERTAP, SSP, HSTP, PSMAC).                 While much was achieved under those
projects, especially with respect to the pension system reform preparations, the social protection
sector continues to face serious challenges that would be addressed under the proposed project.
The design o f the proposed project is based on the lessons o f the previous project as well as on
lessons from other similar Bankoperations. These include:


    0    Government ownership and active involvement by Government ministries and agencies
         in project implementation is crucial for project success and sustainability.       Strong
         commitment and ownership needs to include both the technical and middle level
         management and staff. The Government ownership of the SPIL project is reflected inthe



                                                 9

       active participation in the project design o f a broad group o f officials and staff o f the
       MLSP and social protection institution through their participation in the Steering
       Committee andWorking Group activities.
   0   Timetable for implementation should be realistic and flexible, to allow political risks to
       be managed. Duringthe preparations o f SPIL a detailed critical path analysis (CPA) was
       prepared to facilitate project management. Three versions, high-, low-case and base, of
       the CPA are developed andregularly updated to assist inanticipating possible differences
       inthepaceoftheproject.
   0   For complex reforms that take years to implement, such as the pension reform, the
       political economy plays a crucial role.     It is, therefore, important to build a broad
       consensus for the reform. Experience from other countries (e.g. Croatia) shows that a
       well designed and implemented educational campaign is critical inbuildinga consensus.
       Such a campaignwould be supported under the SPIL.
   0   The parametric reforms o fthe pension system should not be neglected due to focus on the
       funded pillars. Failure to do so might result inan overall decrease o f political support to
       the systemic reform caused by lower total contributions inthe first pillar (e.g. the case in
       Kazakhstan). To avoid this, the pension system modelling tools would be developed and
       staff inthe MLSP, the PDF and the MAPAS would be trained inusingthose models for
       the identification o f measuresthat might be considered for further policy modifications.

   0   Project managementhoordination arrangements were              completed during project
       preparation to ensure that once the project is approved, implementation can start without
       delays.
   0   Monitoring and evaluation is a key to project success; therefore, this project places great
       emphasis on strengthening the MLSP policy analysis and data gathering capacity.

5. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection

       The project was originally designed to include health sector reforms in order to benefit
from synergies related to the improvements in social contribution and revenue collection for the
extra budgetary funds, improvements in financial management, and strengthening governance
and oversight arrangements, in addition to the work on unemployment and health insurance.
However, following the recommendations of the Quality Enhancement Review, during the
Project Concept review meeting, it was decided to split the combined project into separate
Healthand Social Protectionprojects.

       Overall, the decision to support this proposed investment project i s in line with major
Government objectives for social protection sector supported by the PSMAL. The objectives o f
these loans would not be met without an investment type operation since the reforms in social
protectionrequire considerable investments inpolicy development, information systems, training
and consultant services.     Therefore, a Bank-financed investment project would ensure best
internationalpractice and experience inmeeting Government goals.




                                               10

C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Partnershiparrangements

        Given the limited borrowing capacity o f the Government, the Bank has sought partners
among other bilateral and multilateral donors who would provide technical and financial
assistance to the Government for the continuation o f the reforms in pension system and social
protection programs. More specifically, on behalf o f the Government, the Bank has discussed
possible co-financing arrangements for the SPIL with potential donors. Bilateral donors who
have so far been committed to support the continuation o f the reform activities in the pension
area include the Dutch Government andUSAID.

        Prior Bank assistance to the Government in the area o f pensions and social protection
during the preparation of this project has received strong support from the Dutch Government.
Inparticular, inthe context ofBank financedPSMAC andPSMAL, a significant portion ofthe
Dutch Trust Fund was allocated to support the administrative reform o f the Pension and
Disability Insurance Fund (PDF). The related activities included the preparation o f the reform
implementation plan, conducting o f the capacity assessment and feasibility study to determine
the responsibilities for collecting and managing pension contributions, design o f strategic and
business planning process, purchase o f the IT equipment to support the human resource
management and amendment o f the laws to enable the requirement for individual reporting on
pension contributions on a monthly basis. While SPIL would support the implementation o f
pension reform and improvements in the main social protection programs, co-financing by the
Dutch Government i s being discussed.         This fhding would ensure additional technical
assistance andinstitution buildingsupport inbothpensions and social protection programs.

        USAID has had a long history o f supporting the pension system reform in FYR
Macedonia, focusing particularly on the preparation for the public education campaign and
capacity building in the MAPAS. In addition, USAID has been assisting the Government in
developing capital markets as critical condition for future enactment o f the new pension system.
USAID has expressed an interest to continue supporting the MAPAS institution building and
strengthening o f its regulatory and supervisory functions, development o f capital market and
public education activities relatedto the second pillar.

        The SPIL activities related to improvement o f the social work and social services
delivery to vulnerable population groups and tackling poverty will be coordinated and some
activities conducted jointly with partner agencies. This may include decentralization in the
delivery o f services andtheir restructuring and transformation into community services and care,
residential services and partnerships with NGOs and other not for profit actors.

2. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

        The proposed project implementation arrangements would buildon the existing elements
such as the Pension Reform Implementation Council, the Pension Reform Implementation
Group, and the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) within the MLSP which has been responsible




                                                 11

for the preparation o f the project on behalf o f the MLSP. This unit has also benefited from the
experience and lessons learned duringthe implementation o fPERTAP.

         The proposed project implementation arrangements place an emphasis on continued
strengthening o f the MLSP capacity, which would also contribute to long-term sustainability of
knowledge and skills inthe MLSP once the proposed project is completed.

         The project would have two working groups to coordinate the preparation o f the
respective reforms and their implementation. The Pension Reform Working Group, chaired by
the Pension Reform Coordinator, and including the SPIL Project Director, the directors o f the
PDF and MAPAS and the representative from the MOF, NBRM and Securities Exchange
Commission has already been established and is organizing regular weekly meetings. All o f the
institutions involved in this Working Group have been instrumental inproviding support during
the preparation o f the project and have also benefited from the participation in the Working
Group.

         A separate Social Protection Working Group will established to coordinate the
preparation and implementation o f the improvements in social protection programs. The Group
will be chairedbythe Head o fthe Department for SocialProtection, and it will includethe SPIL
Project Director, the State Advisor, the Heads o f all units within the MLSP Department for
Social Protection, the directors o f the NEBthe ISA, and the representative o f the MOF.

         The MLSP will be the main implementing agency for the project. A project management
unit (PMU) will be established within the MLSP on the basis o f the PCU and it will include
current PCU SPIL Project Director and three current project staff. The establishment o f the
PMU and the finalization o f all project management arrangements was a condition o f
Negotiations. Inaddition, it is planned that another two staff members will be hired to work on
procurement and disbursement.

         The PMUwill report to the Minister ofMLSP andto the SPIL Project Director andit will
be responsible for all the day-to-day project implementation activities financed by the project,
including all procurement, disbursement and accounting functions o f the project.          Specific
activities and responsibilities o f the PMU will include inter alia: (i)   coordination o f overall
project implementation activities for all components and sub-components o f the projects as
specified in the Project Operational Manual (POM); (ii)    preparation o f all the necessary project
implementation documents to ensure effective planning o f project activities, as well as definition
o f goods and services to be procured; (iii)preparation o f all necessary project documentation on
procurement and financial management issues; (iv) ensuring effective monitoring and evaluation
o f project achievements and outcomes during the project, and manage a monitoring and
evaluation budget; (v) coordination with other relevant agencies and beneficiaries involved in
project implementation; and (vi) preparation o f progress reports in accordance with the
provisions o f the Loan Agreement.




                                                   12

3. Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes/results

       Project monitoring during the course o f project implementation and after the project has
been completed would be carried out by the PMU staff, with the assistance and guidance
provided by the Policy Unit which is already established in the MLSP. This would entail
monitoring project performance indicators for the duration o f the project (per agreed indicators-
Annex 3), establishing a plan for M&E activities o f the MLSP, and agreeing with the Bank on
the evaluation studies to be conducted prior to the completion o fthe project.

       The project places a special emphasis on increasing the capacity for monitoring and
evaluationwithin the MLSP by strengthening o f the existing Policy Unit. Currently, the unithas
two full-time staff and during the project it is envisioned that three additional staff would be
hired. One o f these staff would be financed by the MLSP and the other two staff would be
financed by the loan for two initial years o f the project. Basedon their satisfactory performance,
these two staff would be hired by the Government as MLSP staffby the project mid-termreview
date. All o f the staff o f the Policy Unit would receive training and would be responsible for
providing overall input and guidance on social protection policies based on data and analysis
they collect.

4. Sustainability

       The Government o f FYRMacedonia is aware o fthe challenges inthe pension system and
inthe social protectionprograms and is fully committed to address these challenges ina well-
planned and systematic manner. Supported bythe PHRD grant for the preparation o f this project
andadditional donor funds, the Government has already enactedthe legal framework for the new
pension system, and the preparations are well underway for the implementation o f pension
reform and for the identification o fpolicy options and implementation o f the reform o f the social
protectionprograms.

       To facilitate the activities related to pension reform, the Steering Committee for Pension
Reform and the PensionReform Working Group have been formed and are providing leadership
and ensuringthe coordination on the pensionreform implementation activities.

       Inpensions, the reform of the contribution collection should significantly contribute to
more sustainable public finances through the improvements in efficiency, transparency and
timeliness o f the public revenue system. Also, the introduction o f individual pension accounts
would improve the administration, ensure timeliness in the provision o f data, enable
improvements in collection tracking and enforcement, and make the system transparent and
ensure the access to the information to individual account holders on pension contributions paid
on their behalf.

5. Critical risks and possible controversialaspects

                Risk                    Rating                 Risk Mitigation Measures
Complex      multi-agency    project      M          A well-functioning PMU under good management
(MLSP, PDF, MAPAS, NBFW,                             would mitigate this risk in part. In addition, a
NEB, CSW, CPA), requiring joint                      Steering Committee of decision-makers meeting on


                                                   13

                 Risk                    Rating             Risk Mitigation Measures
responsibility   for   some    policy           a regular basis. Linkage to PSMAL conditions
decisions     and     implementation            could create constructive pressure for multiple
activities.                                     actorsto resolvejoint issues.
Lack o f counterpart funds                 S    Explicit agreement to have funds deposited on an
                                                annual basis will includedinthe LoanAgreement.
Continued GOM hiring freeze and            S    The project would support the engagement of the
delays in implementation of public              consultants and the capacity buildingto the staff of
sector pay decompression make it                the MLSP, MAPAS, PDF, NEBand CSW.
impossible to attract and retain
capable staff, needed in MLSP,
MAPAS, PDF, NEB, CSW
Opposition to reforms undermines          M     Public    information     efforts  during project
public support for reforms                      preparation and implementation.
Staffresistanceto                         M     Provision of education, training,      information,
                                                 equipment    as   incentives;   consultation   and
                                                 engagement with stakeholders during project
                                                preparation.
Changes of key Government                  S     Well-functioning PMU and Working Groups,
officials mightdisrupt                           continuous policy dialogue and advocacy work
implementationprocess                            would mitigate thisrisk.
MLSP does not provide accurate            M      MLSP has shown commitment to overall reform of
data on benefits; departmentsin                  cash benefits. A basic data-base on different cash
MLSP do not promote                              benefits and options for change has been developed
harmonizationof cashbenefit                      duringprojectpreparation.
definitions, protocols and standards
National Bureau o f Statistics fails to    S     Datareleaseprotocolsneedto be established as a
release Labor Force Survey and                   high-case condition underthe CAS.
Household Budget Survey data to
MLSP
MLSP plans for horizontal reforms      I  N      New legislation on the roles and responsibilities of
of social services delivery and social           CSW has been drafted, and key decision makers in
administration fail to materialize in            the MLSP have expressed support for new roles of
a timely manner and effective                    csw.
delineation of responsibility for cash
benefits and social services in CSW
fails to occur
MLSP fails to recognize need for           S     Appraisal mission and intensive consultations
effective design and development o f             during early stages of component implementation
IT capacity before applications                  will helpmitigate this risk.
software and equipment installation
can commence
MLSP lacks full cognizance of          I  M      Appraisal mission and intensive consultations
scale/scope of problems confronting              during early stages of component implementation
social protection policy and service             will helpmitigate this risk.
delivery and pressures for "quick
fix"    social   protection    reform
undermine impact of TA and
chances of sustainablereforms
Staff not actively encouraged to          M      Appointment of focal points in key departments



                                               14

               Risk                    Rating                Risk Mitigation Measures
participateintechnical training                    andestablishmentof SP Working Group.



6. Loadcredit conditions and covenants

        The following project conditions have been discussed and tentatively agreed on. These
would be confirmed duringthe project Negotiations.

Conditions of Effectiveness
0       The Project Operational Manual (POM), satisfactory to the Bank, has been adopted by
        the Borrower.

Mid-termreview date: December 2006

Financial Covenants
        The PMU will maintain a financial management system acceptable to the Bank. The
        project financial statements (which include SOEs and Special Account),will be audited
        by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and on terms o f reference acceptable to
        the Bank. The audited financial statements and audit report will be provided to the Bank
        withinsix months o fthe endo feach fiscal year or each fiscal period.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economic and financial analyses

        The proposed project would support the improvements in the administration and
sustainability o f the existing pension system, as well as continued activities related to the
buildingo fthe framework andexistingcapacities the second pillar.

        The activities supported by the project are expected to generate substantial fiscal impact
through the introduction o f the new system o f collection o f pension contributions based on
individual monthly reporting and reduced expenditures through more efficient administration o f
pension benefits in the PDF. These interventions are also expected to reduce the time-cost o f
clients through more efficient delivery o f pension services. The introduction o f the new system
for collection o f pension contributions will increase the overall rate o f collection and enable the
creation of individual accounts with records o f the contributions paid, thus resulting inincreased
transparency andimproved fiscal sustainability o f the system. Although it is difficult to estimate
the net fiscal impact that can be expected as a result o f the new system on the collection rate
increase, the experience o f other countries that have implemented such systems i s largely
positive.

        The proposed project would also support reform o f the social protection system,
including social assistance, child protection, unemployment insurance and employment support
program. The majority o f reforms include capacity building and administrative reforms as well
as improved capacities inpolicy modeling, policy analysis and monitoring. The implementation



                                                 15

and expansion o f analytical and information capacities and administrative changes within the
various agencies responsible for social protection programs is an important means o f promoting
efficiency and improved delivery o f social protection services.      While it i s not feasible to
estimate the impact o f these institutional changes in terms o f quantifiable benefits,        the
importance o fthese policytools to strengthen the policy framework cannot be underestimated.

2. Technical

         The Government's strategy for pension and social protection system aims to address the
following problems: (i)    institutional and administrative weaknesses o f the social protection
institutions and in the administration o f pensions, social assistance, child allowances and
unemployment benefits; (ii)   inefficient revenue collection, record-keeping and administration in
the existing pension system; (iii)    perverse incentives arising from provision o f free health
insurance to all registered unemployed; (iv) long-term unsustainability o f the pension system;
and (v) poor targeting and administration of social protection programs. All o f these issues are
addressed in the current project design, including the cross-cutting issue o f health insurance for
the unemployed which will also be supported through the Health Sector Reform Project (HSRP)
and the Public Sector Management Adjustment Loan (PSMAL), that are currently under
preparation.

3. Fiduciary

         It has been concluded that the financial management arrangements o f the project is
acceptable to the Bank and satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management requirements.
The financial management capacity is considered capable o f satisfactorily recording all
transactions andbalances, supporting the preparation o f regular andreliable financial statements,
and the project is subject to auditing arrangements acceptable to the Bank. While the financial
management arrangements o f the project is acceptable, the PMUshould strengthen its capacity in
the completion o f aproject financial manual.

         A Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for Macedoniahas beencarried
out in 2003.      The CFAA report concludes that the public financial management (PFM)
framework in Macedonia i s still evolving, and improvements are required in many o f the
components comprising the PFM system. In addition to establishing modem financial
institutions, the country has had to develop the skills and capacities to manage its own affairs.
Given the current state o f public financial management in Macedonia, the CFAA assesses the
global fiduciary risk to the government as substantial and the overall fiduciary risk to Bank
project funds as moderate.        Thus the Bank will support the implementation agency in
establishing an acceptable system for transaction recording andreporting as well as improving its
intemal control system. The Bank FM team will also undertake capacity building initiatives in
the area o f financial management.

         The draft Accounting and Auditing Report on the Observance o f Standards and Codes
(A&A ROSC) of June 2003 concludes that there are serious audit quality issues and absence o f
an adequate professional auditing organization and recommendsthe establishment o f a regime to
regulate the audit profession.       Accordingly, the project accounts, records and Financial



                                                 16

Statements will be audited each fiscal year, except for the first audit covering from effectiveness
date to December 31, 2005, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and in accordance
with standards andguidelines acceptable to the Bank.

        The project procurement arrangements should be strengthened inorder to ensure that the
PMU can properly fulfill its obligations as described in paragraphs 13          -  15 o f OP 11.00
Procurement.      The PMU should now institute a suitable filing system for maintaining project
and procurement records, details of which will be described in the POM, and take over
responsibilities for procurement planning and monitoring from the current PCU staff responsible
for project preparation.

        A country procurement review (CPAR) for FYR Macedonia was carried out early in
2002. The CPAR concludes that although certain progress has been made through the issue and
amendment o f a Law of Public Procurement (1998, 2002), due to the lack o f implementing
regulations there is common misapplicationo f the provisions of this Law which leads to dubious
practices and results in excessive political interference in contract award decisions in FYR
Macedonia. This has had an effect on Bank financed procurement where some P M U directors
(andprocurement staff) were unable to act effectively or make timely decisions due to political
constraints. The CPAR concludes that FYRMacedonia should be rated as a highrisk country in
respect o fthe public procurement system;

        Due to the overall weak capacity as indicatedby the findings o f the procurement capacity
assessment carried out for the project, it will be necessary to set a frequent interval for
procurement supervision, certainly at the start o f the project andparticularly for contracts subject
to post review. Notwithstanding the above, as procurement under Bank-financed projects inFYR
Macedonia has to date proved to be satisfactory, it has been decided to set higher thresholds for
prior review in order to build the existing capacity for managing public procurement. The PMU
staff will include a procurement and disbursement officer that has experience in international,
and more specifically World Bank procurement under the World Bank PSMAL project. An
action plan has been agreed to further strengthen the procurement capacity which may include
the hiringo f an additional procurement officer. Inaddition fbrther training will be provided, and
the POMwill include guidance and details o fcontract approval and supervision procedures.

4. Social

        A full social assessment addressing pensions and a rapid one addressing social assistance
andchild allowance benefits have been completed. Main findings o f those assessmentsindicate
that:


a       the project will reduce the institutional and administrative weaknesses o f the social
        protection institutions and in the administration o f pensions, social assistance, child
        allowances and unemployment benefits, thus making the system more transparent and
        easier to use for beneficiaries;


a       currently rather complicated application processes for the receipt o f SP cash benefits will
        be simplified, the documentation required streamlined, and the administration o f the



                                                 17

       applications and transparency o f the procedures improved, ensuring the increased
       responsiveness o f the systems to the needs o f its beneficiaries. The same i s true o f the
       appeal process, where the procedures are viewed as very cumbersome and lengthy;

e      the project will increase the public awareness among stakeholders o f different SP
       programs, increase an evident lack o f understandingo f basic principles beneath different
       social protection systems, ensure easy access to the information on the availability and
       the requirements for application for different cash benefits.

       The preparation o f this project placed a great emphasis on learning from the Social
Assessment. The information from the assessment provides an initial understanding and a
framework for improvements o f project implementation. Additional work is being carried out to
further improve understanding o f important aspects o f the social protection system in FYR
Macedonia, and identify key stakeholders in the system to tailor project implementation to
specific needs and circumstances and to maximize the direct and indirect participation o f key
stakeholders in designing and implementing the reforms. The reports on the findings o f social
assessmentswill be available at the PMUuponrequest.

5. Environment

       Civil works or landacquisition are not envisioned under the project.

6. Safeguard policies

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                          Yes              N o
  Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                              [I              [XI
  NaturalHabitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                          [I              [XI
  Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                             [I              [XI
  CulturalProperty (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                [I              [XI
  Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                 [I              [XI
  IndigenousPeoples (OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                 [I              Ex1
  Forests (OPBP 4.36)                                                   11              [XI
  Safety o f Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                          E l             [XI
  Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)                              [I              [XI
  Projects on Intemational Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                    [I              [XI


7. PolicyExceptionsand Readiness

       The Project Operational Manual (POM) is expected to be completed as a condition o f
project effectiveness. The procurement documents for the first year o f the project are under
preparation and are expected to be completed prior to effectiveness.

       The PMUarrangements will be built on the existing PCU inthe MLSP, and it i s expected
that the current PCU staff (Project Director and three staff) will continue working on the project
through the PMU. Also, two additional persons will be recruited to the PMU under the project




                                                18

with prior experience inprocurement and disbursement. The financial management system has
been set up and operational before the negotiations.




                                                19

                    Annex 1: Country andSector or ProgramBackground
   FYROF MACEDONIA: SOCIAL PROTECTIONIMPLEMENTATIONPROJECT

Country Overview

        Although FYR Macedonia was economically the least developed o f all the republics o f
the former Yugoslavia, and its economy contracted even further in the years immediately
following independence (GDP growth was negative (average o f -3.1 percent) and inflation
reached 400 percent), during the 1995-2000 period the country made significant progress in
macroeconomic stabilization and structural reforms. This progress was remarkable considering
the country's difficult initial conditions, its external and domestic conflicts, and the external
shocks that have hit its economy. Inthat period the economy experienced an average positive
GDP growth rate o f 2.9 percent, the inflation was reduced to 2.2 percent and fiscal deficit
declined to 0.2 percent.

        The positive trends were interruptedbythe Kosovo crisis (in 1999) and the civil conflicts
(in2001) that resulted ina significant decline ofindustrial productionand a severe deterioration
o f the fiscal balance. In 2002, the recovery o f the economy was slower than expected, with
investment remaining sluggish. The fiscal deficit o f the general budget rose to 5.7 percent o f
GDPdueto a significant increase insecurity-related expenditure anda further rise ingovernment
spending due to larger transfers to social funds, higher military spending, expansion in public
employment, higher public wages, and exceptional financing o f failed pyramid schemes.
Although in 2003 the real GDP grew by 3.1 percent, significant challenges remain to achieve
macroeconomic stability and advance toward a market economy and stable political situation that
is required to achieve sustained growth and higher living, standards for people of FYR
Macedonia.

        The NBRM has been very successful in conducting monetary and exchange-rate policy
geared at low inflation and nominal exchange-rate stability. After high inflation at the start o f
independence, the NBRM rapidly brought inflation down by pursuing a conservative monetary
policy, broadly supported (excepting 2001-2002) by a strong fiscal stance. With a return to fiscal
orthodoxy in 2003-04, low inflation should be feasible to maintain over the medium term. In
order to offset the recent expansionary fiscal policy, the NBRM has pursued a restrictive
monetary stance to mop up excessive liquidity created by fiscal deficits. Hence CPI inflation,
after higher levels in 2000-2001, fell to 1.8 percent in 2002. Current and prospective future
monetary policy i s geared to attain inflation levels close to 3.0 percent in 2003-2004.      The
NBRMmaintains an (adjustable) pegged exchange-rate regime. The last adjustment took place
in 1997 when the MKD was devalued by 16 percent. In response to devaluation pressures
reflected by rising informal market premiums, the NBRM has conducted sterilized foreign-
exchange interventions. The current level o f international reserves o f the NBRMare about Euro
800 m. or 20 percent o f GDP, a significant cushion o f international liquidity for NBRMsupport
to the current exchange-rate regime.

        The social protection programs in FYR Macedonia, which aim to alleviate a growing
incidence o f poverty and persistent high unemployment during transition, are costly, even



                                                 20

compared to other transition economies in the region. The expenditures o f the Pension and
Disability Fund (PDF) alone account for more than 10 percent o f GDP, while, together with the
unemployment insurance and social assistance programs (including health expenditures), they
represent an equivalent o f nearly a third o f GDP and comprise over two-thirds o f public
spending. The efficiency and the effectiveness o f those programs, however, remain relatively
low. The programs are generally not well targeted and the inclusion errors are high and they
often require additional transfers from the budget.

ThePension System Issues

       Duringthe 1990s, the financial situation o f FYR Macedonian pension system worsened
dramatically, due primarily to: (i)   a significant decline in contribution base, caused primarilyby
high unemployment and a large non-taxed informal economy, (ii)a large number of
beneficiaries, due to rapidly aging demographics, low retirement age and early retirement
policies widely usedinthe first years of transition; and (iii)  a generous benefit level.

        By 2001 total pension expenditures in FYR Macedonia amounted to over 9 percent o f
GDP. These expenditures are financed by a payrolltax o f 21.2percent o f gross wage, transfers
from the state budget to finance special categories o f pensions (military, farmers, employees o f
the ministry o f interior, etc.), and NEB transfers for the unemployed (5 percent) and other
revenues.

        Faced with an increased fiscal burden o f the pension system and the prospects o f its
further increase inthe future, FYRMacedoniahas taken major steps to reform its pension system
through enacting:


    0   the 2000 Law on changes and additions to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance
        (the Framework Law), which provided the framework for a multi-pillar pension system
        and sets the overall reform agenda; the Law aims at improving the long-term fiscal
        sustainability o f the state pension system andindividual's old age income security;
    0   the 2002 Law on Mandatory FullyFunded PensionInsurance, which outlines the detailed
        structure o fthe mandatory fundedprivately managed pensionpillar.

        The Law on Pension and Disability Insurance adopted in2000 established the framework
for the multi-pillar system, and introduced a number o f changes in the existing first pillar to
improve its financial sustainability. Some o fthe measures introduced include:


    0   a gradual rise inretirement ages to 64 for men and 62 for women,
    0   substitution of the current pension benefit indexation rule by a rule based on 80 percent
        inflation and 20 percent nominal wage indexation
    0   substitution o f replacement formula based on the last working years by calculation based
        on the workers' entire career
    0   reduction o f replacement ratios for workers deciding to remain in the reformed DB-
        PAYGsystem.




                                                   21

         Although the changes introduced inthe system will improve the viability o f the existing
system, further adjustments inthe PAYGOpension system policy will be necessary. The project
would support the finalization o f the pension modeling and policy analysis tools to be used for
the continuous monitoring o fthe pension system, as well as the identification o fmeasuresfor the
improvement o fthe system's performance inthe future.

         One o f the areas that has been identified as critical i s the area o f disability benefits.
Approximately 20.9 percent (52,395) o f current pensioners are classified as disability pensioners
with the average disability pension amounting to 6,249 MKD per month (54.1 percent o f the
average wage). There i s a belief that, unless effective control and enforcement mechanisms are
rapidly established, expenditures on disability pensions are likely to continue their upward trend.

         Inaddition, efforts were startedto improvethe management ofthe first pillar. PSMAL
related trust funding provides TA to MLSPPDF for the development o f a comprehensive
management program that includes a revision and modification o f PDF's accounting system to
ensure its full compliance with IAS and enable its utilization as a decision makingand document
tracking tool, improved budgeting process and a set o f internal controls that will ensure
reliability o f financial and performance reporting and compliance with applicable laws and
regulations. Inaddition, extensive TA has been provided to PDF in order to ensure preparation
o f the institutional capacity development planinthe areas o f strategic planning, business process
development, human resource management and communication. These developments and the
implementation o f the new programs, along with further policy and legislative development o f
the PAYGOpensionsystem would be further supported by SPIL.

         Also, the current system of records on contributions paid by individuals, based on single
annual report for each individual, make the compliance control difficult and belated, thus
creating an incentive for evasion. To address the issue, the Government intends to introduce a
new system for collection and record-keeping on pension contributions. The new system, based
on a monthly reporting on the contributions collected on the individual basis, will improve the
transparency and administration of the first pillar and provide the critical information for the
creation o f individual pension accounts in the second pillar. So far, the project concept
documentation was prepared, the critical path analysis is regularly updated and initial
requirements for the equipment have been prepared, and it is expected that further activities
relatedto the design o fthe system and its implementation would be supported through SPIL.

         The Law on Mandatory Fully Funded Pension Insurance stipulates the principles
regarding the operations o f the second pillar. In particular, the Law regulates management o f
contributions, the establishment and operations o f private pension companies and mandatory
pension funds, licensing requirements, marketing requirements, accounting and valuation,
reporting, fees and the investment limits for the fund's assets, guarantee mechanisms, eligibility
criteria for the custodians and the establishment o f the supervisory agency for the new pension
system.

         Participation in the second pillar will be mandatory to all new entrants into the labor
force and voluntary for others. For the second-pillar participants a pension contribution rate of
20 percent o f gross wage would split, with 13 percent still being transferred to the reformed



                                                 22

PAYGO system and 7 percent going to a new system o f pension funds managed by private
management companies. The total pension contributions for both pillars will be collected by the
PDF and the second pillar contributions transferred to pension fund managers. The PDF will
keep individual records on contributions paid for each worker on a monthly basis.

        The transition to the new two-pillar system will occur very gradually, over the next 50
years. Initially, all current workers will be given the option to join the new system. However,
since the workers will sacrifice most o f their accrued rights if they enter the two-pillar system
(only 5 years o f accruals are allowed), it is expected that only younger workers would switch,
while the older ones are likelyto remain inthe first pillar only. After about 25 years, virtually all
o f the workforce will be in the two-pillar system, and the first flows o f pensioners in the two-
pillar system will begin to appear (assuming that workers up to 40 years o f age initially switched
to the new system). Gradually, the compositiono fpensioners will change.

        Although the preparations for the implementation o f the second pillar o f the mandatory
pension system are well on its way in all institutions related to pension system, several issues
were identified that need to be addressed prior to the implementation o f the new pension system.
Those conditions include a plan for financing transition costs, a wider range o f investment
instruments available for pension funds, strengthened regulatory capacity and further elaboration
o f the mechanics o f a second pillar (including custodial functions, development o f necessary
rules and regulations, continuedpublic education, etc.). So far, progress has been made on all o f
the conditions, and further support for meeting these conditions would be provided under the
SPIL and through additional financing for the Government securities market development
providedby the DutchGovernment andthe IMF.

Issues in Other Social Protection Programs

        The main cash benefits currently operating inthe country include unemployment benefits
administered by the National Employment Bureau (NEB), various forms o f social assistance
benefits administered by the Centers for Social Work (CSW), and the child benefits which until
recently were administered by the Child Protection Department (CPD) - under new arrangements
introduced by the MLSP, child benefits will be managed CSW - and the war veteran benefits
administered bythe War Veterans Department (WVD).

        Social protectionbenefits represent a very significant amount of government expenditure,
they cover a large fraction o fthe population o fFYRMacedonia and they are an important source
o f householdrevenue. In2002, the totality o f cash benefits amounted to 2.7 percent o f GDP and
almost 9 percent o f government expenditure. Over 270,000 benefits were paid monthly to
individuals and households and it can be roughly estimated that maybe as many as 0.5 million
people live in families which receive some form o f benefits (about 25 percent o f the entire
population o f FYR Macedonia). According to the National Strategy for Poverty Reduction, in
2000 social transfers (including pensions) represented 22 percent o f total income for families.
Considering that the poverty line inFYRMacedonia is set at 70 percent o f the medianequivalent
expenditure, social transfers may account for as much as a third o f the relative poverty line.
Average monthly social protection benefits for all types o f benefits3in 2002 amounted to about

 This includes all benefits administered by the NEB, CSW, CPD and WVD.


                                                       23

2,000 MKD - which is over 10 percent o f average monthly households income for the entire
population.

        Reforms to social protection benefits gained momentum in the late 1990s despite initial
delays. Economic and political instability resulted in delayed government reforms in a number
o f areas particularly relevant for labor market functioning and social protection. The main laws
on employment, unemployment compensation, labor relations, social protection and others were
introduced only after 1997 and the first approved versions o f these laws contained significant
inconsistencies and measures not entirely relevant or useful for labor market development.
However, decrees introduced in later years and new laws resolved some o f the main
controversial issues and reforms expected to be introduced in late 2003 and early 2004 will
further improve the legal framework for labor market functioning and cash benefits
administration.

        The Government also intends to improve the equity, targeting and administration o f
social assistance. Some steps to improve the efficiency o f the targeting process and to reduce
potential abuse o f social assistanceprograms have already beentaken, with the main focus being
placed on better definition o f households to avoid the artificial division o f families in order to
qualify for benefits. There is also an increase in the frequency o f random audits and on-site
inspections. No decision on whether a household retains, or is given, social assistance benefit i s
now made without a visit to the house. Site visits are made once every 3 months. This ultimately
will reduce the number o f households receiving social assistance benefits. Very little data is
collected or analyzed, however, on the profiles o f beneficiaries, their welfare situation and
employment capabilities etc. As a result it is, and will continue to be, difficult to ascertain the
real impact o f the changes that have been introduced. To address systemic weaknesses in the
targeting o f social assistance, tighter controls inthe enforcement o f eligibility criteria will need
to be introduced, budget lines streamlined, and financial controls and evaluation systems
strengthened to control costs and track expenditures.

        In 2003, the legislation was amended and the necessary by-laws and the application
forms are currently being redrafted to improve the targeting o f child allowance. The provisions
of the new Law include: (a) the limit o f the number o f children eligible for child allowances
being removed, with a maximum ceiling established at 1,800 MKD; (b) the income levels below
which the family become eligible was set at 16 percent o f the average wage during the first six
months o f the previous year and 32 percent for single parents (special allowances for disabled
children are not tied to income levels o f the family); (c) children must participate continuously in
education; (d) the age limit is set at 18 (26 for disabled children); and (e) one member o f the
family must be employed, or getting unemployment benefit, continuous social assistance,
pension, war veteran benefits or be a farmer who pays taxes. As a result the key concerns
regarding the overall poverty impact o f the new Law remain legitimate, and the a thorough
analysis o f the child allowance program needs to be undertaken inorder to formulate a basis for
a policy reforms that will be better targeted to the poor. Also, the entire child allowances system
i s currently managed only through the paper records.

        Some progress is also evident on the practice or implementation o f labor and social
protection laws but the institutions charged with the application o f the laws still feature severe



                                                  24

deficiencies in a number o f key areas including correct implementation o f existing laws, norms
and regulations, data collection and analysis, monitoring, control and evaluation and the
distribution and management o f functions among the various organizations.

        The institutional framework o f social protectionbenefits is also rather diverse. The NEB
has evolved into a rather efficient institution in terms o f data collection and data analysis,
although it remains locked in its reform process by a rather awkward combination o f tasks not
entirely consistent with its mission that prevent this institution from focusing on what most
countries would see as the main function o f employment bureaus - active labor market policies.
The CSW instead, lag behind in terms o f organization and data collection with evident
difficulties in coordinating different types o f benefits, incapacity to correctly monitor
expenditure and remain vulnerable to fraud on the part o f both administrators and clients. The
system o f child benefits is further behind and lacks basic computer equipment, monitoring and
evaluation mechanisms and is generally less integrated into the MLSP activities.

        Centers for    Social Work (CSW) need to be strengthened professionally and
administratively. A critical determining factor in streamlining CSW roles will need to focus on
strengtheningthe management and administration o f cash benefit programs, and on the need to
develop and enhance the horizontal links between the cash benefits, employment services,
disability and social services.   The need for improved horizontal linkages is based on the
structure and content o f plans for decentralization. There is a broad range o f benefits that are
currently being administered (including permanent financial assistance to persons who are unfit
to work and not socially provided for, financial assistance to persons who are fit to work but are
not socially provided for, financial support for assistance and care, child fostering allowances,
housing allowances, one-off financial assistance, allowance for families o f military on
compulsory military service, civil disability allowances for war disabled and child guardianship),
and it will be necessary to analyze the options to streamline and consolidate the number and
range o fthose benefits.

        The existing data management system does not allow the MLSP to have a clear picture o f
beneficiaries and the expenditures on cash benefits, which are administered by CSW, are not
delineated by line item. Furthermore, review, monitoring and evaluation systems are
fundamentally weak, and independent audit and control o f cash benefits is absent.           These
systemic weaknesses are compounded by a heavy administrative workload involving household
visits to resolve complaints and appeals on benefit level decisions made by CSW staff - in2003
there were over 6000 complaints and appeals on benefit decisions. Inaddition, there has been a
large rise in one-off financial assistance payments which are administered at the discretion o f
staff inlocal CSW offices. There is no monitoring and control mechanism to verify the veracity
o f decision makingon these one-off payments or to determine whether there such payments are
appropriate.   The lack o f effective information management systems, combined with weak
management controls, leave loopholes for fraud and corruption, and generates poor value for
money.

        Social Work services are provided through a variety o f community and residential care
services. However, community-based care options for the elderly, children and the disabled are
weak. Residential care services are provided through 11institutions (fundingfor which in2002



                                                 25

accounted for 0.8 per cent o f GDP and 0.3 per cent o f total government budget).          Current
practices are dominated by two extremes - leaving clients (elderly, children and people with
disabilities) at home or placing them in an institution. Deinstitutionalizationhas been slow and
hampered by the absence o f for-profit and not-for profit service provision and the absence o f
short-term respite care and family outreach services.

        The structure for, as well as the direction andpace of, decentralization (under the Law on
Local Self Government) will be critical to the future realization o f financial efficiency and
administrative effectiveness o f social work and community based service provision. Particular
attention will need to be given to the development o f options andmodels for the decentralization
o f residential and community social work services, budget formulas and financing; the licensing,
pricing, quality control and standards inresidential services; community-based service provision
and deinstitutionalization; provision o f home care services; and partnership arrangements with
for-pro fit andnot-for-profit organizations.

        The provision o f inspection and quality assurance functions within the MLSP are weak
There is next to no supervision, inspection and quality assurance structures in place for social
work services and cash benefits. The inspection and quality assuranceroles and functions o f the
Institute for Social Affairs (ISA) - the agency formally charged with these responsibilities- vis-
&vis the MLSP is confusing and there are no formal standards, incentives or penalties to guide
and inform the inspection and supervision process. Also, due to currently small involvement of
clients inthe design and delivery o f social work and community-based services, their govemance
end accountability systems are weak or non existent. There will be a need to develop coordinated
inspection and quality assurance functions - and appropriate technical standards and information
systems - across both cash benefits and social services, and appropriate interfaces developed
with inspection functions in the National Employment Bureau (NEB). The need for co-
ordination with the NEB is most pronounced at the interface between social assistance benefits
and the employment status o f clients. Co-ordination is currently impeded by the absence o f a
common data base andcommunications network.

         The weak interface between social assistance benefits and monitoring the employment
status o f beneficiaries is compounded by the distribution o f responsibilities between the NEB
andthe HealthInsurance Fund(HIF). Healthinsurance benefits-administered through a system
o f "blue coupons'' - for the unemployed are financed through budget transfers from the
Government and are intended to cover only unemployed people who are eligible for
unemployment insurance in view o f previous work history and contributions to unemployment
insurance. But the overwhelming majority o f people who register as unemployed are not eligible
for unemployment benefits, and include people who are employed in the informal sector,
workers on short term or part-time contracts or self employed or recipients o f remittance income
from the earnings abroad o f a household member. These people have a strong incentive to
register as unemployed primarily in order to obtain free health coverage. This presents a
formidable administrative burden, as the NEB and its network o f local offices are charged with
distributing sets of "blue coupons" for health insurance benefits to the 230,000 registered
unemployed, regardless of their actual employment status. It also has adverse fiscal
consequences, as chronic deficits in the Employment Fund compel the Government to pay




                                                  26

transfers to the Fund to cover the premiums o f people who are in a position to make
contributions on their own.

        To reduce the costs o f administering these benefits, the Government has contracted a
consultant to propose alternative procedures for issuing insurance cards. Addressing the problem
o f collection enforcement will be more complicated. One solution to this problem would be
strengthen the ability o f employment bureaus to distinguishlegitimately registered unemployed
job seekers, from persons who are not participants inthe workforce andpersons who are working
informally. Illegitimate claimants could thereby be cut from the rolls and forced to either make
contributions or go without health insurance. But tougher enforcement alone will not solve the
underlying policy issue. Some changes inthe law would be needed to create clearer obligations
for short-term or part time workers to pay social contributions. As long as the Government is
committed to universal health care, it will have to find a means which either oblige citizens to
pay contributions or provide finance for healthcare for citizens who cannot be forced to pay
(through payroll deductions) either because o f low income or because they choose not to do so
voluntarily.

        There are a variety o f solutions to this problem. On one hand, the Government could
create the legal and administrative basis to aggressively to pursue HIF contributions from
informal workers, the self employed, and families deriving income from remittances.
Alternatively, it could recognize the difficulty o f raising revenues from these groups, and cover
the HIF's costs through explicit transfers from the budget. It could do both-subsidizing       the
health insurance premiums o f these two groups from the general budget, while still requiring
some level o f beneficiary contribution. For the present, the Government intends to pursue the
former strategy. Using Bank-managed Dutch Trust Funds, the Government has contracted an
external expert to analyze options and prepare recommendations for broadening the base and
improving the collectiono fhealth insurance contributions

        The IT systems necessary for supporting the vertical interface between municipal CSW,
and the MLSP, andbetweenthe MLSP horizontal interfaces between key institutions such as the
NEB,the tax authorities areweak. Aside from the NEB, that hasbenefitedfromprevious World
Bank and EU inputs, the IT systems supporting social protection programs are varied,
fragmented and provide only minimal levels o f automation support. The systems have been
constructed in the absence o f the overall IT policy and technical standards. Each institution
within the framework and remit o f the MLSP has developed a separate technological pathway.
Hence there are no standards or conventions for data or systems, and each departmenthnstitution
has established its own data coding standards and definitions, equipment and operating software
architecture, and numbering schemes for individuals and institutions. Although there are Local
Area Networks (LANs) at certain locations, there i s no networking and no data communications
among key departments and institutions either on vertical or horizontal levels. Also, current
information management systems are not adequate or sufficient for the protection, back-up and
recovery o f sensitive personal information; and given absence o f standards and coordination o f
data opportunities for fraud are enhanced and detection inhibited.        The problem i s further
emphasizedby limitations inthe IT capacities o f staff.




                                                 27

       Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and/or other Agencies
   FYROFMACEDONIA: SOCIAL PROTECTIONIMPLEMENTATIONPROJECT

        Social Sector Adjustment Project (SSAC) was the first large adjustment operation in
the social sectors ina total amount o f SDR 21.6 million approved on July 9, 1998. The operation
set the stage for the major social sector reform agenda which included actions infive main areas:
(i) pensionsystemreformandthedevelopmentofaframeworkforthemandatoryfunded,
   public
privately managed scheme; (ii) insurance system restructuring to allow for greater cost
                                  health
containment o f the Health Insurance fund and improved quality of health care services; (iii)
unemployment insurance reform to improve the financial solvency of the employment fund and
reduce constrains to labor hiring; (iv) a fundamental change in labor legislation that eases hiring
and termination conditions andallows greater flexibility for enterprises to deviate from collective
agreements; and (v) social assistance system reform to improve equity in the level o f benefits
and strengthen the efficiency andwork incentives inthe social assistance system. Despitehigh
political instability during the project implementation, including Parliamentary and Presidential
elections (1998, 1999) and the Kosovo crisis (1999), all of the project objectives were achieved.
The reform measures were supported by two tranches o f the SSAC, released in 1998 and 2000.
The Government succeeded to launch structural reforms in the social sectors and continue to
fight poverty through its work on the PovertyReductionStrategy Paper (PRSP).

        The pension reform agenda outlined inthe SSAC was supported by the Pension Reform
TechnicalAssistance Project (PERTAP) inthe total amount o f SDR 0.75 million approved on
July 9, 1998. The pension reforms introduced through the SSAC were substantial and led
towards improved financial status o f the PDF. The depth o f these reforms received a highly
satisfactory rating in the ICR, and the support provided through PERTAP was recognized as a
critical element for the success. PERTAP was to support the design o f the reformed pension
policies and the development o f the necessary legislation, and a capacity buildinginthe MLSP
and the PDF. The amended Pension and Disability Insurance Law was enacted in2000, and the
Law on Mandatory Fully Funded Pension Insurance in 2002. The project placed a special
emphasis on institutional and capacity building to ensure that the achieved outcomes would be
sustained and the future reforms would be conducted in a professional and organized manner.
The capacity buildinghas been successful and has strengthened institutions and staff involved in
actuarial analysis o f the pension system, identification o f further pension policy reform options
and preparation o f regular reports for the Government.           The project also supported the
development o f the Critical PathAnalysis which outlined detailed steps inthe implementation o f
the reform and is still used regularly by the Pension Reform Working Group as a tool for
pension reform project management. Following the passage o f the Law on Mandatory Fully
FundedPensionInsurance, the Pension Supervision Agency was established andkey regulations
have been passed. The Agency has taken the lead role in consulting and informing financial
marketsupervisory authorities regardingthe requirements andimplication o fthe pensionreform.
Yet, detailed analysis and constructive inputs from relevant authorities and international
advisors, followed up with IT investments, remain critical for further development o f the
regulatory framework for the new pension system, capital markets development, custody
capacities development as well as continued MAPAS institutionbuildingand further elaboration
of the mechanics o f the second pillar. he ICR assessed the outcomes o f PERTAP as highly
satisfactory.



                                                 28

         The need for further improvements inthe administration o fthe public pension system and
the development o f the capacities within the PDF to administer tasks essential to the
implementation o f the second pillar have been supported bythe DutchTrust Fundadministered
as a part o f the World Bank PSMAUPSMAL operation aimed at the overall public sector
management reform. The Dutch TF became effective inDecember 19,2000 and US$1.0 million
(out o f total o f US$ 3.75 million) were allocated for the administrative reform o f the PDF. In
effect, the reform implementation plan was prepared, capacity assessment and feasibility studyto
determine the responsibilities for collecting andmanagingpension contributions were conducted,
strategic and business planning process was designed, the IT equipment to support the human
resource management was purchased and the laws were amended to enable the requirement for
individual reporting on pension contributions on a monthly basis (the Pension and Disability
Insurance Law had to be amended, andthe Law on Records from the Labor Area and the Law on
Personal Records o fthe InsuredPersons and Pension andDisability Insurance enacted).

        The first investment project in the social protection area was the Social Reform
Technical Assistance Project (SRTAP), approved in May 1995 in amount o f US$ 14 million.
This investment operation addressedthe issues related to first stabilization and economic reform
program, including privatization and restructuring o f socially owned enterprises (SOEs). While
the Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit (FESAC) supported policy reform in the
enterprise, banking and social sectors and established appropriate policy setting for enterprise
restructuring program, specific investments were needed in several areas to implement this
program.     The SRTAP supported the Government in dealing with social dimensions o f the
reform. The objectives o f the SRTAP were to facilitate the restructuring o f the SOEs through
reduction o f the individual and community impacts o f worker dislocation; improve the delivery
of social benefits and collection o f payroll contributions for social benefits; improve public
awareness o f the rationale for reform policies, and support the continuing implementation o f the
restructuring program. All SRTAP objectives were met and the project performance was rated
satisfactory by the OED. The outcome o f this prject increased awareness o f the need for
continuation o f restructuring o f the remaining non-privatized SOEs through the Social Support
Project.

         To address social and economic impact o f enterprise restructuring, bankruptcies and labor
restructuring o fmajor SOEs and economic disruption caused by the Kosovo conflict in 1999, the
Bank Board approvedthe Social Support Project (SSP) intotal amount o f SDR 7.5 million on
June 29, 1999.      The first phase o f enterprise restructuring that commenced in 1994 was
supported by the Social Reform Technical Assistance Project (SRTAP), and the SSP was
designed to ensure continuation o f the efforts undertaken under that project. The SSP provided
severance payments to workers displaced in the process o f restructuring and facilitated their
redeployment, as well employmenthedeployment o f long-term unemployed and first time job
seekers. The project focused on improved targeting o f social benefits and the effectiveness o f
social protection programs and on MLSP capacity development for evaluation o f social
protection and labor market programs inorder to improve the program effectiveness. As a result
o f this effort, a Policy Evaluation Unit (PEU) was established and fully integrated in the
Ministry's regular work.      The PEU is gradually undertaking the responsibilities for policy
analysis and has so far developed a limited capacity for modeling, monitoring and forecasting



                                                 29

social protection programs. This capacity would be further developed under the SPIL. The
MLSP , in general, has, yet, to strengthen evidence based policy making implying increased
technical quality o f policy formulation, management information systems and IT infrastructure.
There are also significant needs for fbrther interventions in improved administration o f various
social benefits programs which include mixtures o f cash benefits, unemployment support
measures, social services and institutional care. The programs are still facing fiscal pressures
which can be reduced by further improvement of tagetting and ensuring               administrative
consistency across various programs.

        The HD portfolioin FYR Macedonia to date contains another few, relatively recently
initiated, operations with potential linkages to SPIL andmutual reinforcing objectives :

        Community Development Project (CDP) a SIL in total amount of SDR 4.1 million,
was approved in May 30, 2002. The main development objective o f this project is to provide
support to the Government o f FYR Macedonia in its post-conflict development efforts aimed at
reducing poverty, fostering social cohesion amongst its people and helpingbuildinglocal social
capital in former areas o f conflict. To attain this objective, a focus o f the project will be on
piloting o f small-scale community based initiatives in selected communities under an integrated
development framework designed to respond to priority social needs and facilitate the transition
from conflict to peace.      There are four project components.      The first component funds
community investment projects including implementing micro-projects to rehabilitate small-
scale social and economic infrastructure, finances community social services and small grants
programs. The second component builds capacity and provides TA at the micro-project level
and at local government level. The third component supports community outreach, information
dissemination andproject impact monitoring and evaluation, and the fourth one provides support
for the general administration and management o f the project. Given that the CDP will help
enhancing social protection through integrated approach to addressing the key issues o f poverty,
lack o f capacity for service delivery at the local level and need for community participation,
there are numerous areas o f complementarity and synergy between CDP and the activities
envisaged under the SPIL subcomponent on the social work services andtheir decentralization.

        Education Modernization Project (EMP) is a SIL with a total amount o f US$ 5
million, approved inDecember 16,2003. The main development objectives o f the project are to
improve quality of learning and participation at the targeted schools by strengthening school
level planningand management, and equity and efficiency for a decentralized education system.
The EMP aims at meeting some major challenges o f the education sector in FYR Macedonia
which include improving quality, increasing participation, helping education decentralization,
increasing governance capacities at all levels including school improvement, strategic and
financial planning, information management and policymaking, monitoring and assessment o f
education outcomes through setting up new procedures and structures and through training. The
EMP and the SPIL both support one o f main goals set by the CAS which is building human
capital. The long term objectives of both projects aimed at the delivery o f key social services,
with a continued focus onimproving of their quality andaccessibility.




                                                 30

 Table: OEDPerformance ratingsfor related WBfinanced HDprojects completedin the last
                                           five years

               OEDTitle                      Date        Outcome Sustainability IDImpact
 Social Reform Technical Assistance         6/6/2000         S         Likely      Substantial
 Project (SRTAP)
 Social Sector Adjustment         Credit  2/27/2001          S         Likely      Substantial
 (SSAC)
 Education     Rehabilitation     Credit    2/5/2002     Moder./    Non-evaluable    Modest
 (ERC)                                                      us
 Pension       Reform        Technical     1/28/2003        H S        Likely      Substantial
 Assistance Project (PRTAP)

        Along with the World Bank financed projects, there are currently a few projects
supported by other international agencies that have a bearing on pension and social protection
programs.

        The USAID financed Financial Sector Strengthening Project has been operational
since August 24, 2002. The project aims at providing assistance to the commercial banking
system and in investment promotion and in the building o f a viable capital market, accounting
reform and strengthened financial reporting among enterprises, pension reform to include
strengtheningo f the pillar one system anddesign andplanningwork for a pillartwo system; and
a range o f other areas to include insurance supervision, legal reform, SME finance, and NBFI
development. Inthe pension reform, the project is providing technical assistance to the MLSP
and the MAPAS in institutional development o f the MAPAS, education o f the MAPAS staff,
development o f required financial accounting, identification o f the MAPAS IT, drafting
regulations for the operation o f the second pillar, assisting the MAPAS public education efforts
pensionreform.

        The DFID Public Sector Reform program is focusing on streamlining public policy,
institutional development and civil service human resource management. The MLSP is a pilot
ministry in this program with a focus on improvements o f institutional and decision-making
structures and on human resource management in line with civil service reform objectives.
Although the program is ending in March 2005, the SPIL would build on its results in the
development o fthe MLSP PolicyUnit.

        The EU CARDS program in the NEB focuses on the development o f employment
policy in accordance with EU norms and standards; EU accession negotiations in accordance
with the social acquis; restructuring and modernization o f NEB with regard to offices,
employment services, expansion o f active labor market measures and staff training; provision o f
IT hardware and software for the NEB and for the formation o f an electronic network between
30 job clubs, and the implementation o f pilot projects linked to promoting active labor market
measures for vulnerable groups and the development o f innovative practices. The EUprogram
does not, however, focus on reform o f unemployment benefits or social assistance benefits,
which means that the EUprogram and the SPIL will need to collaborate closely to ensure key




                                                 31

policy and operational linkages between the reform and streamlining o f unemployment benefits
and social assistancebenefits andthe development of active labor market measures.




                                              32

                               Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring
    FYROFMACEDONIA: SOCIALPROTECTIONIMPLEMENTATIONPROJECT

                                            ResultsFramework

                 PDO                          OutcomeIndicators                 Use of OutcomeInformation
Improve the effectiveness and         Evidence    o f improved financial    MLSP uses the information to
efficiency o f social protection      solvency and improved effectiveness   evaluate the impact o fthe pension
systemthrough improved                o f the pension system following      system and social protection
administration and long-term          implementation      o f  the  reform programs' reforms and to identify
sustainability o f the pensionsystem  program                               measures for further stabilization o f
and improved targeting and                                                  the systems
administration o f cashbenefits       Evidence o f improved targeting and
                                      administration o f cashbenefits       PDF and Tax Authorities use the
                                                                            informationfor the enforcement o f
                                                                            pension contribution collection

                                                                            Pension contributors enabledto
                                                                            regularly control their individual
                                                                            pension account

                                                                            Information usedinpublic education
                                                                            activities

        Intermediate Results              ResultsIndicators for Each              Use of ResultsMonitoring
        One per Component                          Component
Component One: PensionSystemA ministration
Subcomponent1:                        Subcomponent1:                         Subcomponent1:
 Efficiency and transparency o fthe   Regular     monthly    reporting   on  PDF and Tax Authorities use the
PAYGO pension system increased        pension    contributions    paid   on  information for the enforcement o f
                                      individual basis     introduced and    pension contribution collection
                                      individual      pension      accounts
                                      established                            Pension contributors enabled to
                                                                             regularly control their individual
                                      Improvement      in the     rate   o f pension account
                                      collection o fpension contributions
                                                                             Informationused inpublic education
                                                                             activities
                                      Further pension reformmeasures
                                      identifiedand implementedto            Modelingusedby the decision
                                      improve long-term sustainability,      makers inthe identification o f
                                      adequacy andtransparency o fthe        further policy options
                                      pension system

                                      Actuarial models o fthe pension
                                      system developed and the MLSP,
                                      PDF and MAPAS stafftrained in
                                      using them and developing options
                                      for further policy changes
Subcomponent 2:                       Subcomponent2:                         Subcomponent2:
MAPAS regulatory and supervisory      Evidence o f established business      MAPAS uses documents as a basis
capacities improved                   processes andpractices within          for its further development
                                      MAPAS
                                                                             Information used inpublic education



                                                        33

                                      Regulatory framework established       activities

                                      MAPAS staff trained insupervisory
                                      uractices
Subcomponent3:                        Subcomponent3:                         Subcomponent 3:
MLSP capacities pension system        Evidence o f adoption anduse o f       Modelingusedby the decision
analysis, policy development and      long- and short-term pensionsystem     makers inthe identification o f
public education built                models within MLSP                     fiuther policy options

                                      MLSP staff trained inusing the
                                      model for pension system analysis
                                      and the identification o f options for
                                      furtherpolicy development
Subcomponent4:                        Subcomponent4:                         Subcomponent 4:
NBRMCustody Department                Custodial Department organizational    Usedbythe NBRMandthe MAPAS
developed and capacities built to     structure established and business     inregularday-to-day work
enable successful custodial practices processes and procedures defined,
                                      adopted and inuse

                                      Pension fund custody rules and
                                      regulations developed andused.

                                      NBRMCustodyDepartment staff
                                      trained incustody issues
ComponentTwo: Social Protection rogramSupport
Subcomponent 1:                       Subcomponent 1:                        Subcomponent 1:
Strengthened efficiency o f the cash  Financial and administrative           Usedbythe MLSP intechnical
benefit regime, and the interface     structures for coherent management     policy review reports on cash
with employment policies              o f cashbenefits, and employment       benefits, and social administration-
                                      and labor market policies developed    particularly local social planning
                                      andimplemented, andstaff skills        decentralization andplans for
                                      and capacities enhanced                deinstitutionalization; inspection,
                                                                             controland quality assurance
                                      Monitoring and evaluationsystem
                                      established, information and data
                                      management system, budget,
                                      accounting, audit and financial
                                      system, and inspectionand quality
                                      assurance function established
Subcomponent2:                        Subcomponent 2:                        Subcomponent2:
Effective and efficient information   Evidence      that    an      improved Datausedby the social protection
management system established and     information management system i s      institutions
IT capacities enhanced                in place and is being used for its
                                      intendedpurpose

                                      Technical data management
                                      protocols and standards developed

                                      Business process development and
                                      user requirements established

                                      Applications software developed for
                                      financelaccountingl payments
                                      eligibility and case management etc.

                                      New equipment and operating



                                                        34

                                    software installed and inuse

                                    Evidence that network equipment
                                    and communications capabilities
                                    have been installed and are inuse
Component Three: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
Subcomponent 1:                     Subcomponent 1:                     Subcomponent 1:
Project management, monitoring and  P M U staff trained inprocurement,  Project managementreports guide
evaluation systems established and  disbursement, accounting,           project implementation process
the project effectively managed,    monitoring and evaluation functions
implementation and outputs          needed for successful
monitored and evaluated            Iimplementation o f the project




                                                      35

      I 1   I




                  -x


 M
 d
.CI
 be
 0
.I
Y


-R
 E j:
Ym




e2h

 8&
Ym    I     I




2E
 d




      /EI*  II

     I2
i




22


                             Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription
   FYROFMACEDONIA: SOCIAL PROTECTIONIMPLEMENTATION PROJECT

       The proposed project would consist o f three components: pension system administration,
social protectionprograms support and the project management component. The total cost o fthe
project is estimated at US$11.18 million, o f which US$ 9.80 million would be Bank financed.
The project components would be as follows:

COMPONENT 1: PENSIONSYSTEMADMINISTRATION (US$7.99 million)

       This component would support activities to improve the long-term sustainability o f the
pension system through increasing the efficiency and effectiveness in collection o f pension
contributions, introducing a monthly pensioncontribution record-keepingon the individualbasis,
improving the administration and efficiency o f the existing pension system institutions, building
regulatory and supervisory capacities in the newly formed MAPAS and custodial capacities in
the NBRM, and improving public knowledge o f the pension system through the extensive public
education campaign. It would include the following sub-components:

Subcomponent 1: Governance and management reform in the PDF

       This sub-component would support: (i)the implementation o f the newly developed
business plans/processes; (ii)improved financial management practices, including accounting
and budgeting system, internal and external audit, internal controls measures, etc.; (iii) human
resource management, including the development o f the HR unit within the PDF, assistance and
training o f HR staff, continued development and implementation o f the HR strategy for the PDF
and related information system, and training o f PDF management and staff; (iv) development
and implementation of the PDF internal and external communication strategy; (v) design o f
processes and preparationo f regulations needed for the improvements incollection, enforcement
and control o fpension contributions andreporting on those contributions; (vi) IT development to
support new business processes related to core first pillar and the new system's functions andthe
development o f the IT communication links between the PDF and other institutions within the
pension system, professional training o f IT staff; training o f end-users; (vii) strengthening o f
policy and actuarial analysis capacities in the PDF; (viii) identification and implementation o f
the data protection and security system; (ix) analysis o f current disability pension policy and
practices and identification o f the options for its improvements; and (x) analysis o f current
practices with respect to pension treatment o f specific pensionbeneficiaries.

Subcomponent2: Pension Supervision Agency (MAPAS)Development

       The sub-component would provide the support to the MAPAS in: (i)       development o f the
regulatory framework needed for proper functioning o f the funded pension system, including the
support in development o f the voluntary pension system, annuity payments and program
withdrawals legislation, regulations on collection o f contributions, custodian, pension fund
investments, asset valuation, payment o f pensionbenefits, etc.; (ii) and implementation of
                                                                     design
the MAPAS business processes; (iii)    MAPAS capacity building in supervision o f the funded
pension system in line with the best practices in pension fund supervision, including risk



                                                 39

management, portfolio supervision, financial performance and reporting o f fund managers,
macroeconomic and actuarial analysis, etc. (iv) specialized training o f the MAPAS staff,
including in-house training, seminars, workshops, specialized training courses (like the CPA,
risk management courses, etc.), study tours; (v) MAPAS information system development to
support the business processes and the development o f the IT communication links with other
institutions within the pension system, professional training o f MAPAS IT staff and end-user
training; and (vi) enhancement o fpublic understanding o f funded pension system.

Subcomponent 3: MLSP Capacity Buildingfor Pension System Analysis, Policy Development
and Public Education

         This sub-component would support: (i) MLSP capacity building for pension system
                                                 the
analysis, including the update o f short- and long- term pension model, training the MLSP, PDF
andMAPAS staff to use those models, prepare simulations and perform analysis o f the pension
system and to build capacities for policy development and identification o f policy options and
preparation o f draft pension legislative; (ii)
                                             public opinion surveys on pensionreform; (ii) design
and implementation o f an integrated public education strategy for pension reform; (iii)  design,
preparation, production and distribution o f educational materials to support public information
andeducation activities assisting the public inunderstandingtheir rights andresponsibilitieswith
respect to the second pillar and to secure public confidence in the system; (iv) pension reform
public education activities, including preparation and organization o f workshops and seminars
aimed at public education on pension reform; (v) training, workshops and study tours for the
MLSP, MAPAS and PDF staff working on the reform; and (vi) development o f communication
programs o f the MLSP, MAPAS and PDF staff.

Subcomponent 4: Pension system custody capacity developmentat the NBRM

         The sub-component would support the development o f the Custody Department within
the National Bank o f the Republic o f Macedonia (NBRM) for a custody over the second pillar
pension fund assets. Inparticular, the component would provide support for the: (i)  assistanceto
the NBRM in identification o f necessary business processes and development o f the adequate
organizational structure for the development o f Custodial Department, preparation o f necessary
rules and regulations related to custody over the pension funds' assets, their evaluation, record-
keeping and other custody-related activities; (ii)equipment and software to support the
Department's business processes and procedures, including the specialized software package for
custodial services and the development o f the IT communication links with pension fund
management companies and the MAPAS; and (iii)specialized training o f the NBRM Custody
Department staff on the issues relevant to Department's activities, including in-house training,
seminars, workshops, specialized training courses andstudy tours.

COMPONENT2: SOCIAL PROTECTIONPROGRAMSUPPORT(US$2.58 million)

         This component will support effective implementation o f social protection reforms
supported under PSMAL and the development o f technical and organizational capacities in the
MLSP and its strategic departments with responsibility for cash benefits, social services, labor
and employment, to formulate strategies andmechanisms to improve resource management and



                                                40

service delivery. The technical assistanceprovided inthis component will facilitate the problem
solving process as interactive tasks and processes with counterparts.         Key features o f this
component include knowledge transfer, learning by doing, and technical capacity building. The
component will support development and refinement o f overall strategic goals, institutional
mandates, financial planning, and business planning.         Public consultations, with the most
vulnerable, are o f critical importance if the social protection system is to effectively serve all
population groups. The component will help buildsystemic capacity to undertake consultations,
provide policy feed-back, and communicate with the public. In addition, the component will
help strengthen information management and technology capacity o f the beneficiary institutions
aimed at: harmonizing data systems across key departments and agencies o f the MLSP through
the establishment o f data and technology standards; and strengthen IT support capacity o f the
departments and agencies through technology training, and up-grading o f equipment and data
communications networks; and establish key indicator data for all department and agencies to
support policy formulation and monitor program implementation in a timely and effective
manner. The following two sub-components are envisaged:

Subcomponent 1: Policy framework for streamlined cost effective and better targeted cash
benefits, design of plans for local social planning and deinstitutionalization of social works
services, and establishmentof inspection, supervision and quality assurancefunctions

         This subcomponent will help develop strategic directions and options to improve the
streamlining and financial management o f cash benefits (social assistance, child allowances,
disability allowances, home care allowances, special allowances etc), the reorganization and
consolidation o f the roles and functions o f the MLSP and municipal CSW, develop strategies
that will assist the MLSP to implement plans for the local social planning o f community and
residential social services, andplans for deinstitutionalization ;andimproved management o fthe
administrative interfacebetween CSW and local employment offices o fthe NEB.

         Inparticular, the component will support: (i) formulation of social assistancepolicy,
                                                        the
and the interface between the cash benefit regime and labor market measures managed by the
NEB; (ii)the design o f reform strategy and the establishment o f monitoring and review
structures; (iii)a review o f cash benefit systems and options for their reform with particular
emphasis on the balance between the use o f means testing and categorical benefit eligibility
criteria; (iv) the design o f a medium term expenditure framework matrix to assist with
monitoring and review o f the cash benefit regime; (v) the development o f a decentralized
modeling structures; (vi) the development and design o f financial auditing and expenditure
tracking systems; (vii) the establishment o f the systems for the national roll out o f a consolidated
cash benefits system which harbors the incentives necessary to improve efficiency and
effectiveness; (viii) formulation o f policies towards the management and decentralization o f
social work services and the development o f plans for the deinstitutionalization o f residential
care services for the elderly, disabled and children, (ix) the development o f effective professional
inspection andquality assurance criteria and functions.




                                                 41

Subcomponent 2: Information management systems and IT capacity strengthening

         This sub-component would help strengthening the information management systems and
information technology capacity of key institutions and departments in charge o f the
administration o f cash benefits, the delivery o f social services and the interface between cash
benefits managed by CSW and active employment measures managed by the NEB. The sub-
component will particularly support: (i)   the design and implementation of the newly developed
business plans/processes and the design o f processes and procedures for the improvements in
administration o f social protection programs; (ii) harmonization o f data systems across key
                                                    the
institutions through the development of data and technology standards; (iii)  strengthening o f the
IT support capacities o f key institutions through technology training, (iv) goods, equipment and
software to support new business processes and procedures related to the development o f the
integrated system for the administration o f social protection programs; (v) development o f IT
data transfer system and communication links between the MLSP and other institutions within
the social protection system; (vi) identification and implementation o f the data protection and
security system upgrade of the equipment and data communications networks to enable data
sharing and enhanced frameworks for data flows among key departments and agencies; (vii)
training on sound information management practices and the support to the development and
acquisition o f appropriate skills in communication, information technology, and exposure to
good practices through workshops and study tours will also be provided.

COMPONENT 3: PROJECT MANAGEMENT, MONITORING AND EVALUATION
(US$0.51 million)

         This component would ensure effective administration and implementationo fthe project,
as well as effective monitoring and evaluation o f project activities, achievements and outcomes
during and after project implementation, by supporting the operation o f a Project Management
Unit (PMU) which would report to the Minister of Labor and the SPIL Project Director, and
which would be responsible for all the day-to-day project implementation activities, as well as
procurement, disbursement, accounting functions. Bank financing (US$0.32 million) would be
provided for consultants employed as part of the PMU, as well as assistance and training to all
project staff, project audits, and some office   equipment and incremental operating costs. The
Government would contribute to this component by financing the salary o f the SPIL Project
Director, recurrent operating costs and taxes and duties.

         The component would also support capacity building o f the Policy Unit through
Government financing of one more full-time staff and through Bank financing o f two additional
staff for an initialperiod of two years, until September 1,2006. Subsequently, these two staff
would need to be financed by the Government.




                                                 42

                                       Annex 5: ProjectCosts
   FYR OFMACEDONIA: SOCIAL PROTECTIONIMPLEMENTATIONPROJECT



ProjectCostBy Componentand/or Activity                      Local         Foreign              Total
                                                        US $million US $million            US $million
PensionSystemAdministration                                  2.61           4.61               7.22
Social ProtectionProgram Support                             0.87           1.48               2.35
Project Management, MonitoringandEvaluation                  0.46           0.00               0.46


TotalBaselineCost                                            3.94           6.09              10.03
 Physical Contingencies                                      0.16           0.27               0.43
 PriceContingencies                                          0.38           0.242              0.622
                              TotalProjectCosts'             4.48           6.602             11.082
                                    FrontEndFee              0.00           0.098              0.098
                       TotalFinancingRequired                4.48           6.70              11.18

1
Identifiable taxes and duties are US$ 0.50 million, and the total project cost, net of taxes, is US$10.68
million. Therefore, the share ofproject cost net oftaxes is 95 percent.




                                                    43

                            Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
   FYR OFMACEDONIA: SOCIALPROTECTION IMPLEMENTATIONPROJECT

        The proposedproject implementation arrangements would buildon the existing elements
such as the Steering Committee for Pension Reform, the Pension Reform Working Group, and
the Project Preparation Unit (PCU) within the MLSP which has been responsible for the
preparation o f the project on behalf o f the MLSP.      This unit has also benefited from the
experience and lessons learned duringthe implementationo fPERTAP.

        The proposed project implementation arrangements place an emphasis on continued
strengthening o f the MLSP capacity, which would also contribute to long-term sustainability o f
knowledge and skills inthe MLSP once the proposedproject is completed.

        The MLSP will be the main implementing agency for the project. A project management
unit (PMU) will be established within the MLSP on the basis o f the PCU and it will include
current SPIL Project Director and three current project staff. The establishment o f the PMU and
the finalization o f all project management arrangements was a condition o f Negotiations. In
addition, it is planned that another two staff members will be hired to work on procurement and
disbursement.

        The PMUwill report to the Minister o fMLSP and to the SPIL Project Director andit will
be responsible for all the day-to-day project implementation activities financed by the project,
including all procurement, disbursement and accounting functions o f the project.          Specific
activities and responsibilities o f the PMU will include inter alia: (i)   coordination o f overall
project implementation activities for all components and sub-components o f the projects as
specified inthe Project Operational Manual (POM); (ii)     preparation o f all the necessary project
implementationdocuments to ensure effective planning o fproject activities, as well as definition
o f goods and services to be procured; (iii)preparation o f all necessary project documentation on
procurement and financial management issues; (iv) ensuring effective monitoring and evaluation
o f project achievements and outcomes during the project, and manage a monitoring and
evaluation budget; (v) coordination with other relevant agencies and beneficiaries involved in
project implementation; and (vi) preparation o f progress reports in accordance with the
provisions o f the Loan Agreement.

         The project would have two working groups to coordinate the preparation of the
respective reforms and their implementation. The Pension Reform Working Group, chaired by
the Pension Reform Coordinator, and including the SPIL Project Director, the directors of the
PDF and MAPAS and the representative from the MOF, NBRM and Securities Exchange
Commission has already been established and i s organizing regular weekly meetings. All o f the
institutions involved inthis Working Group have been instrumental inproviding support during
the preparation o f the project and have also benefited from the participation in the Working
Group.

         A separate Social Protection Working Group will established to coordinate the
preparation and implementation o f the improvements in social protection programs. The Group
will be chaired by the Head o fthe Department for Social Protection, and it will include the SPIL



                                                44

Project Director, the State Advisor, the Heads o f all units within the MLSP Department for
Social Protection, the directors o fthe NEBthe ISA, andthe representative o f the MOF.




                                                45

               Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
   FYROF MACEDONIA: SOCIAL PROTECTIONIMPLEMENTATIONPROJECT

FinancialManagementArrangements

         Country Issues.      A Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for
Macedonia has been carried out in 2003. The CFAA report concludes that the public financial
management (PFM) framework inMacedonia i s still evolving, and improvements are required in
many of the components comprising the PFM system. In addition to establishing modem
financial institutions, the country has had to develop the skills and capacities to manage its own
affairs.  Given the current state o f public financial management in Macedonia, the CFAA
assesses the global fiduciary risk to the government as substantial and the overall fiduciary risk
to Bank project funds as moderate. Thus the Bank will support the implementation agency in
establishing an acceptable system for transaction recording and reporting as well as improving its
internal control system. The Bank FMteam will also undertake capacity buildinginitiatives in
the area of financial management.

         The draft Accounting and Auditing Report on the Observance o f Standards and Codes
(A&A ROSC) o f June 2003 concludes that there are serious audit quality issues and absence o f
an adequate professional auditing organization andrecommends the establishment o f a regime to
regulate the audit profession.       Accordingly, the project accounts, records and Financial
Statements will be audited each fiscal year, except for the first audit covering from effectiveness
date to December 31, 2005, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and in accordance
with standards andguidelines acceptable to the Bank.

         Strengths and Weaknesses. The main strength would be the experience o f the financial
management staff with Bank-financed projects and the related requirements. Also the financial
system, which will be used has already been tried and tested in another entity that is
implementing a Bank-financedproject. There are no significant weaknesses.

         Implementing Entity. The project will support the establishment o f a PMU inthe MLSP
that would be responsible for the full scope o f project implementation activities.          At the
moment, there i s an existing PCU in the MLSP managing the PHRD grant. The PCU has a
Project Director employed by the MLSP and two consultants paid from the PHRD grant.

         Funds Flow. Project funds will flow from: (i) Bank, either via a single Special
                                                               the
Account which will be replenished on the basis o f SOEs; or (ii)     the Government, via the budget
o fthe MLSP.

         Staffing, It is agreed that all three staff currently inthe PPUwould continue working on
the management o f the SPIL project inthe PMU. The FM staff consists o f a financial specialist
who was trained inBankprocedures and has past experience inanother Bank financed project in
Macedonia.      Also, to strengthen the PMUs capacities, one more staff with prior experience in
financial management on the World Bank projects will be hired as a consultant.            The team
clarified that the consultants currently working inthe PPU are being paid at the level similar to
regular MOLSP staff. Also, although there is a clear incentive on the part of the MOLSP to hire



                                                   46

the PMUstaff as MOLSP staff, that is currently not achievable due to a hiringfreeze. However,
the objective would be that these consultants will be hired bythe MOLSP inthe future.

       Accounting Policies and Procedures. The PMU will institute a set o f appropriate
accounting procedures and internal controls including authorization and segregation o f duties
that should be defined inthe Project OperationalManual (POM). The completion o f the P O Mis
a condition o f effectiveness.

       Internal Audit. N o internal audit acceptable to the Bank is inplace.

       External Audit.     The project's Financial Statements, (which will include Statements o f
Expenditures and Special Accounts) will be audited each fiscal year, except for the first audit
covering from effectiveness date to December 31,2005, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank in accordance with standards and terms o f reference acceptable to the Bank and
submitted within six months o f the end of each fiscal year or each fiscal period. The cost o f the
audit will be financed from the loan.

       Reporting and Monitoring. The project will produce all financial reports and SOEs for
the Bank using the same accounting system which will serve statutory reporting purposes.
Project management-oriented Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) will be used for project
monitoring and supervision. The PMU will produce a full set o f FMRs every three months
throughout the life o fthe project. The formats of the FMRs have been agreedwith the PMU and
will include:

    0   Narrative Progress Report
    0   Project Sources and Uses o fFunds
    0   Uses o f Funds byProject Activity
    e   Project Balance Sheet
    e   OutputMonitoring Report

       Information Systems. An accounting software package, which has been used for the
grants under the PSMAL, has been adjusted to fit the project's needs and should be able to serve
both Bank and statutory reporting requirements. This system is acceptable to the Bank for the
accounting andreporting requirements.

       Impact of Procurement Arrangements. The PMU will be staffed with a procurement
specialist who already has experience with the Bank procedures and requirements. The POM
would establish the links between procurement and financial management / disbursements
procedures. A Bank Procurement Specialist performed a procurement assessment o f the Project
and procurement under this project has been put in the high-risk category due mainly to the
general low procurement capacity within the country. Notwithstanding, the thresholds for prior
review have beenraised inthe hope to quickly buildcapacity withinthe PMU.

       Agreed Action Plan. By effectiveness date the PMU will institute a set o f appropriate
accounting procedures and internal controls including authorization and segregation o f duties
that should be defined inthe Project Operational Manual.




                                                47

         Supervision Plan. During project implementation, the Bank will supervise the project's
financial  management arrangements in two main ways: (i)review the project's quarterly
financial management reports as well as the project's audited financial statements and auditor's
management letter; and (ii)during the Bank's supervision missions, review the project's
financial  management and disbursement arrangements to ensure compliance with the Bank's
requirements. As required, a Bank-accredited Financial Management Specialist will assist inthe
supervision process.

DisbursementArrangements

         The proceeds o f the Loan would be disbursed in accordance with the guidelines in the
"Disbursement Handbook", using traditional disbursements procedures, either through direct
payment or based on the use o f statements o f expenditures (SOE). The project has been designed
to be carried out over a period o f approximately four and a half years and the project is expected
to be completed by December 31, 2008. A period o f six months would be allowed to complete
disbursements, with the Loan Closing Date o f June 30, 2009. Disbursement categories, amounts
andpercentages to be financed under each category are presented inthe Table A, as follows.

                             TableA: AllocationofLoanProceeds

    ExpenditureCategory          Amount inUS$ million               FinancingPercentage
Goods                                     5.122               100% of foreign expenditures, 100%o f
                                                            local expenditures (ex-factory cost), and
                                                                 83% o f local expenditures for items
                                                                         procured locally
Consultant Services                        3.034                     100%of expenditures of foreign
                                                            consultants, 83% o f expenditures o f local
                                                                  consulting firms, and 85% o f
                                                                expenditures o f services of local
                                                                    individual consultants.
Training                                   1.500                              100%
IncrementalOperating Costs                 0.046             95% of expenditures incurred through
                                                                      December 30,2005,
                                                             80% of expenditures incurredthrough
                                                                      December 30,2006,
                                                             65% o f expenditures incurred through
                                                                      December 30,2007,
                                                                 25% of expenditures thereafter

                Front-end Fee              0.098
                        Total              9.80

Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs)

         Disbursement arrangements under the project would be carried out using SOE procedures
for (i)  goods costing less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent; (ii)for services o f consulting firms
costing less than US$lOO,OOO; (iii)     for services o f individual consultants costing less than
US$50,000; and (iv) for training and incremental operating costs, under such terms and


                                                48

conditions as the Bank shall specify to the Borrower. Supporting documentation for SOEs,
including completion reports and certificates, and other records would be retainedbythe Borrow
for at least one year after the receipt by IBRD o f the audit report for the year in which the last
disbursement was made. This documentation would be made available for review by the
independent auditors and by the visiting Bank staff upon request during supervision missions.
Disbursements for expenditures above the SOE thresholds will be made against presentation of
full documentationrelatingto those expenditures. At present there isno planto move to periodic
disbursements.

Specialaccount

        To facilitate timely project implementation, the Borrower would establish, maintain and
operate, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account ina Macedonian
National Bank (MNB).The Authorized Allocation would be US$ 980,000 and the initial deposit
into the Special Account wouldbe US$490,000, untilthe aggregate amount o fwithdrawals from
the LoanAccount plusthe total amount o f all outstanding commitments entered into bythe Bank
shall be equal to or exceed US$ 2.00 million. Withdrawal applications for the replenishments o f
the SA will be sent to the Bank at least every three months, or when the balance o f the SA is
equal to about halfo fthe initial deposit or the authorized allocation, whichever comes first.

        The PMU will also open a Project Account into which a share o f Government's cash
contribution will be deposited every year. The Project Account and the Special Account would
be audited annually by an accredited auditing firm.




                                                  49

                                    Annex 8: Procurement
   FYROFMACEDONIA: SOCIALPROTECTIONIMPLEMENTATION PROJECT

       This section describes the procurement arrangements under the Social Protection
Implementation Project financed by IBRD. The total cost o f the proposed Project is estimated at
US$11.18 million, of which the IBRD loan (Loan)        would finance US$9.8 million. IBRD
financed Goods and Works contracts under the project will be procured in accordance with the
World Bank Guidelines Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, dated January 1995,
revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999, (henceforth referredto as
Procurement Guidelines). IBRD financed contracts for Consulting Services required for the
project will be awarded following the World Bank Guidelines Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, dated January 1997, revised September 1997, January
1999 and May 2002,, (henceforth referred to as Consultant Guidelines) The project inputs,
estimated costs and procurement methods for the Loan are presented in Table A based on the
details o f proposed procurement arrangements to be outlined in the POM. The project
Procurement Plan i s included in Table B1. Other procurement information, including prior
review thresholds for IBRD financed contracts, and summary assessment o f the procurement
capacity o f the implementing agency and IBRD's review processes are presented inTable B. For
procurement under the Loan, the Borrower will use the Bank's latest Standard Bidding
Documents (SBD), Standard Form of Consulting Contracts and Request for Proposals (RFP),
and Standard Bid EvaluationReport Forms. The Standard BiddingDocuments for procurement
of Information Systems would be used for procurements o f all IT equipment estimated to cost
over US$lOO,OOO per contract These will comprise Supply and Installation o f Information
Systems - Single Stage Bidding or Supply and Installation o f Information Systems - Two Stage
Bidding (both version March 2003 or more recent). Also, the sample procurement documents
and forms developed in ECA Region for small value procurement would be adapted to suit the
Project needs for procurement.


Country Issues

       A country procurement review (CPAR) for FYR Macedonia was carried out early in
2002. A summary o fthe key findings o fthe CPAR for FYRMacedonia is presented below:

       The FYRMacedoniapassed a Law on Public Procurement in 1998 and amended in2002,
       however the law has many deficiencies which lead to frequent misapplication o f the
       provisions o f this Law which leads to dubious practices and results in excessive political
       interference in contract award decisions inFYR Macedonia.. This i s hrther exacerbated
       bythe fact that there havebeenrelatively few implementingregulationsadopted to date;

       The lack o f implementation regulations has had a knock on effect on Bank financed
       procurement where some PMU directors (and procurement staff) were unable to act
       effectively or make timely decisions due to political constraints, these inturn due to the
       low awareness o fthe provisions o f the LPP andlack o f any enforcement measures;

       The CPAR concludes that FYR Macedonia should be rated as a high risk country in
       respect o fthe public procurement system;




                                               50

 Strengths and Weaknesses

        The strengths that provide a basis of reliance on the project procurement management
system include: (i)  Project procurement independence through the establishment o f a dedicated
PMU with a suitable staffing structure; (ii) o f the PMU have already gained experience
                                               Staff
with the Bank's procurement requirements; and (iii) is a general perception that Bank-
                                                          there
financed projects are fair intheir handlingo fprocurement.

        There main significant weaknesses o f the project procurement arrangements is the
general weak procurement capacity within Macedonia and the lack o f experience o f the PMU
staff in project implementation, in particular using World bank Guidelines and Procedures.
Appraisal has shown that the PMU generally has a weak appreciation o f the effort required for
conduct of the Biddingprocess and for subsequent Contract management.

NotiJication of Business Opportunities

        A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in June 2004 issue o f the
Development Business announcing goods and consulting services to be procured and inviting
interested eligible suppliers and consultants to express interest and to request any complementary
information from the Borrower. The GPN will be updated annually thereafier for all outstanding
procurement under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures, and consulting
assignments. Specific Procurement Notices (SPN) will be published inthe on-line edition o f the
Development Business for all ICB contracts, and in the printed edition at the option o f the
Borrower. For goods to be procured through ICB, individual biddingopportunities would also be
advertised ina major local newspaper on the same (or within 5) day(s) o f the on-line publication.
The local advertisements will be inthe Englishlanguage and, at the option o f the Borrower, will
also be in the local language. For consultants' contracts above US$200,000, SPNRequest for
Expressiono f Interest will be advertised inon-line edition o f the Development Business and inat
least one major national newspaper of wide circulation (inthe national andEnglish languages).

ImplementatiodProcurement Management

        Procurement management i s the responsibility o f the Project Coordination Unit (PMU)
staff. The PMU has a part time procurement specialist in place who has experience in World
Bank procurement gained through a previous project in Macedonia and who has also attended
various training courses. This specialist will be employed full time by Project effectiveness.
The procurement capacity o f the PMU needs to be strengthened in the following area:
procurement o f IT equipment in anticipation o f ICB tenders for computer equipment and
software. For IT related procurement, a specialized course on procurement o f Information
Systems at ILO center can be considered.        Given that the staff will be required to manage
procurement aspects for several component with a tight timetable it may also be necessary to hire
additional procurement staff. PMU.

        A series o f workshops, initiated by the Project Launch workshop scheduled around
September 2004, would be the initial vehicle for training staff at the MLSP, who will charged




                                                 51

with the preparation o f all Technical Specifications and Bidding DocumentationRequests for
Proposals for the project.

       Inanticipation ofthe start ofthe project implementation, the PMUis working to finalize
the POM, which will include a detailed descriptiono fprocurement methods andprocedures to be
usedby the Project. The POMwill be reviewed and approvedby IBRDandwill be adopted as a
legal document by Effectiveness. Any changes in the procedures set forth in the POM will be
subject to IBRDapproval, prior to beingimplemented.

Procurement Arrangements

       The procurement methods and arrangements applicable to the various expenditure
categories under the project are summarized below.

Procurementof Goods

       Goods (approx. US$ 6.18 million equivalent) consisting o f office and computer
equipment, software, the IT systems, training and printing materials and publications will be
grouped to the extend possible and considering project objectives in package sizes that will
encourage competitive bidding. The following methods o fprocurementwill be followed:

            International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Computer equipment and software under
            all components o f the Project for contracts above US$ 100,000 equivalent per
            contract will be procured using ICB procedures in accordance with the Bank's
            Procurement Guidelines.
            International Shopping (IS) procedures will be used for readily available off-the-
            shelf goods, including office and computer equipment and training materials for the
            PDF and for minor computer equipment for the PMU and the Policy Unit, would
            have standard specifications, estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 equivalent per
            contract. This procedure will be based on obtaining and comparing price offers from
            at least three suppliers from at least two different countries in accordance with
            paragraph 3.6 o fProcurement Guidelines.
            National Shopping (NS) procedures will be used for readily available off-the-shelf
            goods, including office and computer equipment and training materials for the PDF
            and for minor computer equipment for the PMU and the Policy Unit, would have
            standard specifications, estimated to cost less than US$ 50,000 equivalent per
            contract and readily available within Macedonia. This procedure will be based on
            obtaining and comparing price offers firom at least three suppliers from at least two
            different countries inaccordance with paragraph3.5 o f Procurement Guidelines.
            Direct Contracting (DC) will be used for the procurement o f VPN tunneling provider
            services for networking up to an aggregate o f US$ 235,000 subject to the prior
            approval o f the Bank. This will comprise up to an estimated US$ 85,000 under
            Component 1and up to $ 150,000 under Component 2.

       In addition, under certain circumstances, treated on a case-by-case basis, and with the
    prior approval o f the Bank the use o f Brand Names will be permitted in the Bidding



                                               52

     Documents. This will be approved strictly following the Guidance given inThe World Bank
     Guidance Note 4 (October 2001) on Specification o f BrandNames inIT Procurement

Consulting Services (approximately US$3.20 million equivalent)

         Contracts for Consulting Services will be packaged to combine related skills and services
in order to make them attractive for competition and reduce the number of contracts to be
administered takinginto consideration a size and physical distribution o fthe PMUand its limited
capacity to administer a large number o f contracts. To the extent practicable, training activities
would be incorporated with consulting services contracts. Consultant services consist o f short-
and long-term assignments to be contracted to firms and/or individuals (national and/or foreign
or jointly) depending on the nature and duration o fthe assignments. Selectionprocedures will be
generally through competition among qualified short listed consultants. The short lists for
consultant services contracts with firms shall comprise six firms with a wide geographical
spread, and with no more than two firms from any one eligible country. The consultants' short
lists may (but need not necessarily be) comprise entirely o f national consultants for consulting
assignments that are estimated to cost below US$ 100,000. The procurement of consultant
services contracts financed under the Loan will be in accordance with the provisions o f the
Consultant Guidelines. For consulting assignments exceeding US$ 200,000 equivalent per
contract, expressions o f interest will be obtained by advertisement inthe Development Business
(on-line), supplemented with notices issued inthe nationalpress.

       The following procurementprocedures will be used for selection o f consultant services:

(0     Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) procedures, as described in Section 11, paras
       2.1 to 2.31 o f the Consultant Guidelines will be used if necessary for assignment under
       Component 2 o fthe Project;
(ii)   Selection under a Fixed Budget (FBS) procedure will be used for the selection o f a firm
       for conducting the Public Education work under Component 1 for which the value o f the
       assignment i s expected to cost less than US$400,000;
(ii) Least Cost Selection (LCS) procedure would be used for selection o f an auditor to carry
       out audit o f the Financial Statements o f the Project estimated to cost less than US$ 50,000
       per contract.
 (iii) Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications (CQ)will be used for contracting firms for
       certain assignments under all three components o f the project for which the value o f the
       assignments is estimated to cost less thanUS$ 100,000 equivalent per contract.
(iv) Individual Consultants (IC). Many specialized activities where specific skills are needed for
       short period o ftime at scattered intervals andwhich would not be practical to package with
       the assignments for consulting firms described above, would be best served through the
       recruitment o f individual consultants (both foreign and national) to (i)  assist the Pensions
       Fund and the PMU in Policy and Strategy Development, and development o f the
       legislatory Framework as well as tasks related to disability and development o f Actuarial
       skills (componentl), (ii) development o f the Custodian finction and (iii)    Strengthening o f
       Social Protection (component 2). Selection o f individual consultants will be carried out in
       accordance with Section V o f the Consultant Guidelines. Individuals will be selected on
       the basis o f their qualifications for the assignment by comparing the CVs obtained in
       response to an advertisement in the national press or Development Business. The PMU


                                                   53

      staff would be selected as individual consultants, with an exception o f the following Sole
      Source (SS) contracts: Procurement and Disbursement Specialist, Financial Management
      Specialist and two Component Coordinators who currently hold individual consultant
      contracts and would continue their services under the Social Protection Implementation
      Project. All the above individual specialists were originally selected among qualified
      candidates based on comparison ofqualifications.

TrainingActivities (approximatelyUS$ 1.50 millionequivalent)

        Training is an integral element o f the project's capacity buildingobjective. The Loan will
finance training programs, including training workshops, study tours and local training. Such
training programs would be included in larger TA contracts with firms to reduce administrative
burden on the PMU. The PMU would be responsible for administration o f a small number o f
local workshops (including project launch, mid term and completion workshops) and limited
number of study tours for the beneficiary Agency and MOF PMU specialists. The total cost o f
such activities is estimated not to exceed US$1.50 million equivalent. Expenditures related to
such training activities include: (a) for local training and workshops - per diems o f participants
to cover transportation, lodging and subsistence; minor organizational expenses (stationery,
handouts, training materials, coffee breaks); (b) for international study tours -internationaltravel
and visa costs, per diems (lodging and subsistence) and course-related expenses (fixed tuition or
participation fee). Design o f the training courses and study tours will be done by the specialists
contracted as short term consultants under relevant QCBS, CQ and/or I C procedures depending
on the value o f the assignment as described above inthis Annex.

        The PMUwould be expected to prepare and agree a training planwith IBRD every year.
Estimated budget, list o f participants and draft agenda for each training event will be subject to
LBRD prior review. Expenditure items for training activities, including study tours, would be
reported under SOEs. The status o f the training plan would be included as part of the quarterly
progress reports, andwould be updated and/or modified as may be mutually agreed between the
coordination units andIBRD.

IncrementalandRecurrentOperatingCosts

        Incrementaloperating costs incurred by the PMUfor communications and office supplies
would be financed under the Loan for the duration o f the project and are estimated to cost US$
46,000. Bank financing o f incremental operating costs will be on a declining basis. Inaddition,
recurrent costs to be financed by the Government related to operating and maintenance o f
equipment and generated by the project including day-to-day operational costs for office
equipment and maintenance, and consumables are estimated at US$ 100,000. In addition, the
Government would finance SPIL Project Director salaries which are estimated at US$38,847.

Reviewby the Associationof ProcurementDecisions

        Scheduling of Procurement. Prior to the issuance o f any invitation for bidding, the
proposed procurement plan (Table Bl) for the project will be updated bythe PMUand approved
by IBRD. Procurement of goods and services for the project will be carried out in accordance



                                                  54

with the agreed procurement plan, which will be regularly updated and included in the FMRs
subject to IBRD's review.

        Prior Review: Fulldocumentation should be submitted to the IBRD for prior review on
the following procurement contracts:

        all goods contracts awarded under I C B procedure;
        first three goods contracts awarded under InternationalShopping procedure;
        first three goods contracts awarded under National Shopping procedure;
        all consulting firm contracts under QCBS procedure;
        first five consulting firm contracts under CQ procedure;
        first five consulting contracts under I C procedure;
        first consulting contract under LCS procedure;
        all consulting contracts with individual consultants and firms awarded through Sole
        Source selection method;
        single source or direct contracting is subject to justification;
        all consulting contracts over US$ 100,000 equivalent with firms;
        all consulting contracts over US$ 50,000 equivalent with individual consultants;
        all TORSfor consulting contracts irrespectiveo fprocurement method andvalue;

        Ex-Post Review: All other contracts below the Bank's prior review threshold are subject
to the Bank's selective ex-post review. Periodic ex-post review by the Bank will be undertaken
during regular supervision missions. Procurement documents, such as bidding documents, bids,
bid evaluation reports and correspondence related to bids and contracts will be kept readily
available for Bank's ex-post review during supervision missions or at any other points in time.
Table B summarizes applicable procedures and review requirements.

                     Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
                                      (US$ million equivalent)


                                           Procurement Method'

    Exenditure
                            ICB             FBS            Othe?         N.B.F.      Total Cost
     Category
1. Goods                    4.34              0.36           0.58         0.90          6.18
                           (4.34)            (0.29)         (0.49)       (0.00)         (5.12)
2. Services                 0.00              0.00           3.20         0.00           3.20
                           (0.00)            (0.00)         (3.04)       (0.00)         (3.04)
3. Training                 0.00              0.00           1.50         0.00           1S O
                           (0.00)            (0.00)         (1.50)       (0.00)         (1SO)
4. Incrementaland           0.00              0.00           0.07         0.13           0.20
Recurrent
Operating Costs
                           (0.00)            (0.00)         (0.04)       (0.00)         (0.04)
                Total       4.34              0.36           5.35         1.03          11.os
                           (4.34)            (0.29)         (5.07)       (0.00)         (9.70)


                                                  55

   `Figures inparentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Loan. All costs include contingencies. Table does not
   include Front EndFee to be financed from the Loan.
   2Includes goods to be procured through shopping, direct contracting, consulting services, training, and incremental
   andrecurrent operating costs.

                               TableA1: ConsultantSelectionArrangements
                                             (US$ millionequivalent)


                                                            Selection Method

  Consultant Services                                                                                               Total
                                 QCBS         QBS         SFB         LCS         CQ          Other     N.B.F.
Expenditure Category
A. Firms                        1.19          0.00        0.00        0.03       0.18         0.00        0.00       1.14
                               (1.14)        (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.03)     (0.15)       (0.00)      (0.00)    (1.32)
B.Individuals                   0.00          0.00        0.00        0.00       0.00          1.60       0.04       1.64
                               (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)     (0.00)       (1.54)      (0.00)    (1.54)

                      Total     1.19          0.00        0.00        0.03       0.18          1.60       0.00      2.78
                               (1.14)        (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.03)     (0.15)       (1.54)      (0.00)     (2.86)


                  Table B: Thresholdsfor ProcurementMethodsandPriorReview'

                                      Contract Value                                           Contracts Subject to
                                                                     Procurement
    Expenditure Category                Threshold                                                   Prior Review
                                     (US$ thousands)                    Method                     U S $ millions)

   1. Goods                              >100,000                         ICB                             All
                                        any amount                        FBS                             All
                                         <100,000                          I S                     First3 contracts
                                          <50,000                          N S                     First3 contracts
   3. Services                        Firms>100,000                      QCBS                             All
                                      Firms<100,000                        CQ                      First5 contracts
                                      Firms<$50,000                        LCS                      Firstcontract

                                  Individuals>US$50,000                    IC                             All
                                  Individuals<US$50,000                    IC                      First5 contracts

                                 Individuals-any amount                    ss                             All



   Overall Procurement Risk Assessment: High

            Frequency o f procurement supervision missions proposed: One every six months (with
   frequent post reviews) andwill include capacity buildingtraining.




                                                           56

        The PMU will maintain complete procurement files which will be reviewed by IBRD
supervision missions. All procurement related documentation that requires IBRD prior review
will be cleared by Procurement Accredited Staff (PAS) and relevant technical staff.     No
packages above mandatory review thresholds by RPA are anticipated. Procurement information
will be recorded by the PMU and submitted to the MOH and IBRD as part o f the quarterly
(FMRs) and annual progress reports.     A simple management information system with a
procurement module would be established to assist the PMU procurement specialist to monitor
all procurement information.




                                            57

                                                               ProcurementPlan

                                                           Proc   Noof
                                                           Metho package              Issue                                        Ctr.
                                                       Type d      s     Preparation BD/RFP Bids received Evaluation Ctr. Signed Complete

COMPONENT 1
A. Sub-component 1: Governanceand Management
reformin the PDF
  1. IT system
      1. Consultant for security strategy              cs     IC    1     16-Aug-04  13-Sep-04 27-Sep-04  18-Oct-04  01-N0v-04   30-Jan-05
      2. Consultant for configurationof DB servers     cs     IC    1     27-Feb-05 27-Mar-05  10-Apr-05  01-May-05  15-May-05   12-Sq-05
         Businessprocess development and software
      3. design                                        cs QCBS      1     24-Dec-04  14-Jan-05 13-Feb-05  14-Apr-05  05-May-05   19-Apr-08
      4. Preparationof PDF Web site                    cs    CQ    1      16-Sep-04  14-Oct-04 28-Oct-04  18-NOV-04  02-Dec-04   01-Apr-05
         Training  - Specialistcourses(DBMS, OS,
      5. Hardware)                                      TR   CQ  multiple annualplan    nla        nla       nla     01-Sep-04   3 1-Dec-OS

      6. Training workshopsandtraining ofbeneficiaries
                   -                                    TR   CQ  multiple annualplan    nla        nla       nla     01-Sep-04   31-Dee08

      7. IT training materials                          G     IS    1     09-Sep-04  30-Sep-04 14-Oct-04  04-NOV-04  18-NOV-04   17-Apr-05

      8. IT software                                    G    ICB   2      01-Nov-04 29-Nov-04  28-Jan-05  25-Feb-05  25-Mar-05   20-Mar-06

      9. Hardware                                       G    ICB    1     15-Aug-04  12-Sep-04 11-Nov-04  09-Dec-04  30-Dec-04   29-Apr-05
  2. HumanResources
      1. HRIS software                                  G    ICB    1     06-Feb-05 06-Mar-05  05-May-05  02-Jun-05  30-Jun-05   27-Dec-05
      2. PDFmanagement training                         TR   CQ  multiple annualplan    nla        nla       nla     01-Sep-04   31-Dec-08
  3. Communications
      1. Consultant  - hotline                         cs     IC    1     10-Nov-04  01-Dec-04 15-Dec-04  05-Jan45    19-Jan-05  13-JuI-06

      2. Communicationstraining                         TR   CQ  multiple annualplan    nla        nla       nla     01-Sep-04   31-Dee08
      3. Preparation,printingof brochures,newsletters   G    ICB    3     01-May-05 22-May-05   06-Jul-05 03-Aug-05  17-Aug-05   16-Aug-08
      4. Cellular, Audit andVideo equipment             G    NS     1     15-Dec-04  05-Jan45   19-Jan-05 09-Feb-05  23-Feb-05   24-Apr-05
  4. Financial management
      1. FM Software                                    G    ICB    1     27-Feb-05  20-Mar-05 04-May-05  01-Jun-05  22-Jun-05   20-Sep-05

      2. ConsultantinFinancialManagement                cs    IC    1     29-Apr-05 20-May-05  03-Jun-05  24-Jun-05   08-JuI-05  06-0ct-05
      3. Training insoftware andtechniques              TR   CQ  multiple annualplan    nla        nla       nla     01-Sep-04   31-Dec-08
  5. Policy analysis,actuarial skills
      1. Technical assistance                           cs    IC    2     05-Mar-05  26-Mar-05 09-Apr-05  30-Apr-05  14-May-05   28-Apr-08

      2. Training expenses                              TR   CQ  multiple annualplan    nla        nia       nla     01-Sep-04   31-Dec-08
      3. Study tours                                    TR   CQ  multiple annualplan    n/a        nla        nla    01-Sep-04   31-Dee08
   6. Security
      1. Technical assistance                           cs    IC    1     22-Sep-05  13-Oct-05  27-Oct-05 17-NOV-05  01-Dec-05   30-May-06
      2. Security equipment                             G    ICB    1     05-Jan-06  26-Jan-06 25-Feb-06  25-Mar-06   15-Apr-06   14-Jun-06
   7. Disability,privilegedpensions
      1. Disabilityand Privilegedpensionsconsultants    cs QCBS     1     15-Sep-04  06-Oct-04  20-Oct-04 19-Dec-04   02-Jan-05   01-Jul-05
      2. Consultant-disability                          cs    IC    1     05-0ct-04  26-Oct-04 09-NOv-04  30-NOV-04   14-Dec-04   12-Jun-05

      3. Consultant-privilegedpensions                  cs    IC    1     09-0ct-04  30-Oct-04  13-NOV-04 04-Dec-04   18-Dec-04   16-Jun-05
   8. Pensionreform implementation
      1. Consultant-assistinimplementation              cs  QCBS    1     22-Oct-04  12-NOV-04 26-NOV-04   25-Jan45   08-Feb-05   28-JuI-07
   9. Electronic signature(Bank financed)
          Consultantin implementationof Electronic
      1. Signatures                                     cs    IC    1     25-Mar45   15-Apr-05  29-Apr-05 20-May-05   03-Jun-05   01-0ct-05
B. Sub-component2: MAPASDevelopment
   1. DevelopMAPAS BusinessProcesses
      1. Consultant-businesspracticesoverview           cs    IC    1     12-Nov-04 03-Dec-04   17-Dec-04  07-Jan45   21-Jan-05  04-Aug-05
      2. Local consultant                              cs     IC    1     07-Nov-04  28-Nov-04  12-Dec-04  02-Jan-05  16-Jan-05    30-Jul-05
      3. Consultant- supervisionpractices              cs     IC    1      10-Jan-05 31-Jan45   14-Feb-05 07-Mar45   21-Mar-05   03-Aug-05

      4. Local consultant                              cs     IC    1     04-Jan-05  25-Jan-05  08-Feb-05 01-Mar-05   15-Mar-05    28-Jul-05



                                                                        58

                                                                 Proc   No of
                                                                 Metho package              Issue                                        Ctr.
                                                            Type d       S     Preparation BD/RFP Bidsreceived Evaluation Ctr. Signed  Complete
  2. MAPAS CapacityBuilding
     1. Consultant inSupervisionPractice                     cs    IC     1     06-Dec-04  27-Dec-04  10-Jan-05  31-Jan45  14-Feb-05   29-Jun-05
     2. Consultant inInvestmentriskanalysis                  cs    IC     1     04-Mar-05  25-Mar45   08-Apr-05 29-Apr-05  13-May-05   25-Sep-05

     3. Consultant inactuarialanalysis                       cs    IC     1     01-Apr-05  22-Apr-05 06-May-05  27-May-05  10-Jun-05   23-Oct-05
     4. Consultant inon-siteaudit procedures                 cs    IC     1     07-May-05 28-May-05   11-Jun-05  02-Jul-05 16-Jul-05   28-NOV-05
     5. Consultant inassetvaluation                          cs    IC     1     16-Jan-05  06-Feb-05  20-Feb-05 13-Mar-05  27-Mar45    09-Aug-05
     6. ProfessionalCourses                                  TR   CQ   multiple annualplan    nla        nla        nla    014q-04     31-Dec-08
     7. Other training (foreignconsultants)                  TR   CQ   multiple annualplan    nla        nla        nla    01-Sep-04   31-Dec-08
     8. Training (study tours inPensionInst.abroad)          TR   CQ   multiple annualplan    nla        nla        nla    01-Sep44    31-Dec-08
     9. Training (study tours - seminarslinstitutions)       TR   CQ   multiple annualplan    nla        nla        nla    01-Sep-04   31-Dec-08
     10. Localseminars                                       TR   CQ   multiple annualplan    nla        nla        nla    01-Sep-04   31-Dec-08
 3. Supportfor Legislativeand RegulatoryFramework
     1. Technical assistance                                 cs    IC           10-Mar45   31-Mar-05  14-Apr-05 05-May-05  19-May-05   14-May-06
     2. Local Technical assistance                           cs    IC           01-Mar-05  22-Mar45   05-Apr-05 26-Apr-05  10-May-05   06-NOV-05
  4. SupportMAPAS IT Development
     1. Sofhvare developmentfor MAPAS                        G    ICB     I     01-JuI-04  30-Aug-04  14-Oct-04  11-NOV-O4 09-Dec-04   04-NOV-05
     2. Hardwarefor DataCentreInfrastructure                 G     IS     1     01-Oct-04  22-0ct-04  05-NOV-04 26-NOV-04  IO-Dec-04   10-Mar-05
     3.  Hardware                                            G    ICB     1     01-Mar-05  29-Mar-05  13-May-05  10-Jun-05 08-Jul-05   05-NOV-05
     4. Additional Software(Financial Management)            G    NS      1     01-Apr-07  22-Apr-07  06-May-07 27-May-07  10-Jun-07   09-Aug-07
     5. IntemetConnection(VPN)                               G    DC      1     01-Dec-04  29-Dec-04  12-Jan-05  02-Feb-05 16-Feb-05   02-Mar48
     6. Specializedtraining                                  TR   CQ   multiple annualplan    nla        nla        nla    01-Sep-04   31-Dec-08
C.Sub-component3: MLSP Capacity Buildingand PR
  1. CapacityBuilding
     1. Technical assistance                                 cs    IC     1     04-Feb-05  25-Feb-05  11-Mar-05  01-Apr-05 15-Apr-05    14-JuI-05
     2. Training expenses                                    TR   CQ   multiple annualplan    nla        nla        nla    014 v - 0 4 31-Dee08
     3. Studytours                                                CQ   multiple annualplan    nla        nla        nla    01-Sep-04   31-Dec-08
  2. Developlegislatiodregulation
     1. Consultant(s)inregulation and legislation            CS  QCBS           14-Feb-05  07-Mar45   28-Mar45  27-May-05  24-Jun-05    14-Jun-07
     2. LocalTechnical assistance                            cs    IC           01-Feb-05  22-Feb-05  08-Mar-05  29-Mar45  12-Apr-05   02-Apr-07
  3. PublicEducation
     1. Public EducationStrategy, messages,materials         G    CQ      1     21-Mar-05  11-Apr-05  25-Apr-05  16-May-05 30-May-05   27-Sep-05
         Public education(printing, distribution,air-time)-
     2. Bank financed                                        G    FBS     1     01-J~l-05  22-JuI-05  19-Aug-05  23-Sep-05 21-Oct-05    16-Oct-06
         Public education(printing, distribution,air-time)-
     3. Govt. financed                                       G    FBS     1      01-JuI-05 22-JuI-05  05-Aug-05  26-Aug-05 09-Sep-05   30-Aug-07
D. Sub-component4: CustodyCapacity Development
  1.DevelopcustodianframeworkinNBRM
     1.  Technical assistance                                CS  QCBS            01-Jul-04 22-JuI-04  05-Aug-04  04-Oct-04  18-Oct-04   11-Apr-06
     2. DevelopIT system                                     CS  QCBS            20-Jul-04 10-Au~-04 24-Aug-04   23-Oct-04 06-NOV-04   05-May-05
     3. IT equipment(hardware and software)                  G    ICB           01-0ct-04  29-Oct-04  13-Dec-04  10-Jan-05 07-Feb-05   08-May-05
  2. Training for Custodydept. staff
     1. Technical assistance                                 cs    IC     2     20-Feb-05  13-Mar-05  27-Mar-05  17-Apr-05 01-May-05    30-JuI-05
     2. Local training (seminar expenses)                    TR   CQ   multiple annualplan    nla        nla        nla     01-Sep-04  31-Dec-08
COMPONENT 2
  A. Sub-component 1: StrengthenSP administrationof
  servicesand cash benefits
     1. International Technicalassistance
         Decentralization and Deinstitutionalization
     1. Advisor                                              cs    IC     1      1-Aug-04  22-Aug-04   5-Sep-04  26-Sep-04  10-Oct-04   5-Oct-05
     2. CashBenefits Advisor                                 CS  QCBS     1      1-Jul-04  31-Jul-04  28-Aug-04  27-Oct-04 24-Nov-04   18-May-06
     3. Child Allowances Advisor                             cs    IC     1     25-Jun-04   16-Jul-04 30-Jul-04  20-Aug-04  3-Sep-04   31-May-05
     4. FinancialSpecialist                                 cs     IC     1     17-Apr-05  8-May-05   22-May-05  12-Jun-05  26-Jun-05   18-Dec-06



                                                                              59

                                                             Proc    Noof
                                                              Metho package              Issue                                        Ctr.
                                                         Type d       s     Preparation BDIRFP Bidsreceived Evaluation Ctr. Signed Complete
    5.  Inspection, monitoring and evaluation            cs     IC     1     17-Dec-04  7-Jan-05  21-Jan-05 11-Feb-05  25-Feb-05   19-Aug-06
    2. Supportingtechnicalassistance
        Assistanceto Decentralizationand
    1.  DeinstitutionalizationAdvisor                    CS    CQ      1     1-NOV-04 22-Nov-04   6-Dec-04  27-Dec-04  10-Jan-05   26-Dee-07
    2. AssistanceCashBenefits Advisor                    CS    CQ     1       1Jan-05   22-Jan-05 5-Feb-05  26-Feb-05  12-Mar-05   27-Dec-07
    3. FinancialSpecialist Counterpart                   cs     IC    1      8-Apr-05  29-Apr-05  13-May-05 3-Jun-05   17-Jun-05   12-Jun-06
    4. Inspection, monitoring andevaluationspecialist    cs     IC    1       1JuI-05   22-JuI-05 5-Aug-05  26-Aug-05   9-Sep-05   4-Sep-06
    3. Training (seminars)                               TR    CQ   multiple annualplan    nla       nla       nJa     01-Sv-04    31-Dec-OS
 B. Sub-component2: IT supportfor SP programs
    1.  Local consultant to develop technical standards  cs     IC    1       1-Sep-04 22-Sep-04  6-Oet-04  27-Oct-04  IO-NOV-04 24-May-05
    2.   Misc. expenses (for I TCommittee)               CS      -  multiple annualplan    nla       nla       nla     01-Sep-04   3 1-Dec-08
    3.  Foreignconsultantto developbusinessprocesses     cs     IC    1       7-Jan-05  28-Jan-05 11-Feb-05 4-Mar-05   18-Mar45    16-JuI-05
    4. Applications softwaredevelopment                   G    ICB    1       1-JUl-O5  29-Jul-05 12-Sep-05 10-Oct-05  7-NOV-05    3-Sep-06
    5.  Equipment & operating software                    G    ICB    1       1-Jan-06  29-Jan46  15-Mar-06 12-Apr-06  10-May-06   8-Aug-06
    6. Local consultant to designNetwork                  G     IC    1      21-May-05  11-Jun-05 25-Jun-05 16-JuI-05  30-JuI-05   28-Oct-05
                                                              ICBID
    7. Network equipmentandcommunicationscapacity         G     C     2       1-Sep-05  22-Sep-05 6-0ct-05  27-Oct-05  10-NOV-05   31-0ct-07
    8.  Training coursesfor IT staff                     TR    CQ   multiple annualplan    n/a       nla       nla     01-Sep-04   31-Dee08
        Study tours for Applications systemsreviewfor
    9. managers                                          TR    CQ   multiple annualplan    nla       nla       nla     01-Sep-04   31-Dec-08
COMPONENT3
    A. PMUstaff
    1. Financialofficer                                  CS IC(SS)    1      01-Jul-04  22-JuI-04 05-Aug-04 12-Aug-04  01-Sep-04   31-Dec-OS
    2. Procurementofficer                                CS IC(SS)    2      01-JuI-04  22-JuI-04 05-Aug-04 12-Aug-04  01-Sep-04   31-Dee08
    3.  ComponentCoordinators                            CS IC(SS)    2      01-JuI-04  22-JuI-04 05-Aug-04 12-Aug-04  01-Sep-04   31-Dec-08
    B. PMU(within IMLSP)
    1. Training Expenses                                 TR    CQ   multiple annualplan    nla       nla       nla     01-Sep-04   31-Dee08
    2. IncrementalOperating costs                        OC    SOE    -
    3.  Project Audit                                    CS    LCS    4      01-Oct-05  22-Oct-05 05-NOV-05 26-NOV-05  10-Dec-05   24-Jan46
    4. Equipment for Policy Unit                         G     NS     1      01-NOV-04 22-Nov-04  06-Dec-04 27-Dec-04  10-Jan45    11-Mar-05
    5.  Equipment                                        G     NS     1      01-Oct-04  22-0ct-04 05-NOV-04 26-NOV-04  10-Dec-04    9-Jan-05
    C. Policy Unit pank)                                 cs     IC    2       1-Sep-04  22-Sep-04 06-Oct-04 27-Oct-04  10-NOV-04 30-Dec-06
 11. RecurrentCosts
    A. ProjectManagementUnit staff (Director)                  SOE    -
    B. Operation&maintenance                                   SOE    -
    C. Other misc. expenses                                    SOE    -




                                                                          60

                          Annex 9: EconomicandFinancialAnalysis
   FYROF MACEDONIA: SOCIAL PROTECTIONIMPLEMENTATIONPROJECT

       At the time o f independence, FYR Macedonia was economically one of the least
developed o f the republics of Yugoslavia and inthe years immediately following independence,
the economy contracted even more. During the period 1991-95, GDP growth was negative
(average o f -3.1 percent) and inflation reached 400 percent. However, due to the efforts o f
successive government, between the period 1996-2000, the economy experienced an average
positive GDP growth rate o f 2.9 percent and inflation declined to 2.2 percent. The fiscal deficit,
which was 5.5 percent during the previous period, declined to 0.2 percent. These impressive
gains on the economic front were seriouslyjeopardized by the outbreak o f civil conflict in2001.
The economy is currently recovering and GDP growth is positive.           From an international
perspective, poverty inFYR Macedonia i s moderate with 7.5 percent o f the population with per
capita consumption below the international standard o f US$2.15 per day in2000. However, data
on poverty, especially the non-income dimensions o f poverty, is limited in FYR Macedonia.
Social programs, which aim to alleviate a growing incidence o f poverty and persistent high
unemployment during transition are costly.          Essentially, the public pension system,
unemployment insurance, and social assistanceprograms generate expenditures (including health
expenditures) equivalent to nearly a third o f GDP and comprise over two-thirds o f public
spending. Given that expenditure management is a key objective o f the Government, curbing
social assistance spending through improved targeting and management o f the pension program
has become critical.

                            FYRMacedonia -EconomicIndicators




       The proposed project would support improvements in the administration and
sustainability of the existing pension system, as well as continued activities related to the
buildingo fthe framework and existingcapacities for the secondpillar.

       The activities supported by the project are expected to generate substantial fiscal impact
through the introduction o f the new system o f collection o f pension contributions based on
individual monthly reporting and reduced expenditures through more efficient administration o f



                                               61

pension benefits in the PDF. Also, these interventions are expected to reduce the time-cost o f
clients through more efficient delivery o f pension services. The introduction o f the new system
for collection o f pension contributions will increase overall rate o f collection and enable creation
of individual accounts with records on the contributions paid, thus resulting in increased
transparency and improved fiscal sustainability o f the system. Although it is difficult to estimate
the net fiscal impact on the collection rate that can be expected as a result o f the implementation
of the new system, the experience o f other countries that have implemented such systems is
largely positive. For example, the introduction o f individual monthly reporting requirements in
Croatia increased collections from 78 percent to over 90 percent.

        Inaddition to pension reforms, the proposed project would also support reform of the
social protection system, including social assistance, child protection, unemployment insurance
and employment support program. The majority of reforms include capacity building and
administrative reforms, as well as improved capacities in policy modeling, policy analysis and
monitoring. The implementation and expansion o f analytical and information capacities and
administrative changes within the various agencies responsible for social protection programs is
an important means o f promoting efficiency and improved delivery o f social protection services.
While it is not feasible to estimate the impact o f these institutional changes in terms of
quantifiable benefits, the importance o f these policy tools to strengthen the policy framework
cannot be underestimated.




                                                  62

                              Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues
  FYROFMACEDONIA: SOCIALPROTECTIONIMPLEMENTATIONPROJECT


       There will be no civil works or landacquisition under the project with negative impact on
the environment.




                                             63

                        Annex 11: ProjectPreparationand Supervision
   FYROFMACEDONIA: SOCIAL PROTECTIONIMPLEMENTATIONPROJECT


                                                  Planned              Actual
PCNreview                                     October 7,2003       October 7,2003
InitialPID to PIC                            October 20,2003       October 22,2003
Initial ISDS to PIC                          October 20,2003       November 4,2003
Appraisal                                     March 1,2004          March 1,2004
Negotiations                                   April 5,2004         April 5,2004
BoardRVP approval                              May 13,2004
Planneddate o f effectiveness               September 1,2004
Planneddate o fmid-termreview               September 1,2006
Plannedclosing date                         December 31,2008

Keyinstitutions responsible for preparation ofthe project:

MinistryofLabor and SocialProtection



Bank staff and consultantswho worked on the project included:

Name                                            Title                   Unit
SnjezanaPlevko                                  TTL                   ECSHD
Rajna Cemerska                           Operations Officer           ECSHD
Anna Wielogorska                   Senior Procurement Specialist       ECSPS
RossenPapazov                     Financial Management Specialist      ECSPS
Nadejda Mochinova                   LanguageProgram Assistant         ECSHD
SarbaniChakraborty                        Health Specialist           ECSHD
Nikolai Soubbotin                         Senior Counsel               LEGEC
NicholayChistyakov                    Senior Finance Officer          LOAGl
Maria Gracheva                           Operations Officer           ECSHD
KathrynDahlmeier                          Project Officer            Consultant
Laurie Joshua                             Social Protection          Consultant



Bank funds expendedto date onprojectpreparation:
    1. Bankresources: US$ 102,978
    2. Trust funds:     US$397,320 (Government executedPHRD)
    3. Total:           US$500,298




                                               64

                       Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile
FYROFMACEDONIA: SOCIAL PROTECTIONIMPLEMENTATION PROJECT


1. QER Report, August 2003

2. Pension System Reforms in the Republic of Macedonia, Summary o f Baseline Study,
   FORUM- Center for strategic research and documentation, July 2001

3. Comparative Analysis o f Pension System, FORUM, 2003

4. Report by focus groups re reform inthe pension system ofMacedonia. July 2003

5. PRISM report on a model o fthe Macedonianpension system, J.P. Wiese, ,July 2003

6. Report on pension funds & capital markets in Macedonia, Klaus Schmidt-Hebblel, June
    2003

7. Report on pension reform: policy parameters, forecasts & financing, Patrick Wiese, June
    2000

8. Report on pension reform inMacedonia: fiscal, financial & macroeconomic aspect, Klaus
    Schmidt-Hebbel, July 1999

9. Reform o f social ProtectionPolicy, Laurie C. Joshua, May 2003

10. Report on Macedonian social assistance & social welfare systems and responsibilities,
    August 2003

11,Report on planning for the decentralization o f social protection policies, Laurie C.
    Joshua, June 2003




                                          65

                               Annex 13: PSMALPolicyMatrix
  FYROFMACEDONIA: SOCIAL PROTECTIONIMPLEMENTATIONPROJECT

                                PROPOSEDPSMALCONDITIONS

Board Conditions                                Second TrancheConditions



MOFBudget Directorate to adopt
sustainable aggregate spending ceilings for
2004 budget and impose fixed ceilings on all
first linebudget entities.
Budget Ceilings to be reflectedinthe final
2004 budget submittedto Parliament.
All transactions bybudgetary entities to be     MOF incooperation withHIFto transfer
conductedthrough single treasury account.       HIFaccounts to MOFsingle treasury
                                                account.
Government to submit legislation imposing
commitment controls on highvalue
contracts.
Procurement regulations to require ex ante
MOF approval before contracts are legally
valid.
                                            Au it
Systematization Act creating MOF internal       MOF internal audit unitto be fully staffed.
audit unit and staffing to be approved by
MOF.
Systematization Act creating internal audit     Systematizationact creatinginternal audit
unitinHIFapprovedbyHIFBoard.                    units inat least two other first line budget
                                                users amrovedbvremective ministrv.
Government to submit to Parliament              SA0 to publishaudit results andperiodic
revision to S A 0 enabling act: (a)             reports on cases reported to anticorruption
permitting S A 0 to focus on highrisk budget    commission, systemic weaknesses in
entities andEBFs [111and(b) requiring           financial management, and Government's
S A 0 to publish audit results and periodic     progress intaking corrective actions.
reports on weaknesses infinancial
management, and government's progress in
taking corrective actions.
                                         Procurement
Parliament to enact a new Law on Public
Procurement which is satisfactory to the
Bank and inline with international standards
andbest practice.
                                                Government to adopt comprehensive
                                                implementing regulations under the Law on



                                             66

                                                  Public Procurement, acceptable to the Bank
                                                  and inline with international standards and
                                                  best practice.
                                                  Government to promulgate andrequire use
                                                  o f standard procurement documents and
                                                  standard forms o f contract, acceptable to
                                                  the Bank.
                                                  M O F to begin and continue publishing on
                                                  the MOF website the Register o f
                                                  PerformedPublic Procurement and
                                                  findingso fPublic Procurement Complaints
                                                  Committee.
                                                  A separate state administrative body for
                                                  public procurement within the Ministry o f
                                                  Finance has beenestablished andis fully
                                                  operational with staff, resources, andterms
                                                  o freference satisfactory to the Bank.
                                         CivilS rvice
Government to authorize a payroll-based          Government to submit to Parliament an
mechanism for enforcing civil service            amendment to Organic Budget Law
hiringrequirements in 2004Annual Budget          establishing payroll-based enforcement
Law.                                             mechanism.
Government to repeal "hold-harmless"
provision from civil service law, so as to
reduce net costs o f salary decompression.
Parliament to approve CS Law amendments


Bank.
Satisfactory implementation o fthe Wage          Borrower has achieved satisfactory progress
DecompressionAction Plan.                        inthe implementationofthe wage
                                                 decompression time-bound actionplan
                                                 ameed with the Bank.
                                         Healtl Sector
                                                 HIFfinancial control systems audit hasbeen
                                                 completed and accepted by the Borrower's
                                                 Government and an action planbased on
                                                 audit recommendations has been approved
                                                bvthe Government.
Pharmaceutical Bureau to revise rule book        The Borrower has adopted a new practice
on abridged procedure for issue                  for procuringthe pharmaceuticals on the list
pharmaceutical marketing authorizations in       agreed with the Bank, based on the
order to eliminate inappropriate                 procedures specified inthe Memorandum o f
requirements for local testing and expert       Understanding. New supply contracts
opinions for drugs already tested, evaluated     sufficient to meet the requirements o fthe
and licensed inreference countries.              HIFandhealthcare institutions for said


                                               67

                                                          pharmaceutical for a period o f at least a year
                                                          havebeen concluded by HIF.
                                                          The HIFto adopt a satisfactory4 bylaw
                                                          outlining terms and condition o fHIF
                                                          contractingwith private pharmacies, with
                                                          the agreement o fthe MOH, andpublishthe
                                                          bylaw inthe Official Gazette.
 HIFto adopt satisfactory bylawsonhospital                HIFto havecollectedcontract monitoring
 contracts and sign contracts with at least 17            data from contracted hospitals covering first
 His.                                                     six months o f 2004, analyzed the data, and
                                                          provided feedback to hospitals where
                                                          performance deviates materially5from
                                                          contract.
                                        Social Sector Expenditures
 Amendments of the PensionandDisability                    Regulations goveming new reporting
 Insurance Law, Law on Records from the                    requirement enacted and the reporting
 Labor Area and the Law on Personal                        forms for individual pensioncontribution
 Records of the Insuredapproved bythe                      reporting developed.
 Parliament andrelevant by-laws enacted to
 enable the introduction o f the new system o f
 mandatorymonthlyreporting onpension
 contributions paid for each employee
 individually.




 Satisfactory i s defined as the following: (i)contracting with any willing dispenser, (ii)definition o f adequate
reimbursement mechanisms to ensure cost-containment and access.
 For 2004, "materially" is proposed to mean: greater than +/- 5 percent for financial performance indicators and
greater than +/- 10percent for volume and other non-financial performance indicators.


                                                       68

                                       Annex 14: Statementof Loansand Credits
           FYROFMACEDONIA: SOCIALPROTECTIONIMPLEMENTATIONPROJECT

                                                                                                      ~   ~~~



                                                                                                                        Differencebetween
                                                                                                                        expectedand actual
                                                             OriginalAmount inUS$Millions                                  disbursements

Project ID   FY     Purpose                               IBRD       IDA      SF       GEF     Cancel.       Undisb.   Orig.     Frm.Rev'd

PO76712      2002   COMMDEVT                                 0.00     5.00    0.00      0.00     0.00           5.55     2.10        0.00

PO63577      2001   COMMDEVT & CULT LIL                      0.00     5.00    0.00      0.00     0.00           5.19     2.35        0.00

PO73483     2001    CHILDNOUTHDEVT LIL                       0.00     2.50    0.00      0.00     0.00           1.98     0.89        0.00

PO70089     2001    TRADE & TRANS FACILINSE EUR              0.00     9.30    0.00      0.00     0.00           5.47     -4.28       0.00

PO42400     2001    FESAL2                                  30.31    20.00    0.00      0.00     0.00          20.55     19.27       0.00

PO50589      1999   TRANSPORT                               32.00     0.00    0.00      0.00     0.00          12.37     15.77       10.71

PO38399      1998   IRRIGREHAB                               7.50     5.00    0.00      0.00     0.00           7.08      6.41       6.20

PO42399      1998   POWER                                   35.00     0.00    0.00      0.00     0.29           8.81      5.73       0.00

                                                   Total: 104.81     46.80    0.00      0.00      0.29         67.00    48.24        16.91




                                 FORMERYUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OFMACEDONIA
                                                     STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                   HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                     InMillionsofUSDollars


                                                             Committed                                       Disbursed
                                                            IFC                                      IFC

        FY Approval   Company                    Loan      Equity     Quasi    Partic.   Loan        Equity         Quasi     Partic.

        1999/00       Alkaloid                   0.00        0.00      0.00     0.00       0.00        0.00          0.00       0.00

        2001          Komercijalna               4.32        0.00      0.00     0.00       4.32        0.00          0.00       0.00

        2003           MFBMacedonia              0.00        1.13      0.00     0.00       0.00           1.13       0.00       0.00

        1998          MacedoniaTelcom            0.00       11.31      0.00     0.00       0.00        11.31         0.00       0.00

        1997          Makedonija                 1.76        0.00      0.00     0.00        1.76       0.00          0.00       0.00

        1997          Nikol-Fert                 3.80        0.00      0.00      0.00       3.30       0.00          0.00        0.00

        1999           SEAF Macedonia            0.00        1.66      0.00      0.00      0.00        0.33          0.00        0.00

        1997          SEFMasinomont              0.82        0.00      0.00      0.00      0.82        0.00          0.00        0.00

        1998/00/01/03 StopanskaBanka             0.00        0.00       1.95    0.00       0.00        0.00          1.78        0.00

        1997102       Teteks                     5.30        0.00      0.00     0.00       4.00        0.00          0.00        0.00

                                 Totalportfilio:  16.00     14.10       1.95    0.00       14.20       12.77         1.78        0.00




                                                                          Approvals PendingCommitment
                       FY Approval   Company                          Loan      Equity       Quasi           Partic.




                                         Totalpendingcommittment:     0.00       0.00         0.00             0.00




                                                                  69

                                            Annex 15: Countryat a Glance
FYROFMACEDONIA: SOCIAL PROTECTIONIMPLEMENTATION PROJECT



                                                                    EuropeB      Lower.
  POVERTYand SOCIAL                                    Macedonla,    Central     mlddle-
                                                               FYR     Asia      Income     DeVBlODmentdiamond*
  2002
  Population,mid-year(m17/ions)                                 2.0     476       2,411                    Lifeexpectancy
  GNIper capita(Atlasmethod, US$)                             1,700    2.160       1,390
  GNI(Atlasmethod, US$ billions)                                3.5    1,030       3,352                         T


  Average annual growth, 199662
  Population(%)                                                 0.5      0.1         1.o
  Laborforce(%)                                                 1.o      0.4         1.2    GNI                                  Gross
                                                                                            per                                 Primary
  Most recentestimate(latestyear avallable, 1996-02)                                        capita                            nrollment
  Poverty(% of populationbelownationalpovertyline)
  Urbanpopulation(% of totalpopulation)                         60        63         49
  Lifeexpectancyat birlh(years)                                 73        69         69                          -
  Infant mortalitylper 7,000 livebirths)                        22        25         30
  Childmalnutntion(% of childrenunder5)                           6                  11              Accessto improvedwater source
  Access to an improvedwater source(% ofpopulation)                       91         81
  Illiteracy(%ofpopulationage 75+)                                         3         13
  Grossprimaryenrollment(% of school-agepopulatlon)             99       102        111         -Macedonia,        FYR

      Male                                                      99       103         111        __Lower-middle-inwmeO         ~ U D
      Female                                                    99       101         110

  KEY ECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                    I982       1992    2001        2002
                                                                                             Economicratios.
  GDP(US5 billions)                                             2.3      3.4         3.7
  GrossdomesticinvestmenVGDP                                   15.6     16.3        21.9                       Trade
  Exportsof goods and SeNiCeS/GDP                              54.3     42.4        36.8
  Grossdomesticsavings/GDP                                     16.6      5.2         0.5
  GrossnationalsavingdGDP                                      14.8     14.0        13.1

  Currentaccountbalance/GDP                                    -0.6      -6.8       -6.7
  Interestpayments/GDP                                                    1.6        1.3
  Total debVGDP                                                         41.4        43.5
  Total debt service/exports                                            12.8        11.1
  Presentvalueof debffGDP                                               34.0
                                                                                           I
  Presentvalueof debtlexports                                           77.2
                                                                                                             Indebtedness
                                         1982-92 1992-02       2001    2002     2002-06
  (average annualgrowth)
  GDP                                         ....   0.9       -4.5      0.7         4.1         -Macedonia,         FYR
  GDPper capita                                      0.2       -4.9      0.6         3.5                 Lower-middle-incomegroup
                                                                                                    ~
  Exportsof goods andservices                 ..     4.1      -15.7      -4.4        6.5


  STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                    1962       1992    2001        2002      Growth of investment and GDP(%)
  ("ofGDP)                                                                                                                             I
                                                                                             W -
  Agriculture                                          ..      17.1     11.7        12.1
  Industry                                             ..      39.8     32.1        29.7
     Manufacturing                                             32.9     20.3        18.6
  Services                                             ....    43.2     56.1        58.2

  Privateconsumption                                   ..      63.9     70.0        76.7
  Generalgovernment consumption                                19.5     24.6        22.8
  Importsof goodsandservices                           ....    53.3     55.5        58.2                 -GDI           -GDP           I
                                                                                                                                       I
                                                  1982-92 1992-02      2001        2002               of exports and imports (%)
  (average annualgrowth)
  Agriculture                                          ..      -0.2    -10.8         2.3
  Industry                                             ..       0.2      -6.4       -4.6
     Manufacturing                                             -1.8      -3.9       -5.6
  Services                                             ....     1.9      -1.6        3.9

  Privateconsumption                                   ..       2.0    -10.0         8.3
  Generalgovernmentconsumption                                  3.1     29.7         2.4
  Grossdomestic investment                                      3.4    -17.9         7.7
  Importsof goodsand services                          ......   7.9    -15.3        10.7


  Note: 2002 data areestimates

  'The diamondsshowfour keyindicatorsin the country(in bold)comparedwith its income-groupaverage.If data are missing,the diamondwill
      be incomplete.




                                                                   70

                                                                                                FYR Macedonia

PRICES and GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                        1982   1992   2001   2002      lnflatlon(YO)
Domesticprices
                                                                    110 -
(% change)
Consumerprices                               1,690.7    5.5    1.9
ImplicitGDP deflator                         1,271.8    3.6    1.4

Government finance
(% of GDP, includescurrentgrants)                                                                                     I
Currentrevenue                                         34.2  35.9
Currentbudget balance                                  -2.5   -1.3              -GDP      deflator +CPI
Overallsurpiusideficit                          -9.8   -6.3   -5.7

TRADE
                                        1982   1992   2001   2002
(US$ mi//ions)                                                          Exportand Import levels (US5 mill.)

Totalexports (fob)                            1,199   1,154  1,112
 Rawmaterials                                           37     35
 Food                                           144     65     75
 Manufactures                                          825    778
Total imports (cio                            1,198   1.688  1,963
 Food                                           112     194   246
 Fueland energy                                 127    234    241
 Capitalgoods                                    85    284    407

Exportpriceindex (1995=100)                              69    71                                                     I
importpriceindex (1995=100)                              79    81     i               Exports         Imports       O2
Tens of trade(1995=100)                                 87     aa

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                        1982   1992   2001   2002
(US$ mi//ions)                                                          Currentaccount balanceto GDP (ah)

Exports of goods and services                 1,259   1,395  1,364
importsof goodsandservices                    1,236   1,934  2,156
Resourcebalance                                  23    -539  -792

Netincome                                       -72     -39    -31
Netcurrent transfers                             30     343    498

Currentaccount balance                          -19    -235  -324

Financingitems(net)                              79     318    194
Changes in netreserves                          -60     -82    131

Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US$ mi//ions)             60     775    735
Conversionrate (DEC, /ocaVUS$)                   5.1   68.0   64.4

EXTERNALDEBTand RESOURCEFLOWS                                                                                         II
                                        1982   1992   2001   2002
(US$ mi//ions)                                                          Compositlon of ZOO2 debt(US5mill.)
Total debt outstandinganddisbursed                    1,423  1,613
  IBRD                                                  124    138
  IDA                                                   254    293                               138


Total debt service                                      194    167
  IBRD                                                   12     13                                           93
  IDA                                                     2      2             501

Compositionof net resourceflows
  Officialgrants                                                                                             67
  Officialcreditors                                     -27    -22
  Privatecreditors                                       23     25
                                                                       I
  Foreign directinvestment                              442     77
  Portfolioequity                                         0      1                                                    I
World Bank program
  Commitments                                            24     20      A IBRD                            E. Bilateral
  Disbursements                                          23     34      8 IDA
                                                                         --        D Othermultilateral
                                                                                    -                     F Private
  Principalrepayments                                     4      6      C- IMF                            G Short-term
                                                                                                           --
  Netflows                                               19     28
  Interest payments                                      10      9
  Net bansfers                                           10     19




                                                    71


