Report No. 1040b-JM                                                          FLE  COPY
Appraisal of a
Second Population Project Jamaica
May 26, 1976
Population Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit -  Jamaican Dollar (J$)
US$  .01      =  J$  .0091
US$ 1.00      =  J$  .910
J$  .01      = US$  .011
J$ 1.00      = US$ 1.100
Government of Jamaica Fiscal Year - April 1 to March 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
ASFR   - Age-Specific Fertility Rate
CBR    - Crude Birth Rate
CHA    - Community Health Aide
GOJ    - Government of Jamaica
IU]D    - Intrauterine Device
MCH/FP - Maternal Child Health/Family Planning
MOHEC - Ministry of Health and Environmental Control
NFPB   - National Family Planning Board
USAID - United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFmFCIAL USE ONLY
DEFINITIONS
Age-Specific Fertility Rate        : Number of registered births per thousand
women of a specific age group during the
year.
Beri Beri                          : A disease condition caused by Vitamin B
deficiency.
Crude Birth Rate                   : Number of registered births per thousand
population at mid-year.
Crude Death Rate                   s Number of registered deaths per thousand
population at mid-year.
Dependency Ratio                    : Number of people below 15 and above 64
years of age per hundred population between
15-64.
Discontinuation (Attrition Rate)   : Annual rate of suspended use by a cohort
of acceptors. Specific for each method of
contraception.
General Fertility Rate             : Number of registered births per thousand
women between 15-44 years of age.
Gomez Scale                        : Grade 1 - 75-89% of standard wlight for age.
Grade 2 - 60-74% of standard weight for age.
Grade 3 - < 59% of standard weight for age.
Gross Reproduction Rate            : Computed similarly to the total fertility
rate (see next page) but based upon female
births only.
Infant Mortality Rate              : Number of infant deaths (between 0-1 year
of age) per thousand live births.
Intranatal Period                  : During which the process of birth takes
place.
Kwashiorkor                        : Condition due to severe protein deficiency.
Marasmus                            : Severe malnutrition syndrome occurring
when body protein is burned for energy
expenditure because of a very limited
caloric intake.
Maternal Mortality Rate            : Number of deaths per thousand live births,
as a result of complications of pregnancy,
childbirth and the following 10-day
period (puerperium).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance I
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Natural Increase Rate               : Crude birth rate minus crude death rate.
Neonatal Period                     :The first month in the life of an infant.
Net Reproduction Rate               :The total number of female births expe-
rienced by a woman from 15-44 years of
age but taking into account their age-
specific death rates. The net reproduction
rate is significant in relation to a stable
population.
Perinatal Period                    : Extending from the 28th week of gestation
to the 17th day of life of an infant.
Puerperal Period                    : The mother's first ten days following
birth of child.
Total Fertility Rate                : The sum of age-specific fertility rates
by single year of age from 15-44 years.
It states the number of children 1,000
women would bear during their lifetime
if they suffer no mortality.
Xerophthalmia                       : A disease condition resulting in wasting
and destruction of the white of the eye
due to Vitamin A deficiency.



BASIC DATA
197L
Mid-Year Population (Mllicns)                                 2.0
Density Per Kn2                                              179   a/
Crude Birth Rate Per 1,000                                    3u.
Crude Death Rate Per 1,000                                     7.1
Infant Mortality Rate Per 1,000                               25.3
Life Expectancy at Birth (Years)                              69.0 a/
Gross Reproduction Rate                                        2.4
Population Growth Rate (%)
Total                                                        1.6 a/
Urban                                                        6.2 b
Urban Population (% of Total)                                  37.0 b/
Age Structure (%)
0 to 1  Years                                              42.1
15 to 6)i Years                                              51.2
65 Years and Over                                             6.7
Economic Dependency Ratio                                       1.3
Family Planning Acceptors (% of Women, 15-L4 Years)             7
Total Labor Force (Thousands)                                820
Labor Force in Agriculture (%)                                29.2
Unemployed (% of Labor Force)                                 21.1
Adjusted Enrollment Ratio
Primary School                                             106
Secondary School                                            32   a/
Years of Schooling Provided
(First and Second Levels)                                   12.0 a/
Vocational Enrollment
(% of Secondary)                                             9.0 b/
Adult Literacy Rate (%)                                        86.0 b/
Population in Thousands
Per Physician                                                2.6 8/
Per Nurse                                                    0.9 a/
Per Midwife                                                  h.I
Per Hospital Bed                                             0.3 a/
a/ Data refer to year between 1971 and 1973.
b/ Data refer to year between 1968 and 1970.






JAMAICA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND POPULATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .......................                i - iv
I.   INTRODUCTION ..........................................             1
A.   Background .... ......      .....................             I
B.   Country Features .. ........ .... ........... ...             1
C.   Recent Demographic Trends .....1.............. 
D.   Nutritional Status .........................                  4
II.   THE GOVERNMENT'S FAMILY PLANNING AND
NUTRITION PROGRAMS ..................................              5
A.   Population Policy ....................       .......          5
B.   Nutrition Policy .....          .......................       6
C.   Organization for Delivery of Integrated MCH/
FP/Nutrition Services ....         ...................       6
D.   Relationship Between the Nutrition and
Family Planning Programs .....          ...............      7
III.   THE FIRST JAMAICA POPULATION PROJECT .            ............      8
IV.   THE PROJECT ......... .. .  ................... ...............     9
A.   Objectives and Strategy .................       ....          9
B.   Project Components             ..........................    10
V.   PROJECT COST, FINANCING, DISBURSEMENT AND
IMPLEMENTATION ...................................                17
A.   Cost .........................................               17
B.   Proposed Financing .....        .....................        20
C.   Implementation ..          ............................      20
D.   Procurement ............... . .................              22
E.   Disbursements and Accounts ...............       ...         22
VI.   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION ......            ......................     23
VII.   AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....................                25
The Report is based on the findings of the mission that visited Jamaica from
October 21 to November 7, 1975 consisting of Dr. K.V. Ranganathan (Chief), Mr.
John Burfield, Mr. Alexander Shaw, Mr. Daniel Gianola, Mr. Arthur R. Lucas,
(consultant) and Dr. Earl Siegel (consultant), and was joined for part of
the time by Mr. Arnold Clift (Loan Officer, Jamaica, LAC III).



- 2 -
ANNEXES
1. Demographic Analysis
2. Recent Trends in Family Planning Acceptance and Use
3. Nutritional Status
4. MOHEC Organizational Charts: Existing and Proposed
5. County of Cornwall Delivery System for Integrated MCH/FP/Nutrition Services
Chart 1: Office of the Cornwall County Medical Officer of Health:
Proposed Organization and Management Structure
Chart 2: Supervisory System for the CHAs and Midwives
6. Community Health Aides
7. Rural Maternity Centers
8. List of Technical Assistance
9. List of Special Equipment
10. In-Service Training Program
11. Midwifery Training Schools
12. Expansion of Postpartum Program
13. Nutrition Education and Communications Program
Chart: Nutrition Unit: Proposed Organization
14. Feasibility Study of Supplementary Food Needs
15. Planning and Evaluation Unit
16. Health Management Information System
17. Demographic and Research Components
18. Health Facility Maintenance System
19. Detailed Cost Estimates
A.   Non-Construction Components
B.   Incremental Recurrent Expenditures (Local)
20. List of Incremental Staff
21. Project Implementation Schedules
A.   Construction Component
B.   Non-Construction Component
22. Project Expenditure Schedules
A.   Construction Components
B.   Non-Construction Components
23. Draft Terms of Reference for the National Development Agency
24. Schedule of Accommodation for Buildings in the Project
25. Estimated Cumulative Disbursements
MAP Locations of Existing and Proposed Health Facilities



JAMAICA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND POPULATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The first Bank population project was undertaken in Jamaica in 1970
(Ln. 690-JM) in support of the Government of Jamaica's (GOJ) National Family
Planning Program. It provided for the expansion of postpartum facilities in
the Victoria Jubilee Hospital in Kingston and the construction and equipment
of rural maternity centers. Since about 50% of all births in Jamaica occurred
in medical institutions, this expansion was expected to eliminate overcrowding
and increase the average length of stay per mother. In so doing, the oppor-
tunity for successful postpartum contacts by trained family planning person-
nel (to promote acceptance and use of contraception), would be increased.
In addition, the project supported a comprehensive review of family planning
activities in Jamaica to provide a basis for modifying and strengthening the
National Family Planning Program. Bank/Government discussions during the
implementation of the first project resulted in substantive improvements
in the Program, many of which are to be supported under the proposed project.
ii.       Although there is evidence that the GOJ's population program has
had an impact in reducing fertility, the Government's demographic objective
was not fully achieved (an actual crude birth rate of 30.4/1000 by 1974 com-
pared with a target of 25/1000 originally set for 1975). Jamaica still has
a high rate of natural increase (23.4/1000 in 1974), although considerable
emigration has kept the annual rate of population growth at 1.6% in recent
years. If the rate of natural increase continues at current levels, the
present population of more than 2 million would double in about 30 years.
A young population structure (42.1% under the age of 15) means a high degree
of dependency (95.3%), large investments in health services and education,
and a built-in momentum for continued rapid population growth. In 1974,
unemployment was high (11%) 1/ and apparently increasing. To achieve a more
rapid decline in fertility, the GOJ's National Family Planning Program needs
to be further strengthened. This is urgent because of the limited resource
base of the Island, the unemployment problem, and increasing aspirations for
increased educational opportunities and more complete health services.
iii.       Jamaica has successfully reduced infant mortality from 50.9/1000
live births in 1960 to 25.3/1000 live births in 1974 and achieved a fair
nutritional status in the adult population. However, the prevalence of
malnutrition among children from 0 to 4 years of age and among pregnant and
lactating women, and the levels of childhood mortality are high compared to
developed countries. Proper nutrition education and the provision of supple-
mentarv food for children and women within the above groups *uhere iaalntitrition
1'   Official statistics cite a 21% level of unemployment, but rend to
overestimate the problem by including persons not actively seeking
employment.



is prevalent would make it possible to improve the nutritional status of these
vulnerable groups and reduce infant and child mortality. Such a reduction
in mortality would also support parental attitudes toward smaller family
size.
iv.       This report proposes a second population project with an important
nutrition component. It is aimed at expanding and enhancing the efficiency of
the Government's maternal and child health/family planning/nutrition (MCH/FP/
nutrition) program. The specific objectives of the four-year project are:
(a) to reduce the general fertility rate from the 1974 level of 182/1000 to
150/1000 in 1980 by providing improved and integrated MCH/FP/nutrition ser-
vices (formerly these services were segregated and unipurpose) and (b)
to reduce malnutrition among children from 0 to 4 years of age and among
pregnant and lactating women.
v.        The project will assist:  (a) the training and equipping of mid-
wives and community health aides (CHAs) -- those fieldworkers responsible for
the delivery of integrated MCH/FP/nutrition services at the primary health
care level; (b) the development of an integrated MCH/FP/nutrition program in
Cornwall County 1/; and, (c) the expansion of the existing postpartum program
to the 17 remaining GOJ hospitals with maternity beds. The proposed project
includes funds for the construction of 57 health centers in Cornwall County
and supports the institutionalization of a decentralized county administra-
tion, the Cornwall County Health Administration. The Cornwall County service
delivery system will almost double the potential for the delivery of primary
health, family planning and nutrition care, particularly in rural areas of
the County where the population has little access to such services at pres-
ent. After testing and evaluation, the Government would consider expanding
this program to the other two counties. The project also supports the estab-
lishment of a Planning and Evaluation Unit in the Ministry of Health and
Environmental Control (MOHEC), and a related Health Management Information
System.
vi.       To ease the shortage of midwifery training institutions, the GOJ
plans to establish a new midwifery training school in Cornwall County and
expand the existing school in the Victoria Jubilee Hospital. The proposed
project would provide equipment and technical assistance for these schools.
vii.      One of the weaknesses in the National Family Planning Program in
Jamaica noticed during the implementation of the first project was the lack
of family planning training for medical personnel. With the integration
of family planning and MCH services in April 1974, the need to train the
doctors, nurses, midwives and other workers of the MOHEC directly involved
in the service delivery system, became critical. The MOHEC established an
in-service training unit to meet this need. The proposed project supports
this in-service training unit with funds for equipment, vehicles and tech-
nical assistance.
1/   About one quarter of the population of Jamaica lives in this County.



- iii -
viii.     Building on the first project's successful postpartum program in the
Victoria Jubilee Hospital (37% of the women who gave birth there became family
planning acceptors), the Government extended this program to five other
hospitals during 1973/74 with equally encouraging results. The proposed
project supports the extension of the postpartum program to the 17 remaining
hospitals with maternity beds in Jamaica.
ix.       A national nutrition education and communications program would:
(a) promote breast-feeding, (b) help mothers to recognize the importance of
using proper and adequate infant weaning foods, (c) reduce anemia of mothers
by promoting the use of supplementary foods, and (d) encourage the utilization
of the MCH/FP/nutrition services by mothers and children. One thrust of this
program will be carried out by MOHEC field workers with special training in
person-to-person motivational techniques; the other will be a mass media
campaign expected to reach 80% of the mothers in Jamaica.
x.        The project would also provide for a feasibility study to:
(a) determine the need for supplementary foods for mothers and for weaning,
(b) explore alternative methods for economical and efficient procurement of
this food locally or otherwise, and (c) recommend methods for local process-
ing and packaging of supplementary food.
xi.       The project director and two deputy directors in the MOOHEC would
be responsible for project implementation, including coordination of all
project inputs. The coordination of the Cornwall County Program component
would be undertaken by a project coordinator in the Cornwall County Health
Administration. The construction component for the project, including de-
signs and production drawings, construction contracts and procurement, would
be the responsibility of the National Development Agency, a Government-owned
corporation.
xii.      The total cost of the project (net of duties and taxes but includ-
ing contingencies) is estimated at US$13.2 million. Of the estimated foreign
exchange costs of US$6.3 million, it is expected that the Canadian Interna-
tional Development Agency would finance US$389,000 equivalent for the feasi-
bility study of supplementary food needs and that the U.S. Agency for Inter-
national Development (USAID) would finance US$77,000 for consultants for
in-service and midwifery training. The remaining foreign exchange costs of
US$5.9 million would be financed by the Bank, in addition to interest and
other charges on the Bank loan during construction estimated at US$0.9 mil-
lion. Thus, a total Bank loan of US$6.8 million is proposed with a term of
25 years including five years of grace. The Government would finance local
capital costs estimated at US$6.9 million and USAID would finance US$19,000
equivalent for local costs associated with technical assistance. In addi-
tion, the Government would incur incremental local recurrent costs asso-
ciated with the project estimated at an average of US$2.9 million per annum
during the project period. It is proposed that foreign expenditures not
exceeding US$100,000, incurred after December 1, 1975 an(d before loan
signing, for training fellowships abroad in connection with the supple-
mentary food feasibility study, and for detailed engineering and prelim-
inary designs, be financed retroactively from the loan proceeds.



- iv -
xiii.     Contracts over US$50,000 for furniture, equipment and vehicles
would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in ac-
cordance with Bank guidelines. Other contracts, including civil works,
would be awarded in accordance with local procedures which are acceptable
to the Bank.
xiv.      It is estimated that the National Family Planning Program, sup-
ported by the project, would contribute directly to approximately 70% of
the fertility decline expected to be feasible during the next five years.
The project would assist in improving overall family planning program per-
formance by strengthening planning, management, evaluation, research, and
basic and in-service training of health workers, and utilization of com-
munity-level workers. The nutritional status of mothers and children,
mainly in the low-income rural population of Jamaica, would be improved
through the national nutrition education and communications program.
xv.       Subject to conditions in paras 7.01 - 7.03, the project is suit-
able for a Bank loan of US$6.8 million equivalent, for a term of 25 years
including a grace period of 5 years.



JAMAICA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND POPULATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
A. Background
1.01      In accordance with terms of reference dated October 15, 1975, a
mission visited Jamaica from October 21 to November 7, 1975 to appraise the
Second Population Project for Jamaica.  The Government of Jamaica (GOJ) had
established a task force to prepare the second project and its report was
the basis for the appraisal.
1.02      The main objectives of the proposed project are:  (a) to contri-
bute to fertility reduction through further development of health and family
planning services for mothers and children, and (b) to reduce malnutrition
among children from 0 to 4 years of age and among pregnant and lactating
women. The two objectives are linked because the Ministry of Health and
Environmental Control (MOHEC) provides maternal and child health/family
planning/nutrition (MCH/FP/nutrition) services through a common delivery
system, and furthermore, a reduction in child mortality ought to result in
a decrease in fertility, after some time lag.
B. Country Features
1.03     2Jamaica is a tropical island in the Caribbean with an aria of
10,962 km and a population of over 2.0 million (179 people per km ). With
a per capita income of above US$900 (1973), Jamaica compares favorably with
most Latin American and Caribbean countries. In 1974, unemployment was high
(11%) 1/ and apparently increasing; half of the total number of unemployed
was concentrated in the age group, 14-24 years. The high rate of unemploy-
ment and a dual wage structure (much higher wages in the mining and manufac-
turing sector than in agriculture and services) are important factors in
generating a skewed distribution of income. In agriculture, 2% of the farms
account for 45% of the arable land while about 145,000 farmers, with less
than 2.5 hectares each, farm the hilly and less fertile areas.
C. Recent Demographic Trends
1.04      The population of Jamaica is predominantly of African descent but
has Indian, Chinese and European components as well. In recent years, rates
1/   See footnote on page ie



- 2 -
of natural increase of 2.5%-3.0% per annum have been tempered by emigration;
the population grew at an average rate of 1.6% per year for the 1960-70 dec-
ade. If emigration were substantially reduced and the natural population
growth rate proceeded at its present level, a heavy burden would be imposed on
health, education and housing resources as well as aggravating an already-
serious unemployment picture. However, emigration in the past has taken a
high proportion of skilled labor out of the country.
1.05      An earlier stage of slow population growth, characterized by high
fertility offset by high mortality, has already ended. The decline in mor-
tality beginning in the 1920s was not matched by a corresponding decline in
fertility. During the decade 1960-70, the rate of natural increase was 3.1%
(22 years' doubling time); emigration reduced the rate of population growth
to 1.6% per annum (44 years' doubling time). At this rate, during 1970,
Jamaica's population increased by 2.4 people per square kilometer, or, more
relevantly, five people per square kilometer of agricultural land. Had emi-
gration been nil, these increases would have been more than twice as large.
By comparison, in the same year, Mexico's population, growing at 3.5% per
annum, had to accommodate only 1.1 additional people per square kilometer.
1.06      The average number of births per year was about 67,000 in the pe-
riod 1960-65. In 1966, an Island record of 71,500 births was reached; there
has been a slow but steady drop ever since, reaching 62,000 in 1974, the low-
est figure since 1958. The crude birth rate (CBR) peaked at 42.0/1000 in
1960 and then declined, reaching 30.4/1000 in 1974. This decline in the CBR
reflects the decrease in the total number of births, which, in turn, could
have been due to a sustained reduction in the number of women within the re-
productive ages (sex selective emigration), or to a decrease in age-specific
fertility rates, or both. For the past decade, no tabulations of births by
age of mother (the basis of age-specific fertility rates) have been made
available on a yearly basis. Since the period overlaps with the operation
of the National Family Planning Program it would have been desirable to have
information on age-specific movements of fertility available for other than
census years (the last census was in 1970). In the absence of detailed tabula-
tions of these vital statistics (which have remained unprocessed since 1964),
it is impossible to trace fertility movements in Jamaica effectively. The
proposed project provides for age-specific fertility rates to be compiled
and published in the future on a yearly basis. (para. 7.01 f).
1.07      Although the CBR fell 11.5% from 1960 to 1970, census data suggest
that during this period the total fertility rate and the gross reproduction
rate increased slightly (Annex 1). In the intercensal period, age-specific
fertility rates increased in female cohorts under 30 years of age and de-
creased in those between 30 and 49. Likewise, the number of 15-49 year-old
females decreased by 5.4% from 1960 to 1970 while the reduction in the male
cohort was less than 1%; this reflects a greater female emigration. Thus, from
1960 to 1970, the ratio of males to females increased from .87 to .92 in the
age group 15-49 and the childbearing portion of the female population (15-44
years of age) decreased substantially from 42% to 30%. Consequently, emigra-
tion between 1960 and 1970 had an appreciable effect on the age-sex struc-
ture, and therefore the decline in the CBR may be primarily a function of
the declining proportion of women within the childbearing age group.



- 3 -
1.08      After about 30 years of modest private efforts, official family
planning services were inaugurated in 1964. Lack of data on yearly fluc-
tuations of age-specific fertility rates, on continuation rates by contra-
ceptive method and on the size of the female population protected at a given
time have led to the use of indirect estimates of program performance (e.g.,
crude birth rate, general fertility rate, etc.). However, the heavy influ-
ence of age-sex selective emigration on these statistics makes them incon-
clusive. At any rate, the GOJ National Family Planning Program appears to
have made at least a modest contribution to the decline in the birth rate
over the past five-year period (Annex 2).
1.09      The GOJ established in 1974 a CBR target of 25/1000 population
for 1978 to be reached as a consequence of having 100,000 family planning
users (women between 15-44 years of age) by 1977. 1/ Since the size of
active clientele was around 40,000 in 1974, achievement of the target
would mean an increase of approximately 22,000 users per year. It would
also require a general fertility rate of 120/1000 women, 15-44 years of
age, by 1977. In the light of present acceptance rates (around 22,000 new
acceptors per year), apparently high attrition rates and a general fertility
rate of 182/1000 in 1974, it does not seem likely that those objectives will
be achieved unless present trends are dramatically altered. However, the
program with the aid of the proposed project, may realistically be able to
achieve a general fertility rate of 150/1000 by 1980 as a result of reaching
about 100,000 family planning users in that year.
1.10      The main population trends in Jamaica are summarized by the
following data:
(a) Natality: The CBR declined from 42.0/1000 in 1960 to
30.4/1000 in 1974;
(b) Mortality: The crude death rate decreased from 8.8/1000
in 1960 to 7.1/1000 in 1974; infant mortality dropped
from 50.9/1000 live births in 1960 to 32.2/1000 in
1970, and still further to 25.3/1000 in 1974. Thus
in 1974, less than half as many infants were lost in
the first year of life as in 1960; and
(c) Migration: In the ten-year period 1960-70, net emigration
amounted to approximately 290,000 people. In 1974, 76% of
a net migration negative balance of 12,000 people were
females, mostly between 15-34 years of age.
1/   In 1970, a CBR target of 25/1000 was proposed for 1975.  It was then
moved to 1978, as reported in Ministry Paper No. 1: "Family Plan-
ning."



- 4-
D. Nutritional Status
1.11      The infant mortality rate (25.3/1000 live births in 1974) compares
favorably with those of other developing nations. However, in 1974 there
was considerable variation in infant mortality among parishes (16-17/1000
live births in St. Thomas to 34/1000 in St. James). Although malnutrition
is a lower determinant of infant mortality (10-16% of all deaths compared
with 34% of deaths from perinatal causes), the rate of death due to avi-
taminosis and malnutrition (3-6/1000 live births) has not decreased since
1965. On the other hand, it is estimated that malnutrition contributes
directly or indirectly to 60-85% of the deaths among children between six
months and two years of age. Furthermore, malnutrition has been a primary
or secondary diagnosis for about 50% of hospital admissions of children under
two years of age.
1.12      Protein-calorie malnutrition is the most common form of malnutri-
tion in Jamaica; diseases such as xerophthalmia and beri-beri are rare.
Marasmus or kwashiorkor occur in 1-2% of children under five years of age;
the World Health Organization has estimated that, on the average, 3% of
children under five years of age in low-income countries suffer from severe
protein-calorie malnutrition. By comparison, the prevalence of severe malnu-
trition syndromes were: 6% in Trinidad (1960), 1.2% in Barbados (1969) and
1.5% in St. Vincent (1967); unfortunately, these studies do not provide data
on the incidence of marasmus and kwashiorkor per se. Nearly 45% of pregnant
and lactating women in Jamaica are anemic; iron deficiency appears to be the
main cause (Annex 3).
1.13      About 10% of all children under five years of age suffer from
medically detectable malnutrition (Gomez Scale, Grade 2), but about 40% are
at the suboptimal standard level (Gomez Scale, Grade 1). Figures of 42%
(St. Lucia), 54% (Grenada), and 50% (Barbados) for the incidence of Gomez Scale,
Grades 1 and 2 malnutrition have been reported. The average in Commonwealth
Caribbean countries was 53%, compared with a 16% average for Canada and the
United States. The transition from baby food to family food (6-12 months of
age) seems to mark a critical period for the occurrence of malnutrition within
Jamaican conditions. One of the reasons is poverty, but lack of knowledge,
and inappropriate and often delayed treatment of disease are other signifi-
cant contributing factors. The general features of the food supply system
are also important determinants of nutritional status of the Jamaican popu-
lation; these wider considerations are being addressed by the GOJ as a part
of its agricultural policy.
1.14      The main objectives of the nutrition campaign in the proposed
project are to increase maternal knowledge of sound nutritional practices,
to discourage premature weaning and encourage the use of appropriate weaning
foods.



- 5 -
II. THE GOVERNMENT'S FAMILY PLANNING AND NUTRITION PROGRAMS
A. 2opulahonl Policy
2.01      The Government of Jamaica has been one of the first in the Latin
American-Caribbean region to adopt a policy of slowing down the growth of
its population.
2.02      The National Family Planning Board (NFPB) is a semi-autonomous,
policy-making body appointed by and broadly responsible to the Minister of
Health and Environmental Control; it was created by the National Family
Planning Act of 1970. Since its inception it has been responsible for
operating an essentially unipurpose, clinic-oriented program, segregated
from the delivery of health services, and for promulgating national family
planning policies and coordinating the activities of official and voluntary
agencies in the field. From 1968 through 1973, the NFPB's clinics were
responsible for 123,000 of the total 149,000 clients registered for fam-
ily planning services by all Jamaican agencies (excluding family planning
acceptors served through commercial channels).
2.03      In 1970, the GOJ recognized that reaching a CBR of 25/1000
population by 1975 required rapid acceleration of educational efforts,
extension of clinic hours, new patterns of delivery of family planning ser-
vices, and re-introduction of an outreach program to recruit new acceptors
and follow-up on dropouts. The 1972 Five-Year Plan called for full-time
clinics, extensive training of personnel, additional educational officers,
integration of family planning with health and social services, and greater
involvement with other agencies. By 1973, the network of family planning
clinics had grown to 161 (including two mobile units). Seventeen were full-
time clinics, 134 "sessional" or part-time clinics and 10 satellite outposts.
However, integration with the health services did not take place until 1974.
2.04      The present Government's commitment to family planning as one
of Jamaica's highest priorities was reaffirmed by the current Minister of
Health and Environmental Control and given official recognition through the
publication of "Ministry Paper No. 1: Family Planning" on January 22, 1974.
This document, which was the first policy directive of MOHEC calling for
integration of family planning with the regular health services, included
the transfer of 143 family planning workers from the NFPB into the MOHEC
establishment.
2.05      Implementation of the plan to integrate family planning with health
services became official as of April 1, 1974. The NFPB has been retained but
its role has been altered. It is still responsible for information, training,
coordination and evaluation activities in family planning, but the delivery of
services has been integrated with those of the MOHEC. Under this plan, each
Government health center provides family planning services upon request during
the regular hours the center is open (previously they were provided during
specified hours only or on special days). The administrative liaison between
the NFPB and MOHEC is the principal medical officer for MCH/FP/nutrition in
the MOHEC; he is also the vice chairman of the NFPB.



- 6 -
2.06      The significant increase in budgetary support for family planning
in every fiscal year since 1968 (from J$ 304,162 in FY1968/69 to J$ 1,790,000
in FY1975/76, equivalent to J$ B75,000 in 1968 prices) confirms the GOJ's
expanding interest in family planning; likewise does the per capita offi-
cial commitment for family planning (US$.75 in 1974), which was the highest
among thirty-two countries surveyed by the Population Council.
B. Nutrition Policy
2.07      In 1974, the Government of Jamaica established a Nutrition Advisory
Council functioning under the Ministry of Commerce and Marketing. The Coun-
cil is chaired by MOHEC's principal medical officer (MCH/FP/nutrition) and
has members representing health, agriculture, industry, education, finance
and other ministries and agencies. A major aspect of the Council's work has
been the outlining of a draft food and nutrition policy and a set of proposed
programs, now in discussion before the Parliament.
2.08      The main goals of the proposed policy are:  (a) to ensure avail-
ability by 1980 of sufficient food to maintain adequate nutrition of all
segments of the population, (b) to increase the production of calorie and
protein requirements supplied from local production, and (c) to eliminate
malnutrition from vulnerable groups (in particular, serious protein-calorie
malnutrition and anemia in children from 0 to 4 years of age, and nutritional
deficiencies in pregnant and lactating women).  To accomplish these objec-
tives, the GOJ has decided to promote:  (a) the local production and distri-
bution of infant weaning food and supplementary food for pregnant and lac-
tating women, (b) intensive nutrition education and communications programs
for encouraging breast-feeding of infants and continued use of weaning and
supplementary food, and (c) strengthening of an ongoing school lunch program
which is being undertaken by the GOJ with assistance from USAID.
C. Organization for Delivery of Integrated MCH/FP/Nutrition Services
2.09      The MOHEC is responsible for the delivery of integrated MCH/FP/
nutrition services. At the present time, the administrative organization
of MOHEC (Annex 4) is diffused. The GOJ, recognizing this limitation, re-
quested the Ministry of Public Services to make recommendations for a
comprehensive reorganization of the MOHEC. The Ministry of Public Ser-
vices recommended that the chief medical officer, the three principal
medical officers--one each for MCH/FP/nutrition, public health, and hos-
pitals--and the principal nursing officer, should be assembled into a unit
responsible for the planning and evaluation of health policies under the
leadership of the chief medical officer. It was also recommended that
the principal medical officer (MCH/FP/nutrition) be given staff support
in supervising and coordinating the MCH/FP/nutrition program at the na-
tional level. During negotiations, the GOJ agreed to the appointment,



- 7 -
within six months of loan effectiveness, of a qualified and experienced
person, satisfactory to the Bank, to assist the principal medical officer
(MCH/FP/nutrition); the GOJ also agreed to provide in the annual budget
adequate and specifically-allocated sums for MCH/FP/nutrition programs
within the overall MOHEC budget, beginning in FY1977/78 (para. 7.01a).
2.10      The MOHEC has established a Planning and Evaluation Unit (see
para. 4.16) with the chief medical officer as the chief and the three
principal medical officers and the principal nursing officer as members,
plus supporting technical staff which is to be recruited. The proposed
project supports the establishment, staffing and operation of this Unit.
2.11      The GOJ is also establishing the Cornwall County Health Adminis-
tration as a regional branch of MOHEC. The aim is to decentralize the ad-
ministration of health services, including MCH/FP/nutrition services, to
ensure more effective and efficient supervision, coordination and evalua-
tion of primary health care activities. The Cornwall County Health Admin-
istration will be reinforced by the proposed project, and tested during a
four-year period. It will then be replicated in the other two counties of
Jamaica, provided positive experiences emerge during the project period.
2.12      A Cornwall County medical officer of health, responsible for
administering all health services in the County (excluding hospitals), has
recently been appointed by the GOJ (para. 4.04). The focus for delivery
of primary health care services, with priority on MCH/FP/nutrition services,
will be on the community health aides (CHAs) and the district midwives, operat-
ing at the community level essentially through a home-visiting program. They
will be supported and supervised from a system of health centers which will
also have referral services (Annexes 5 and 6 on the Cornwall County Program
and CHAs, respectively).
D. Relationship Between the Nutrition and Family Planning Programs
2.13      Various studies have suggested that couples are more likely to
prefer small families if they perceive that children already born will
have adequate health and a good chance of survival. A long-run relation-
ship between low infant and child mortality and low fertility is generally
accepted. By improving the nutritional status of children from 0 to 4
years of age and of pregnant and lactating women, the Jamaican nutrition
program would reduce perinatal and child mortality and improve child
health. It would be expected, after some time lag, that these improve-
ments would also influence couples in the direction of smaller family
size.
2.14      The utilization of multipurpose workers like the CHAs (who are mem-
bers of the communities being served) decreases the social distance between
the health staff and the people and creates more empathy with the population



-8-
served. Furthermore, multipurpose workers reduce the negative perception
of family planning workers as "birth-control staff", thus increasing their
acceptability.
2.15      In addition to its primary impact on infant health, breast-feed-
ing has an important effect on postpartum infertility through lactation
amenorrhea. Estimates indicate that lactation amenorrhea provides consid-
erably more (40%) couple-years of protection in developing countries than
contraceptives provided through public and private family planning programs
combined. Encouragement of breast-feeding through intensive nutrition edu-
cation (a project component) will not only aid in improving child health but
will also indirectly influence reduction in fertility.
III. THE FIRST JAMAICA POPULATION PROJECT
3.01      The preceding Jamaica  project, approved in June 1970, was the
Bank's first in the population sector. It had an estimated total cost of
US$3 million and was assisted by a Bank loan of $2 million. The project
had two main components: (a) the building of a new wing at the Victoria
Jubilee Hospital in Kingston, plus the renovation of the existing
facility, and (b) the construction of 10 rural maternity centers,
each having four beds. The rural maternity centers were a new and
untried type of facility in the health system. The central strategy of
the project was to expand delivery facilities to permit the postpartum
recruitment of acceptors from the relatively large proportion of women
(nearly 50%) who delivered in medical facilities; this was consistent with
strategies then available but which have since been substantially expanded.
The project also included two small operational studies, the appointment of
a training consultant, the development of a home-visiting program, and pro-
gram reviews by an external review team.
3.02      The first project has suffered from serious construction delays;
construction has taken approximately twice as long to complete as was
originally intended and construction cost has increased by about 95%.
Site-selection problems delayed the rural maternity center construction
program; Victoria Jubilee Hospital construction was repeatedly delayed by
financial problems affecting the prime contractor and by labor disturbances
on the site. The new wing at the Hospital has recently been completed, al-
though work has not yet commenced on the remodeling of the existing wing.
The bed capacity in the maternity wing has doubled (from 165 to 332 beds).
The number of deliveries at Victoria Jubilee Hospital will not increase
proportionately since the bed expansion is mainly intended to relieve
serious overcrowding which necessitated discharging women as early as pos-
sible following delivery. The expected lengthening of stay should make the
hospital's postpartum family planning program considerably more effective.
3.03      The final rural maternity center was completed in mid-1974.  Although
the initial experience among the 10 centers has been uneven, the overall re-
sponse to these new maternity facilities has been somewhat disappointing
(Annex 7) in view of the reluctance of Jamaican women to utilize health
facilities meant specifically for maternity and family planning. In an



- 9 -
effort to achieve higher utilization of the delivery beds, the Government
intends to convert a number of these single-purpose centers into general-
purpose Type II health centers. This will require some additional minor
construction.
3.04      Although the 1970 project made provision for an annual external
review, it was subsequently agreed to conduct only one such review during the
project period. After the first external review in 1972, it was realized by
the Bank and the GOJ that Bank project supervision missions could handle further
review and evaluation of the project, and thus eliminate the time-consuming
and somewhat cumbersome tasks of recruitment and deployment of external re-
view missions each year. The report produced by the 1972 review team was
well received by the Government. Some of its recommendations -- notably
those for making greater use of the commercial sector -- have been influen-
tial in the subsequent broadening of Government strategy. The report pointed
out weaknesses in the training of family planning workers, inadequacy of the
single purpose (family planning) home-visiting program and the low number of
acceptors. The proposed project includes a component for improving in-service
training in family planning for the health staff.
3.05      The CHA program was launched by the GOJ, partly in response to one
of the requirements of the first project--establishment of a program for per-
son-to-person motivation in family planning; the initial results have been en-
couraging. The Government has successfully integrated the formerly "vertical"
family planning services with the regular health services. Project review
missions have provided a continuing setting for ongoing Bank/GOJ discussions
with regard to making the National Family Planning Program more effective.
The proposed project reflects many conclusions reached in the course of these
discussions.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Strategy
4.01      The two immediate objectives of the proposed project are:  (a) to
reduce fertility (from a general fertility rate of 182/1000 women, 15-44
years of age in 1974, to 150/1000 in 1980), and (b) to reduce serious pro-
tein-calorie malnutrition in all children from 0 to 4 years of age by 50%,
and eliminate anemia of pregnant and lactating women by 1980. The first
objective will be achieved by: (a) assisting with the training and equip-
ping of midwives and CHAs, the field workers responsible for delivery of
integrated MCH/FP/nutrition services at the primary health care level, (b)
developing an integrated MCH/FP/ nutrition program in Cornwall County --
utilizing CHAs for home visiting, backed up by adequate supervision and
technical support -- which, if effective, would be replicated in the other
two counties of Jamaica, and (c) expanding the existing postpartum program
to the 17 remaining hospitals with maternity beds. An Island-wide program
to disseminate information on sound nutritional practices will be the prin-
cipal contribution of the project towards meeting the second objective, in
conjuction with a feasibility study for local production and processing of
supplementary food.



- 10 -
B. Project Components
4.02      The project, to be executed during a period of four years, consists
of the following components:
Regional Scope
(a) Cornwall County Program: vehicles, equipment, construction
of 57 health centers;
National Scope
(b)  Equipment for the training of about 1,000 CHAs (including their
supervisors) and audiovisual aids for 2,000 CHAs to be used in their
educational/motivational work;
(c) Midwifery Training: Equipment, technical assistance and fellow-
ships for a new midwifery school to be located in Cornwall County
and for one existing school in Spanish Town;
(d)  In-Service Training:  Technical assistance, equipment and vehi-
cles to strengthen MOHEC's in-service training program in
MCH/FP/nutrition for medical officers, midwives, nurses and
other staff;
(e)   Postpartum Program:  Equipment needed to expand postpartum
family planning services to 17 additional hospitals;
(f)  Nutrition Education and Communications (to promote breastfeeding and
improve child and maternal nutrition): Equipment, vehicles and
technical assistance for national and local campaigns, training,
production of audiovisual aids, research and evaluation, and
fellowships;
(g)  A Feasibility Study for local production and processing of
supplementary food, including training fellowships;
(h)  Technical Assistance and fellowships for the Planning and Evaluation
Unit in MOHEC;
(i)  Technical Assistance, fellowships and equipment for evaluation of
the demographic impact of the National Family Planning Program,
including program-oriented research studies;
(j)  Technical Assistance to support a Health Facility Maintenance Unit
to be created by the GOJ and for a building utilization study;
(k)  Innovative Activities:  Funds to support innovative activities
that may arise during project years (e.g., strengthening
of the commercial distribution system of contraceptives).
(See Annexes 8 and 9 for Lists of Technical Assistance and Special
Equipment.)



- 11 -
4.03      The Cornwall County Program:  In line with the integration of
family planning with health services described in para 2.04, the CHAs and
district midwives will be responsible for community-based delivery of these
services. The CHAs will constitute a link between the community and the
health system. On the order of the village volunteers and medical assis-
tants in Tanzania and the barefoot doctors in the People's Republic of
China, the CHAs are paramedics recruited from the communities where they
will work. They perform functions similar to village volunteers and bare-
foot doctors including giving priority attention to motivational aspects of
health and family planning, with the provision of basic medical care as an
essential but not major responsibility. They are trained to screen and
refer cases which they themselves cannot handle. The CHAs work alongside
the district midwives who will be the first-line professional primary health
workers for the MCH/FP segment of the program. Responsibilities of the
midwives would include: (a) home-visiting for prenatal and postnatal care
(based upon information provided by the CHAs), (b) domiciliary midwifery,
(c) supervision and training of indigenous midwives (nanas), (d) infant
care, encouragement of mothers with regard to breast-feeding and immuniza-
tion of children against common diseases, and (e) provision of family plan-
ning services. It is planned to have one district midwife per 4,000 popu-
lation in Cornwall County by 1980. (For details, see Annex 5.) The GOJ has
agreed that it will, on a phased basis, but no later than May 31, 1979,
appoint and thereafter retain suitably qualified staff for all positions
necessary for the efficient operation of the MCH/FP/nutrition program in
Cornwall County (7.01b). Basic aspects of the Cornwall County Program are
presented in the following table:
Type &
No. of
Health     Centers/                    Supervision
Centers   Population   Staff             of Staff          Activities of Centers
I (71)      1/4,000  CHAs           Senior CHA or    1. Prenatal, Postnatal, and
Midwife and          Family Planning Clinics
Public Health    2. Nutrition Surveillance
Nurse                and Demonstration
3. Food Storage
Midwife       Public Health    4. Community Health Education
Nurse                Center
II (36)   1/12,000  Same as I,    Same as I            1. Same as I
plus Public   Senior Public    2. Immunization
Health Nurse  Health Nurse
Asst. Nutri-  and Medical        3. Injections and Insertion
tionist        Officer              of IUDs
Senior Aux-
iliary Nurse



- 12 -
III (16)  1/24,000  Same as           Same as II        1. Same as II
II, plus
Asst. Health  Health Educator 2. Referral from I and II Centers
Educator
Nurse Prac-   Nursing Super-  3. Guidance, Supervision and
titioner       visor                 Support of I and II Centers
Medical        Medical Officer    in Their Areas
Officer        of Health
IV (5)    One per   Same as           Same as III         1. Same as III
parish    III, plus
Nursing Su-   Medical Officer   2. More Advanced Referral
pervisor       of Health               Services
Parish Nu-    Medical Officer
tritionist    of Health
Health Edu-   Medical Officer
cator          of Health
Statistical   Medical Officer
Clerk          of Health
Medical        Cornwall County
Officer        Medical Officer
of Health      of Health
Construction aspects of the health center network would be as follows:
Category of      New              Existing Centers
Health       Construc-       To be            No.                 Total of Existing
Centers        tion       Remodeled        Change    Total         and New Centers
Type I             34            -              37         37               71
Type II            14           18               4         22               36
Type III            5           10               1         11               16
Type IV             4            -               1           1               5
Total              57           28 /_           43         71              128
/1   The GOJ intends to finance remodeling of these centers during 1976-80
in conjunction with the project, but not as part of it.
4.04       A Cornwall County Medical Officer of Health, appointed by the GOJ,
will be responsible for the management of the health delivery system proposed
by the project. The Cornwall County Health Administration will have the nec-
essary administrative and professional staff (see Annex 5, Chart 1). Estab-
lishment of the Cornwall County Health Administration, organized and staffed
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, will be a condition of loan effective-
ness (7.02).
4.05       Community Health Aides Training:  On the basis of a successful
pilot project utilizing CHAs for combating child malnutrition in Western
Jamaica -- funded by the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID)
and with participation of the University of West Indies and Cornell
University -- MOHEC is planning to deploy CHAs throughout Jamaica.



- 13 -
4.06      The CHAs, community-based health workers, are responsible for the
following: (a) home visiting to identify malnourished mothers and children
and pregnant and lactating women, (b) encouragement of malnourished mothers
and children to attend healh centers to receive attention and/or supplemen-
tary food, (c) motivational work for family planning, (d) provision of first
aid and treatment of minor ailments, and (e) medical surveillance for chronic
diseases, such as diabetes and hypertension. They would be recruited from
the communities they are to serve and would reside in their area of work.
4.07      MOHEC, expects to reach a ratio of one CHA per thousand population
(throughout the Island) by 1977/78. The present ratio is one CHA per 2,000
population. The project provides for the retraining of existing CHAs as
a part of the in-service training component (Annex 10), for the training of
about 1,000 additional CHAs, including their supervisors (Annex 6), and for
simple audiovisual aids and equipment for motivational use in conjunction
with family health/nutrition education activities. The GOJ has agreed that
these 1,000 additional CHA positions will be sanctioned by the end of 1978 in
accordance with a schedule to be agreed by the Bank (para. 7.01e).
4.08      Midwifery Training:  MOHEC estimates that in order to cover
Jamaica with effective MCH/FP services, there should be one district mid-
wife per 3,000 population. As a first step, it is planned to have one dis-
trict midwife per 4,000 population by 1980; this would imply deployment of
about 550 district midwives (in addition to a number of hospital-based mid-
wives).
4.09      In 1975, there were 294 district midwives in Jamaica, leaving a
shortage of 256 to be trained and deployed. The midwifery school in Victoria
Jubilee Hospital will graduate about 40 midwives per year ("single-trained"
for field work). The project provides for extension of this training school
to the Spanish Town Hospital to train 20 additional midwives per year. The
field training of all midwives trained at the Victoria Jubilee Hospital
and Spanish Town Hospitals will be provided at Spanish Town. In addition,
the project provides for one additional midwifery school in Cornwall (to be
located in the Cornwall County Regional Hospital in Montego Bay) which would
graduate 20 midwives annually starting in October 1976. Together, these
midwifery schools are expected to graduate the required number of midwives
by 1980. After 1980, the Victoria Jubilee Hospital Midwifery School and its
extension will supply an adequate number of midwives to offset the expected
rate of attrition, with a margin for additional needs that may arise. At
this point, the Cornwall County Midwifery School will be converted to a
multidisciplinary training center for the basic training of nurses and other
health workers with functions not directly related to family planning. The
project also provides for technical assistance: one midwifery tutor for
each of the two midwifery schools, for 12 man-months each (US$48,000 per
man-year) to assist in midwifery curricula development and to train counter-
part midwifery tutors (para. 7.01c), and 24 man-months of fellowships for
the training of Jamaican midwifery tutors abroad. (For details of midwifery
training, see Annex 11.) To achieve the target of I midwife per 4,000 popu-
lation in Jamaica, the GOJ has agreed that 60 midwifery positions each year,
from 1978 through 1982, will be sanctioned for the MCH/FP/nutrition program
(para. 7.01d).



- 14 -
4.10      In-Service Training:  The midwifery schools and the CHAs' training
program will provide training for new personnel joining the MCH/FP/nutrition
program; however, it is also necessary to train existing staff deployed in
the MCH/FP/nutrition services.  About 4,000 district midwives, public health
nurses, medical officers and other public health staff are currently support-
ing, or directly involved in, the MCH/FP/nutrition program. MOHEC plans to
establish an in-service training unit with necessary staff, transportation
and equipment to conduct field and job-oriented training programs convenient
to staff locations. In the next two years, in-service training will be
focused on staff directly involved in the delivery of MCH/FP/nutrition
services. Later, attention will be given to the remaining categories.
This unit will be supported by the proposed project (Annex 10), by funding
vehicles, equipment and a training consultant for 12 man-months (US$48,000
per man-year) (para. 7.01c).
4.11      Extension of the Postpartum Program:  Nearly 50% of all deliveries
in Jamaica take place in 23 hospitals. In six of them, there are postpartum
programs in operation. Approximately 37% of the women contacted in the ex-
isting Victoria Jubilee Hospital program attended a family planning clinic
within the first three months after having initially been seen by the post-
partum worker. Nearly 40% of women delivering in the Victoria Jubilee Hos-
pital request family planning services, either in the form of injectable
contraceptives (Depo-Provera), tubal sterilization, or other methods of
contraception. The data available on the programs in the other hospitals
also indicate that they are successful. The GOJ has decided to extend its
postpartum program to the 17 remaining hospitals with maternity services.
The project will assist in the expansion of these hospitals by providing
funds for equipment (Annex 12). The GOJ has agreed that it will staff the
new posts for this program no later than July 31, 1977 (para. 7.01b).
4.12      Nutrition Education and Communications Program:  In line with the
GOJ's priorities for promotion of breast-feeding of infants and for more
adequate utilization of supplementary food for children and pregnant and
lactating women, the project includes an intensive and comprehensive nutri-
tion education and communications program (Annex 13). A major and systema-
tic effort will be made to educate and motivate the public in conjunction
with the benefits to be gained from the adoption of new nutritional prac-
tices. A basic communications strategy, based on homogenous groups within
the population, has been prepared and appropriate methods and media are being
planned for each target group.
4.13      The communications strategy will be implemented by an education
and communications officer, supported by a media and commerce assistant
who will deal with media production in both the Government and commercial
sectors. Both officers will be responsible to the project director through
the deputy project director (health). They will be responsible for initiat-
ing and coordinating all aspects of the nutrition education and communica-
tions program. The senior of the two has already been appointed and the
assistant will be recruited no later than December 31, 1976 (7.01h).



- 15 -
4.14      In order to implement the communications program, the education
and communications team will call upon the services of the Agency for
Public Information, the Bureau of Health Education and the commercial
audiovisual production sector to assist in the design, production, and use
of the necessary audiovisual materials. The media used will range from radio
(both commercial and governmental) and television, to specially-designed and
simple materials for the postpartum and home visiting programs. A major part
of the communications work will consist of a national campaign which will use
messages based on policy directives from the Nutrition Unit. Both the com-
munications officers and the Nutrition Unit will call on the assistance of
the Institute of Mass Communications, University of West Indies, which will
carry out the vital research work and evaluate the program. The campaign will
have a direct education/motivation impact and, at the same time, reinforce the
activities of the MOHEC field staff. Existing mobile vans controlled by the
Agency for Public Information will be used largely in the campaigns but one
additional, specially-designed mobile unit will be financed by the loan to
test its effect in the Cornwall County pilot project area. The loan will also
finance equipment for the nutritional education program and 36 man-months of
technical assistance, i.e., a communications specialist, an audiovisual aid
production specialist to the Bureau of Health Education, and a specialist in
documentary film editing to the Agency for Public Information, at US$48,000 per
man-year (7.01c). (Job descriptions are given in Annex 13, Appendices 1-3.)
A total of 18 man-months of fellowships are also included in the project for
the additional training of communications personnel.
4.15      Feasibility Study:  The food and nutrition policy and programs aim,
inter alia, as a priority, to improve the nutritional status of the most vul-
nerable groups, children from 0 to 4 years of age and pregnant and lactating
women. The GOJ plans to achieve this goal, in part, through a program which
will provide supplementary food for these groups, utilizing locally-grown
food processed and packaged in the country, as and when appropriate. The
GOJ has in operation at present a limited program of food supplementation
through its school lunch program in certain areas, e.g., Kingston St. Andrews
Corporate Area, and distribution of corn soy blend through some of the
health centers. The project will include a feasibility study to determine
the total need for supplementary food in Jamaica, to explore alternatives
for meeting this need and to recommend to the Government an economically
viable and technically sound solution. Funds will be provided for train-
ing fellowships (5 man-months) and for the recruitment of a consulting firm
(US$389,000 as fees) (para. 7.01c). The Canadian International Development
Agency would finance this study (Annex 14).
4.16      Planning and Evaluation Unit:  The GOJ, as a part of the reorga-
nization of MOHEC, has established a Planning and Evaluation Unit to
undertake detailed planning, set standards and evaluate health programs
with particular emphasis initially on MCH/FP/nutrition (Annex 15). The
Planning and Evaluation Unit consists of a team of technicians, supported
by staff to be recruited by July 31, 1977 (7.Oib); it will function in an
advisory capacity to the Permanent Secretary, Health. The Planning and
Evaluation Unit will also be responsible for the management of a health
information system (Annex 16). The proposed project supports the



- 16 -
establishment and functioning of the Planning and Evaluation Unit in the
MOHEC by funding technical assistance as follows: (a) a planning advisor
for 12 man-months (US$60,000 per man-year), (b) health information consul-
tancies for 36 man-months (para. 7.01c) (US$48,000 per man-year), and
(c) fellowships in the areas of health planning and information for 88
man-months. (Details in Annexes 15 and 16.)
4.17      Demographic and Research Components:  Since 1964, no tabulations of
births by age of the mother have been available on a yearly basis; this has
precluded obtaining information on age-specific fertility rates. To some
extent the 1970 Census made up for this deficiency, but without periodic
information on the subsequent movements of fertility by age category, it
is difficult to assess the impact of the National Family Planning Program.
The proposed project provides funds for the processing of age-specific
fertility rates during project years 1976-80 (Annex 17). The GOJ has given
assurance that beginning with calendar year 1977 regular annual reports on
age-specific fertility rates will be published. The production and publica-
tion will continue thereafter (para. 7.Olf).
4.18      It has been difficult to estimate the size of yearly cohorts of
family planning users since attrition rates for each contraceptive method
are not known. Attrition rates are necessary for the estimation of the
actual clientele size, the establishment of empirical relationships with
the movements of age-secific fertility rates and the forecasting of future
demands in terms of contraceptive supplies, clinic schedules, etc. The
project provides funds for follow-up studies to obtain information on at-
trition rates (Annex 17).
4.19      In order to formulate more effective population policies, it is
necessary to consider--in addition to family planning--information on socio-
economic variables at family and community levels. The project provides a
research component (Annex 17) for this purpose; the results would be of par-
ticular use to the Planning and Evaluation Unit. Research would concentrate
on: (a) the collection and analysis of information on factors (such as pub-
lic health, education, manpower, prices and family planning) that affect
the acceptance and use of contraceptives, and (b) sample surveys to gener-
ate household information on present and past fertility, income, employment,
contraceptive use and their relationships. The research component would be
supported by a research consultant (para. 7.01c) who would be assisted by
three locally-recruited research assistants to be appointed by the MOHEC.
Funds will be provided for the research consultant for 12 man-months
(US$48,000 per man-year), and for administrative and data processing ser-
vices. During negotiations, the GOJ has given assurance that the three
research assistants would be appointed by December 31, 1976, prior to the
arrival of the research consultant (para. 7.01i).
4.20      Health Facility Maintenance System:  The GOJ has an organization to
maintain health facilities and equipment. The approximate replacement value
of health facilities and equipment is at present US$165 million equivalent.
The Pan American Health Organization has been providing assistance to the
Government--in the form of instructors and teaching materials--to train en-
gineers and tradesmen for the Health Facility Maintenance System which is



- 17 -
the responsibility of the Ministry of Communications and Works. The loan
provides funds for five man-years of technical assistance (US$48,000 per
man-year) for a management and program coordinator, field supervisor, tech-
nical instructor in maintenance logistics and procurement, and a technical
trade instructor--the last to be located at the College of Arts, Sciences
and Technology of the University of West Indies (para. 7.01c and Annex 18).
4.21      Building Utilization Study:  The suitability of the designs of
clinic buildings can best be assessed while in use. Technical assistance
for 12 man-months (US$48,000 per man-year) provides for a modest study based
on a sampling of completed clinics to assess whether the facilities furnish
optimal tools for the functions to be performed within them. The timing of
the study would be agreed with the GOJ, the results would be utilized for
future clinic design - especially for the clinics that would be added in
the other counties when the Cornwall County Program is replicated (Annex 18,
Appendix 1).
4.22      Other Activities:  Experience in other countries (e.g., Bangla-
desh), has shown the need to provide funds for the support of voluntary or-
ganizations and other innovative activities, both in the public and private
sectors, that may be developed in the course of program implementation.
The project includes US$400,000 for this objective (US$200,000 in the
loan). Proposals for the use of loan funds for this purpose would be
agreed upon in advance between the GOJ and the Bank (para. 7.01j).
V. PROJECT COST, FINANCING, DISBURSEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Cost
5.01      The total estimated project cost, based on December 1975 prices,
is as shown in the following table and detailed in Annex 19.



- 18 -
J$ooo                 us$000           %
Local  Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total  FEC
I. Construction7
Site Preparation & Constr. 3,091  1,523    4,614  3,h01   1,675   5,076  33
Professional Fees             316    170       486    348      187     535  35
Furniture & Equipment         461    462       923    507      508   1,015  50
Fees for Furniture & Equip.   12       3               13        3      16  20
Subtotal I         3,880  2,158    6,038  ,269   2,373   6,61t2  36
II. Non-Construction
Vehicles & Spare Parts        -      603       603    -        663     663 100
Special Equipment              56    306       362     62      337     399  85
Technical Assistance          18h  1,122    1,306    202   1,235   1,h37  86
Support to Innovative
Activities                  182    182        64    200      200     400  50
Subtotal II          -22  2,213   2,635   T4        2,h35   2,8998h
Base Cost Estimate            h,302  4,371    8,673  4,733  4,808   9,51  50
III. Contingencies
P ical (lb%)
Construction                388    215       603     27      237     664  36
Non-Construction             42    222       26       6      2hh     2908
Subtotal             430   1437       87        3 El X5  0
Expected Price Increase
(26%)
Construction              1,380    550    1,930  1,518       605   2,123  28
Non-Construction            140    389       529    154      h28     582  74
Subtotal           1,2T0    939    215i9  1,672   1,033   2,705  38
Subtotal III       1,950  1,376    3,326  2,2h5   1,l51    3,659  42
Total Expected Cost of
Project                     6,252  5,7h7   11,999  6,878   6,322  13,200  48
IV. Interest & Commitment Charges
during Construction           -       858      858    -        94h     9hL 100
Total Financial Requirement  6,252  6,605   12,857  6,878   7.266  JL1h4h  51
1/ Excludes cost of site acquisition.
2/ Base cost estimates are based on December 1975 prices.
NOTE: A total price contingency of 26% is included for expected price inflation
as follows:
1976    1977    1978    1979    1980
Local    15%      15    %15       1597    195%
Foreign  10%       9%      8%       7%      5%



- 19 -
5.02      Cost estimates by functional categories are summarized below:
J$000                  US$000
% of -
Local  Foreign  Total  Local   Foreign Total Total
Delivery of Services
County of Cornwall          3,880  2,817    6,697  4,269   3,098   7,367   -
Postpartum Program            -       51        51    -         56      56   -
Maintenance of Health
Facilities                  _4    174        218             192     240   _
Subtotal           3,92   3,0I2    6,966  4,317   3,346   7,663   80
Training
In-service Training             8     47        55      9       52      61   -
Midwifery Training             17    112       129     19      123     1b2   -
Training of CHAs               -      39        39     -        43      h3   -
Subtotal               2T    179      223             2 21    -27     3
Information, Education &
Communications
Nutrition Unit                 27    136       163     29      150     179   -
Bureau of Health Education    -       78        78     -        86      86   -
Agency for Public Information                  102     62       50     112   -
Subtotal              9      259      33       91     287 37   T
Research & Evaluation
Research                       44    123       167     50      134     184   -
Planning & Evaluation Unit    35    279        314     38      307     345   -
Building Utilization Study      8     35        43      9       39      48   -
Subtotal               7      3       524      97              5 5 77 X
Supplementary Feeding
Feasibility Study              -      253      253      -      278     278    3
Support for Innovative
Activities                    182    182       364    200      200     400    h
Contingencies                 1,950  1,376    3,326  2,1h5   1,514   3,659   -
Total Expected Cost of
Project /                   6,252  5,747   11,999  6,878   6,322  13,200  100
Interest & Commitment Charges
during Construction           -       858      858    -        944      944   -
Total Financial Requirement  6,252  6,605   12,857  6,878   7,266  142144   -
2/ Excluding contingencies,, interest and commitment charges.
2/ Does ndb include cost of site acquisition.



- 20 -
5.03      Estimates of the construction cost are based on data prepared by
Government agencies and by private firms in Jamaica. Simple designs are
being developed for the clinics. The basic unit cost of construction will
average $28 per sq ft. The cost of providing building sites, together
with access and available services, will be provided by the GOJ. Thirty
seven of the sites are on Government land and are available at present.
The construction of the 57 health centers will be carried out in two phases.
Phase I will comprise 31 centers, and the GOJ has already acquired sites
for all of these centers. For Phase II, the GOJ has given assurance that
all the necessary sites will be acquired and made available to the MOHEC
no later than December 31, 1977 (para. 7.01k).
B. Proposed Financing
5.04      The project would be financed by a proposed loan of US$6.8 million
equivalent, covering most of the foreign exchange cost (US$5.9 million) and
interest and commitment charges during construction (US$0.9 million equiv-
alent), and a GOJ contribution of US$6.9 million equivalent covering local
costs. The proposed loan would have a term of 25 years, including a grace
period of five years. Retroactive financing, in an amount not exceeding
US$100,000, is recommended to cover preparation expenses from December 1,
1975 for the fellowships for the supplementary food feasibility study,
as well as fees for detailed engineering and preliminary designs. USAID
would finance about US$77,000 equivalent and the Canadian International
Development Agency US$389,000 equivalent in foreign exchange costs, cover-
ing part of the technical assistance component and the feasibility study.
In addition, USAID wouild also finance US$19,000 equivalent for local costs
associated with technical assistance. (Technical assistance to be financed by
USAID includes: 12 man-months each for an in-service training consultant and
a midwifery tutor consultant. The Canadian International Development Agency
will finance a feasibility study including 72 man-months of consultancy.)
5.05      Incremental recurrent costs related to the project (but not in-
cluded in the project cost estimates) are estimated at US$11.5 million
equivalent for the project period, i.e., US$2.9 million equivalent on an
average per year (para 7.01g). They consist of staff salaries and operat-
ing expenses and would be financed by the GOJ (see Annex 20 for List of
Incremental Staff). During negotiations the GOJ has given assurance that
it will assume financing of all regular programs initiated through this
project, after project completion (7.01g).
C. Implementation
5.06      Technical capability and experience exist in the Jamaican building
industry to erect the type of structures envisaged in Cornwall County. Ca-
pacity to manufacture furniture locally is also adequate. There are several
private architectural firms in Jamaica able to handle design and supervision
work of this nature. Tendering procedures on thie Island are satisfactory.



- 21 -
5.07      MOHEC will be responsible for the overall project implementation.
The project implementation schedules and the schedules of project expendi-
tures are included as Annexes 21 and 22. The Government has agreed that
responsibility for execution of the construction component and the procure-
ment of furniture and equipment will be assigned to the National Development
Agency (Annex 23). The appointment of this Agency would be a condition of
loan disbursement (para 7.03).
5.08      The National Development Agency's contract management capacity
will be augmented as necessary by additional professional staff and sup-
porting technical services for the preparation of bidding documents, and
general supervison of the execution of the work. It will submit quarterly
reports on project progress to MOHEC and the Bank.
5.09      Design work for project buildings will be assigned to architec-
tural firms acceptable to the Bank. Simple standard designs would be de-
veloped for the four clinic types on the basis of the programs and space
schedules reviewed during appraisal (Annex 24). The National Development
Agency will prepare an overall plan of action for constructing the facili-
ties under the project, focusing on building standards and production
phasing for economy in professional fees and utilizing standard designs
to the extent feasible to speed implementation.
5.10      General supervision of the works will be provided by the National
Development Agency, assisted by the architectural firms retained for this
purpose, as mentioned in paras. 5.07-5.09. Constant inspection of the works
will be provided by site engineers. It was agreed at negotiations that the
Agency will be responsible for providing and managing these services. Pro-
fessional fees, as well as costs connected with site inspection, are included
in the project.
5.11      The GOJ has appointed two deputy project directors within MOHEC,
to be responsible for project implementation under the authority of the
Permanent Secretary of MOHEC who is also the project director. One deputy
project director would be responsible for coordinating construction and
procurement under the project and the other for supervising MCH/FP/nutri-
tion activities. The Bank was consulted about the appointments of the
project director and two deputy project directors and will be consulted
in the case of any future appointments to these posts. The National De-
velopment Agency would report to the project director. The Government has
also appointed a project coordinator in the Cornwall County Health Adminis-
tration to assist in coordinating the Cornwall County Program component of
the project. The GOJ would finance the salaries for the project director,
project coordinator and supporting administrative staff and the operational
cost as part of the recurrent costs associated with the project.
5.12      Criteria for site selection were outlined during project prepa-
ration; locations of facilities to be constructed have been selected but
not all sites have been acquired. Acquisition of 31 sites for Phase I of
construction has been completed; the sites for Phase II will be acquired
not later than December 31, 1977.



- 22 -
D. Procurement
5.13      Contracts for vehicles, furniture and equipment and special
equipment not exceeding US$50,000, and all civil works contracts will be
awarded in accordance with Government procedures which are acceptable to
the Bank.
5.14      Since most of the buildings are small, ranging in cost from
US$40,000 for the Type I clinic (34 in number) to US$300,000 for the Type
IV clinic (4 in number), it is not considered likely that foreign contrac-
tors will show interest in participating, but they would not be excluded
from bidding. Prequalification of all contractors would be required in
advance of bidding to ensure that only qualified firms submit tenders. To
the extent practicable, procurement will be based on bid packages, prepared
in such a way as to encourage competition. Bid packages will be so arranged
to give consideration to geographical groupings, production priorities, pro-
duction of building elements, or a combination of these. All contracts
over US$50,000 for furniture, equipment, special equipment and vehicles
required for the project will be awarded on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding in accordance with the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" dated August 1975. Preference would be
accorded to local manufacturers of furniture and equipment at 15% of the
c.i.f. bid price of such goods, or the amount of customs duty and other
import taxes levied on a non-exempt importer, whichever is the lower.
5.15      Equipment-for the clinics would be standardized for all health
buildings in order to ensure compatibility for the health personnel opera-
tionally responsible, as well as economy of maintenance.
E. Disbursements and Accounts
5.16      The proposed Bank loan of US$6.8 million would cover US$5.9 mil-
lion of the estimated foreign exchange costs, plus about US$0.9 million of
interest and other charges on the Bank loan (para. 5.04). The loan would
be disbursed over a period of four years. The amounts to be disbursed by
type of expenditure are as follows:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures for technical assistance
and special equipment;
(b)  100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported
vehicles; or 90% of total expenditures for imported
and locally-procured vehicles;
(c)  50% of the total expenditures for furniture and
equipment and innovative population subprojects;



- 23 -
(d) 33% of total expenditures for construc-
tion; and
(e) 100% of interest and other charges on the
Bank loan during construction.
An estimated disbursement schedule is included as Annex 25.
5.17      A separate project account would be maintained by the MOHEC;
this agency would be responsible for keeping financial records of all
expenditures under the project and for submitting reimbursement applica-
tions to the Bank.
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
6.01      Reductions of about 21-22% in the gross reproduction rate (from
2.7 in 1970 to about 2.1 in 1980) and the general fertility rate (182/1000
in 1974 to 150/1000 in 1980) are believed to be realistic targets to be
reached as a consequence of the National Family Planning Program and gen-
eral socio-economic development. It is estimated that 70% of the decline
in fertility would be attributed to the Program and its externalities; the
remaining 30% 1/ would be due to increased contraceptive use outside the
Program and an increasing preference for smaller family size. It is not pos-
sible to ca'culate precisely the contribution that the proposed project or
the proposed loan will make to the National Family Planning Program. How-
ever, expenditures under the proposed project -- aimed at strengthening and
expanding the National Family Planning Program -- represent about 40% of the
total estimated Program expenditures over the project period. It is reason-
able to assume that the project will contribute at least that proportion to
the decrease in fertility expected under the Program.
6.02      On the basis of appropriate fertility, mortality and emigration
assumptions, the perspectives of population growth in Jamaica seem as fol-
lows: if fertility continues at the age-specific levels observed in 1970
and without emigration beyond 1976, Jamaica would reach a population of 3.3
million in 1990 (300 people per km2) growing at 3.8% per year; ten thousand
emigrants per year from 1976 to 1989 would result in a population of 3.1
million in 1990. On the other hand, with the reduction in fertility up to
1980 believed possible with the improved program supported by this project,
without a further decrease in fertility after 1981 and without migration
beyond 1976, the population would be 2.9 million in 1990; ten thousand emi-
grants beyond 1976 would result in a population of 2.7 million in 1990. A
1/   Estimated on the basis of data on use of contraception through commer-
cial channels.



- 24 -
22% reduction in the gross reproduction rate from 1970 to 1980 with a con-
stant emigration assumption from 1976 through 1989, would have the effect
of reducing the population of Jamaica by 400,000 people by 1990. It is
reasonable to expect that further efforts to reduce fertility will be made
after 1980, with consequent further reductions in the rate of population
growth.
6.03      The contribution of the project towards fertility decline would
be the result of training, employment and supervision of community workers,
and the extension of the hospital-based postpartum program. The promotion
of breast-feeding and sound nutritional practices and an increase in child
survival would contribute indirectly to a decline in fertility in the long-
run. At the regional level (Cornwall County), an integrated MCH/FP/nutri-
tion delivery system (which is expected to account for about 25% of the family
planning users in Jamaica by 1980) will be tested for possible replication in
the other counties. It is expected that the system will increase acceptance
and continuation rates of contraception by providing improved supervision
and support of family planning workers and by decreasing the perception of
family planning staff as "birth control" technicians.
6.04      The project supports the planning, implementation and evaluation
(with expected USAID participation) of a low-cost primary health care de-
livery system with emphasis on MCH/FP nutrition. The main feature of this
system is the utilization of the CHAs, who, like the village volunteers in
Tanzania and the barefoot doctors in the People's Republic of China, would
be the community-level workers whose main priority would be to motivate the
rural population to accept and continue to use family planning services as
an integral part of primary health care services. Through this system,
by utilizing non-medical and non-professional manpower, low-cost health
services (including family planning) would reach Cornwall County initially,
and would subsequently be extended to the entire rural population of Jamaica.
6.05      The project would also contribute to institutional improvements
within MOHEC in planning, evaluation and research. Evaluation and research
results would provide guidelines for program direction, for a more efficient
utilization of scarce resources and for policy development. In addition, the
project would increase the number and quality of MCH/FP/nutrition workers by
reinforcing their basic and in-service training.
6.06      In Cornwall County (which is 80% rural), the project will almost
double the potential for the delivery of primary health care--with focus on
MCH/FP/nutrition--through the deployment of trained field workers and health
personnel, operating from small dispersed clinics. At the national level, a
nutrition education and communications campaign--aimed at promoting breast-
feeding of infants and sound nutritional practices for mothers and chil-
dren--will reach about 80% of the Jamaican mothers through a coordinated
multi-media program.
6.07      It is expected that an improved nutritional status of children
and of pregnant and lactating women would reduce family size in the long
run, although it is not possible to estimate this effect quantitatively.



- 25 -
A reduction of population pressures on health, education and housing would
free public resources which could be allocated to productive investment
leading to a higher economic output. The reduction of malnutrition would
have long-run effects on the productivity of labor. A reduction in popula-
tion growth--in the long run--will reduce the number of jobs that would need
to be created to prevent unemployment (an already difficult problem) from
becoming more serious.
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOtMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following princi-
pal points:
(a) The Government will strengthen the MCH/FP/nutrition services
at central MOHEC by providing one qualified and experienced
full-time staff member on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank to assist the principal medical officer (MCH/FP/
nutrition), and furthermore will provide in its annual
budget specifically-allocated sums adequate to meet the
needs and further objectives of the MCH/FP/nutrition
services in the MOHEC, beginning in fiscal year 1977/78
(para. 2.09);
(b) The GOJ will:
(i) on a phased basis, but no later than May 31, 1979, fill
present vacancies in the MCH/FP/nutrition delivery
system in Cornwall County (para. 4.03); and
(ii) by July 31, 1977, assign such other staff as shall be
required for the execution of the several programs
included in the project (paras. 4.11 and 4.16);
(c) The appointment of the advisor and consultants to be utilized
in the project will be made under terms and conditions accept-
able to the Bank (paras. 4.09, 4.10, 4.14-4.16 and 4.19-4.21);
(d) The Government will sanction positions for at least 60
midwives each year starting in 1978 for a period of five
years, to ensure a minimum number of vacancies for graduates
from the two midwifery schools (para. 4.09);
(e) The Government will sanction about 1,000 additional positions
for CHAs, including 200 supervisors, by 1978 to permit
deployment throughout Jamaica in the ratio of one CHA/1000
population (para. 4.07);
(f) The Government will annually estimate and publish age-specific
fertility rates during project implementation and routinely
thereafter (paras. 1.06 and 4.17);



- 26 -
(g)  The Government will assume all ongoing and incremental
costs (salary and operational) during the project period
and thereafter (para.. 5.05);
(h)  The GOJ has appointed an education and communications officer
who will be responsible for designing and carrying out the
communications program. To support this officer, the GOJ
will appoint a media and commerce assistant by December 31,
1976 (para. 4.13);
(i)  Three research assistants in the Planning and Evaluation
Unit will be appointed by December 31, 1976 (para. 4.19);
(j)  Proposals for the use of funds for innovative activities
will be agreed upon in advance with the Bank (para. 4.22);
(k)  The GOJ will acquire by December 31, 1977, the necessary
sites required for the construction of health facilities
in Cornwall County in Phase II (para. 5.03).
(1)  Responsibility for implementation of the project will rest
with a project director and two deputy directors, appointed
in consultation with the Bank, as well as a project coor-
dinator in Cornwall County (para. 5.11).
7.02      The establishment of a Cornwall County Health Administration,
organized and staffed in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, will be a
condition of loan effectiveness (para. 4.04).
7.03      The engagement of the National Development Agency to assist MOHEC
in the execution of construction and procurement aspects of the project would
be a condition of loan disbursement (para 5.07).
7.04      Subject to conditions in paras. 7.01-7.03, the project is suit-
able for a Bank loan of US$6.8 million for a term of 25 years including a
grace period of 5 years.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
Jamaica II
Demographic Analysis
Table 1: Population Trends, 1960-1974
Natural
End of Year    Crude Birth  Crude Death  Increase      Growth
Population        Rate         Rate        Rate         Rate
Year   (in 000's)      (per 000).   (per 000)   (per 000)   (per 000)
1960        1639         h2.1         8.8         33.3         1J.7
1961        1652         40.0         8.6          31.4          8.2
1962        167h         39.1         8.5          30.6         13.3
1963        1718         39.0         8.9          30.1         26.2
196h        1760         39.3         7.6          31.7         2h.2
1965*       1811         39.0         7.9          31.1         29.2
1966*       1859         38.9         7.8          31.1         26.5
1967*       1893         35.9         7.1          28.8         18.3
1968*       1923         3h.2         7.6          26.6         15.8
969         1864         35.1         7.6          27.5        -30.6
1970        1891         34.h         7.7          26.7         14.5
1971        1911         34.9         7.4          27.5         10.9
1972        195h         3h.3         7.2          27.1         22.0
1973        1991         31.3         7.2          2h.1         19.2
1974        2025         30.6         7.2          23.h         17.1
Source:   Department of Statistics, Jamaica.  Demographic Statistics
1974.
(*) IBRD, Appraisal of a Population Project: Jamaica, 1970.



Jamaica II
Table 2:  Intercensal Population Growth by Parish
1960-1970
_  1960-1970
Pop
1970/Pop       Growth      Doubling               Natural
Parish                    1960    Rate%   Time (years)   Increase % (Ave. 1970-1974)
1.  Kingston               1.305          2.7          25.7                    3.1
St. Andrew
2.  St. Thomas             1.022           .2         346.6                    2.2
3.  Portland               1.053           .5         138.6                    2.2
4.  St. Mary               1.056            .6        115.5                    2.1
5.  St. Ann               1.053            .5         138.6                    2.3
6.  Trelawny  1/          1.091            ,9          77.0                    2.3
7.  St. James  1/         1.233           2.1          33.0                    2.8
8.  Hanover  1/           1. 087           .9          77.0                    2.2
9.  Westmoreland  1/      1.033             3         231.1                    2.0
10. St. Elizabeth  1/      ].079           .8          86.7                    2.2
11. Manchester            1.100           1.0          69.3                    2.8
12. Clarendon             1.070             .7         99.0                    2.2
13. St. Catherine         1.192           1.7          40.8                    2.8
Overall               1-149          1i4          49.5                    2.6
*P         mt
m    oe
1/  Cornwall County Parishes.                                                                              m
_                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CD
Source:  Computed from data in Lepartment of Statistics, Jamaica:  Population                              r
Census, 1970.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Jamaica II
Table 3: Age-Specific Fertility Rates (ASFR) and Related
Statistics for Census Years 1960 and 1970
1960                           1970
Cumulative                      Cumulative
Age Group  ASFR    ASFR      % Cumulative  ASFR     ASFR     % Cumulative
15-19    .1528    .7640        14.1      .1674    .8370        15.1
20-2k    .2881   2.2045        40.6      .3018   2.3460        42.3
25-29    .2563   3.4860        64.2      .2681   3.6865        66.5
30-34    .2058   4.5150        83.1      .1902   4.6375        83.6
35-39    .1288   5.1590        94.9      .1273   5.2740         95.1
40-44    .0472   5.3950        99.2      .0468   5.5080        99.3
45-49    .0082   5.4360       100.0      .0078   5.5470       100.0
Total fertility rate     5.4360              5.5470
Gross reproduction rate  2.6924              2.7185
Source:  Calculated from data in "A Fertility Analysis of Jamaica:  Recent
Trends with Reference to the Parish of St. Ann" by S. Sinclair,
Social and Economic Studies, 23:588-635, 1974.



ANNEX 1
Page L
Jamaica II
Table L:  Estimated Fertility Rates-/
by Parish, 1970-1974
PARISH          1970       1971        1972        1973       1974
1.  Kingston &          180         188        178         161        161
St. Andrew
2.  St. Thomas          203         183        206         218        206
3. Portland             185         210        203         192        177
4. St. Mary              188        195        199         184        197
5.  St. Ann             185         195        188         183        170
6.  Trelawny  2/         199        219        211         204        187
7.  St. James  2/       184         190        198         185        198
8.  Hanover  2/         215         197        207         180        176
9. Westmoreland  2/    189          177        181         166        17L
10.  St. Elizabeth  2/   196         202        202         190        180
11.  Manchester          224         220        230         216        211
12.  Clarendon            179        180        188         183        176
13.  St. Catherine        195        215         22L        219        236
Overall             189         195        196         182        182
1/  Per 1000 women aged 15-44 years.
2/ Cornwall County Parishes.
Source: Ministry of Health and Environmental Control.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
Jamaica II
Table 5: Population Projections, 1975-1990
(Mid-year population in thousands)
(1)                          (2)
Without Emigration              With Emigration
Year
Constant      Declining( )   Constant(3)  Declining a
Fertility      Fertility      Fertility      Fertility
1975               1982.7         1960.3         1982.7         1960.3
1976               2030.3         1997.3         2025.0         1992.0
1977               2092.6         20h6.1         2075.9         2029.7
1978               2160.3         2097.3         2131.1         2068.8
1979               2234.0         2150.5         2190.8         2109.2
1980               2313.4         2205.7         2255.3         2150.8
1981               2398.7         2263.8         2324.5         2194.5
1982               2489.8         2326.0         2398.5         2241.7
1983               2586.2         2392.1         2476.9         2292.0
1984               2687.6         2461.7         2559.h         2345.2
1985               2793.5         253h.5         2645.7         2401.1
1986               2903.6         2610.2         2735.4         2459.5
1987               3017.7         2688.9         2868.6         2520.3
1988               3135.8         2770.2         2925.1         2583.3
1989*              3257.8         285h.0         3024.9         2648.6
1990               3319.7         2896.5         3075.7         2681.7
(1) 20,000 emigrants (15,000 females)from 1970-1975. No emigration
thereafter.
(2) 20,000 emigrants (15,000 females) from 1970-1975.
10,000 emigrants (7,500 females) from 1976-1989.
(3) Fertility is constant throughout at the age-specific levels of 1970.
(h) Age-specific fertility rates gradually decreased from 1970, reaching
72% of 1970 levels by 1980 anl held constant thereafter.
*   January 1 population. Mortality assumptions based on a lifetable (West)
and annual increases in life expectancy of .15 years.



J:;,  '-  I". k
Table 6:  Vital Statistics for Popialation Projectiors, 1927-1989
Without Emigration -                                 With Emigration 2/
onst.ant FertilitY 3     Declini   Fertilit          ConsFertilertilitv _/   Declining Fertility LI
CBR(%)  RNI(%) AGR(%)    CBR(%)  RNI(%) A.GR(%)      CBR(%)  RNI(%) AGR(      CBR(%)  RNI(%) AGR(%)
1975  3.146    2.81    1.80    3.01    2.37    1.35        3.46    2.81    1.80    3.01    2.37    1.35
1976  3. ,7   2.93    2.93     3.02    2.38    2.38        3.55    2.91    2.41    3.00    2.36    1.86
1977  3.74    3.10    3.10     3.08    2.h4    2.4LL       3.67    3.03    2.55    3.02    2.39    1.89
197,3  3.90    3.27    3.27    3.12    2.19    2.1i9       3.80    3.16    2.70    3.04    2.41    1.92
1979  14.05    3.43    3.03    3.15    2.53    2.53        3.92    3.29    2.84    3.Olb   2.42    1.95
1930  h.18    3.56    3.56     3.15    2.5L1    2.54        4.03    3.11    2.97    3.0L    2.42    1.96
1981  4.28    3.68    3.68     3.27    2.66    2.66        4.12    3.51    3.08    3.15    2-53    2.07
1982  4.36    3.77    3.77     3.36    2.76    2.76         4.20    3.60    3.18    3.21    2.62    2.18
.983  14.41    3.83    3.83    3.143    2.84    2.84       4.25    3.66    3.25    3.31    2.70    2.26
198L  4.43    3.86    3.86     3.48    2.90    2.90        4.27    3.69    3.30    3.36    2.76    2.33
1985 4.L42    3.87    3.87     3.51    2.93    2.93        4.27    3.71    3.33    3.39    2.80    2.38
198$4 14.40    3.86    3.86    3.53    2.96    2.96         4.26    3.71    3.31    3.41    2.83    2.142
198 P7  14.37    3.85    3.85  3.53    2.98    2.98        4.25    3.71    3.35    3.43    2.86    2.46
19V'8 14.314   3.83    3.83    3.53    2.98    2.98        4.22    3.70    3.36    3.43    2.87    2.49
1989  L.30    3.80    3.80    3.51    2.98    2.98        14.20    3.69    3.36    3.h3    2.88    2.50
NOTE:  Mortality assumptions basea on a lifetable (West) and ainual increases in life expectancy of
.15 years.
1/  LCwenty thousand emigrants (15,000 females) from 1970-1975.  No emigration thereafter.
2/  Twrenty thousand emigrants (15;,000 females) fromi 1970-1975.
Ten thousand emigrants (7,500 females) from 1976-1989.
3/  Fertility is constant throughout at the age-specific levels of 1970.                                       5
I/  Age-specific fertility rates gradually decreased from 1970, reaching 72% of 1970 levels by 1980         CD
and held constant thereafter. ,
AGR: Annual Growth Rate.
CBR: Crude Birth Rate.
RNI: Rate of Natural Increase.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
Jamaica II
Table 7: iNumber of Births under P9pulation
Projections 1975-1989
Without Emigration              With Emigration
Constant   Declining   Births   Constant   Declining  Births
Year       Fertility Fertility   Averted Fertility Fertility Averted
1975        68,636     59,027       9,609   68,636      59,027     9,609
1976        72,582     60,389      12,193   71,891      59,813    12,078
1977        78,307     62,959      15,348   76,257      61,310    1L,9h7
1978         8L,298    65,415      18,883   80,943      62,812    18,131
1979         90,450    67,657      22,793   85,852      6h,218    21,634
1980        96,642     69,582      27,060   90,872      65,428    25h,444
1981       102,743    73,975       28,768   95,87h      69,029    26,8h5
1982        108,612     78,201     30,411  100,722      72,520    28,202
1983        11L,104     82.155     31,9L9  105,269      75,79L    29,475
1981:      119,058      85,722     33,336  109,357      78,737    30,620
1985       123,550      88,956     3h,59h  113,056      81,L00   31,656
1986       127,826     92,019      35,807  116,611      83,94h   32,667
1987       131,977     9h,936      37,0h1  120,109      86,391   33,718
1988       136,008     97,670      38,338  123,551       88,701    3h,850
1989       139,913    100,202      39,7h1  126,959      90,854    36,105
1/ Assumptions for projections are described in footnotes to Table 5 and 6.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
Jamaica II
Table 8: Summary of Estimated Program and Project Contributions
to a 28% Reduction in Age-Specific Fertility Rates
Births Averted                Births Averted
Without Emigration (1976-1989)  With Emigration (1976-1989)
Total   Program-/ Proj,ectl/    Total   Programi/ Project1/
Period
(a)  1975-89      415,871  291,110    232,888      385,981  270,187    216,1h9
Ave.per year  27,725   19,408      15,526      25,732   18,012      14.,410
(b)  1976-80       96,277   67,394      53,915      92,234   64,564      51,651
Ave.per year  19,255   13,479      10,783      18,447   12,913      10,330
(c)  1981-89      309,985  216,990    173,592      284,138  198,897    159,117
Ave.per year  34,443   24,110      19,288      31,571   22,098      17,680
1/   It is assumed that 30% of contraception will take place outside the
program as a result of commercial distribution and growing urbaniza-
tion.
2/ Family planning related project expenditures (recurrent) would account
for 80% of a linearly projected family planning (recurrent expenditures)
budget.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
JAMAICA II
Recent Trends in Family Planning Acceptance and Use
Introduction
1.        One of the best estimates of program output is the difference
in fertility between program users and non-users (if the latter are likely
representatives of fertility levels under prevailing socio-economic condi-
tions). This approach has its shortcomings,however, because program users are
not a random sample of the population and resulting estimates would upwardly
bias long-run effects of the program. In addition, in the absence of an
official program, some of the program acceptors would have obtained contracep-
tive supplies privately or might have utilized other methods of contraception.
Given the lack of studies of this nature in Jamaica, it is necessary to
concentrate attention on intermediate program outputs such as acceptance rates
or contraceptive practices; it is reasonable to assume, however, that data on
use of contraception reflect more closely the movements of fertility than
data on family planning acceptance. Furthermore, acceptance statistics do not
reflect the impact of educational and other activities of the family planning
program which might have led to an increase in contraceptive practice supplied
by external sources.
New Acceptors
2.        Prior to the creation of the National Family Planning Board (NFPB),
family planning services were offered in private clinics located in Kingston
and St. Ann. In 1957, these efforts were integrated into the Jamaica Family
Planning Association (affiliated with the International Planned Parenthood
Federation). Acceptance statistics since 1939 are presented in Table 1.
Before 1950, the number of acceptors was small but between 1956 and 1968 the
average yearly intake was above 1000. At any rate, in 1968 the cumulative
total number of new acceptors was below 20,000; however, it is not known how
many of these women who initially accepted a contraceptive method were still
practicing by 1968. According to the experience of many programs discontinua-
tion after acceptance of family planning is known to be high (a 55% to 60%
dropout rate for oral contraceptives in one year is not unusual), thus it may
be assumed that acceptance prior to the creation of the NFPB has not had a
dramatic impact on the level of fertility of Jamaican women.
3.        In 1968, the NFPB instituted a computerized data system which has
helped considerably to characterize the family planning program in Jamaica.
Reports are released on a quarterly basis with information on new acceptors and
revisits by parish, age, method adopted, etc. However, their figures do not
represent the entire number of women using contraception since an undetermined
number obtain contraceptive supplies through commercial channels. Further-
more, records may overstate the number of new acceptors since women registering
in a clinic as new acceptors may already have been registered in another clinic.
Number of acceptors, revisits and methods of contraception by year since the in-
ceotion of the data system are presented in Table 2. In the first few years of



ANNEX 2
Page 2
operation of the new data system (late 1968 and 1969), the monthly average
number of new acceptors was considerably higher than in other years. This
is probably due to the fact that in order to have all acceptors registered
on magnetic tapes, many revisitors were registered as new acceptors. At
any rate, the annual number of new acceptors seems to have stabilized around
22,000. An interesting aspect of the program is that the relative importance
of the pill (a high discontinuation rate contraceptive) decreased steadily
both in new acceptors and revisits. Since 1972, about 20-25% of all new
acceptors have been using the "Depo-Provera" method (injectable), a contra-
ceptive with a lower discontinuation rate than the pill. The increase in
the use of Depo-Provera was at the expense of use of the pill and TUDs, while
conventional contraceptives have fluctuated around 20% of the new acceptors
and about 10% of the revisits.
4.         New acceptors from 1970 to 1974 have constituted a stable 6-7%
of the childbearing segment of women in a given year (Table 3). However,
given the high discontinuation rates, it is clear that to achieve NFPB's
target of an active clientele of about 100,000 women by 1977 (around 25% of
the female cohort between the ages of 15 and 44 projected for that year)
further efforts should be made in the recruitment of new acceptors. An
estimation of the size of the active clientele is presented in the following
section.
Use of Family Planning
5.         Data from November 1968 to June 1971 indicated that 25.5% of the
new acceptors never made a second visit. In the absence of discontinuation
rates by method, a negative exponential function was used to approximate
the number of acceptors remaining each year in the program. The results of
exponentially "discontinuing" the users since 1968 are presented in Table 4.
Thus, in 1974 the estimated size of the active clientele was around 37,000,
or 11% of the women between 15 and 44 years of age.
6.         "Coverage" has been increasing about one percentage point every
two years. If present trends continue, in terms of continuation rates and
acceptance, only 13% of the female cohorts of 1977 would be considered active
clientele. This would result in about 52,000 females -- far below the target
of 100,000 active for 1977 set by MOHEC. Continuation is a key variable
to consider in increasing and maintaining an active clientele.
Demographic Impact of the National Family Planning Program
7.         The demographic impact of the National Family Planning Program
can be approximated by comparing the number of births registered in Jamaica
from 1970 through 1974 with those obtained from population projections to
make different fertility and migration assumptions (Table 5). Projections
A, B, and C assume that age-specific fertility rates remain constant at the
1970 level but with varying levels of female emigration. Projections C, D,
E are based on the same migration assumptions as projections A, B and C,
respectively, but with a gradual decrease in fertility (90% of 1970 levels).



ANNEX 2
Page 3
8.        Projection A overestimated the observed number of births in every
year, particularly from 1972 to 1974.  Projection B overestimated in 1972
through 1974 and Projection C underestimated from 1970-1972 but overestimated
in 1973 and 1974. Projection D underestimated in 1970 and 1971, but over-
estimated from 1972-74. Projection E underestimated from 1970 through 1973
but overestimated in 1973 and 1974. Projection F underestimated throughout.
The following observations emerge:
(a) The comparison of observed births with those from
projection A through F, particularly in 1971 and 1972
suggest that under-registration may not be a problem in
Jamaica. This is plausible since true migration figures of
females have fluctuated between 5,000-15,000 per year.
(b) The number of births observed in 1973 and 1974 were below
those expected from projections with constant fertility
and stringent migration assumptions (C). They were also
lower than those with reduced fertility and moderate
migration assumptions (D and E).
(c) Observed trends in 1973 and 1974 suggest a rapid decline in
fertility starting in 1972. The active clientele of the
program grew rapidly until 1970 and then the rate of growth
slowed down considerably. Thus, the rapid decrease in the
number of births--seemingly uncorrelated with the growth
of the active clientele--may be the result of a change in
the contraceptive mix (increased use of injectable contra-
ceptives of lower discontinuation rates).



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Jamaica II
Table 1: Jamaica Family Planning Association Clinics:
New Acceptors, 1939-1968
Year             Number          Year              Number
1939              127            1954               733
1940              395            1955               968
19h1              285            1956              1022
1942              227            1957              158
1943              180            1958              1079
1944              135            1959             1213
1945              139            1960              1363
1946              129            1961              1047
1947              132            1962               741
1948              119            1963               716
1949              175  /         1964              1025 1/
1950              190            1965              1074
1951              229            1966              1323
1952              253            1967              1147
1953              403-           1968              1119-
1/ Incomplete records.
Source:  Jamaica Family Planning Association News,
December 1970.



ANNEX 2
Page H
Jamaica II
Table 2:  NFPB:  New Acceptors -/ and Revisits /
by Method of Contraception and Year
New Acceptors
Year       Pill      IUD     Conventional 3       Other             Total 
1968       n.a.      n.a.        n.a.              n.a.              5,641-
1969       .64       .14          .12              .12              28,870
1970       .53       .11          .20              .16              19,273
1971       .58       .11          .22              .09              22,lh9
1972        .47      .08          .24              .21(.15)         22,002
1973       .44       .07          .22              .27(.23)         25,540
197h       .h8       .04          .18              .30(.26)         22,016
Revisits
Year       Pill      IUD     Conventional         Other             Total
1968       n.a.      n.a.         n.a.             n.a.              n.a.
1969        .82      .08          .06              .04              59,592
1970       .78       .08          .10              .04              91,851
1971        .75      .09          .13              .03             112,903
1972        .68      .08          .11              .13(.10)        12h,528
1973        .59      .06          .10              .25(.24)        161,8h0
1974        .55      .05          .09              .31(.30)        178,439
1/   An acceptor of a contraceptive method registering in a family
planning clinic for the first time.
2/   Acceptors returning to a clinic for supplies, consultation, etc.
(Not synonymous with number of old acceptors, since some make several
revisits per year.)
3/   Includes condoms, foams, jellies, etc.
Values in parentheses are percentage accepting Depo-Provera.
5'/ Includes data on some clinics outside the NFPB system.
6/ November and December only.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
Jamaica II
Table 3: New Acceptors-/as a Percent of Pro ected Child-
Bearing Portion of the Population   , 1970-1974
Projected Females       New Acceptors as Percent-
New Acceptors       15-44 Years of Age       ages of Projected Females
Year            (a)            (b)            (c)          (a/b)          (a/c)
1970          19,273         337,72L        329.071         5.7           5.9
1971          22,149         3h7,806        330.637         6.4            6.7
1972          22,002         359,330        333,809         6.1           6.6
1973          25,540         372,299        338,615         6.9            7.5
1974          22,016         386,649        345,005         5.7            6.
1/ Source: NFPB.
2/ On an end-of-year basis.
(a) Figures include some Jamaica Family Planning Associate clients.
(b) Twenty thousand immigrants per year from 1970 through 1974 (25% females);
.mortality assumptions based on assuming an increase in female life
expectancy of .25 per year (71.2 years in 1970).
(c) Twenty thousand immigrants per year from 1970 through 1974 (75% females);
life expectancy same as in (b).



A,NlEX 2
PaPe 7
Jaraica II
Table 4: Estimation of the Number of Active
Clients in NFPB from 1968 to 1974
F-sar of    Number of                   Number Remaining At
eceptance  Acceptors   1968    1969       1970      1971    1972        1973
1968         5,641    5,071   2,281    1,025        461     207      55       42
1969        28,870            25,983   11,675    5,246   2,357   1,059       476
1970        19,273                     17,346    7,794   3,502   1,573       707
1971        22,149                               19,934   8,957   4,024   1,808
1972        22,002                                       19,802   8,897   3,998
1973        25,540                                               22,986  10,328
1974        22,016                                                        19,814
Total Active (1)      5,071  28,264   30,046   33,435  34,825  38,594  37,173
Female  )Cohort
15-_4 Years (2)      n.a.    n.a.  329,071  330,637 333,809 338,615 345,005
(1)/(2)                n.a.    n.a.       .09       .10     .10      l    .11
n.a.: Not available.
The proportion of initial acceptors remaining at time t after acceptance
(t=0,1,...6) is given by ct=.9e-.8t
(a) : Female cohort projected from 1970 Census assuming 15,000 females
migrating per year from a life table (West) with an increase in
life expectancy of .25 years (1970: 71.2).



ANNEX 2
Page 8
Jamaica II
Table 5: Observed and Expected Number of
Births. 1970-1971_
Expected
Constant Fertility A       Reduced Fertility 2/
Year      Observed      A        B          C       D         E        F
1970       640375    64,734   64.,273   63,351   64,734   64,273   63,351
1971       66,277    67,532   66,165   63,432   65,708   64,312   61,656
1972       66,219    70,680   68,U4"   63,972   66,864   64,611   60389
1973       61,857    74,201   71,137   65,009   68,191   65,162   59,548
1974       61,506    78,100   74,255   66,564   69,665   65,938   59,109
1/   Age-specific fertility rates of 1970.
A: no emigrants.
B: five thousand women emigrating per year.
C: fifteen thousand women emigrating per year.
2/   Age-specific fertility rates decreased gradually until 1974 (90% of
1970 levels).
D: no emigrants.
E: five thousand women emigrating per year.
F: fifteen thousand women emigrating per year.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
JAMAI A II
Nutritional Status
Infant and Child Mortality Rates
1.        The infant mortality rate has been significantly reduced since 1960
(from 50.9/1000 live births to a 1974 rate of 25.3/1000 live births). The
present level compares favorably with those of other Latin American and
Caribbean countries, and apparently the downward trend is continuing. In
1971, infant mortality rates in the United States and Canada were 17.6 and
19.2/1000 respectively.
2.        There is considerable variation in infant mortality rates among
parishes in Jamaica (Table 1). In 1974, only St. James and Westmoreland had
higher levels than those assessed in 1970. In St. Ja,Tes, an abrupt reversal
occurred in 1974 after a steady downward trend from 1970 to 1973.  Overall,
not much progress was realized from 1973 to 1974, although only in West-
moreland, Kingston and St. Andrew did a stagnant situation seem to exist
within the 1970-74 period.
3.        The principal causes of infant mortality for the period 1961-71 are
presented in Table 2. Although the incidence of perinatal mortality has re-
mained constant, its relative importance has increased as a consequence of
reductions in the incidence of other causes (mainly gastro-enteritis and res-
piratory diseases). The rate of death by the combined causes of avitaminosis
and malnutrition seems to have reached a plateau. Beyond the first month of
life, mortality rates are more indicative of nutritional status and/or quality
of child care.   The rates of mortality for infants and children from 0 to 59
months of age are listed in Table 3 by age group. While the age specifLc
mortality rates were greatly reduced from 1948 to 1965, those rates for
children between 6 and 24 months of age suggest a critical period within
Jamaican conditions.
4.         Malnutrition as a cause of death has played a prominent role in
infanty -- from six months to two years of age (Table 3). In 1963, it was a
contributing factor in 84% of the deaths from gastro-enteritis and in 43% of the
deatbs from pneumonia; it contributed directly or indirectly to 78% of the
total infant and childhood deaths. Furthermore, the picture has not improved
in recent years.
5.         In 1965, the overall mortality rate in the age group 1-4 years
was 4.7/1000 population. This compares favorably with those of most develop-
ing countries in Latin America, e.g., Chile - 3.2 (1969), Colombia - 12.4
(1964), but is higher than rates occurring in Canada - 0.8 (1971) and the
United States - 0.8 (1970).



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Morbidity
6.        Between 1955 and 1968, 18-26% of admissions of children under two
years of age at the University of West Indies Hospital were due to malnutri-
tion, 25-45% to gastro-enteritis, and 13-25% to respiratory infections.
Malnutrition was either a primary or secondary diagnosis in 50% of the cases.
Most admissions were between 6-18 months of age, with the mode at 12 months;
the average period necessary for recovery was about eight weeks.
7.        Protein-calorie malnutrition is the most common form of malnutri-
tion in Jamaica; diseases such as xerophthalmia, beri-beri, pellagra, etc.,
are rare. One-to-two percent of Jamaican children under five years of age
contract marasmus or kwashiorkor. An estimate of the incidence of mal-
nutrition by degree, age and place of residence is presented in Table 4.
There were no significant differences noted between places of residence
(urban vs. rural), and the total incidence of malnutrition in the group 0
to 4 years of age was about 50% (10-12% in categories G2 and G3). The tran-
sition from baby food to family food (6-12 months of age) seems to mark a
critical period, particularly in the urban areas.
8.        Surveys have estimated average adult daily intakes of about 2,000
calories and 40-50 grams of protein, both of which are well below the recom-
mended standards of 2,500 calories and 65 grams, respectively. About 50%
of the adults above the age of 20 received less than 75% of the recommended
daily allowances of calories and protein. Shortages in intake seemed more
acute in the 13-19 years of age categories (Table 5). In spite of the lack
of evidence of clinical malnutrition, it has been shown that groups in the
suboptimal standards categories can maintain themselves only by a reduction
in physical activity and work output.
9.        Anemia has been found to occur in 12-30% and 10% of randomly sampled
male and female adults, respectively; iron deficiency appears to be the main
cause. Fifty-five percent of the women attending prenatal clinics were classi-
fied as anemic; as pregnancy progressed, hemoglobin concentration tended to
fall even further. A figure of 45% of anemic pregnant and lactating women has
been reported; this would imply that the incidence of anemia in the latter
category is smaller than in the former.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Jamaica II
1/
Table 1: Rate of Infant Mortalitf by Parish,
1970-1974
Year
Parish                   1970      1971        1972       1973
Kingston & St. Andrews   33.1       26.2       29.9       30.9       31.0
St. Thomas               28.0       16.0       28.0       29.5       16.9
Portland                20.9        25.6       36.0       20.8       18.9
St. Mary                 34.4       18.9       28.0       20.2       19.5
St. Ann                  29.9       26.7       32.1       20.3       18.5
Trelawny-.               34.0       33.3       31.4       21.5       22.0
St. James2/              28.3       29.2       26.1       20.2       34.0
Hanover7/                40.1       26.3       30.2       47.4       17.5
WestmorelandZ/           31.4       27.3       34.8       28.1       32.3
t. Elizabeth'/           38.4       36.1       37.2       30.8       30.7
Manchester               30.1       21.4       31.1       22.3       24.3
Clarendon                30.7       28.8       37.6       21.6       21.9
St. Catherine            32.7       32.4       26.5       20.5       21.4
Overall                  32.2       27.1       30.9       26.2       26.2
1/ Per thousand live births.
2/ Cornwall County Parishes.
Source: Ministry of Health and Environmental Control, Jamaica.



ANNEX 
Page 1L
Jamaica II
Table 2: Principal Causes of Infant Mortality
(0-1 years), 1961-1971
1961  1962  1963  16           1966  1967  1968  1969  197 
Perinatal Causes
% l/     ~      ~ 18.5  16.2  17.4  21.7  20.9  21.1  29.0  26.9  28.6  25.7  34.0
Rate 2/          9.0   8.0   9.0   9.0   8.1   7.4   8.8   9.2   9.4   8.2   9.2
Gastro-enteritis
%               30.3  27.9  29.0  26.6  25.4  25.9  26.8  27.6  24.1  26.3  24.4
Rate            14.7  14.0  15.0  10.0   9.8   9.1   8.1   9.4   8.0   8.4   6.6
Pneumonia
--              12.4  13.8  12.1  13.4  12.5  1L.1  14.1  12.6  12.8  14.0  15.2
Rate             6.1   6.1   6.0   5.1   4.8   4.8   4.4  4.2   4.2   4.4   4.1
Avitaminosis and
Malnutrition
%               10.2  10.4  10.8   9.5   8.4   9.0  12.2  16.6  14.0  14.1  13.1
Rate             5.0   5.1   6.0   4.0   3.2   3.1   3.6   5.6   4.6   4.5   3.2
Tetanus
%                2.9   2.9   2.7   2.9   3.2   3.2   3.9   3.5   4.2   3.2   4.4
Rate             1.4   2.0   1.2   1.0   1.3   1.1   1.2   1.2   1.4   1.0   1.1
Bronchitis,
Emphysema and
Asthma
%               3.3   3.0   6.9   5.3   3.0   3.1   1.5   1.5   2.2   1.1   2.5
Rate            1.6   2.0   3.1   2.0   1.2   1.1    .4    .5    .7    .3    .7
1/ Of all certified deaths.
2/ Per 1,000 live births.
Source: Ministry of Health and Environmental Control, Jamaica.



A?7HEX 3
Page 5
Jamaica II
Table 3: Mortality Rates  by Age Group in Jamaica
(1918, 1963, 1965)compared to England &
Wales (1965)
England
and
Jamaica                  Wales
Age Group (months)   1948               19632/                     2
2/
0-i7            34.0    19.6 (.2  .1,  2.14)        17.5     13.0
1-5             29.6    12.0 (2.6, 26.4, 12.5)    10.3        4.5
6-11            26.1    20.0 (4o, 37.4, 9.7)        11.8      1.6
12-23            27.0    19.1 (31.1, 25.8, 12.1)   11.14       1.2
214-35           10.2      3.6 (14.9, 12.7, 16.7)    2.7        .8
36-47             7.8      1.9 (8.3, 7.5, 22.5)       1.7       .6
148-59            6.1      1.14 (5.9, 8.2, 21.2)      1.2        .6
1/  Per 1,000 children at risk.
:/ Mortality rates for this age group are likely underestimated due to
incomplete reporting of early deaths.
3/ Values in parentheses are percentage of deaths from malnutrition,
gastro-enteritis and pneumonia, respectively.
Source: A. Ashwort and J.C. Waterlow, "Nutrition in Jamaica, 1969-70",
Department of Extra Mural Studies, UWI.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
Jamaica II
Table 4:  Degree of Malnutrition - by Age of
Children and Place of Residence
Urban                       Rural
Age Group
(months)       GI    G2Q            Total   Gl      G2    G3      Total
0-5              8.0    8.0    .0    16.0    7.1    7.1    .0   1.2
6-11            29.4   11.8    .0   41.2   33.3    8.3   5.6    47.2
12-23           56.8      .0   2.3    59.1   37.9   15.8   3.2    56.9
24-35           48.8   11.6    .0    60.4   48.6    6.8   1.4    56.8
36-47           43.6   10.3    .0    53.9   45.3    9.3    .0    54.6
0-11            16.7    9.5    .0    26.2   19.2    7.7   2.6    29.5
0-47           41.7    7.7    .6    50.0   37.6   10.2   1.9    49.7
1/  Gomez classification using Harvard standard weight for age.
Gl = 75-89% of standard weight for age; G2 = 60-74%;
G3 = 59% or below. Sample of 168 and 322 urban and rural children,
respecti vely.
Source: J.M. Gurney, H. Fox and J. Neill, 1972. A rapid survey to
assess the nutrition of Jamaican infants and young children
in 1970. Transactions of the Royal Society of Tropical
Medicine and Hygiene.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
Jamaica II
Table 5: Age-Sex Distribution of Calorie and Protein Intake
Calorie
Age (years)        100%          75-100%          50-75%            50%
M      F      M        F      M         F      M         F
13-15           0       0      0       11      56       67      44       22
16-19           0       0     12       40      50      50       38      10
20-50           9       0     51       46      38      40        3        5
Protein
Age (years)        100%         75-100%          50-75%            50%
M      F      M        F      M         F      M         F
13-15           0      11      11      22      44       33      45       33
16-19           0       0      25      20      25       60      50       20
20-50          11      12      51      25      35       44       3       19
M = males; F   females.
Source: Cruickshank, E.K., and H.C. Fox, Jamaican Survey, 1961.



JAMA[CA TL
Existing Orgaiuization of the Ministry of health and Environmental Control-
Ministry for
Health and
Environmental
Control
Parliamentary                                                       Hospital
Secretary                                                           Boards
Permanent
Secretarv
Chiief                                    Principal    Principal    Principal
Medical                                   Assistant    Assistant    Assistant
Officer                                   Secretary    Secretary    Secretary
Accounts      Personnel    Hospitals
and Public
l ________ _  l Health
Principal    Principal    Principal   rPrincipal
Medical      Medical       Medical      | Nursing
Officer      Officer       Officer       Officer
Hospitals    Public        MCH/FP/
Health       Nutrition
1/ As of November 1975.



JAMAICA II
Proposed Organization of the Ministry of Health and Environmental Control 1/
(including the Planning and Evaluation Unit)
Minister
Parliamentary                                                 Hospital
Secretary                                                     Boards
rPerma nent 
|Secretary 
Chief Medical Officer                                                                  Support Services
Chief Planning and Evaluation Unit                                                     Director
Planning and Evaluation Unit
_                                                 .  1  ~~~~~~~~~~        ~    ~~~~~~~~Olff ice .. .
Principal     Principal       Principal  Principal             Personnel    Finance    Services    Registry    Inter-audit
Medical       Medical         Medical    Nursing
Officer       Officer         Officer    Officer
MCH/FP/NTR.  Public Health  Hospitals
Supporting Technical Staff:
Stat,istician/Demographer
Health Economist
Epidemiologist
Social Scientist
Health Planner
Training Coordinator.
Health  ervice    Buil ing   Medical                                    Technical Officer      Environmental
Administration    Section    Services                                   Pharm. Services        Control           |    d
Director          Supt.       Director                                                                                CD
Cornwall County
Medical Officer
of Health
17 ~Adopte7d from MOHEC: Review of Organizational Struicture by Ministry of Public Service, October 1975.



ANNEX 5
Page 1
JAMAICA II
County of Cornwall Delivery System for Integrated
MCH/FP/Nutrition Services
A. Background
The County of Cornwall
1.        The County of Cornwall comprises five parishes -- Trelawny, St.
James, Hanover, Westmoreland and St. Elizabeth -- with a 1974 population
of 498,000. Approximately 80% of Cornwall's population is rural (59% for
Jamaica); about 16-18% are women 15-44 years of age (18%), and 17% are child-
ren under four years of age (16%). The target population for integrated
MCH/FP/nutrition services is thus about 170,000. Aspects of population
growth, birth rates and fertility rates for these parishes are presented in
Tables 2, 4 and 5 of Annex 1.
Organization of Health Care in the County of Cornwall
2.        Health care is provided mainly through 33 health centers, 14 dispen-
saries, 5 rural maternity centers, 48 M1CH and other clinics, and 5 hospitals.
The five hospitals are Cornwall Regional Hospital, Montego Bay; Noel Holmes
Hospital, Hanover; Falmouth Hospital, Trelawny; Savanna-la-Mlar Hospital,
Westmoreland and Black River Hospital, St. Elizabeth.
3.        The five rural maternity centers, financed by the Bank through
Loan 690-JM (see Annex 7), provide prenatal, postnatal and family planning
services. They were designed to provide improved delivery facilities and
greater opportunities for the postpartum approach, but not as much use has
been made of them as was expected.
4.         In Cornwall County 55% of the pregnant women attend prenatal
clinics, with an average of less than two visits per women during pregnancy.
These figures are unsatisfactory. Because of staff shortages, about 25% of
the deliveries are unattended by trained personnel. Another 50% take place
in hospitals, and the remaining 20-25% are conducted at home by district
midwives. The attendance of children from 0-2 years at health clinics has
also been below the targets set by MOHEC.
5.        From 1971 to 1973, the acceptance of family planning increased
faster in Cornwall County than in Jamaica as a whole. In 1974, Cornwall
County accounted for 28% of all new acceptors, and the cumulative total of
acceptors rose to about 30,000, or 30% of the target population. However,
since continuation rates seem to be low in Jamaica, this figure represents a
coverage below the national targets suggested in Ministry Paper No. 1: Family
Planning (see para. 2.04 of the main report). It is not known how much coverage
has been realized through non-NFPB channels.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
15.       Because of shortages of facilities and staff for primary health
care, particularly in the rural areas, plans to refer all patients requiring
hospital care from the primary level remain unimplemented. In fact, because
each of the hospitals is at present providing both primary and secondary
care, there is serious overcrowding, inadequate care and low staff morale.
The Cornwall County project component aims to remedy this situation.
B. The Cornwall County Program
Strategy
7.        Health services in Jamaica have suffered from:  (a) lack of acces-
sible and acceptable clinics, (b) staff shortages, and (c) inadequate organi-
zation and management. The present project is designed to eliminate these
weaknesses in the County of Cornwall. It will be carried out within the
framework of integrated maternal and child health/family planning/nutrition
(MCH/FP/nutrition) services, in accordance with MOHEC's long-range primary
health care strategy. The project will include a health management informa-
tion system designed to measure the impact of MCH/FP/nutrition ser-
vices on fertility and malnutrition. A four-year experience in Cornwall
County would provide experience on which to base an extension of this pilot
scheme for the remainder of Jamaica.
8.        The health program forms part of a development plan for Cornwall
County which also includes farmers' resettlement, rural electrification,
farm development, roads, rural development and education projects.
9.        The Cornwall County Program proposes:  (a) an interlinking network
of four types of health center, (b) a county health administration which will
endeavor to decentralize responsibility, and (c) an increase in staff to
improve the delivery of MCH/FP/nutrition services.
10.       The Cornwall County Program will be linked with the national mass
nutrition education/communications program (Annex 13) for the promotion of
breast-feeding, and the supplemental feedine of children from 0 to 4 years
of age and of pregnant and lactating women.
Goals and Objectives for 1980
11.       MCH/FP/Nutrition Service Coverage Objectives
a.   to provide prenatal care for 90% of the pregnant women;
b.   to eliminate deliveries unattended by trained personnel;
c.   to provide postnatal follow-up services for 70% of recently-
delivered women;
d.   to persuade at least 33% of the women within the 15-44 age
group to continue to use family planning services;



ANNEX 5
Page 3
e.   to provide preventive health services for 90% of the
children under two years of age and 70% of the children
between two and five years of age;
f.   to provide immunization against smallpox, polio, diphtheria,
tetanus and whooping cough for 80% of the children under two
years of age; and
g.   to provide nultritional surveillance and supplemental feed-
ing as required for 90% of the children under two years of
age.
12. MCH/FP/Nutrition Health Status Objectives
a.   to reduce maternal mortality from 14 to 7 per 10,000 live
births;.
b.   to reduce maternal morbidity and complications of pregnancy
by 50%;
c.   to reduce anemia in pregnant women by 90%;
d.   to reduce the fertility rate in women 15-44 years of age from
182 to 150;
e.   to reduce the birth rate from 30.4/1,000 to 25/1,000;
f.   to reduce the neonatal death rate from 19 to 15/10,000 live
births;
g.   to reduce the infant mortality rate from 25.3 to 20/10,000
live births; and
h.   to reduce the incidence of malnutrition (Grades 2 and 3)
by at least 60%.
Manpower Requirements
13.       At the parish level:
a.   The Mledical Officer of Health:  The medical officer of health is
responsible for the administration of the MCH/FP/nutrition program;
he acts as liaison between the program and the hospital and advises
the local Board of Health on public health;
b.   The Medical Officer (Health Center) or District Medical Officer:
This officer provides medical care, and is responsible to the
medical officer of health. He is in charge of a Type III health
center which provides medical support for the Type I and Type II
health centers;



ANNEX 5
Page 4
c.   Public Health Nurses:  These nurses work in the Type II, III,
and IV health centers under the supervision of the medical
officer and the senior public health nurse. Their main
functions are:
i.   to supervise CHAs, district midwives, and staff
nurses,
ii.   to provide specialized health care and advice to
mothers and children,
iii.   to provide a link between preventive and curative
care at the health center and community levels;
d.   Nurse Practitioners:  Five pediatric nurse practitioners and
five family health nurse practitioners are in training, but
it is uncertain how soon any will be assigned to the County
of Cornwall;
e.   Nutrition Officers:  Four out of the five parishes in the
County have nutrition officers who will be supervised
administratively by the medical officers of health and
technically by a MOHEC nutrition officer;
f.   Health Education Officers:  The health education officers
(Grade I) will work in Type III and IV centers under the
supervision of the health educator and the medical officer
of health. They will organize a health education program for
the parishes. Each officer will be assisted by a health
educator (Grade II), who will also be responsible for foster-
ing community participation in health programs, with special
emphasis on MCH/FP/ nutrition;
g.   Public Health Inspectors:  The inspectors are primarily re-
sponsible for the environmental aspects of community health.
Their MCH/FP/nutrition responsibilities would include activities
designed to enlist the support of the men in the community for
the program;
h.   District Midwives:  The midwives work in health centers and
in homes under the supervision of the public health nurse.
Their main functions are: (a) providing routine prenatal,
postnatal and family planning services, (b) conducting normal
deliveries in the patients' homes, (c) prenatal and puerperal
home visiting of women who deliver in hospitals to provide
MCH/FP/nutrition services, and (d) supervising the "traditional"
midwives and their training; and



ANNEX 5
Page 5
i.   Community Health Aides (CHAs):  The aides are residents of
the area they are to serve, and assume responsibility for
specific families within that area. Most of their time is
devoted to visiting these families in their homes.  Each CHA
is trained to: (a) identify health problems and bring them
to the attention of professional personnel, (b) advise people
on MCH/FP/nutrition and cleanliness, (c) encourage mothers
and children to attend clinics for immunization against small-
pox, polio, diphtheria, tetanus and whooping cough, (d) en-
courage women from 15 to 44 years of age to attend family
planning clinics, and (e) assist other members of the health
team at the Type I health center with nutrition demonstrations
and other forms of health education. The system of supervision
for the CHAs and midwives through the health tier system is
shown in Chart 2.
14.       Present and projected manpower requirements over the period 1976-
1980 by parish are given in Table 1.
3anpower Development
15.       Plans have been made for training personnel to fill the new posi-
tions created by the project; in some instances, the training is under way.
16.       Medical Officers (Health) and Medical Officers (Health Centers):
The two vacant medical officer positions are expected to be filled early
in 1976, either by graduates in public health at the University of the
West Indies, or by expatriates. There will be no great difficulty in
recruiting medical officers for the health centers to be constructed in
1976/77. The Government of Jamaica (GOJ's) program for training residents
in community medicine at Cornwall Regional Hospital will produce its first
graduates by 1978/79.
17.       Nurse Practitioners:  By mid-1976, five pediatric nurse practi-
tioners and five family health nurse practitioners, now being trained, will
be available.
18.       Public Health Nurses:  A current training program will provide a
sufficient number of Grade III public health nurses, who will provide advanced
nursing or administration. A sufficient number of Grade II public health
nurses can only be provided by enrolling two classes per year at the West
Indies School of Public Health. It will take three years to fill the vacant
positions.
19.       District Midwives:  Detailed proposals for midwifery training are
presented in Annex 11.  Th-ie Cornwall Regional ilospl.tal, supplemented by home
training, will produce 20 midwives vearly, a number sufficient to meet the
requirements of the County within tihree years.
20.        Community Health Aides:  There are at present nearLy 300 CHAs in the
County of Cornwall, and  another 8Q are presently undergoing trainiing in the



ANNEX 5
Page 6
parish of Westmoreland. Training in the parishes of St. Elizabeth and
Trelawny will be completed before the end of 1975 so that, by mid-1976, there
should be about one CHA for every 2,U0 population in the County of Cornwall.
The ratio of CHAs to population would be increased to 1/1000 population by
1978.
21.       Nutrition Officers and Assistants:  Training is already proceeding
and the required numbers (one senior nutrition officer, five nutrition
officers, 18 senior nutrition assistants and 33 nutrition assistants) will be
available by 1976.
The Health Centers
22.       Four different types of health center are proposed, their functions
becoming more complex from Type I to Type IV. The project will result in a
network of 128 health centers in the County of Cornwall.  The distribution of
new health centers by parish will be:
I        II        III        IV       Total
Trelawny               5          0         1          1         7
St. James             10          3         3          0        16
Hanover                5          4         0          1        10
Westmoreland           9          3         1          1         14
St. Elizabeth          5          4         0          1        10
Total                 34         14         5          4        57
23.       The proposed distribution of health centers and hospitals is
shown on the map and locations of the centers are given in Table 2.  The phas-
ing of construction of new centers is outlined in Annex 21.
24.       The Type I health center will be staffed by four CHAs and one dis-
trict midwife serving about 4,000 people and providing prenatal/postnatal and
family planning services at weekly sessions in the center and in the patients'
homes. Child health care, first aid and education, as well as nutritional
services and demonstrations will also be provided through the Type I center.
Home deliveries will be performed by the district midwife in addition to the
other duties the integrated system of care will impose on her. The center will
have two examination rooms and a waiting room incorporating a demonstration area
and storage space for supplemental foods.
25.       Two or three Type I centers will refer patients requiring care by a
registered nurse, public health nurse or physician to a Type II center.
26.       The Type II health center will serve about 12,000 people and will
provide curative as well as preventive services. It will be staffed by one
public health nurse, who will be in charge, one public health inspector, one
registered nurse, two midwives, one assistant nurse, one community nutrition
assistant and four CHAs. It will also house staff of one Type I health center



ANIJEX 5
P'age 7
for the area in which it is located. The staff of the Type 1I center,
in addition to supervising the TICH/FP/nutrition activities offered by the
Tvpe I centers, will also treat minor illnesses. More significant cases,
such as the insertion of intrauterine devices (IUDs), will be dealt with by
a physician or a nurse practitioner who will visit the center weekly. A
pharmacist, laboratory assistant and health educator from the Type III cen-
ter will also visit the Type II center weekly. Dental services will also
be provided at the Type II center.
27.       The rural maternity centers will be converted to Type II centers as
part of the integration of MCH/FP/nutrition services. The physical facilities
will include two examination rooms, a dressing room, offices, a demonstration
room with cooking facilities, a food store and a waiting room.
28.       The Type III center will serve about 24,000 people and will provide
- full range of preventive, curative and specialist services through arrange-
:-ents with the local hospital. The Type III center will be staffed as fol-
!aws: one full-time physician, one senior public health nurse, six district
idwives, twelve CHAs, one senior public health inspector (Grade II), one
.dministrative nursing sister, one assistant nurse, one senior nutrition
assistant, one medical technologist and one laboratory assistant. In addi-
tion, the center will have an executive officer, a statistical clerk/recep-
tionist, and attendants.  The Type III health center will house the staffs
of one Type II health center and one Type I health center needed to cover
the area in which they are located.
29.       The services provided at this center will include MCH/FP/nutrition
as in the Type II centers, as well as daily curative clinics, and dental
clinics according to staff availability. The center will see patients re-
ferred by the Type I and II centers and, as necessary, will in turn refer
patients to the Type IV centers or the local hospital. Each Type III center
will supervise a group of Type I and Type II centers, and compile statistical
data for its area.
30.       The Type IV center will be located in the parish hospital.  The
Type IV center, in addition to offering all of the services of the Type III
center, will house the medical officer of health and associated staff and
will supervise the integrated health care services in the parish.
Consultation, Referral and Transport
31.       The vehicles provided through the project will enable midwives at
peripheral Type I and Type II health centers to visit remote homes, and enable
nublic health nurses and other technical staff at Type III and Type IV centers
to visit staff in peripheral areas. The project provides for one four-wheel
jeep with operational costs for each of the Type II, III and Type IV health
centers in Cornwall County (a total of 57 vehicles), plus 3 for the use of
the Ccrnwall Country Health Administration.



ANNEX 5
Page 8
heaith Management Information System
32.       A national data system will be set up under the supervision of
MOjiEC's Planning and Evaluation UnLt (Annex 16). It is imperative to
bring this system into operation at the Cornwall County level as promptly
as possible, in oruer to monitor the project from the start.  The system will
also make it possible to compare progress in the County of Cornwall with that
in other counties and parishes which have not had the advantage of additional
inputs provided under the project. The data system will provide measures of
the productivity of health workers and health centers as well as of progress
towards the MCH/FP/nutrition targets.
33.       -he system calls for the assignment of a statistical clerk to each
Type III health center and a senior statistical clerk to each Type IV center.
The Planning and Evaluation Unit will supervise the information collection
activities of the County of Cornwall Regional Office and provide training for
statistical staff. The tabulation and interpretation of the information
collected will be the responsibility of the Unit. Staff from the Unit will
visit the County regularly in order to advise on the systematic application of
the intffirmation in program management at the county and parish levels. Such
feedback is essential if full benefit of the information system is to be
obtained.
Organizational Features
34.       An important aspect of the Jamaica II Project is the testing of
an integrated system for the delivery of MCH/FP/nutrition services which
calls for considerable reorganization at the central (MOHEC), county, and
parish levels. Under this reorganization MOHEC would delegate authority
to the new Cornwall County Health Administration, which would be respon-
sible for the technical supervision and administration of the County pro-
gram.
3a.       The following would be the principal functions of the Cornwall
County Health Administration:
a.   the administration, planning, supervision and coordination of
all MCH/FP/nutrition and other preventive health programs in
the County in accordance with MOHEC guidelines;
b.   the financial administration of the County health services
(excluding hospitals) within the limits imposed by MOHEC's
budget; and
c.   collection of health information from health centers Lo
be reported to MOHEC and evaluated in conjunction with
MOHEC.
36.       An organization and management structure for the Cornwall County
Health Administration is presented in Chart 2.



ANNEX 5
Page 9
Jamaica II
Table 1: Current Manpower and Manpower Requirements (1976-1980):
Cornwall County Program
Present Manpower
Physicians    Nurse
Full-  Part-  Practi- ,Sr.        2/                 Nutritionists3/
Parish      time   time   tiorers12PHN   PHN- SEN   DM   CHA  PN   SNA   NA
Trelawny      -      2        -      1    7(2)   1    19    -
St. James    2       1        -      2    8(3)   2    19   109
Hanover       1      1        -      1    5(2)   1    14   142
Westmoreland -       4        -      2    6(1)   2    18    88
St.Elizabeth -       3        -      2    7(2)   2    10    27
Total         3               _      8   33(10)8    80   3   T            3    3
Additional Manpower Requirements 1976-80
Physicians    Nurse
Full-  Part-  Practi-  Sr.                           Nutritionists
Parish      time   time   tioners  PHN   PHN  SEN   DM   CHA  PN   SNA   NA
Trelawny      3      -        L      2    7       -    7    120
St. James    L       -        7      2   13       -   13      71
Hanover       4      -        6      2    9       -    8      -
Westmoreland4        - _             -    5       -   12      22
St.Elizabeth 9       -       10      -    9       -    9    129
Total        2       -2              6 7          -     9     v3h2 7     17    T
1/  Just prior to the mission's departure it was decided to train (for six
months) and deploy as quickly as possible five pediatric nurse practi-
tioners and five family health nurse practitioners.
2/  Numbers in brackets indicate untrained personnel.
3/  Data for nutritionist categories not available by parish.
Legend:  Sr. PHN - Senior Public Health Nurse
PHN     - Public Health Nurse
SEN     - Staff Enrolled Nurse
DM      - District Midwife
CHA     - Community Health Aide
PN      - Parish Nutritionist
SNA     - Senior Nutrition Assistant
NA      - Nutrition Assistant
Jources:  TaskForce Report and MOHEC.



Jamaica II
rable 2: Locations of Cornwall County Health Centers by Type and Parish
Hanover Parish     bt. James Parisn       Irelawny Parish     St.Elizabeth Parish       Westmoreland      Total
Parish
Phase 1
Type I        Great Valley          Flanker                Deeside              Braes River            Delveland
Montpelier           Glendevon              Rio Bueno                                    Sheffield
Copse                Parrett Town           Stewart Town                                 Town Head
Johns Hall             Troy
Vaughansfield
(Garlands)
Springfield
Lottery                                                                              18
Type II       Sandy Bay             Catadupa                                    Pepper                 Negril
Cacoon Castle
Cascade                                                                                                     6
Type III                            Granville              Albert Town                                  Darliston
Catherine Hall                                                                       h
Type IV       Lucea                                        Falmouth                                    Sav-la-Mar         3
Phase 2
Type I        Askenish              Somerton               Lowe River           Fyffes Pan             Belmont/Cave
Logwood               Goodwill                                    Springfield            Berkshire
Bickersteth                                 Bellevue               Lennox Bigwood
Holland                Cornwall Mt.
Beeston Spring
St. Leonards     16
Type II       Cave Valley           Mt. Salem                                   Aberdeen                Bethel Town
Tower Hill                                  Maggotty               Petersfield
Southfield                                8
Type III          -                 Cambridge                   -                                                         1
rype IV           -                                            -                Black River                 -             1
10                                            7                   10                     lh4W
P:QS



Jamaica II
Chart 1: Office of the County Medical Officer of Health: County of Cornwall
Proposed Organization and Management Structure
Permanent Secretary
_ _ MOHEC
County Medical Officer of Health         -- Hospital Administrators I
Senior Medical Officers X  of 5 Hospitals
Hospital Secretaries    X
Administrative            Project
Assistant               Coordinator
Financial      PersonnTe    Nursing          Statistf9al               Senior        Chief             Chief           Executive    Senior
Controller"'  Officer-       Coordinator    Officer-                   Nutrition    Public Health    Pharmacist    Engineerl!   Health Education
Officer       Inspector                                      Officer
Parish Medical Officer (Health)
(5 Parishes)
Supervisory       Medical Officer       Supervisory                     Nutrition          Health Education       Statistical
Public            (Health Center)      Public                           Officer            Officer, Grade II    Clerk
Health Nurse               I            HealIth Inspector                   I                       I
PubliIc           District             Senior                           Comm.              Health Education
Health Nurse      Medical Officer       Public                          Nutrition          Officer, Grade I                                                90
Hea th Inspector                Assistants                                                                        m x
Staff Nurse                             Public
I                                 Health Inspector
District
Midwife
I
Community
Health Aide
1/   Additional positions which will he required to establish the decentralized Cornwall County Health Administration.



Page 12
JamaicR I
Chart 2:  Supervisory Syster- for the CHAs and
County Level                                                Com-,
( county Health
Ad. inistrat ion)
Par ish Level                                             J
( Type IV                               (5)          Nursing                 lxhursing
Supervisor              - aprvisor
Health Center)
243000 Popula-
-ion Level                                                                                           In
(TIy-pe III Health
-en'-uel<                                                           ;  
I .'
12,000 Population                                       Publio K:'--aal.th          Heauai h
Nu se                Nurse
Level
(T,pe II Health
CHA           CH.A       -
Cenlter).                                                                   .-
Supervisor   Su Wer e
4, 000 Population                                                                   N K
Levrel                                            \             |\                      r   r   i
T'Ype I                                     |
Health Center)
------ -----------------                                                         ----
1,0OO Population
Level



ANNEX 6
Page 1
JAMAICA II
Community Health Aides
The Need
1.        The traditional approach to primary health care in developed coun-
tries assumed that people will "seek out" such care and, accordingly, relied
on health centers and hospitals manned by professionals (e.g., doctors and
nurses) for the delivery of health services. Even in the developed countries,
it is becoming increasingly recognized that such institutions need to be
supplemented by a community outreach program. In developing countries, it is
neither economical nor efficient to employ professionals to deliver primary
health care. It is not economical because highly qualified professionals are
scarce and costly. It is not efficient for the following reasons:
a.   the health professionals, by virtue of their higher education
and different social background, are not always accepted as
members of the community they serve. For the same reasons,
they may have difficulty in understanding the traditions and
attitudes of the community, and thus fail to establish com-
munication with their patients; and
b.   they are not always available when needed because they may
live at a distance and because they do not have time to provide
the more elementary forms of care.
2.        For these reasons, and in the light of the results of experimental
programs carried out in Jamaica indicating that it is better to employ
workers who can cover a number of health needs (including family planning),
the GOJ decided to employ community health aides (CHAs).
Background and Role of the CHAs
3.        The CHAs in Jamaica are community link workers, belonging to the
community to be served. The only educational qualification required is the
ability to read and write, but they should be active in some type of community
service, well known in the community, and respected by their fellow citizens.
The ClAs are not professional health workers, and the professional community
accepts them as auxiliaries rather than as competitors. As members of the
community being served, the CHAs should understand, not only its needs, but
also the stresses and tensions peculiar to it and, hence, should be able to
communicate effectively with target groups.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
4.         No other country in the Latin American-Caribbean region has yet
used these community link workers in the delivery of primary health care on
a national scale.  1I[e Jamaican pruject, by demonstrating the value of such
workers in relieving the professional workers of their simpler functions
should be helpful to other countries. CHAs are particularly valuable in
bICH/FP/nutrition programs.
Functions of the CHA
5.         Community health aides are trained to work with families in the
community to identify their health problems and bring them to the atten-
tion of the professional staff.
6.         Functions include:  (a) identifying prenatal and postnatal mothers
and instructing them in the proper use of MCH services, (b) identifying mal-
nourished mothers and children and (c) arranging for them to receive food
and drugs. The CHA is also responsible for family planning education at the
family level and supplying simple contraceptives, providing first aid and
elementary medical care and assisting the midwife, public health nurse,
nutritionist and other public health staff at the Type I health center.
Training Program for CHAs
7.         CHAs receive an eight-week training course in their own parishes.
Each course trains about 25 CHAs, and at present about 450 CHAs have been
trained and are at work. The training program is job-oriented, with emphasis
on field work and observation. By the end of FY 1976, another 850 CHAs are
expected to be trained, bringing the total number to about 1,200, i.e.,
about one CHA for every 2,000 population. The GOJ plans to employ one CHA
for every 1,000 people by 1978. The project will support the training of
the necessary additional 1,000 CHAs.
Audiovisual Aids for the CHAs
8.         The main function of the CtAs is to educate the mother, family and
the community to accept and continue to use the services offered in the inte-
grated MCH/FP/nutrition program. This education is usually conducted through
visits to families, mostly in their h:mes, with the aid of simple audiovisual
aids such as pamphlets, flip charts, and booklets, which are included in the
CHA's kit in addition to simple drugs, bandages and contraceptives. Each audio-
visual kit costs about US$20. The project provides funds for kits for 2,000 CHAs.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
JAMAICA II
Rural Maternity Centers
Background
1.        Under Loan 690-JM, the Bank financed the construction of ten rural
maternity centers at strategic locations throughout the Island. The main
objectives were: (a) to provide the rural population with expanded oppor-
tunities for maternity care, (b) to improve the utilization of district
midwives, and (c) to expand the access to postpartum family planning
education.
2.        Rural maternity centers were planned to serve a population ranging
fron 5,750 to 12,900 people each, depending on location (a 4-mile radius of
coverage was assumed). Full details on these centers can be obtained from
IBRD Report No. PP-2a.
Levels of Utilization
3.        Aspects of the utilization of rural maternity centers during 1974
and part of 1975 are summarized in Table 1. All centers were functioning in
1974 with the exception of the one in Elderslie which was recently opened.
4.        Prenatal Care:  An average of 2.6 prenatal sessions per center-month
were held in 1974; the average attendance per session was 12.4 women.  In early
1975, a 12% improvement in the number of sessions and a 30% one in attendance
were noted. However, 2.9 sessions per center--month constituted only 73% of
the target of four prenatal sessions per month.  Or tre average, a prenatal
clinic session was conducted every ten dcLys, 4th -i range of six to 49 days
from center to center.  In 1975, only cenIters lDcated at Port Morant, Fair
Prospect and Chester Castle achieved prenataal clinLic tarcets.
D.        An examnination of the relationship between average attendance per
prenatal session and number of sessions per monrth suggests: (a) in general,
the higher the number of sessions per month, the lower the average attendance
per session, (b) in centers holding a number of monthly sessions below target
levels (which in turn are those with higher attendance per session), crowding
(15-30 people per session) could be eliminated simply by increasing the number
of sessions to a point near target levels, and (c) in centers operating around
target levels, an increase in the number of monthly sessions does not appear
to further reduce the average attendance per session.  It follows that in the
cencers below prenatal target levels, a rescheduling of the number of sessions
per month could lead to an improved performance in terms of the number of
prenatal sessions per month, without seriously impairing average attendance
oer session.
6.        Deliveries:  In 1974, 270 deliveries took place in the rural maternity
centers.  T2wo percent of the appropriate --nirisn deliveries would he accounted for
when the center activities are adjusted to a 12-month operation. If the total num-
ber of births irn the parishes where centers -are located remained constant in 1975,



ANNEX 7
Page 2
it is estimated that the maternity output of the centers has doubled but the
figure is still far from the 22% of total deliveries performed by district
midwives as of 1968. In 1974, an average of 4.1 (year adjusted) monthly
deliveries were performed per center; this is below the estimated 4-5 monthly
deliveries per midwife for 1968.
7.        Rural maternity centers have covered an average of 43-44% of the
target populations (projected at 1974 and 1975 levels). However, with the
exception of the center at Port Morant (seemingly the most "industrious"),
coverage in this respect has been almost negligible among centers with avail-
able data.
8.        Postnatal Care:  Postnatal sessions (apparently including family
planning clinics) averaged 1.1 and 1.4 per center-month in 1974 and 1975
respectively. Thus, in 1975 postnatal activities were functioning at 23%
of the projected workload. A postnatal and/or family planning session was
conducted every 30 days on the average (6-140 range). Attendance per session
was substantially lower than those of prenatal sessions (80% lower in 1975),
in spite of being less frequent. However, there were increases in the number
of attendances per session and per month in 1975. It would appear that urgent
attention should be given to the encouragement of those women wbo attend
prenatal sessions to attend postnatal sessions. Furthermore, only 48%
of mothers who gave birth in rural maternity centers returned for postnatal
sessions.
9.        Among returning mothers, 86% accepted a family planning method in
1974. Little is known about continuation rates. It is estimated that the
centers contributed to only 2% of the total number of new acceptors of family
planning for the appropriate parishes. The Port Morant Center had the best
performance; it was responsible for recruiting 10% of the new acceptors
in St. Thomas Parish.
Summary
10.       In general, the performance of the rural maternity centers has been
discouraging. Marked underutilization of prenatal and postnatal capacities
occur in almost every center as suggested by available data. Postnatal
activities (which are very relevant to the population program) and occurrence
of deliveries in the centers have been low. In addition to the underutilization
of potential prenatal services, there seems to be a scheduling pattern which,
if modified, could improve the quality of present delivery. Conversion of the
rural maternity centers into multipurpose centers -- as intended by the GOJ --
seems justified.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
Jaaica II
Table 1   1974-1975 Level. of tjll p, of Rural HatrnIce t
Port                Fair          Wood             Clarks                           Chester                                                    (5)       Robins             All
T;ec,           QMrant               Prospect         Park           ,Twn              Hoeton       _   Castle            Dies            Newellt    Elderelie               Hall            Centers
1974  1975(1)               (1)  1474  197(s )  _ _ __                         (1)                               (1)  1974  1975(1)  1974  1975  )               1974   1975         (1)
____ 17__        194_197_197   19EL.Z...5__   1974 ala 195 1974_8L....IZ......2.31.97________                                                     ()
1. Months holdiag
clinics            12      2        11      4         6      5         6      6         6      5         8      5         4      6         4      4                          3      1        60      38
2. Months accepting
inpatients          11      2        11      4         6      5         6      6         4      5         5      5         4      6         3                -                 3      1       53    38
inte patinl                                                                                                                                                                                            3 3
3. Sesaions Held            n.S.    12         48    21          6    13          9    10         11    11         32    30          7      5         4      9               --        39  n.s.         1;6  I11
4. Attendance               n.e.  n.a.        585   383        113  n.a.        136   232        135   158        353   372         11    11        122   232          --    --      n.e.  n.s.        1455  138S
5. Aver. Attendance/
Session      n.a.  n.a,  12.2                  18.8  n.a.       15.1  23.2       12.3  14.4       11.0  12.4        1.6   2.2       30.5  33.9                        n.a.  n.S.        12.4  16.1
S. Sessio.r./monch          n.a.      6       4.4   5.3          1   2.6        1.5   1.7        1.8   2.2          4      6       1.8    .8           1     1        __    -_          13  n.S.        2.6'   2.9"
7. Atze-dsnce/month         n.e.  n.a.       53.7  96.5       18.8  n.a.       22.7  39.4       22.1  31.7       44.0  74.4        2.9   1.8       30.5  3S.9         --..  U.S.                       32.  46n7(a
8. Io. of deliveries          98    33         61    36          7    la         18    41         11    11         42    70          2      6        27    72          --                4    19        270   306
9. No. of deliveries
(yearly adjusted)        107   196          67   108         14    43         36    82         33    26       101   168           6    12        108   216                          16   228        488  101
10. "Effective"C'eoopu-a-
tion served (l10 ) (4) 3.7   6.8           2.5   4.1         .5   1.6        1.4   3.2         .9    .7        4.1   6.8         .2    .5        4.1   8.2         --    --         .6   8.7       18.0  4n0.6
11. "Target" population
(xll )      7.6   7.6         --    --       14.8  14.9        9.7   9,8       11.2  1.5          --    --         --    --         --    --         --    --         --    --       43.3  43,8
12. Coverage (10/11)          .48   .89         --    --        .03   .11        .14   .33         .08   .06         -- --           --    --         -.    --          --    --         --     -'       .15   .28
13.    of Parishlirtha         .5     --         4   --          .     --           2    --        .1    --           7    --       .10    --           3   --          --    --                                 - - .2
Postnatal
14. Sesiones held              25    12       n.a.      2         4      0          3    10          3     1         19    22          0     2          0      0        -I --             1      0        55    55
15. Attendance                 60    24          18     4         4      0        10    22           3    12      n.a.   114           0     2         15      0        --    __          1      0       111   178
16. Aver. Attendance/                                                                                                                                                                                      v11      (1)
Session       2.4       2     n.a.      2          1    --       3.3   2.2           1   1.7      n.e.   5.2          --      I        __        __     _                 1      --      2.6   3-2
17. Sessenn/month             2.1      6      n.a.    .5         .7      0         .5   1.7        .5   1.4         2.4   4.4          0    .3          0      0        -- a-            .3      0       1.1  1.412)
18. Aver. Attendance/                                                                                                                                                                                        2       2 uZ)
.onth       5.0    12       n.a.      1         .7    --       1.7   3.7          .5   2.4      n.e.  22.9          --    .3         --    --         ..    --         .3     --       2.9'  4.5
19. 2 of delivered
mothers returning          61    --         30    --        .57     --        56   -_          27    -        n.a.    --          0    --         56    --          --    --         25    _-         48     _
20. % of returned mothers
accepting FP          88    --         94    __       n.a.    --         50    --       100      __      n.a.    --           0    --      n.e.    __          __    __       n.n.     __        8642) 
21. yearly outp,t of PP
acceptors (estImated)   57    --            19    --       n.a.    --         10    --          9    -_       n.e.    --          0      --    n.a.    --           --    --      n.&.                9 
22. % of FP aom acceptors
in paiah          10    --          3    --       n.a.    --          2    --          0    --       n.e.    --          0    --       n.s.    --         -n --          e.a.    .-           2    --
(I) Data for 1975 based on nunber of monthly reports received by MOISEC at time of appraisal
(2) Based on XIC's with complete data
(3) Calculated on the Basis of C.B.1. for parish of center
(4) Projected at mid-1974 on the bhsis of desired growth rates (1960-70) for each perish.
Only for RHC's with targets in IBRD-PP-2a report eince there were 5 changes from   original sites.
(5) liot opened
SOURCE: CAlculated frw data of MOf(EC, NFPB and Department of Statistics, Kingston.



ANNEX 8
JAMAICA II
List of Technical Assistance
1.   Health Maintenance Facility
Duration
1.1 Consultants for:
Program Coordination and Management                   24 man-months
Field Supervision                                     12 man-months
Logistics and Procurement Instruction                 12 man-months
Technical Trade Instruction                           12 man-months
2.  Training
2.1 Consultants for:
In-service Training                                   12 man-months
Midwifery Training                                    24 man-months
2.2 Fellowships for:
Midwifery Tutors                                2 for 12 man-months
3.   Nutrition Education and Communications
3.1 Consultants for:
Communications                                        12 man-months
Production and use of Audiovisual Aids                12 man-months
Production and Editing of Document Files              12 man-months
3.2 Fellowships for:
Communications Officer                                 6 man-months
Audiovisual Aids Specialist                            6 man-months
Study Tours                                            6 man-months
4.   Research and Evaluation
4.1  Advisor and Consultants for:
Health Planning                                       12 man-months
Health Information and Evaluation                     36 man-months
Research                                              12 man-months
4.2  Research Assistants /I                            3 for 12 man-months each
4.3 Fellowships for:
Health Planning                                       40 man-months
Health Information and Evaluation                     48 man-months
5.  Feasibility Study
5.1  Consulting Firm                                          18 man-months
5.2  Fellowships                                               5 man-months
6.   Building Utilization Study
6.1 Consultant                                                12 man-months
/1 To be recruited locally.



Jamaica II
List of Special Equipment
1.  County of Cornwall                                                            Local   Foreign   Total
1.1  Equipment for Cornwall   1  Portapak color video tape rec. camera               1,136.00
County Regional Level    1  Portapak recorder                                   1,704.00
1  Play-back unit                                       511.00
100 Cassette tapes at $34 each                        3,40000
3  16mm. film projectors at $965 ea.                  2,895.00
Audiovisual aids equipment for mobile unit
(see vehicles)
Maintenance equipment and spares                      2,000.00
Film library                                          1,000.00
2  Magnetic display boards                              300.00
Teaching equipment                                    1,000.00
Screen                                                  140m00
Video tape recording accessories                        600.00
uiL,686,oo
1.2  Equipment for Health      2  Family planning demo kits $11 x 72                   792.00
Centers Type I            Flip charts                    $56 x 72               4,032.00
(72 Centers)              Flannelgraphs and flashcards $88 x 72                 6,336.00
Miscellaneous                 $11 x 72                  792.00
~~~112952.00
1.3  Equipment for Health      2 Family planning demo kits  $23 x 35                    805.00
Centers Type II             Family planning models    $114 x 35                 3,990.00
(35 Centers)              2 Display boards              $57 x 35                l,995 00
20 Sets of 14 visual aids   $318 x 35                11,130.00
1  16mm. film projector                                 966.00
1  Screen                                               114.00
Spares                                                  227.00
19,227.00  
ev H
CDs



Local    Foreign    Total
1.4  Equipment for Health     2  Family planning demo kits  $23 x 17               391.00
Centers Type III         1  Family planning model      $227 x 17            4,233.00
(17 Centers)             2  Display boards              $57 x 17              969.00
20 Sets of visual aids        $16 x 17              272.00
1  16mm film projector       $966 x 17           16,472.00
1  Screen                    $114 x 17            1,938.00
1  Sound slide projector     $454 x 17              918.00
Spares       ...                                    200.00
25,393.00
1.5  Equipment for Health     2  Family planning demo kits  $23 x 5                115.00
Centers Type IV          2  Family planning models    $454 x 5                225.00
(5 Centers)              1  Magnetic display board    $171 x 5                855.00
Sound slide projector        $454 x 5             2,270.00
1  16mm film projector       $966 x 5             4,830.00
1  Screen                    $114 x 5               570-00
1  Video viewer              $h54 x 5             2,270.00
50 Film strip projectors at   $50                   250.00
11,385.00
Total 1                                                                 82,642.00
2. Postpartum Program
Postpartum Program            1  16mm film projector        $966 x 22           21,252.00
in Hospitals                  1  Screen                     $114 x 22            2,508.00
(22 Centers)                  Printed raterials            $1000 x 22           22,000.00
Display board                  $57 x 22           1,254.00
Tape recorder                 $80 x 22            1,760.00
Tapes                         $57 x 22            1,254.00
Self-instruction guides        $57 x 22           1,254.00
Spares                       $227 x 22            4,994.00
Total 2                                                                 56,276.00



3.  Training                                                                   Local    Foreign       Total
3.1  Audiovisual Equipment    1  15mm film projector                                  966.00
of the In-Service         1  Screen                                              11h.00
Training Unit             1 Sound slide projector                                454.00
1  Overhead projector                                  236.00
1 Magnetic board                                       150.00
Training materials                                    500.00
1  Tape recorder                                        80.00
Tapes                                                   50-00
2,550.00
3.2  Midwifery Training        2  16mm projectors at $965                           1,930.00
2  Screens at $140                                    280.00
Training film library                               1,000.00
2  Overhead projectors                                472.00
2 Magnetic boards                                      300.00
Anatomical models and other
training materials                                2,018.00
6,000.00
3.3  Training of CHAs          Basic materials for home visits
2,000 x $20                                      hO,000.00
2 Portable monitor/TV receivers for video tape
recording training programs at $350              700.00
Extra video tape recording equipment                  408.00
2  Sound slide projectors at $h54                      908.00
Video tape recording training materials and         1,000.00   43,016.00
slides
Total 3                                                                       i1.566.00
(D 



Local   Foreign      Total
h.  Nutrition Unit                  1  35mm SLR camera for master slides                   602.00
Roll fiLms for above                                   682.00
1 x 16mm film projector                                966.00
1 1hO" x 40" screen with tripod                        114.00
1 Opaque projector                                     909.00
1 Overhead projector                                   236.00
33 x 90 min. cassettes                                 131.00
20 x 60 min. cassettes                                  62.00
50 x 30 min. cassettes                                 114.00
Sound slide projector                                  454 t
Total 4                                                                        4200
1  Station wagon type vehicle                        see vehicles
5.  Bureau of Health Education    1  Varitype machine                                    7,954.00
10 Sets of type faces for varitype                     795.00
Equipment for the Bureau       1  Selectric typewriter (with long
of Health Education to               carriage - 19")                                   136.00
Increase Its Printing          6  Elements for selectric                             1,023.00
Production Capacity            1  Varigraph machine                                    600.00
1  Colign out-stripping opaquing table                 230.00
1 Plate burner flip-top for 1850
multilith press plates                          2,273.00
1  Cabinet for headliner                               398.00
1  American glider press semiautomatic
silk screen                                     6,250.00
Paper for printing                                   lt704.00
2  One-color process                                55.000.00
Total 5                                                                       76,363.00
t1b



Local       Foreign       Total
6.  Agency of Public               2 films 16mm color for leaders
Information                     and extension workers on
national problems and possible
solutions (40 copies)              20,f800.00   20,800.00
2 10-15 min. films 16mm b & w
on "Use Your MCH Center"
introducing health personnel
and the service they offer -
40 copies                          25,080.00       520.00
2 30 min. color 16mm films for
clinics on child nutrition -
70 copies                          16,400.00   16,400.00
1 Steenbeck editing table                          12,353_00
Total 6                                            62,280.00   50,073.00    112,353.00
7. Research                        Data processing. equipment                         15,300.00      15.300.00
TOTAL SPECIAL EQUIPMENT                                                   62,280.00  336,491.00    398,771.00



ANNEX 10
Page 1
JAMAICA II
In-Service Training Program
Objectives
1.        With the integration of family planning with the primary health
care programs--in particular with the maternal and child health services--
providing family planning services (both motivational and service delivery
aspects) became the responsibility of almost all staff engaged in the primary
health care program. In addition, the same categories of personnel were
also involved in the delivery and support of nutrition services. These per-
sonnel include about 300 midwives in the field, 120 public health nurses,
50 medical officers, and supervisory staff such as the nursing supervisors,
health educators, etc. Staff nurses, health inspectors, matrons in hospitals,
hospital medical officers and other categories of health personnel who are
not directly involved in the MCH/FP/nutrition delivery system but support
those activities, also need to be trained in MCH/FP/nutrition.
2.        The MOHEC estimates that there are nearly 4,000 personnel to be
trained in MCH/FP/nutrition for Jamaica as a whole. The objective of the
in-service training program is to train the above categories of health
staff in MCH/FP/nutrition activities. The first priority during the next
couple of years will be to train the staff directly engaged in the delivery
of MCH/FP/nutrition services (midwives, public health nurses, nursing
supervisors and medical officers) and then train the other categories of
health personnel.  The re-training of 2,000 CHAs at periodic intervals on
a continuing basis will be another objective of the in-service training
program. On a long-term basis the training program would also include
"continuing education" for all health personnel engaged in primary health
care.
Training Load
3.        The following table lists the estimated training load for the
in-service training program for the 4-year project period starting from
FY 1976/77 to FY 1979/80.
Categories to                     Number       FY         FY         FY         FY
be Trained                      (Total)    76/77       77/78      78/79      79/80
Midwives                            300        100       100        100
Public Health Nurses                120        40         40         40
Nursing Supervisors                  30         10        10         10
Medical Officers of Health           30         10        10         10
CHAs (retraining)                1,000          -        200        200       300
Total                       1,480        160        360        360       300



ANNEX 10
Page 2
4.        It is expected that after FY1979/80, the program will focus on
in-service training of health staff, continue the retraining of CHAs,
start the continuing education program for critical MCH/FP/nutrition staff
and institutionalize such training.
Training Strategy
5.         In-service training would be conducted as near the trainees' place
of work as possible. Hence the training locale will be at the parish-level
Type IV health center or the hospital. The training team from the Central
MOHEC Office would travel to these parishes to conduct the training courses. The
duration of the training period would be from one-to-four weeks, depending on
the category to be trained and the related job functions. The curriculum
for training would be developed by the trainers for each category of personnel
on a job-oriented basis and revised periodically. Necessary training mate-
rials suited to the needs of the trainees would be prepared and distributed.
The major thrust of the training would be in the field: demonstration,
field practice and observation, backed up by the required minimum of theo-
retical underpinning.
Training Staff
6.        The training coordinator (new position to be established as part of
the Planning and Evaluation Unit in the MOHEC) would be the chief of this
in-service training unit, assisted by one senior midwifery tutor, one midwifery
tutor and one health educator.
Technical Assistance
7.        Since the organization and conduct of an in-service program on a
continuing basis is a new undertaking for the MIOHEC, twelve man-months of
consultancy services to train the training coordinator on the job and to help
in the establishment and functioning of this Unit are required.  The terms of
reference for the training consultant are described in Appendix 1.
8.        All recurring costs (salaries, operating costs, etc.,) would be
the responsibility of the GOJ and costs for one minibus, equipment and
consultant services are included in the project.



ANNEX 10
Appendix I
Terms of Reference for Training Consultant
(12 man-months)
Functions
1.        To advise the training coordinator (Chief of the In-Service Training
Unit) in the planning, implementing and evaluation of a comprehensive and
continuing in-service MCH/FP/nutrition training program for all personnel
working in the program, as well as MOHEC support staff.
2.        To help in the establishment and functioning of the In-service
Training Unit in the MOHEC, including on-the-job training of the training
coordinator and other trainers in the Unit.
3.        To help in the development of training curricula for all types of
in-service training for the integrated MCH/FP/nutrition program.
4.        To help MOHEC and the University of West Indies to integrate the
MCH/FP/nutrition program with the basic training programs for doctors, nurses,
midwives and the health staff.
5.        To help integrate training with planning in the Planning and Evalua-
tion Unit of MOHEC.
Qualifications
6.        Master's degree or equivalent in Public Health, majoring in health
education.
7.        At least five years' experience in training of health personnel in
MCH/FP, preferably in developing countries.
8.        Experience in the planning and evaluation of training programs desir-
able.



ANNEX 11
Page 1
JAMAICA II
Midwifery Training Schools
Background
1.        The objectives of the program have been adapted by the Inter-
agency Task Force and MCH/FP/Nutrition Coordinating Committee from the document
"A Strategy and Plan to Strengthen Maternal Child Health Services," prepared
at the request of the Caribbean Health Ministers. A list of these objectives
is given in Annex 5, paragraph 12.
,.xpanded Role of Midwives in the MCH/FP/Nutrition Program
I2.       These MCH/FP/nutrition objectives cannot be attained without large
4acreases in several categories of personnel, especially district (single-
-rained) midwives and nurse-midwives (dual-trained).  The district midwife and
roe nurse-midwife provide most of the prenatal, intranatal and postnatal
maternity care in Jamaica. It is planned to add family planning services to
tneir responsibilities as rapidly as training capacity can be provided. The
:iurse-midwife is employed in the hospitals to carry out normal deliveries with
suppor: from a physician if complications arise. Because of the severe short-
age of quialified nurse-midwives, district midwives have also been used in
hospi-als, thus creating a serious shortage of midwives in the field.  MOHEC
recently decided that district midwives should be gradually phased out of
I'ispitals a,d returned to the fLeld, where they will conduct prenatal, post-
natal, family planning and child welfare clinic sessions, and perform home
deliveries. With an increase in the rumber of district midwives and the
addition of familv planning, nutrition and child health care knowledge
and skills, thev will be able to serve their communities more effectively
through tne home-visiting program, as well as Ln the health centers.
3.        The reassignment of district midwives to the field will aggravate
the shortage in the Lospitals.  At present, a number of dual-trained midwives
is engaged in nursing activities other than intranatal maternity care, for
which midwifery training is not really necessary. MOHEC, however, is unable
to estimate how many of them would return to midwifery if encouraged to do so,
although informal surveys indicate that the number would be considerable.
Projected Mlidwifery Staff Requirements
4.        The expanded role of Lhe dist-ict midwife, which will encompass
MCH/FD/nutrition services as well as -'Ltranatal maternity care, will require
a midwife-to-population ratio of about 1/4,000 initially. Estimates of the
numo'er required in Jamaica as a whole and in the County of Cornwall are as
follows:



ANNEX 11
Page 2
Requirement for District Midwives
Requirements at      Positions Filled    Shortage
1/4,000 Population        April 1975
Jamaica                           550                   294               256
County of Cornwall                124                    89                35
5.        It is estimated that among the proposed 550 district midwives there
would be an annual "wastage" of about 20, most of whom would leave to train
for posts at higher levels. The wastage from retirement is probably one
or two a year. These attrition estimates appear low, and an annual level
of 10% is perhaps more realistic.
Expansion of Midwifery Training Schools
6.        The shortage of single-trained and dual-trained midwives will be
remedied by: (a) expanding the Victoria Jubilee Hospital School, (b)
establishing a temporary school at Spanish Town Hospital (an extension of
the Victoria Jubilee Hospital School), and (c) establishing a second permanent
midwifery school at the Cornwall Regional Hospital.
7.        Victoria Jubilee Hospital School:  This Hospital presently graduates 40
single-trained and 50 dual-trained midwives a year. (The University of West
Indies graduates 30 dual-trained midwives, 10 of whom upon graduation
are assigned to the Jamaica Government Health Service.) Although the IBRD
Jamaica I loan has enlarged the training facilities at the Victoria Jubilee
Hospital the annual number of graduates will not increase, since in order to
incorporate additional training in family planning, nutrition, and child
health, the duration of the midwifery courses has been extended from 18 months
to two years for single-trained midwives, and from six to nine months for
dual-trained midwives.
8.        The teaching staff of the Victoria Jubilee Hospital will also conduct
courses at the proposed temporary midwifery school at Spanish Town Hospital.
To permit this increase in the teaching load it will be necessary to add
another tutor to the present staff of three.
9.        Spanish Town Hospital Temporary School:  The Spanish Town Hospital
temporary midwifery school will provide opportunities for rural community
experience not available at either the Victoria Jubilee Hospital or the
University of West Indies. A substantial expansion of the Hospital's maternity
facilities was completed in December 1975. The Hospital has classroom and
associated training facilities which will be made available to the temporary
midwifery training school on April 1, 1976. The school will need some means
of transportation to enable students to visit rural areas.
10.       The Nursing Council of Jamaica has approved the proposed Spanish
Town Hospital Midwifery School on condition that it is satisfied with the
proposed syllabus of instruction and the qualifications of the tutorial



ANNEX 11
Page 3
staff. The Council also strongly recommended that sufficiently large resi-
dential accommodations be acquired to house all students. Present plans
provide for students to be lodged in private homes near the hospital.
11.       The Nursing Council midwifery syllabus lays particular stress
on the community health aspects of midwifery. The Council therefore recom-
mended that students should spend six months of the two-year course in the
community learning how to give advice on and provide clinical services in
family planning, nutrition and the health of children beyond infancy.
12.       Approximately 1,200 rural births occur annually in St. Catherine
Parish (where Spanish Town Hospital is located, and experienced public health
nurses, district midwives, and other appropriate professional field instruc-
tors are available). It is planned to employ a consultant midwifery tutor
immediately to work closely with the medical officer of health and the hospital
staff to plan, organize, and integrate the community and hospital experiences
so that the midwifery training school can admit its first class in April 1976.
The two-year course will enroll 20 students annually. In addition to the
consultant, a full-time midwifery tutor and clinical instructor will be
required at the Spanish Town facility. The Victoria Jubilee Hospital faculty,
which will assist in the teaching, should be brought into the planning of the
Spanish Town extension; the formation of a coordinating committee is desirable
for this purpose.
13.       The combined yearly intake of the Victoria Jubilee Hospital and
Spanish Town Schools will be 60 single-trained and 50 dual-trained midwives.
Thus, at the beginning of the second year about 180 students will be enrolled
in the two schools and, at the end of second year and thereafter, 60 single-
trained and 50 dual-trained midwives will graduate annually.
14.       The Cornwall Regional Hospital School:  The Cornwall Regional
Midwifery School, which will be established in October 1976, will at first
give priority to the training of district midwives. In due course it will
become a school for nurse midwives, graduating 20 annually, probably begin-
ning in 1980.
15.       The Cornwall Regional Hospital was opened on April 1, 1974 as a
general and referral hospital for the County of Cornwall, which has a largely
rural population. The Hospital, with its modern plant and its role as a
regional center, is highly suitable as a training center, and there are
plans to train several types of health workers there. It offers an unusual
opportunity for training midwives in a rural setting where an integrated
MCH/FP/nutrition delivery system is to be developed.
16.       Despite these favorable circumstances, the following require-
ments must be met before the establishment of a midwifery school at
the Hospital is approved by the Nursing Council:
(a)   a number of improvements must be made in the out-patient
clinics of the obstetric service, the obstetric delivery
suites and the bed allocation of the obstetric service;



(b)   the Council must be satisfied that the commluni zy p:-r_
is adequate and integrated with the hospital sz-avi_-  and
training;
(c)   telecommunication and transportation facilities need to be
acquired;
(d)   gynecological patients must be separated completel- from
the midwifery suite; and
(e)   audiovisual and library materials, as well as other teaching
aids specific to the needs of the midwifery school need to
be supplied.
Targets
17.       The major targets for the proposed expanded midwifery training
component are as follows:
(a)   to train and graduate 70-90 district midwives annually from
1978-1980 and thereafter 40-50 district midwives each year; and
(b)   to train and graduate 20-25 nurse-midwives annually from 1977-1980
and thereafter 40-45 nurse-midwives each year.
Technical Assistance and/or Fellowships
18.       The staffing of the proposed midwifery schools at Victoria Jubilee,
Spanish Town and Cornwall Regional Hospitals will require technical assistance
(see Appendix 1) and fellowships as follows:
(a)   twenty-four man-months of technical assistance for two
midwifery tutors; and
(b)   twenty-four man-months for midwifery tutor training
fellowships.



ANNEX 1I1
Appendix I
JAMAICA II
Technical Assistance for Midwifery Schools
1.        Twenty-four man-months of technical assistance for the midwifery
tutors for the two schools.
Terms of Reference for the Midwifery Tutors (Consultants)
2.        Qualifications:
(a)   registered nurse,
(b)   certified midwife,
(c)   midwifery tutor diploma or equivalent, and
(d)   experience in training of midwives in developing
countries.
3.        Duties and Responsibilities:
(a)   responsibility for planning, organization and administration
of the midwifery and family planning training program in
the midwifery school in collaboration with local counter-
parts,
(b)   on the job training of local counterparts in above functions,
and
(c)   development of midwifery curriculum to meet the changing
needs of the midwife to function as a broad-based MCH worker
in the community.



ANNEX 12
Page 1
JAMAICA II
Expansion of the Postpartum Program
Background
1.        The postpartum program began in 1970 as an educational program pro-
viding advice to women who gave birth at the Victoria Jubilee Hospital. The
nurse educators working with the program interviewed about 72% of these women.
(A larger proportion is probably unattainable because the nurse educators are
not on duty on weekends and public holidays.) In addition to receiving
information about family planning, the patients were referred to a specific
family planning clinic on a stated day and time. Approximately 37% of the
women interviewed attended a family planning clinic within three months of the
interview, and' were absorbed into the National Family Planning Board program.
2.        The program now provides advice on family planning, as well as on
maternal and child care. During their postpartum hospital interviews, the
nurse educators refer patients to child health clinics as well as to  postnatal
and family planning clinics. Attempts are also made to provide immediate
postpartum clinical services for patients desiring them. The two family
planning methods most often sought by patients are the injectable contra-
ceptive (Depo-Provera) and tubal ligation.
3.        Reports from Victoria Jubilee, Spanish Town and Cornwall Regional
Hospitals indicate that a high proportion (from 25% to 40%) of postpartum
women desire tubal ligation. The demand is largely unmet, partly because of
severe bed shortages which result in a brief postpartum stay. It is expected
that the increase in the number of beds in the maternity wing at Victoria
Jubilee Hospital will lengthen the postpartum stay, and thus permit a more
effective postpartum program.  A greater obstacle is the lack of doctors to
perform tubal ligations. Training and demonstration projects to increase the
number of physicians trained to perform tubal sterilizerations are of great
importance and will be expanded as rapidly as possible.
4.        In 1973, the postpartum program was extended from the Victoria
Jubilee Hospitalto Spanish Town and Linstead Hospitals in St. Catherine
Parish, to Mandeville and Spauldings Hospitals in Manchester Parish, and to
the Cornwall Regional Hospital in St. James Parish. In several other hospitals
on the Island, an informal service exists, but systematic programs have not
been established. It is planned that the program will be extended to the 17
remaining GOJ hospitals which provide maternity services.
5.        The purpose of the postpartum program is to provide postpartum
educational and clinical services to women at a time when their incentive
to accept family planning services is at its highest. The specific objec-
tives of the program are as follows:



ANNEX 12
Page 2
(a)   to counsel women during the prenatal period on maternal
and child health and family planning, to provide immediate
postpartum clinical services to those women desiring them,
and to refer others to postnatal, family planning and
child health clinics for follow-up services;
(b)   to encourage the fathers to adopt a more responsible
attitude toward familv life; and
(c)   to provide the above services to 50% of all hospital
postpartumn mothers in 1976, increasing the percent-
age by 1u% each year (80% in 1980).
Program Nlanagement
6.         The program will be planned and evaluated by MIOHEC under the direct-
ion of the principal medical officer (MCH/FP/nutrition). It will be implement-
ed at the parish level by the public health staff under the direction of the
medical officer (health). At the parish level, the nurse educators will be
supervised in the hospitals by the matrons, and in the field by the medical
officer (health).  The district midwives and community health aides, who will
be supervised by the public health nursing staff, will assume an expanded role
in folloti-up activities.
7.         The nurse educator will conduct prenatal clinic sessions in the
hosDital and health centers as required, although at the latter the main load
will be carried by the district midwives. Films and other audiovisual materials
will be used during these sessions and individual counseling will. be given to
teenage mothers, motlers of families who are known to nave chronically or
frequently ill children, and mothers of more than four chiliren, and in other
cases of special need.
S.         During each postpartum contact, the nurse educators will record
the data obtained on visit forms (see paras. 10-11), and arrange cliniic
appointments for mothers to attend postnatal examinations and family plan-
ning services, and for infants to be taken to child health centers. Thev
will also conduct group discussions and demonstratioins of contraceptive
methods, breast-feeding, child nutrition and otner relevant topics. These
discussions will be supplemented by films and printed materials.
9.         Legislation to liberalize pregnancy termination is still under
consideration in Jamaica.  There appears to be a hign demand for abortion.
Nonetheless, the great majority of women who want abortions have great
difficulty in obtaining them within the Government health system.  The
nurse educators are currently responsible for abortion preparation and
counseling as well as subsequent referral for follow-up contraceptive
services. As abortions become maore widely available, the nurse educator's
role may need to be redefined accordingly.



ANNEX 12
Page 3
Fol1ow-up Services for Hospital and Domiciliary Deliveries
10.       A detailed description of the MCH/FP/Nutrition Health Management
Information System is given ii Annex 16.  In the hospital, the nurse edu-
cator will complete a triplicate visit form for all women counseled. One
copy will be given to the patient, the seconid will be forwarded to the
Central Data Processing Unit of the Health Management Information System and
the third to the clinic of referral. Patients who fail to keep their follow-up
appointments wlll receive reminder letters from the clinics indicating
another appointme-nt time.
11       The district midwives will complete a triplicate visit form for each
home delivery. One copy will be left with the patient, one will be sent to
the clinic of referral, and one will be forwarded to the Central Data Processing
Uni-- of the Health Information Management System. At monthly intervals, each
midwife will collect from the clinics to which she has referred patients, thle
fornos for patients who have been referred by her but have not attended. The
midwife, or the CHA, will then make follow-up home visits.
12r       The district midwife and the CHA will be permitted to dispense
con-:raceptives, except injectables and IUDs, during home visits. Appropriate
notations will be made on the patient's clinic card and visit form.
Staffing
13.       TEhe Victoria Jubilee Hospital's experience suggests that one postpartum
nurse educator is necessary for every 2,000 deliveries a year, but in order to
provide educational services in the prenatal, postnatal and family planning
clinics, two nurse educators will be required. There is also a need for one
clerk/typist and, depending upon the location of the postpartum office, one
cleaner attendant, thus providing a core team of four persons for each 2,000
deliveries,
14D       It is planned that the positions for nu-rse educators and clerk!
ty-pists will be established in April 1976, and recruitment and selection com-
pleted in June 1976. Those selected will be trained during July 1976, and the
program will begin in the hospitals in August 1976.
Evaluation
15 ~    Contact, acceptor and continuation rates will be assessed on a
quarterly basis through the Health Management Information System, with appropriate
feecrback to assure program  adaptation to unmet needs as well as efficient
operatiorn.



AeNlX 13
Page 1
JAMAICA I 1
Nutrition Education and Communications Program
Strategy
1.        Under the heading of family health the project will seek to put
across five basic messages: (a) pregnant women should eat the right kind
of food, (b) babies should be breast-fed, (c) babies should be weaned onto
nutritive supplementary foods, (d) family planning is a means to a healthier
family, and (e) using the clinics will promote family health. Therefore,
a carefuly planned education and communications strategy has been worked out
by the MOHEC which forms an essential part of almost every one of the proj-
ect's activities. There will be three main interrelated communication
thrusts: one through a series of seminars for opinion leaders, doctors and
paramedical staff, another will reach the public by means of an intensive
marketing campaign, and a third through the MOHEC rural field workers. These
will be backed up by the well-designed use of audiovisual aids by the para-
medical infrastructure in the Cornwall County pilot project and by the post-
partum program on a national scale. The strategy, while emphasizing the bene-
fits to be gained from the adoption of new nutritional practices, will at the
same time support the family planning effort. The emphasis given to the dif-
ferent messages at various stages of the project will be carefully calculated.
2.        Leaders of opinion, doctors and paramedical staff are not yet fully
informed of the latest developments in the nutrition field. A series of
seminars (Appendix 4) will be held on a countrywide scale so that the profes-
sional and opinion leaders will have an opportunity to become convinced of the
necessity for a change in attitude toward maternal and child nutrition and the
doctors and paramedicals can be informed of the new policy. In these seminars
stress will be laid on the necessity of motivating mothers toward the adoption
of new nutritional practices which may not necessarily be easily accepted.
Responsibility for Education and Communications Techniques
3.        The people of Jamaica are accustomed to sophisticated communica-
tion techniques. Therefore a large part of the education and communications
program will consist of a national multi-media campaign.  This campaign will
be fully supported by the Agency for Public Information, which imple-
ments Government information policy. In the event the Agency is unable to
produce every audiovisual item requested, it will advise on the choice of a
suitable commercial firm to carry out the work. The main lines of this
major effort have already been systematized in a supplementary document,
presented by the Nutrition Unit within MOHEC, which include worksheets for
each type of audience. In these, target audiences have been identified,
the contents of the messages to be disseminated have been outlined and
the type of media best suited to carry the messages described.  The cam-
paign will be launched in late 1977.



ANNEX 13
Page 2
4.        The Agency for Public Information will produce the films and slide
sets and help with the production of radio and television programs and spots;
to enable it to do this, the loan provides funds for extra equipment and
technical assistance. In addition to the use of commercial radio by the
marketing firm, the Agency will allocate free Government time for messages on
nutrition (76% of the total population have access to a radio and 17% have
access to television). When the video production facility is acquired
sometime in 1976, it will be able to make use of the video material pro-
duced in Cornwall County for national diffusion.
5.        The Bureau of Health Education, a division of MOHEC, is respon-
sible for the educational work of the Ministry's programs. The Bureau works
at all levels including parish and community and offers, throughout the
Island, direct health education services. Since the Bureau's work is con-
cerned with behavioral changes leading to responsible community and indi-
vidual action, it will play an important part in the project by introducing
new attitudes toward nutrition. The Bureau has a good audiovisual produc-
tion unit but inadequate funds hamper its full development and the necessary
duplication of the prototype materials produced. The loan will provide
equipment to enlarge the Bureau's production capacity, and technical assist-
ance and fellowships to upgrade and increase the production level. The
GOJ will provide extra staff to assist in these two endeavors. The Bureau
will produce much of the printed materials required by the project.
6.        The Nutrition Unit will be advised by the Nutrition Reviewing
Committee. The membership of this Committee is comprised of representatives
from the following organizations, in addition to the Nutrition Unit:
(a) the National Family Planning Board,
(b) the Scientific Research Council,
(c) the Caribbean Food and Nutrition Institute,
(d) the Bureau of Health Education,
(e)  the Institute of Mass Communications at the University of 'iest Indies,
and
(f) the Agency for Public Information.
The Committee will act as a coordinating body for the organizations repre-
sented.
Research and Evaluation Studies
7.        Because a thorough understanding of the people's attitudes toward
food is required before those attitudes can be changed, behavioral research
will be essential. The project provides funds for the Institute of Mass
Communications to carry out a detailed and action-oriented survey by doing an
in-depth sample survey.



ANNEX 13
Page 3
8.        The Institute of Mass Communications  will play an important role
in the education and communications process. In addition to the survey the
Institute will carry out the necessary base-line study. It will also be
responsible, with the material producers, for pretesting audiovisual proto-
type productions before they are duplicated. It will monitor and advise on
the innovative use of video tape recordings in Cornwall County. Finally, it
will carry out both the mid-term and final evaluation of the education and
communications section. All these activities will be carried out in close
collaboration with the communications officer at MOHEC and with the Nutrition
Unit.
Key Staff
9.        The MOHEC is responsible for carrying out the education and
communications project and because of the many production points, and the
very large number of MOHEC staff engaged in the education/motivation process,
this will be a major undertaking. The education and communications officer
will maintain contact with all branches of the MOHEC and in doing so he will
work closely with the two principal nutritionists responsible for the regional
services and for training and research. He will also maintain constant
contact with the Institute of Mass Communications and ensure that the results
of attitude research are fed back to the field workers. At the same time he
will see to it that audiovisual aid production schedules are met and that the
materials themselves reach the field. He will be the key person in the edu-
cation and communications process and as such will need a complete grasp of
the operation. The GOJ considers that at certain points in the designing and
implementation of the program, the communications officer will need outside
advice; therefore, the loan provides funds under technical assistance for a
communications specialist who will visit Jamaica at key moments, notably
during the preparation period (Appendix 1). There are fellowships for 18
man-months which will be used to support the program by providing ongoing
training in the communications sector according to needs as the program
develops.
10.       The GOJ will appoint, at the Nutrition Unit, a principal nutri-
tionist to be in charge of training and research, as well as two senior
nutritionists.
Audiovisual Aids for Cornwall County
11.       As an essential part of the education and communications activities,
various levels of the MOHEC staff will use the following audiovisual aid
materials to inform and motivate the public:
(a)  Cornwall Country Program Regional Headquarters:  a mobile informa-
tion van, a video tape recording unit, film projectors, a film
library, and teaching aids;
(b) the four levels of health centers: various types of visual aid
materials and equipment; and



ANNEX 13
Page 4
(c) community health aides: a portable kit of visual aids to support
home visits;
Other Audiovisual Support
12.       This will include:
(a) carefully designed visual aids in the form of simple charts
and flash cards, etc., to be provided for the national post-
partum program; and
(b) materials produced by the project which will be used by the
mobile information unit.
For details on the special equipment required, see Annex 9.



Jamaica II
Chart 1: Nutrition Unit: Proposed Organization
; mctor
Principal Nutritionist                                 Principal Nutritionist
Training and Research                                    Regional Services
F-9    --
Senior Nutritionist       Seni.cr Nutritionist              Senior Dietician        Senior Nutritionist
(Tr. and Res.)          (Systems Delivery)
Nutrition Asst.   Dietician   N          N        N
Asst.
N: Nutritionist
CSfr
I-H



ANNEX 13
Appendix 1
Terms of Reference for Communications Specialist (12 man-months)
1.        The newly appointed education and communications officer at the
Nutrition Unit will need support in the preparation and carrying out of the
communications program. This support will not necessarily be continuous but
will be given at carefully planned moments during the development of the
project.
The specialist's qualifications:
(a) experience in designing and implementing multi-media
communications programs in a developing country;
(b) a good working knowledge of all the media but not
necessarily an expert in their production;
(c) experience of working through government
machinery;
(d) preferable work experience on a family planning and/or
nutrition field project; and
(e) a good working knowledge of video tape techniques and
their utilization.
2.        The specialist will be responsible to the deputy project director
(health). Apart from supporting the education and communications officer, he
should be ready to advise the Bureau of Health Education, the Agency for
Public Information, the Review Committee and the Institute of Mass Communi-
cations at the University of West Indies,when necessary.



ANNEX 13
Appendix 2
Terms of Reference for Specialist in the Production and Use of Visual Aids
(12 man-months)
1.        The specialist will work mainly with the Bureau of Health Educa-
tion and the Cornwall County health education officer under the general
direction of the education and communications officer.
He should have a good idea of production techniques for:
(a)  printed materials, including silk screen;
(b)  the preparation of flip charts, flannelgraphs, etc.;
(c)  exhibition materials; and
(d)  materials for field kits.
2.        Good working relations should be established with Agency for Public
Information and the commercial sector so that they will call on the specialist
when necessary. He should have experience in community programs, their
supervision and evaluation and a sound knowledge of cost effectiveness would
be useful.
3.        Frequent visits to Cornwall County will be required to observe the
results of the material production work, and from this field experience suggest
innovations that could improve audiovisual production work.
4.        Prior experience in the production of visual aids in a developing
country is a prerequisite, as is the ability to work at all technical levels.



ANNEX 13
Appendix 3
Terms of Reference for Specialist in Documentary Film Editing
(12 man-months)
1.        The Agency for Public Information, if it is to take on the extra
film production work required by the project, needs to enlarge its editing
capacity. To do this it needs to train two editors and upgrade the work of
the eleven now employed. The Agency needs an experienced film editor who has
had considerable experience in editing documentary films and is capable of
instructing others.
2.        Professional background should include:
(a) the editing of films produced both for ordinary projection
and for television (background for dual-purpose film editing);
(b) experience with films made for people in developing countries;
(c) work in a developing country preferably, and in a job where
there were training elements;
(d) experience in community programs, their supervision and
evaluation; and
(e) experience with video tape recording techniques would be preferable.
3.        His work experience might have been with a government 16 mm. produc-
tion unit, a film training school or a commercial firm specializing in the
production of 16 mm. film.



ANNEX 13
Appendix 4
Training Seminars for Nutrition Education
1.   Doctors:
I ,wo-dav seminar at Northcoast Hotel.
I one-day seminar at hospitals (throughout the Island).
'.   bureau of Health Education Staff
1  two-day seminar (Kingston) - 25 persons.
8  one-day seminar (Regional) - 10 persons at each.
3.   Health Personnel
13 two-day parish seminar for public health staff and hospital
staff - 75 persons at each.
13 one-day parish seminar for public health inspectors (they will
attend the first day of the two-day seminar for public health staff
and have an additional day to themselves) - 35 persons at each.
96 two-day seminars for hospital staff - 25 persons at each.
(4 per hospital).
4.   Leaders (National)
6 one-day meetings - 25 persons at each.
5.   Local Leaders
70 one-dav meetings at constituency level - 25 persons at each.
6.   Extension Agents
14 one-day parish seminar.



ANNEX 14
Page 1
JAMAICA II
Feasibility Study of Supplementary Food Needs
Objectives
1.        The food and nutrition policy and programs within the national
development plan of the GOJ aim, inter alia, as a priority, to improve the
nutritional status of the most vulnerable groups--children under four years
of age, and pregnant and lactating women. A reduction in the prevalence of
malnutrition would be the initial goal; reduction in the incidence of mal-
nutrition the long-term target.
2.        The feasiblity study explores alternative strategies to maximize
socio-economic benefits and cost-effectiveness, to achieve the objectives
stated above.
Background
3.        The "Proposed Project II, Nutrition and Population", dated October
1975, was prepared by a task force for the Government of Jamaica's Ministry
of Health and Environmental Control and included a proposal for the estab-
lishment of a facility to process and package food mixtures for the most vul-
nerable groups--malnourished women and children. The annexes to that report
included "A Report on Infant Cereal: a Feasibility Study".
4.        This study was based on scarce and incomplete technical data, which
were not sufficient to assist in reaching any conclusions. The costs calcu-
lated on the basis of this study appear to be beyond the level of budgetary
support that may be envisaged within the time span of the project. Major
determinants of capital and recurring costs--designation of raw materials
and the formulas for the special foods, the process to be used, the equipment
required, the type of package, quantity of food to be processed, size and
type of building, and free distribution of the processed food--doomed both
the technical acceptability and the economic viablity of the project.
5.        Through the present project, funds would be provided for training
a core staff in the fields of project planning, development and imple-
mentation, processing, maintenance, and marketing. After a short training
period the team, working with a consultant group, would be in a capacity to
prepare a complete feasibility study on the types of food processing facil-
ities which would be required to meet the GOJ's objectives for improving the
level of nutrition throughout the country.



ANNEX 14
Page 2
Training Fellowships
6.        Through this project, assistance will be provided in the form of
training fellowships in the disciplines noted above. These should be arranged
in a country where the levels of industrial development are relevant to those in
Jamaica, thus facilitating the transmission of technological inputs.
7.        Composition of the team to be trained:  an agricultural economist,
a food technologist, process engineer and a management economist.
8.        The technological, managerial and marketing inputs needed for pro-
jects in Jamaica, are in many aspects similar to those found in India. The
GOJ could approach the Kaira Cooperative, located at Anand in India to request
assistance in implementing the training of the team. This well-known success-
ful institution has many facilities for milk/food processing, including
special foods for infants. A team of unusually skillful individuals plan and
control a complex owned cooperatively by 200,000 farmers, with gross sales of
products in excess of US$1,000,000 weekly. In addition, the team should visit
the Aarey/Worli Dairy farm and processing plants on their return to Bombay,
prior to their departure from India.
Scope of Feasibility Study
9.        Data relative to the GOJ's food and nutrition policy, agricultural
and industrial development plans, food habits and marketing habits of the
population at greatest risk, nutritionally, should be collected, collated and
examined to allow the development of alternative strategies which could maxi-
mize socio-economic benefits and cost-effectiveness of a system or systems to
improve the nutritional status of the more vulnerable groups. Other factors
which may be considered relevant should also be explored. The following
activities are indicative only, not limiting:
(a) an estimate of the relative costs and a comparison of the
long-range implications of:
(i) the importation of food mixtures to be packaged
in Jamaica for local distribution;
(ii) the processing and packaging of acceptable cereal
food mixtures, the components of which would be
imported in bulk then converted in Jamaica to raw
materials suitable for additional processing in the
country for sale in Jamaica and Caricom countries;
and



ANNEX 14
Page 3
(iii) the processing and packaging of mixtures made as in
(ii) above but with the addition of selected locally-
grown raw materials;
(b)   A preliminary market survey to determine the potential market
for a range of cereal-based foods which might be processed in
a central facility, together with food for children under 24
months of age and a food for weaning, for sale in Jamaica and
Caricom countries;
(c)   An estimate of costs of an in-depth market survey to follow (b)
should the potential appear viable;
(d)   An estimate of costs to set up a central facility to process the
range of products indicated by the preliminary market survey;
these costs would include:
(i) buildings (including initial line-drawings);
(ii) equipment, based on exactly-defined processes and realistic
throughputs and steam, water and electrical requirements;
(iii) manufacturing, management and marketing with a forecast of
the cash flow in the first five years;
(e)   In conjunction with the GOJ's long-term agricultural development
plans, an examination should be made of the types of fortified
staple foods acceptable to the population in general and the
target groups in particular, and an estimate made of the price
level required to bring fortified staple foods within reach of
those with limited purchasing power and at risk nutritionally;
(f)   Preparation of a cost estimate to fortify wheat flour and corn
meal with soya flour, by adding metering and blending equipment
to the large mills now operating in Jamaica, should be under-
taken. Alternatively, the GOJ may wish to consider setting up
new mills for wheat and corn which would be designed to turn out
composite/fortified flours. If the latter is agreed upon, the
study should include the nature and size of the new facility,
type of equipment required, packaging-storage-transport needs,
and an estimate of total costs involved;
(g)   Bearing in mind that budgetary support for a subsidy or for free
distribution is finite, careful re-evaluation should be made of
the size of the following target groups at greatest risk in
Jamaica:



ANNEX 14
Page 4
i. 6-24 months,
ii. 25-48 months, and
iii. pregnant and lactating women.
h.   Examination of the proposed system of distribution of special
food mixtures, through various GOJ agencies/channels;
i.   Careful examination of existing buildings and physical facilities
to determine whether conversion and refurbishing should be con-
sidered rather than the construction of a new facility to house
the plant proposed in (d) above; and
j.   Collection of data on the food habits and marketing practices of
the target families.
Suggested Division of Responsibilities for Areas of Study
10.       The headings below relate to those used under the heading, "Scope
of Feasibility Study".
Component
No.       Group Responsible for Collection and Preparation of Data
a.  i.     Principle Consulting Group
a.  ii.    Principle Consulting Group
a.  iii.   Principle Consulting Group
b.         Consulting Groups' Market Research
c.         Consulting Groups' Market Research
d.  i.     Consulting Group
d.  ii.    Consulting Group
d.  iii.   Consulting Group
f.         Consulting Group
g.         Nutritionist and Pediatricians, MOHEC
h.         Jamaica Nutrition Holdings Ltd., Economist
i.         National Development Agency and Consulting Group
j.         University of West Indies and/or Caribbean Food
and Nutrition Institute
Implementation of Study and Timetable
11.       The overall responsibility for the coordination of the feasi-
bility study would rest with the Principal Consulting Group which would be
financed under the project and would report to the Jamaican Industrial
Development Corporation.



ANNEX 14
Page 5
12.       Selection of the consultants would be undertaken by the Canadian
International Development Agency in consultation with the Bank, and with
GOJ approval on terms and conditions acceptable to the Canadian Interna-
tional Development Agency, the GOJ and the Bank. The consultants would be
expected to work closely with the Government project personnel and other
Jamaican resource individuals. (See Appendix 1 for terms of reference.)
Target Time Schedule
Initiation of Data            Completion of
Heading                Collection/Preparation             Activity
a.  i.  )              Preliminary Studies
a.  ii. )-             would begin                      April 1976
a.  iii.)              December 1975
b.                     February 1977                    April 1977
c.                     May 1977                         May 1977
d.  i.                 May 1977                         August 1977
d.  ii.                May 1977                         August 1977
d.  iii.               August 1977                      September 1977
f.                     March 1977                       Mid-May 1977
g.                     March 1977                       March 1977
h.                     December 1976                    February 1977
i.                     May 1977                         May 1977
j.                     January 1977                     March 1977



ANNEX 14
Appendix 1
Page 1
Terms of Reference for Consultant Services
1.        The consultant services required by the Jamaican Industrial
Development Corporation for the feasibility study cover primarily the fields
of food processing/engineering and marketing. The consultants will work with
a team made available by the Corporation which will include the following:
Agricultural Economist
Draftsman
Economists
Financial Specialists
Food Technologists
Marketing Officer
Nutritionist
Process Engineer
Sociologist
Stenographic Services
2.        The consultants will provide technical inputs to allow the develop-
ment of alternative strategies which could maximize socio-economic benefits
and cost effectiveness of a system or systems to improve the nutritional
status of the more vulnerable groups. In particular, the consultants will:
(a) Examine and estimate the relative costs and compare:
(i) the long-range implications of the importation of
food mixtures, to be packaged in Jamaica for local
distribution,
(ii) the processing and packaging in Jamaica of acceptable
cereal mixtures, the components of which would be
imported in bulk then converted in Jamaica to raw
materials suitable for additional processing in the
country and for sale in Jamaica and Caricom countries,
and
(iii) mixtures with the addition of selected locally-grown raw
materials.
(b)   Prepare an estimate of the cost of equipment, and installation,
to allow the preparation of composite or fortified flours in new
flour mills for wheat and corn which the Government may wish to
establish.



ANNEX 14
Appendix 1
Page 2
(c)   Prepare an estimate of costs to set up a central facility
to process the range of cereal-based products indicated
by the preliminary market survey to be organized. These
costs to include:
(i) buildings (including initial line-drawings),
(ii) equipment, based on exactly-defined formulae, pro-
cesses and realistic throughputs, and steam, water and
electrical requirements,
(iii) installation of equipment, startup of plant and
training of operating personnel.
3.        The consultants will undertake:
(a)   A preliminary market survey to determine the potential market
for a range of cereal-based food which might be processed in
a central facility, together with foods for weaning and for
children under 24 months of age, for sale in Jamaica and Caricom
countries; and
(b)   An estimate of costs of an in-depth market survey to follow (a)
above, should the potential appear viable.
4.        The consultants will report to and maintain close liaison with the
Jamaican Industrial Development Corporation team, and will assist in the
preparation of the final report to be submitted to the Government and copied
to the Bank.



ANNEX 15
Page I
JAMAICA II
Planning and Evaluation Unit
Objectives and Functions
1.        The purpose of establishing a Planning and Evaluation Unit is to
provide an instrument for the development of health programs, with current
priority being given to MCH/FP/nutrition services. Such programs must be
based upon systematic plans and evaluations, concordant with national goals
and priorities. Thus, the Unit will find it necessary to relate closely to the
National Planning Agency and collaborate in the formulation of plans relating
to the promotion of human development.
2.        By utilizing existing data and developing relevant studies, the Unit
will be responsible for identifying health problems and needs. A critical re-
quirement for the Planning Evaluation Unit is the generating and sustaining of
a Health Management Information System (Annex 16). The Unit will review,
analyze and feed back information in a form suitable to influence planning,
administration and decision-making at all health service levels.
3.        The Unit will require close participation, coordination and linkage
with management at the central, intermediate and, to some degree, local
levels. These mechanisms will be especially important as the Cornwall County
Program develops.
Staff and Training Requirements
4.        The chief medical officer, who is also a chief advisor to
the Permanent Secretary, will assume direction of the Unit. This officer
and professional staff in the offices of the principal medicial officers and
principal nursing officer must be trained in health administration with skills
in program planning and evaluation. A five-week management course offered by
the Ministry of Public Services should be taken by the chief medical officer,
principal medical officers and the principal nursing officer. Fellowship
support would be provided for overseas training in areas of health management
and planning.
5.        Professional health knowledge and experience will be of limited
usefulness to the Planning and Evaluation Unit staff if functional communications
within the Unit itself, and also in relation to other levels (Central, hospitals,
etc.), are hampered by a lack of administrative and managerial capability.
Such deficiencies would also minimize the impact of the chief medical officer,
principal medical officers and the principal nursing officer as members of the
Planning and Evaluation Unit.
6.        A training coordinator is critical to the Unit because of massive
pre-service and in-service training needs of MOHEC. Manpower needs and
personnel management should be monitored by a data system. A training



ANNEX 15
Page 2
consultant for twelve man-months will be responsible for initial orientation
of the training coordinator and will assist in the development of the in-
service training unit.
7.        An epidemiologist and a health services statistician-demographer
will be appointed to the Unit. In addition, a health economist will be re-
sponsible for the assessment of the relative benefits and the economic fea-
sibility of health programs. A social scientist will be in charge of the
interphase between health status, health behavior, health care and cul-
tural, social and psycho-social factors and their relationships to the plan-
ning of the health program.
8.        A health planner/engineer will be responsible for planning and
evaluation of effective deployment, use and maintenance of health physical
resources. Lack of skilled professional input in this area has been identified
as a major constraint, particularly in hospital operations.
Technical Assistance
9.        In order to assure effectiveness of the Unit, the following tech-
nical assistance will be provided by the project:
a.   a health planning advisor for one year (see Appendix I for
terms of reference);
b.   fellowship support for 40 man-months to permit an overseas 12-
month master's degree program for the principal medical officer
(MCH/FP/nutrition) and short-term, non-degree experiences relevant
to health planning, administration, and management for other staff
of the Unit; and
c.   a training consultant to support the training coordinator for a
period of twelve months.
Fellowship Support
10.       It is difficult to project specific requirements for overseas short-
term, non-degree or degree-level training for members of the Planning Evaluation
Unit. These needs should be determined by the Permanent Secretary in close
consultation with the planning advisor. It is estimated that a total of 40
man-months will be required, with the principal medical officer, (MCH/FP/nutrition)
being allocated a 12-month master's degree-level overseas fellowship. Training
for the proposed members of the Unit should also include participation in the
Ministry of Public Service's five-week intensive management course as soon as
practicable.



ANNEX 15
Appendix 1
JAMAICA II
Terms of Reference for the Health Planning Advisor (12 man-months)
1.        Functions:  To advise, assist and support the Permanent Secre-
tary and members of the Planning and Evaluation Unit in the development of an
organization capable of policy development and systematic planning and evalua-
tion of health programs as they relate to national goals and priorities.
2.        Qualifications:  Senior-level experience in national health
planning, administration, evaluation and management. Such experience
should include demonstrated competence in intraorganizational develop-
ment.
3.        Duties and Responsibilities:  To assist, advise and support the
PEU in the following areas, with special reference to the County of
Cornwall component:
(a) systematic review of all current policies, standards, plans,
and evaluation procedures;
(b) collaborative planning with members of the Planning and Evaluation
Unit to systematically design new policies, standards, evaluation
and consultation mechanisms for national health programs, particularly
MCH/FP/nutrition;
(c) utilization of the health management information system in all
aspects of planning and evaluation;
(d) design and carrying out of special surveys and studies which
will provide additional information relevant to planning and
evaluation;
(e) identification of manpower needs and systematic planning of
training requirements to meet these needs;
(f) coordination with the National Planning Agency to assure that
health planning is consistent with national goals and priorities;
(g) coordination with the proposed management directors for health,
hospitals and support services in the MOHEC to assure rapid im-
plementation of policies, standards, planning and evaluation
findings in all management-related procedures;
(h)  evaluation of the efficiency and effectiveness of the MCH|FP/
nutrition program, especially in the Country of Cornwall; and
(i)  support to the chief medical officer in his leadership responsi-
bilities in the creation of the planning and evaluation team.



aP,d_IIEX 16
Page
JAMAICA II
Health Management Information Sysem
Introduction
1.        The Planning and Evaluation Unit' s srarf wil'        :C cOfll us15
input of systematic i-nformation that will enabe mI e, m-e-e--   -^he efficiency
and effectiveness of the MCH/FP/nutrition services and m..              of tne
health status of selected target populations, with sp  aala on redu-c0ing
unwanted fertility, maternal and childhood mortality                  U, and
malnutritionr  Establishment of the MCH/FP/nutrtl-on Keal L: ;h L-c-cament Informnaton
system is thus critical to a meaningful upgrading of thne  imrc  of services
proposed in the project.
Present Status of Health Statistics
2.        Chief sources of health-related inforrmatior are;            `-'e Bureau of
Statistics, (b) the Registrar General's Offices (c) Lila                 Departmeat
in the MOHEC and (d) the Statistical Unit in the NFP         '^_  au of Statis-
tics carries out a complete census at lO-year fnte,val sc                a large
number of en-umeration districts throughout the _5 and    -              ation of
vital events is the responsibility of the Registrar Ge: ral's c-Hice, whose
field registrars collect and report informatio-n regeardrig 2           a and deaths.
Incomplete reporting of births, stillbirths, and deatris             early inflancy/ Is
acknowledged.  For example, the number of registered                   in 1973 -as
616, while 793 stillbirths were reported to the MOHEC   rocal deliveries
alone.  The Statistics Department in the MOHEC is  e f-y a: _.oatract statis-
tician, who is administratively responsible to tse laga-L of.-icer- in the
MOHEC, has little supporting staff and is housed in                  qunad'aL  quarters,
Present recording and reporting procedures from the par SL    .  inadequaLe
clerical staff preclude the possibility of comp-uterizad  _ao  _  -3ocessitgz
3.         In addition to general demographic statist ,ual &ealt
Statistics Report includes prenatal clinic and midwifea-, dei irv statistics
on a monthly basis, data on the performance of the ru al             - ty centers
and. child welfare clinic sessions, immunizatioL i eve7 s.. -",_ healtn inspec-
tion, infectious diseases and sanitation complaints. Nur.--1.1- LO hold pre-
natal and child welfare clinics are also responsible for', -,o ding the data,
and the medical officers of health, with untrained               2---iaff frequently
compile incomplete and sometiLes inaccurate informaz.o  :,   consequence,
delays occur in transmitting the information to the                  Department or
the MOHEC.
4.        The Statistical Unit of the NFPB is relativelv wael  Ltaffed,  Its
director is a trained statistician.  The Unit's staff incithes three statis-
tical officers, two coders, three keypunchers, two tempo-ar          ~ _e-rks and



ANNEX 16
Page 2
a clerk-typist. Recently the NPFB had a computerized data system imple-
mented at the Government Data Processing Center; the cost is approximately
$750 per month. Information is reported on the number of new acceptors,
revisits by parish and by such characteristics as age, contraceptive
method, previous use of contraception, months since last pregnancy, source
of referral and marital status. With the present information, continuation
rates by contraceptive method and size of the active clientele can only be
estimated indirectly. More rapid output, publication and feedback of this
information is required to strengthen planning and evaluation of family
planning services. No statistics are available regarding contacts in the
postpartum program by the nurse educators and the extent to which these
contacts result in acceptance of a contraceptive method at the family
planning clinic to which a woman is referred. Furthermore, there are no
complete statistics relating to postpartum tubal ligations. The statistical
reports are said to be useful to the NFPB medical director (principal medical
officer, MCH/FP/nutrition), but discussions with several parish medical
officers of health left unclear the reports' usefulness at that level. A
factor, which must be considered in assessing the value of these reports, is
the serious time lag associated with report distribution and feedback of the
information into program management and the decision-making process.
The Proposed System
5.        The present health statistics system, as indicated, does not provide
adequate instruments for measuring program effectiveness and/or identifying
changing program needs. Rational planning, evaluation and management of an
MCH/FP/nutrition program require appropriate demographic statistics (the impact
of the family planning program ought to be measured by age-specific fertility
trends), as well as accurate reporting of perinatal vital events, malnutrition,
mortality by age groups, etc. As a first step, recording and notification of
all births and deaths by maternal age and place of birth should be explored as
sysematic tasks to be undertaken by CHAs and/or district midwives; supervision
would be provided by the public health nurse. Clerical staff and a statis-
tical officer will be required as indicated for the Cornwall County component.
The data system should be designed to measure specific health worker
;qnd facility activities in relation to the integrated MCH/FP/nutrition services.
Operational objectives such as increased acceptance and continuation of
family planning methods, maternal and child health coverage, reduction in mal-
nutrition of the target groups and other aspects of child and maternal mor-
bidity (e.g., anemia, and toxemia of pregnancy) should be taken into account
in the design of the system.
7.        The type of information sought should be simple to record and atten-
tion should be paid to training those responsible for processing the informa-
tion in a form suitable for analysis. The system should be limited to informa-
tion that is relevant for utilization in program evaluation by administrators
at parish or county level. A simple, precoded, multiple-copy patient visit



ANNEX 16
Page 3
form could be completed by health and MCH/FP/nutrition workers during each
patient contact. Such a form was designed by the Family Planning Data
Methods Branch, International Statistical Program Center, U.S. Bureau of
Census. The form combined MCH/FP/nutrition information but subsequent to a
decision of the NFPB it was abandoned and the single-purpose family planning
form and data system was designed. The following points support integration
of the information systems:
(a)   symbolically, it is desirable to have a unified informa-
tion system for integrated MCH/FP services as soon as
possible;
(b)   it avoids dupliation in the design of the system, the
writing of independent computer programs, and also avoids
the complicated process of integrating two separate com-
puterized information systems later;
(c)   it avoids duplication in the staff training at both central
and local levels for all persons involved in recording, col-
lecting, analyzing and utilizing the data;
(d)   it avoids duplication in both systems design and staff training
for use of the system;
(e)   the inevitable integration of both information systems will be
achieved in as short a time as possible;
(f)   it will make available combined MCH/FP/nutrition data at as
early a date as possible; and
(g)   it allows the staff providing both family planning and MCH
services to use only one reporting sheet instead of a dif-
ferent form for each type of service, thereby simplifying the
system and reducing the clerical workload.
The only disadvantage regarding the establishment of an integrated MCH/
FP/nutrition information system could be the delay required to redesign the
patient visit form, and particularly the preparation of a special computer
program for the integrated system.
8.        The system should be computerized incorporating early feedback capa-
city and interactive capabilities for personnel involved in the analysis of
the data. Information should be analyzed promptly to be of use to concerned
administrators.



ANNEX 16
Page 4
9.        The Planning and Evaluation Unit of MOHEC should assume administ-
rative and technical responsibility for the data system. A major undertak-
ing will be the early implementation of a MCH/FP/nutrition system so that
base-line data will be available for the County of Cornwall. This would
provide an opportunity to measure operation and progress over time compara-
tively with other regions which did not employ augmented planning, manage-
ment, manpower and health infrastructure components.
Specific Recommendations
10. (a)   Transference of the MOHEC Statistics Department and NFPB
Statistical Unit to the Planning and Evaluation Unit of MOHEC;
(b)   Technical assistance to design and implement the MHC/FP/nutrition
Health Management Information System as soon as possible. Con-
tinuing arrangements for assistance through USAID might be sup-
plemented by consultations from additional sources with skills
and competence in the matter;
(c)   Fellowships to be awarded for short-term and degree-level
training to Jamaican Nationals who will be responsible for
assuring optimal functioning of the system in accordance with
the planning and evaluation objectives outlined above.
Consultancy a,.i Fellowship Support
11.       Three man-months of consultation over a three-year period to the
Planning and Evaluation Unit by a senior Ph.D.-level health services statistician
app_!ars highly desirable, in addition to the health information consultancies.
Such assistance will be critical during the planning stages, when initial data
are processed and interpreted, and whien sufficient data become available so
that program efficiency and effectiveness can be assessed.
12.       Two Jamaican Nationals should be trained for 24 months each.
Their master's-level training programs should cover health services, program
evaluation, data management and demography. The training program should
emphasize conceptual skills that can be utilized in program planning and
evaluation, with ready application to data feedback for program operation
and decision-making. Statistical skills, specifically related to health
care delivery systems, will be required so that problem solving and the
ability to supervise junior statistical personnel will be assured. In ad-
dition, the trainees should become proficient in the planning, maintenance,
and efficient analysis of computerized data that are relevant to MCH/FP/-
nutrition programs. They should develop skills which will be useful in
the development and understanding of population programs, problems, and
demographic techniques.



ANNEX 16
Appendix I
Terms of Reference for the Health Information Consultancies
(36 man-months)
Functions
1.        To advise, assist and support the Planning and Evaluation Unit,
especially its statistical staff, in the development and implementation of the
integrated MCH/FP/nutrition Health Management Information System. The System
should be designed to provide program-relevant information, which will be
utilized for program planning, evaluation, and decision-making purposes. The
consultant must be thoroughly knowledgeable and competent in health services
evaluation, systems analysis, methods of data collection and computerized data
analysis. The consultant/s, with other members of the Planning and Evaluation
Unit, must be able to interpret the significance of the data to the
responsible administrators.
Duties and Responsibilities
2.        To assist, advise and support the Planning and Evaluation Unit in
the following areas, with special reference to the County of Cornwall Program:
(a)   systematic review of all current sources of relevant
health data;
(b)   planning, design and implementation of data collection
forms, and justification of alternatives with the Planning
and Evaluation Unit, as well as County and Parish admin-
istrators;
(c)   supervision of development of training procedures for data
collection and assurance of quality of data collected;
(d)   supervision of development of computer programming require-
ments for data analysis;
(e)   supervision of preparation of quarterly and annual reports
which provide information relevant to program planning
operation and decision-making;
(f)   evaluation, with other members of the Planning and Evaluation Unit,
of the efficiency and effectiveness of the MCH/FP/nutrition program,
especially in the County of Cornwall; and
(g)   assurance of smooth transition and integration of Jamaican
Nationals trained through project fellowship support.
3.        During the third year of the technical consultancy, the Jamaicans
will assume independent responsibility for direction of the Health Management
Information System.



ANNEX 17
Page 1
JAMAICA II
Demographic and Research Components
A. Fertility Statistics
Introduction
1.        Jamaica has had a reliable system of vital registration for many
years. The registration of births and deaths is a responsibility of the
Registrar General's Department, which is within MOHEC; it reports on population
size, births, deaths, marriages and divorces. Generally these statistics are
produced rapidly. However, since 1964, statistics of births by age of the
mother (the base of age-specific fertility rates) have remained untabulated;
the chief reason apparently being lack of staff.
2.        In the absence of age specific fertility rates, it is impossible
to trace fertility trends in Jamaica. It is understood that funds will be pro-
vided for the processing of age-specific fertility rates during project years
1977-1980.
Organization
3.        The Registrar General's Department will continue to be responsible
for the collection of the basic data. Processing would be done either at
the Department of Statistics of the GOJ (via computer) or by the Census
Research Group at the University of West Indies. The latter apparently has
access to adequate high-speed equipment. Regardless of which unit the GOJ
decides to use, provision should be made to assure prompt release of the
information to MOHEC's Planning and Evaluation Unit.
Vital Registration System
4.        Features of this system include:
(a)   coding births by age of mother and by parish from
1976-1980 as a minimum: 10,800 man-hours;
(b)   punching and verifying records:  5,000 man-hours and
one key-punch machine;
(c)   file creation and handling:  ten nine-track magnetic
tapes, computing time and one part-time programmer; and
(d)   analysis: one general cross-tabulation program.



ANNEX 17
Page 2
B. Estimation of Contraceptive Continuation Rates
Basic Data Needs
5.        It is difficult to estimate the size of the yearly cohorts of family
planning users, since the attrition rates for each contraceptive method are not
known. In the early years of the NFPB, efforts were made to estimate dropout
rates, but information was confined to the number of "inactive" clients (those
that never made a second visit) and their distribution by parish, age, parity
and marital status. No data on yearly discontinuation rates by method of
contraception were obtained, although such data are important since efforts to
recruit acceptors are nullified if the rate of discontinuation is high. In
addition, discontinuation rates are important in projecting clinic loads and
future program demands. Furthermore, the Jamaican experience with "Depo-
Provera" provides an interesting data base for estimating discontinuation of
this method; this information is not easily available elsewhere.
Attrition Rate Study
6.        The health statistician-demographer appointed to the Planning and
Evaluation Unit in MOHEC would undertake a study based on existing data to
estimate attrition rates for each contraceptive method. These rates could be
approximated by searching the tapes of the NFPB system, in lieu of the more
exact procedure of undertaking follow-up studies of acceptors. However, it is
desirable that both be undertaken. The project will provide the following:
(a)   funds undertaking for follow-up studies;
(b)   five nine-track magnetic tapes; and
(c)   an interactive typewriter terminal (to become a part
of the Health Management Information System)
C. Research Project on Household Behavior, Socio-Economic Variables
and their Relationship with Fertility
7.        A further research component is a study of household behavior as
determined by education, employment, income and other variables and their
relationships with fertility. The results of the World Fertility Survey
(which contains information on some of these relationships and should soon
be available) could serve as a point of departure for the study component.
8.        This research project is important as a means of obtaining informa-
tion that should help in the formulation of population policies more suitable
to Jamaican conditions.



ANNEX 17
Page 3
Research Staff
9.        A senior research consultant (12 man-months) should be recruited
from an agency with a good reputation for socio-economic studies of fertility
behavior. The consultant will report to the chief medical officer and will be
supported logistically by the principal medical officer (MCH/FP/nutrition) and
technically by the staff of the Planning and Evaluation Unit. Terms of
reference for the research consultant are described in Appendix 1.
10.       Three research assistants (36 man-months) with combined experience
in sampling techniques, demography, data processing and econometrics would
be counterparts to the research consultant. They would be obtained on con-
tract from the University of West Indies and would be seconded for the research
project. It is important that they be recruited before the arrival of the
research consultant.
Research Strategy
11.       Base-line information to be collected:
(a)   family planning:  number of clinics per region, manpower
deployment, type of manpower, staff incentives, advertising
methods, distribution of expenditures per region, etc.;
(b)   public health:  types of medical personnel and services,
traveling and waiting time for users, etc.;
(c)   education facilities:  numbers of schools per region,
teachers, per 1,000 children of school age, public expen-
ditures per student, availability of special education
programs (e.g., agricultural extension, etc.);
(d)   manpower:  employment, wages, etc.; and
(e)   other price levels and incomes by region, agricultural prac-
tices in the area, and seasonal fluctuations in activity.
Sample Survey
12.       The sample should be extracted from the universe of households
in Jamaica; the survey design should be based on appropriate techniques of
sampling, stratification and minimization of sampling errors, given a fixed
cost. Elements of the survey would be:
(a)   training of survey supervisors (medical personnel)
to be undertaken by research team;
(b)   training of surveyors (midwives and experienced community
health aides) to be undertaken by medical personnel;



ANNEX 17
Page 4
(c)   printing of survey forms; and
(d)   mobilization of surveyors.
Analysis of Survey
13.        Survey analysis would include:
(a)   coding of data;
(b)   key-punching;
(c)   cutting of magnetic tapes;
(d)   computing time; and
(e)   software costs.



ANNEX 17
Appendix I
Terms of Reference for the Research Consultant
(12 man-months)
Qualifications
1.        Ph.D. in quantitative methods applied to the social sciences.  As a
minimum, five years of post-doctorate experience in analyzing the relation-
ships between fertility and socio-economic variables, and extensive field
experience in the evaluation of family planning programs. Training in survey
design, fertility-model building and statistical data processing is essential.
Responsibilities
2.        The research consultant will be responsible for:
(a)   assembling and integrating a research team;
(b)   developing a time-table with the team to complete
the field work within a year;
(c)   organizing and completing a search of basic information
within a period of four months; and
(d)   planning, designing and completing the sample survey
mentioned above within twelve months.
3.        With the support of the technical staff of the Planning and
Evaluation Unit, the consultant will:
(a)   organize the training of surveyors;
(b)   assist the health statistician of the Planning and
Evaluation Unit in the studies directed towards the
estimation of discontinuation rates;
(c)   develop a simultaneous-equations model for the analysis
of survey results;
(d)   implement the necessary software in the computing center;
and
(e)   in conjunction with the  research team, produce a report
for the Unit with:
(i) summaries of the pertinent basic information;
(ii) an analysis of the survey results; and
(iii) recommendations for appropriate population
policies in Jamaica.



ANNEX 18
Page 1
JAMAICA II
Health Facility Maintenance System
Background
1.        The project includes technical assistance for the establishment of
a system for the provision of engineering and maintenance services for all
public health care institutions.
2.        In April 1973, a Hospital Maintenance Unit was established within
the Ministry of Communications and Works.
3.        The Government of Jamaica has decided to transfer this Unit from
the Ministry of Communications and Works to MOHEC as of April 1976. MOHEC
plans to strengthen the Unit by:
(a)   expanding it to cover improvements as well as all
aspects of preventive and corrective maintenance; and
(b)   establishing a central management system while decen-
tralizing the work force as much as practicable.
Manpower and Staffing Requirements
4.        The existing system and health institutions consist of about
140 hospitals and clinics scattered throughout the Island together with a
number of dispensaries using leased buildings. The system provides 6,000
beds and has an estimated capital value of J$ 75 million. Using the gener-
ally accepted figure of 2-1/2% to 4% of capital value as the average cost
of maintenance for facilities of this type, an annual expenditure of J$ 2-3
million would be in order. It is obvious that maintenance during the past
decade has fallen far short of requirements.
5.        According to the Pan American Health Organization, which has
provided assistance in the form of teaching material and instructors for
training tradesmen and engineers for the maintenance system, most of the
plant and equipment in use in 1972 was in sub-standard condition, and in a
number of cases created serious health hazards. Since then, the Ministry of
Communications and Works has introduced some improvements in management and
staff training, but still there are serious deficiencies. Partly because
there is excessive mid-level supervision, the system is overstaffed. The
total present manpower is about 200, although the work could be done effi-
ciently with 150. Management has been organized as a number of separate
supervisory activities rather than as centralized control.



ANNEX 18
Page 2
6.        The reorganization of the system calls for technical assistance in
the form of the service of:
2 qualified engineers
(1 program coordinator and manager)
(1 field supervisor)
2 engineers for vocational training
(1 in the field of logistics and procurement)
(1 technical trade instructor)
It is desirable that these consultants continue the work financed by the Pan
American Health Organization, which is due to end in May 1976.



ANNEX 18
Appendix 1
Building Utilization Study
1.        The GOJ has agreed to conduct a functional evaluation of a sample
of project facilities after they have been in operation for some time.
This evaluation would be important for the design of facilities with regard
to future expansion of the rural health system. The main goal of the evalua-
tion study is to relate both capital costs and operational costs (salaries,
materials, maintenance and replacements) to: (a) staff member and work time,
(b) facilities used for various functions, and (c) services delivered (health
care, family planning, health education, in-service training, etc.).
2.        The study will also assess whether the facilities provided, do, in
practice, constitute optimal tools for the functions to be performed within
them.
3.        The design of the study including the sample design, questionnaires,
checklists and timetable, would require expertise in architecture, health
planning and the utilization of facilities. The end-product would be a report
on the utilization of facilities containing a statistical analysis accompanied
by narrative commentary and a final evaluation and recommendations.
4.        The field work would be carried out by a team of two architect/
health planners, one financial analyst (or statistician with experience in
budgeting and accounting) and one public health specialist (preferably with
experience in community health and family planning programs).
5.        The statistical information would need to be gathered at various
administrative levels. Other information would be obtained through inter-
views with local staff and actual observation of activities.
6.        The study will require careful preparation both by the Government
and the Bank and would be performed by consultants with a thorough experience
of planning and evaluation of health facilities. The consultants would be
appointed and briefed by the Government, with Bank assistance and approval
concerning their qualifications. Loan funds have been provided for this
study.
7.        Specific questions to be included in the terms of reference of the
consultants shall be agreed between the GOJ and the Bank and will be further
discussed with the consultants at the time of their appointment.



Jamaicu 11
DPfsil.d Cut ep-ti--tes   A  Nu-G-sr,-,ct-io,,  c'poueuts
(in US$)
YEAR 1                              YEAR 2                      YEAR I                         YEAR 4                            TOTAL
BASIS OF ESTIMATION           LOCAL   FOREIGN   TOTAL        LOCAL   FOREIGN    TOTAL        LOCAL   FOREIGH    TOTAL        LOCAL   FOREIGN    TOTAL        LOCAL   FOREIGN    TOTAL
1. COUNTY OF CORNWALL
1.1  VEHICLES AND SPARE PARTS
1.10  Fo-r-Wheel Drive Vehicle      CIF $10,000 x 60                      600,000   600,000                                                                                                              600,000   600,000
1.11  Equipped Mobile VFo           CIF $12,000 x 1                        12,000    12,000                                                                                                               12,000    12,000
1.12  Spare Parts for Vehirles      5% of cost                             30,600    30,600                                                                                                               30,600    30,600
Subtotal 1.1                                                 642,600   642,600                                                                                                               642,600   642,600
1.2  SPECIAL EOUIPMENT
Au,diovisual Aids Equipment ft:   Fer detoiled list of
1.20  Regional Level                A,ediuvieual Aids Se- "spesiol         14,085    14,085                                                                                                               14,085    14,085
1.21  H6aith Centor Typo I          Equip-ent List".                       11,952    11,952                                                                                                               11,952    11,952
1.22  Health Costar Type II                                                19,227    19,227                                                                                                               19,227    09,227
1.23  Health Roster Type III                                               25,393    25,393                                                                                                               25,393    25,393
1.24  Health Center Type IV                                                11,385    11,385                                                                                                               11,385    11,385
Subtota1 1.2                                                   82,642    82,642                                                                                                               82 642    82 642
IASE COST                                                                          725,242   725.242                                                                                                              725.22    725.242
2. POSTPARTUM PROGRAM
2.1 SPECIAL EQUIPMiENT
Audiovi-sal Aids                    See "Spe-ial Equip..nt"'               56,276    56,276                                                                                                               56,276    56,276
BASE COST                                                                            56,276    56.276                                                                                                               56.276    56.276
3, MAINTENANCE OF HEALTH FACILITIES
3.1  TECNNICAL ASSIDTANCE
Advisnras
Pregran Cooedinator eed Manasger    24 sac-months                 9,500    38,500    40,000      9,500   38,500      48,000                                                                     19,000    77,000    96,000
Field Supervisor                     12 mao-months                9,500    38,500    48,000                                                                                                      9;500    38,500    48,000
Legistics and PFreseene-t            12 nan-monthe                9,500    38,500    40,000                                                                                                      9,500    38.500    48.000
Te t ru t ore
Teehncal Trade Istructor            12 .as-sesths                9,500    38,500    48,000                                                                                                      9,500    38,500    48,000
BASE COST                                                                 38.0    154.000   192.000        9.500   350500      48.000                                                                    A47.Q   192 500   240B000
4.  IN-SERVICE TRAINING
4.1  VENICLES AND SPARE PARTS
0,10  Fou..Wheel Deive Vehicle       $10,000 x I CIF                        iSOOR    10,000                                                                                                                10,000    10,000
4.11  Spare Pa-ts                    5% of cost                               500        500                                                                                                                  500       50
Subtota1 4.1                                                   10,500    10,500                                                                                                               10,500    10,500
4.2  SPECIAL EQUIPMENT
Audiovisual Aids                     HS.  "Special Bquipment"               2,550      2,550                                                                                                                2,550     2,550
Lisrtf-e derails
4.5  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
4.30  Advisoe for Craining           12mm                         9,500    30,500    48,000                                                                                                      9,500    38,500    48,000
BASE COST                                                                  9.500    51.55D    61.050                                                                                                       9.500    51550    61.050
5. MIDWIFERY TRAINING
5.1  SPECIAL EOUIPMENT
Audiovisual Aids fur 2 Midwifery   See 'Special Equipment                   6,000      6,000                                                                                                                6,000     6,000
Schools6                          List" fee detaile.
5.2  TECHNICAL AS7ISTAiiCE
5.20  Advisers far:                  2 a 12 mneths               19,000    77,000    96,000                                                                                                     19,000    22,000    96,000
Midvifsey Training
5.21  FPllosships fee:               2 s 12 mneths                         40,000    40,000
Midwifery TCters
S.bteta1 5.2                                        19,000   117,000   136,000                                                                                                      19,000   117,000   136,000
BASE COST                                                                  19.000   123D000   142,000                                                                                                     19 000   123._Q    147.000
6. TRAINING OF CBAs
6. 1  SFECIAL EOUIPMENT                   See "Special Equipseet
Audiu-isuol Aids                     LiWt" fee dutail4                                                                                                                                                     43,016    43,016
BASE COOT                                                                            43.016    43.016                                                                                                               43.016    43.016 
BEO



Jamaica II
Detal  ed Laost liminuast  A.   aoastruct  (ri,a,earenit
(.n LSSI
YEALI                                 tEAR 2                       .                               YEAR 4                             TOTAI
.AST.  OF F,SlTTMAriifON       LOCAL   pOgSOSC        lOCAL      L OCAL   EDElI2      TOTAL      LOCAL   FOLIL,G       :UAO:L      LOCAL   FOREIGF    TlAL          LnCAL   0 1z0         TOT5AL
7.  NUTRITION UNIT
7.1  VEHICLES AN1D SPARF PARIS
7.10  FRr-Wh-eel Drive Vehicle        $10,000 a I                             70,000         cl0 o                                                                                                                             a,0
7.11  Spare Pars                      57. of cast of vehicle                    50(           500                                                                                                                  00o           500
Sasbtat.l 7.1                                                   10,500       1(1.500                                                                                                                 10,500      10,500
7.2  SPECIAL EQUIPLENT
Audlacis- al Aide Ear f o i-orisg    Sea "spaial Equip.ent                    4,270         4,270                                                                                                                  4,27(       4,27(
.sd Dsmonsr.ariag Vrad,,criaaa    Lit" for details
7.3  TECENICAL ASSISTANCE
7.30  Adviiori far:
Coa-aaica-i-as                 L2 man-aonths                  9,500   38,50(0       48,000                                                                                                        9,5(10   38,500      48,000
Ptodoctian  and Use af         12 .an-months                  9,500   38,500        48,000                                                                                                        9,500   38,500       48,000
adtevisas.I Aide 1/
P-edact- a-d Iditig            12 .a.-..niths                 9,500   38,500        48,000                                                                                                        9,500   38,100       48,000
af Llcgenaaery FiLes
Sabtat-l                                              28,500  115,500       144.000                                                                                                        28,500  115,500      144,000
7.31  Ftelisaships for:
Coamauications Officer          6  ue-as-the                                                                                             10,ooo      01),(00                                               10,000      10,000
Stady Tours                     6 -an-monrhs                                                                                             10,(1O(1    10,000                                                00,000      10,010
SubtotaL 7.31                                                                                                                     20,00)4    20,000                                                  20,(1(0     20,000
Suhbvtal 7.3                                          28,500  115,500       144,000                                               20,000    20,000                                         28,500  135,500      164,000
ROSE COST                                                                    28.500  1J0.29-0      158.770                                               20.000    20.000                                         28.500  150.210    178.770
0. BUREAU BF HEALTH EDUCATION
8.1  SPECIAL 1 EGUIFMENT                                                                                                                                                                                               21,101      21,101
Aodi.issaal Aids                      Saa "SpatiaL Equ1p-eet                 21,101      21,11
List" fr details
8.2  TEG     OS87STN
8.20  AdvIsers                       See Nutritioe Unit
8.21  FellosshipF  Ear:
Audiavissul Aids Specialist  6  ua.-moaths                                                                                              10,100      10,000                                                 15,000      10,000
BOSE COVE                                                                              21.101      2110ll                                                10,000     10,000                                                 3L111       31,101
9.  ANES  FUB PUdLIC EPORATION
9.1  SPECIAL EOUIENENT
Audiovtsusi  Aida                     See "Speciul Equip-eet       62,280   50,073    112,353                                                                                                          62,200   50,073      112,353
List" far detail.
BASE COST                                                                    62.280   50.073    112.353                                                                                                          62.280   50 013    112.353
10.  RESEd
18.1  Sf50r0L E2U1 MNli  f-e
DeE, E/aIess og                                                             15,300      15,300                                                                                                                  15,300      15,300
10,2  TECHNICAL ASSISTA3CE
10.20 Advis-t  f                                                                                                                                                                                       9,500   38,500       48,000
Research Catsaltant           12 sac-cRech.                  9,500   38,500      48,B0                                                                                                                               40,000
Reseac. h Ass.oiatei      3    12 mas-sint                40,000                40,000                                                                                                        40,000                40,000
10.21 DIta Pt-c.ssiRB                                                       80,000      80,000                                                                                                                  80,000      00,000
Shbtoaal 10.2                                         49,500  118,500    168,000                                                                                                          49,500  118,500      068,000
BASE COST                                                                    49_500  133,800    183,300                                                                                                          jj5_0  133_800    183,300
11.  P1,ANUNEG AND EVALUATION UNIT
11.I  TECEOSICLBdISTANCE
11.10  Advis-ts f-                                                                                                                                                                                     950   50 500 6Ea000
Health PItnnint              I. .a..yea                     9,500   50,500      60,000
RHaLth Ilotf. -ti- a-d       3 .ae-y-RR                     9,500   38,500      48,000        9,500   38,500      48,000    9,500   38.500    40,000                                          28,500  015,500    144,000
Subh-t-l 11.10                                        19,n0o   89,000    108,000         9,500   38,500       48,000    9,500   38,500    48,000                                          38,000  166,00       204,000
L.I       ltvhVaiPs ioset  @ S20.000/12 men                                                                   70,700      20,700              20,000    20,000                  20,000    20,000                60,700      60,700
RaLth IP fo...utioa a         0d 48mm  0B 520,000/12 moe                                              40,000      40,000              20,000    20,000                  20,000    2 :,000               00,000      80,000
gubtatl 02LL.1                                                                                    60,700      60,700              40,000    40,000                  40,000    40,000               140,700     140,700
Suhboltl 11,1
BASE COST                                                                     19.00   59.0          141,,00      9._00   9M0    108.700    9.500   70 500    88.000                         40 000    40,0oi    306,00  306_700    344,70(
I/  Ales to w-rk aith the Bur.au of Health Educatio.



Jamaica II
Detailed Cost EsCimotos:  A. Oon-Coosisociio Comoonts
(in US$)
YEAR I                               YB'Ali 2                   YEAR 3                         YEAR 4                            TOTAL,
BASIS OF ESTTMATlON           LOCAL   FORB0G0     TL          LOCM2   4     d    T'A0 L      LOl. ,  F           i1OCAI.  N           l;OREIGN    TTA        LOCAL   FOREIGN    TTA,L
12. BUILDING OTILSEATISS STUDY
12.1 TECihNICAL ASSISTANCE
Advisor                           12 men--onths                9_500    IS,(IS      48 000 83850                                                                                                          3850        48,000
13, FLMaiBLUTY STUDY
13.1  TECONICAT ASSISTANCE
13.10  CoosuIting Firm                                                 250,000    250,000                                                                                                                250,000    250,000
13.11  Fello-ship.               5 per-o-s, for I month                 28,000      28,000                                                                                                                28,000      28,000
Subtotal 13.1                                               278,000    278,000                                                                                                                278,000    278,000
BASE COST                                                                          278,000    278.000                                                                                                               27a.00O    278.0
14.  INNOVATIVE ACTIVITTES                                               50,000    50,000    100,000    50,000   50,000   100,000         50,000   50,000    100,000    50,000    50,000   100,000   200,000    200,000    400,000
TOTAL NON-CONSTRUCTION COMPONENTS                                2252280 1.94_3.828'd        8  _1     00  187_700   256,700       59,500  15500    218,000    50,000    9        0   140.000   463_70  2,380,o28  2.063.00



Jamaica II
B. Incremental Recurrent Expenditures (local)
(J$)
Project Components                       1976/77    1977/78    1978/79    1979/80    1980/81          Total
Cornwall County Health Administration                       24,060     25,740      27,000      27,480     104,280
Cornwall County Program                                    173,267    482,082    656,736    664,996   1,977,081
Postpartum                                                  57,420    111,960    111,960    111,960       393,300
In-service Training Unit                                     7,620      7,880       8,140       89400      32,040
Spanish Town Midwifery Training School           7,040      13,080     13,560      14,040     14,520       62,2h0
Cornwall County Midwifery School                 7,040      13,080     13,560      14,040      14,520      62,240
Training of CHAs and Salaries                             429,040  1,440,000  1,536,000  1,632,000   5,037,040
Midwifery Training                             202,400    303,113    360,688    380,613    380,613   1,627,427
Nutrition Unit                                    -           -          -           -           -
Planning and Evaluation Unit                                17,160     18,000      18,840      19,320      73,320
Operational Costs for Motor Vehicles                        82,750     82,750      82,750      82,750     331,000
Drugs, Medicines & Utilities for
Health Centers                                           47,000    110,000    225,000    227,500        609,500
Technical Assistance (Local Costs)                          73,500     62,500      15,500        -         151,500
Total                              216.480  1,2412090  22728,720  3,090,619  3,184,059  10,1460,968
Ia9 
I NO



ANNEX 20
Page 1
JAMAICA II
List of Incremental Staff
1.   Cornwall County Health Administration
1 Cornwall County Mledical Officer of Health
1 Project Coordinator
1 Administrative Assistant
1 Financial Controller
1 Personnel Officer
1 Statistical Officer
1 Engineer (health facility maintenance)
60 Drivers
1 Regional Audiovisual Maintenance MIan
'.   Cornwall County Program
Staff for Type I Health Center
7 MIidwives
22 CHAs
72 Cleaners
Staff for Type II Health Center
36 Public Health Nurses
36 Staff Nurses
36 Cleaners
Staff for Type III Health Center
16 Medical Officers
16 Nurse Practitioners
16 Public Health Nurses
32 Staff Nurses
16 Pharmacists
16 Laboratory Aides
16 Statistical Clerks
32 Clerk/Typists
16 Secretaries
16 Receptionists
16 Executive Officers
16 Female Orderlies



ANNEX 20
Page 2
Staff for Type IV Health Center
5 Medical Officers
10 Nurse Practitioners
5 Senior Public Health Nurses
15 Staff Nurses
5 Senior Health Education Officers
5 Health Education Officers
5 Nutrition Officers
5 Pharmacists
5 Laboratory Aides
5 Senior Statistical Clerks
15 Clerk/Typists
10 Secretaries
10 Receptionists
5 Executive Officers
10 Female Orderlies
5 Male Orderlies
15 Part-time Cleaners
3.   Postpartum Program in 17 Additional Hospitals
18 Nurse Educators for 17 hospitals
16 Clerk-Typists for 17 hospitals
4.   In-service Training Unit
1 Senior Tutor
5.   Spanish Town Midwifery School (extension of Victoria Jubilee Hospital)
1 Midwifery Tutor
1 Clinical Instructor
6.   Cornwall Country Midwifery School
1 Midwifery Tutor
I Clinical Instructor
7.   CHAs and Midwives (Nationwide)
1,000 CHAs
256 Midwives



ANNEX 20
Page 3
8.   Nutrition Unit (MOHEC)
1 Principal Nutritionist
I Senior Nutritionist
1 Senior Nutrition Assistant
1 Research Sociologist
9.   Planning and Evaluation Unit (technical support staff)
1 Training Coordinator
1 Epidemiologist
I Health Economist
1 Statistician/Demographer
1 Social Scientist
I Health Planner/Engineer
10. MOHEC
1 Education and Communications Officer
1 Media/Commerce Officer



Jamaica TT
Project Implementation Schedule:  A.  Cu..st-cior. - nnent
1.976            1977                      1978            1        1979                     1980
J A S 0 N DIJ F M A M J I A S 0 N DIJ F M A M J J A S O N DIJ F M A M JJ A S 0 N DIJ F M A MJ J A S 0 N D
Site Surveys                                XXXXX
Standard Construction Documents            XYXXxIxYonxxxYYXX
Phase I -   Tender and Contract Award                                       XXX
Construction                                                          XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXYEUXXIX
Phase 2 -   Tender Documents                                                                  XXXXX
Tender and Contract Award                                                               XXX
Construction                                                                                   XXXXXXXXXXXXXOXOOXXXKXX
Phase I -   Furniture and Equipment - documents                       XXXXX
Tendering and Contract Award                                  XXXXXX
Procurement
Phase 2'-   Furniture and Equipment - docunesits                                               XXXXXX
Tendering and Contract. Award                                                           XXXX
Procurement                                                                                  XXXXXX           XXXXXX
* Final Account.



Jamaica II
Project Implementation Schedule:  B. Non-Construction Component (Continued)
-I,97,7                                            1 9J97J3
i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s   o  N? _1!                                                Li;   5i, I. 'A i   1 S o Q1?t-,, ''   ''"!' - 
1. Cornwall Couny..m.m                                                                                                           - t                                     
1.2  FillisL2f Present Vacancies of Positions
f or the MC|5 PP=/,Nur-itfio :Deli-er  System                i -
Appointment of Qu-afifidTe~ irsoi -meto Newlry       i   I !
X ;-i ..- _ __-_                                      ___    ) 4 4     4- F     L             2_                                 tlijT  - -
l_j1     E  aleliphme to  Cornwall County Health Adm.            {j                   I        j  I t                     K   1
1.5  Procurement of Vehicles & Special Equipment.                     *                                                                                      iF,T,
-- 16  Implementation of Program inI --                                                                                  -iiPP                                          1
Jaie P -ri6    -_                                                                         -            1I        -     i           ii-             X      III
-  -  h---nover Parish                               _                                                               ,11         II_
_ _____ _   St  4ge                                                                                                                   _____ ial ____  -        * -t-r
Westmoreland _Pr _gh    _     _  =-;-                                                                                         II_II.  iI_IIII*I  .,
St. Elizabeth Parish         -  .            -                               1i_ I    .I- IIE-IIlI_
MT7r_ Ev luation of Cornnwall  Co0un ty Pro-'ran ____                                                   '                                            -j'
2;                   r.   __ ___ .___    __ __ ___ _._ ___  _    _ _         ,       .       .       .       .      .       I r~
2.1  APPi2tment of Additional Staff in H       ta>& t
-h--r--------------ain-i.                                           )' i - ! - -   I f _    -+     4       L          - 1
2.3  Implementation of Postpartum Pro4'rem in 17                                                                            111III1IIIIIT=[_
_~~ __                           _____ _._.____   _   -   ,-T.,,.,h,g..r  .t                    .                             .  ,1
3. 'In-Service Training                                            I- I--~                I
-_~Rcrui           Training Stf                         li   1111                        K     K    K  



Jamaica 11
__ _P__ __I_ _________             ____ plementatim Sehid           1. Non-Construction Coponent (Continued)_
__3L2_ ProcureePnt. of VehiThes, Training, Equipment ..&    _          *  _  _        -                              L      .
.~~~____ ---'; _ __ _- __-,-I---, f_- ,--4'.
*_                             .iai   e _ __     =-             1     _A_ __   __=   _ _
A-y -wx   s      ;t :XXi.|i
3hTrainLzg of ivs~OT                 i - ~ j              i:2                                III
~F5  Training of Public Hlealth NursEs (I5-07~
~~Tr~ingof Nursing Supervisors (580..
3.7  Training of Medical Officers (30)                                                              L7_. _-_.
3.8  Retrai..gofCA(100
3.9 Train     of Other Public Hal h  t                                         
M7 Nid-Wifery Trainitii                                                                                                                            _1
21  Appointment of Additional Staff  L___-___:
h.2  Procurreent of Special Equipment
&;IT&]ZvipeTdP 7Wors                        _-'
4.  Selection of Students for Advisors _____
-Y.6  Tw.ro-Year aining Program
5~-Tr m  F     F HAs             -t--       +                                                         ]I~ I Luni_rs_   IsI              
=--r Pruement o  ecig     t h--- --                                             -
S3eleotionof C-HA_ for Traini_            _ CAs_
5.3Trinn  Apoitnen o C s_      i-          '  ' iL   'i   i  j   |l jjj-,--__ _ _ _   j i _  ----I
__ _.__  _  ___  Iw-1  f!gt   ItS   l2I!J- iK~                            If1Jt,          ............                             .........................................LL V.L KI '1  'Iw_._..! .  



Jamaica II
___t_mpemProLeio                                            (nm ,o1,- Rtrct; cmpnnPtnt izued)   --
1976 ,   97"             1-73              I  -         9                         i
_.______of B_se-line_ Study_-                                         _                  i                                _.
_  __  _ _  _  _  _ __  _  _  _ _  _  _ n e tEst i n  _-                                                                                                        i_ __  
__   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ ___ _                - I-__ __ _ _  =                                                                                     ' L       I 1 1 1 1 1 !                  _ _ 7 l i I4 T t i -   ;  
_6-.3_Messagre Design ___i__llllllllll||||||||liiiIsT-!Iist-- 
6 .4  Nutrition Reviewinm  Committee Prepre II_-Iti
c.- Fi-im Editinig_____
. __ a.  Principle Nutritionit  Tinng & Research   - 4                  -          II
___,Research SAnigr  -wLtitsni5t_ LT"                                       AN   -4--__
---.iTh7prooiire;;enof lq2pE2nt                 __
___                  I       __I______I_1 
.aration ofmuTeidateiriiesg                                         I                I It Iras
.rz7izProcurement of~ Iqimn                                                                                                                                    I                -  
A- --- 6.Kt  .&2n.siarslIm                                                                   -j # ..  I                I                               -I
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _=_  I                                         _____ _ _A i             i I J L 1 I . I .  



`-oj-ect Iolementrttn Sc'i-:i@:  F. ion-Construction Component (Continued)
-  -=.---- --___  _--- -------J-  t --._-_ _i_ _        i4.SJC ID    i -
6.11 Production onf Films & SSet t                                   .                                 "  r flP --                         fl KSe ts- ' =. .
for Public Information)                                             H
6.12 Production of 'Daining Materials by          Tae                            !                           i
- Recording_yznit        ~                                       I     L'
6.13 National] Campaign                                                                                     1               I
_6.1L Interpersonal Campaign                                             _I_ __ 
6.16 Final Evaluation                                                                                  L                        I  j4i,  \e 
7.  Planning & Evaluation Unit & Health Information                       4 I                                            J         t+_i;;
-S2s e ms-             ---  ____L -                                     i                                       I    I          _                  +|_  --->X-e1 -  1 i   --- 
7.1  Installation of Unit                            _                                                                 4
7_    Manager.ent_rai lgg of Chie  .edical- Officer                    r4 t_
(5-week Course at Mini-stry nof Publio Services)   1 
Prin. Medical Officer-s,Ptrin  fNuruszing Oe-rficer)      i        ,    LXX14t 27                           Lt  <-t1 
~~~~~7. Merg mg-of MOHEC's Stat. Dept. with IFTB Stat.                     it ,                          ,
71_ _7   Consultants _=I                                                 _7 h  L,Ii _L                           4W Lij4  i i             -                 H- 1'      _|   
Li Z7IzkplTfCj._qr ___________   _ 
7- ._ .2. H5altk Tnfnsanc _,r                  -r
.   . ~~~~_____  _____--  ------ -~----~~~-St_g    idU.bi ; i 1_T   1?||tl|;.r;i .it 
-___.   =~1Pj~                         ____ __ __   _                i                         -''~                                        I I* IiIIII-  -  T;'---
___   ._____ _,, _____ ____ ________                                                                        il Ti-
_!_j1   zET P iideiolocinat                                               I         -;                         i  



Jamaica 1i
l,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~I I.'7    -g171'                          '7                        ?
_  __ _ ___     ;S.D N N S-                       Ii" iT    SOi. N I,).     ..     .      .     ..i
Soc-                                                ---- i                       i ia
7.6  Establishing a Data System       -____                       .I I                             Fi
___ ____                                 __1_;__i I           i          TitLlJI!'1 tL      Ji    1
______    _        _gn                __         __  _--- -                                                        --D
_7.6.2  Implementation at the Computing Center          II I_ _l_ _                               L' _
7.6.3  Training of Statistical Clerks on MCH/FP
Form Use                       - -         f--- -- - -L--j                                              t
7.6-4  Analyses & Reports         - =
7.6.5  Evaluation of Cornwall System             !             I        __
._________   ______   __._._  ____.__._________. _____ __ _I                                             _______                        f  , __1 ' '|11 1  |,yI!j I__  _  -____
_.7.1  Prin. Medical Officer  MCH FH/NutfljM.I'ii                                                                       .                       I
.72  tatistician; M.S. Biostatistic_s            | A1 4|      L-  _  i                            Li!IL_j-
7.7.3  Social Scientist; M.A. in Quant. Methods                         -                    .j,                          I |
7.7.14  Short-Term Experiences in Health Planning       T     1 1 iL r                                                                   I
& Health Information (to bejiplemented _             L      [         T       2            t      L       4 2                1i
=__ _i                                       =       _,, s r e     .- a-s---u- -               t  -    - -- I
--'Rpaparc    _   _      _                             _---i                                                -                                                            -L
-:8.n               f                        i _   _                                      hi
_ 8l 2    ( _                  saD K .pmnL. _  fiJI                       4  LjT-                                     '_1_ 
-8.____    ___~~~                            .                                '-i---~DX-  I            rtI__    ![                 L      -     --ii -- 1~  I 
8.2.1 Tape Searches   __ ___            ______ _ |_1   i .I                   w        ji                   '         H|zjn!i i                  ., 
ea E!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
coI



Jamaica II
______Prjet, Ibplemennation Schedu ',e:                                       B_cN-Co   1P14} _irl4_ __
j977
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _-~  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _0  N T   D !,f   I   I F  ;-T__    ___              .,                                    _ _ _ _ 
-8B.2. JFollaw-UP Studies                                                         iiI!UI                                           I L!      I
8._2_,... Reports                   _                                  I                                          -T
8.3 Fertility Survey              _-_II_t;_                        i .                                        -. i-                    __-- _
T8,3.1  Research Consultant
8. 3.2 Research Assistants                                                                                                                                _______
8. 3*3  Collection of Base-line Information            __
8.3.4  Survey Design
=' Training of Surveyors
-. 3.6- Surveying                                                  j              _
_   _ 8.3 7 Data Analyses                                       l     s |i|_|||||!||||i}t||||1                                                     -te-        l               ----
8.3.8 Re ort                                              I                      j 'IIII IIIIt
9.  Feasibility Study for Supplementary Food Production                  I I I                                |                                                         j
__& Processing_l  ,--       fi          I        _ 1 _' _____i_ 
9.1  Study of Relative Costs & Implication of Food                                              , _                .                                                          i l
for Cereal-Baed  F              .                                                                                                                                         -
9.  Study of Relative Costs of Settiop of Central
Faaility fnr PoindJt
iJiStdYofTyesof__________________f-  ?-  ' ; tt__ I- _ ; l_4<Lt _i_|______6__    'i                                       ii              I'l
_. __ ZCble t    o the Populati on                                                                         ____ _                                            '
...._9__tudv_of______of_____________________i_______j_f___________j____|_________________________- j-   l   L -  ,- -8.  -t--  S  --  t  i
________________________i__________.______________________j_i____  ______________________   ___f__-____  I _____'___
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___ _



Jamaica II
pro.ect Implementation Sc-edule:  B. Non-Construction Comrnonent
i '.?,,   j       -,,                       1.978                    1979|                      St
9..6  Re-EvRluation of the Size of the Target Grou _ _     0_   '  _  A                              t                          t=                                    t
at Risk 
--_  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   . i z   z    i     -   -    ,    -  -   TF -   r ,I   ! 4   ~ . \ : i ; X,F:I - ,'   ;-   i -
9.7 Studv of Proosed System of Di              
SDpecial Food Mixtures                                      1                          v                        ~                                 
9.8 study of B3uilding &Physical Facilities                 L                                                                         -
9.9 Collection of Data on the Food Habit &                                                                      I     I
Marketing Practices of the Target Famil-ies                 -IiII 
10.SuiingUtilization Study                                 j     HH_p1t2
I1 I
____________________   _______                                                    I        __ Ii I    i I 
:=_____________                                                                                                                                                ::KK
___________________________X                                                                                  ~11 ~    ~      --
:.:.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ =_                    _           _ _ _ _l



g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ g E v-Px         N>~SI  ;b_*W1 
t:~~~~                                                                ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ .~. .s       .0I
O~~ ~~~~                                                                     ~~     ~~~~~~*W C- *    . S  iS   .C  _    11* 
a~~~ ~ ~~~~~                       o                    o oO00O  o~0C  I ao  
CCWCS9                                                                         - O                              CCC r        0CCN
OH  ) Ca  N0 N* 0,0                               COO    g00                     | e0                                              -    
,                                                  C,  N                 C0t       
NO                      C                                           O00 N0NC                                O  WM-  
-~~~~~~~~                                            S  C IW C J N-       N 00  
WO H         8 W0                                                   O     C  COB |W'                                                   I   
O~~~~~~~C                                                C C C 7C | 0                       C            r 04
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ rH CC                           C    C          .0                                     0OC 
CCF                        |C                                OC                   00  CSO          I       -                  0   >bO NNN    _NWC,  H
0 C-C                                        CO                         OH        000 J                                       C     H    W- S         o 
ee ~ ~ ~    ~      ~     ~    ~     ~    0                               OCt 0                                                000 



Prbe  Entonditoton:  B. Non-Construction Conponoosto
FY1977.          _                       _Ft978.                          -        ~ ~   -0l10                                             FlAIlS
D-   76    Mat. 77    June 77      Se. 7 7       ri-   77     1i.- 7J       J-   78    S-578         Dne  70      Oiat 7       Jinn- 79    Soot  79        .-2              80Q                  Total
Vohinlt  and Sparo Parts                                              663,600                                                                                                                                                                    696d500
Spenill Eqoipoato                                                      398,508
Toohoncal Assateonce                            260,500    200,000    200,500       2B0.500       50,175        39,575       39,175      39.175        09,500       29.500        29,500     29.5G0        20.000       20.000                  1,436,700
Support to Inoo-ativ- Activitiec                            100,000                              100,0(0)                               100.000                                 100.000                                                           400,000
Base Ctot                                       260,500    380,500  1,342,608       280,500      159,175        39,175       39.175     139.175        29.500       29.500      129,500      29, 50(0      20,000       20,000                  29,690 80
Phyolnal Cooting-onios 10%                       26,050    380,500    134.261        28,050       .5 918         3,910        3,918      13,917         2,950        2,;50       12,950        2,950         2,000        2,000                   289,881
S5bt0tel                                        286,550    410,550  1,466,869       308,550      175,093        40,092       43,093     153,092        32,450       32.450     142,450       32,450         22,000      22,000                  3,188,089
Local                                         47,575    104,840    117,119        49,225       61,875         5,225        5,225      60,225         2.612        2.613      57,613        2,612                                               516.753
Foreign                                      238,975    313.710  1,359.750       259,325      113,217        37,868       37,868      92,867        29,038       29,837      84,837       29,838        22,000       22,000                  2,S71,930
Prine Cootlregonclos
FY77/1  L 15%           1.075
F 10o           1.05
2  L 157           1.075                    51,143
F l0'          0.05                    250,924
3  L 15%           1.24                                130,002
F  9            1.15                                360,766
4  L 15%.          1.24                                           145,228
F  9%           1.15                                         1,563,713
FY78/1  L 15%           1.24                                                         61,039
F  9%           1.15                                                        298,224
2  L 155.          1.24                                                                      76,725
F  9%           1.15                                                                     130,200
3  L 15%           1.42                                                                                     7,419
P  8%           1.25                                                                                    473535
4  L 15%           1.42                                                                                                  7,420
F  87.          1.25                                                                                                47,335
FY79tl L 15%            1.42                                                                                                             85,519
P  87,          2.5                                                                                                             116,084
2  L 15            1.42                                                                                                                            3,289
F  8%           1.25                                                                                                                           37, 297
3  L 15%           1.63                                                                                                                                         4,259
F  7%           1.34                                                                                                                                        39,982
4  L 15%           1.63                                                                                                                                                    93,909
F  7R           1.34                                                                                                                                                   113,684
FY80t/   L IS%          1.63                                                                                                                                                                  4,258
F  7Y           1.34                                                                                                                                                                 39,983
2  L 15%           1.63
F  7%           1.34                                                                                                                                                                               29,480
FY80/3  L 15%           1.88
F  6%           1.42                                                                                                                                                                                            25,.555
Local . oItbrbo...is.                              3,568     41,456      11,814      11,814       14,380         2.194        2,195       25.294       14097         1,646       36,296        1,644                       -                      159,811
Foreign C.otiog ic.a                              11.949    203,045      38,899      38,899       16,983         9,467        9,467      23,217         7,460       10.145       28,845       10, 145        7,480        9.240                   428,629
Total Prio. Cootinganoi.o                         15,517    244,501      50,713      50,713       31,833        11,661       11,662       48,511         8,557      11,791       65,141       11,789         7,480        9,240                    582,500
TOTAL EXPECTED COST OF NON-CONSTRUCT7ION                                                                                                                                                                                                        3,7719
CagPOMENTS



ANNEX 23
JAMAICA II
Draft Terms of Reference for the National Development Agency
1.        The Ministry of Health and Environmental Control (MOHEC) will be
responsible for the implementation of the total project. The National
Development Agency will be responsible for the planning and execution of
the construction component of the project, and will fulfill the role of the
project architect.
2.        The Agency will report directly to the project director.  It will have
powers to enter into contracts with consultants and suppliers of furniture and
equipment, and it will work closely with other agencies involved in the imple-
mentation process, such as the MOHEC Planning Cell and the Building Directorate
of the Ministry of Communications and Works.
3.        The primary duties of the Agency will be:
(a)   to be responsible for final site selection, based on criteria
approved by the Bank;
(b)   to promote site acquisitions expeditiously by local and central
authorities involved;
(c)   to be responsible for developing a construction program, including
planning of procurement, in consultation with the MOHEC;
(d)   to be responsible for the establishment of standards, preparation
of functional programs, designs, and tender documents which will
be approved by MOHEC;
(e)   to promote and coordinate timely commissioning of the project
facilities (staffing, equipment, supplies, connecting utilities,
etc.);
(f)   to be responsible for preparation of the necessary documents for
procurement of furniture and equipment, and for tendering proce-
dures and contracts regarding these items; and
(g)   to report project progress to the MOHEC, Ministry of Finance,
and the Bank systematically on a mutually-agreed basis.



ANNEX 24
Page 1
JAMAICA II
Schedule of Accommodation for Buildings in the Project
The GOJ has identified four main types of clinics to be constructed
in Cornwall County at the locations indicated in Annex 5. They are categorized
as follows:.
CLINIC TYPE I                                                             sq ft
Access and parking space for one vehicle
1.   Operational.
reception lobby, waiting/demonstration/room
veranda - projection space                                           250
multi-purpose enclosed room for
examination, interviews, record-keeping
lab bench for sample analysis                                        320
toilet accommodation - staff and public
cupboard storage
2.   Domestic
attached housing accommodation for one resident
staff member - 2 bedrooms, living room, kitchen,
bathroom                                                             650
Inclusive of:
common areas, e.g., veranda entrance, bathroom, etc.
Net Area                           1,220 sq ft



ANNEX 24
Page 2
CLINIC TYPE II                                                             sq ft
Access and parking space for three vehicles
Single main entrance for staff and users. Ramped
entrance for wheelchair/stretcher use.  Possible
independent access for children using dental clinic.
1.   Reception, record office                                                150
Service dispensary and sub-waiting                                      150
Storage rooms                                                           150
Janitor and maintenance area (access to incinerator)                    150
Play area
2.   Curative
Nurses office                                                            75
Exam./treatment room with lab bench                                     150
Sub-waiting for 10 persons
Consultant Doctors'
clinic: double battery exam. suite with 4 changing
cubicles, service corridor, doctors study (75 sq ft)                     75
Sub-waiting, control storage cupboards, toilet and sluice               700
3.   Health
Offices for public health inspectors and nurses -
(75 sq ft each)                                                      150
Nutrition and health education - sub-station of
general waiting area to allow grouping for
activities and projection
Demonstration kitchen/bar                                                75
General waiting area (50 places)                                        500
Dentist                                                                  75
One operating                                                            75
sub-waiting for 6 control reception
Net Area                          2,475 sq ft



ANNEX 24
Page 3
CLINIC TYPE III                                                          Sq ft
Access and parking space for five vehicles
Single main entrance for staff and users. Ramped
access for wheeled traffic. Independent access
for children attending dental clinic.
1.   Curative
Nurses office                                                          75
Examination/ treatment                                                150
Sub-waiting for six
Double battery exam. suite with 4 changing
cubicles, service corridor, doctors study
(75 sq ft) sub-waiting, control, storage,
cupboards, toilets and sluice                                         700
2.   Health
Multipurpose, sub-divisible room for total
50 seated (30 and 20 when divided) for
child health, public health, health education,
nutrition and FP sessions, near general
waiting area                                                          550
Demonstration kitchen with storage                                      75
Pharmacy and sub-waiting                                              150
Pharmacy office                                                        75
Laboratory                                                             150
Lab office                                                              75
Dentist
4 operating (75 sq ft each)                                           300
X-Ray and dark room                                                    75
Sub-waiting and reception
General Office
Reception and control                                                 300
Secretary                                                              75
Exec. Officer                                                         150
Resident staff offices
(145 at 75 sq ft each)                                             1,125
Janitor and storeroom, maintenance area incinerator                   150
Lunchroom/conf. room                                                  150
General waiting area - suitable for varied
seat groupings, projection                                            500
External play area
Net Usable Area                 4,825 sq ft



ANNEX 24
Page 4
CLINIC TYPE IV                                                             sq ft
1.   Same as Type II Clinics
PLUS:
Administration wing for parish medical officer of
health and staff.
For purposes of estimating and allocation of funds
only, this additional accommodation is taken as
follows:
10 individual offices (75 sq ft each)                                   750
1 general office                                                        150
900 sq ft



ANNEX 25
Jamaica II
Estimated Cumulative Disbursements
Fiscal Year                                 US$ Thousands
1977
September  1976                                     102
December   1976                                     129
March      1977                                     142
June       1977                                     338
1978
September  1977                                     581
December   1977                                   1,999
March      1978                                   2,632
June       1978                                   3,155
1979
September  1978                                   3,h45
December   1978                                   3,,844
March      1979                                   h,255
June       1979                                  h,635
1980
September  1979                                   4,760
December   1979                                   5,77
March      1980                                   5,852
June       1980                                   6,444
1981
September  1980                                   6,800



1IBRD 11939
000       00000                                                                             00000                                                                                OJOA'                              09    MAY  1976~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l-  A    17
J A MA ICA
LOCATION OF THE PROPOSED HEALTH FACILITIES IN CORNWALL COUNTY                                                                                                                      --                      SOAuNDS
AND EXISTING HEALTH FACILITIES IN JAMAICA 
50000  Hopooooo    Motee 1    0                                                     Decy                                                                                                                                                                                 o-y
L                                                                                                                 dZ-.- Boy., oo,0o  tloo  *         <~>  ~t,Anns Boy000                                                                                                                    0,Ooooooo.0000
A                                                                                                                                       A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  000
D~~   HA  oO   AVOPe  Moboloyoo'  *~~~~~~~          f--*BooAooolooo  06 0N                                                                                                                                      Pot otrA
oo(g  A  Mooylood            Moooprboo0   --  A   oDpoooql,o!d~~'                                                     W-000000.. ,,
Egy,,~~~~~~~    T~~~  H  d                    CwAO",~~~~~~~~o  0Go,oooA AHl 31                                                                        Ah
;01 _0I000000H                                                000000        AI il,  ooolT
Booooyy                00            YY       teo- Iloo d000 I                loll                                      PH  Ioybo Ai oBoGoo
too.oliooooo0.D0o00100l0                                1000      0,  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~0                                                         0.9~~~~ V 
0                                                                 '40 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5      L         EF tX01W
La-Ma,    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ 0               'A   0  0    OBoodo                                               0000             0                                       ,~        o,ooEo /Hopoo1oj                                                   -Port Antonio
Lo-Plor                                                                  I~~~~~~~~~~~~5                                                                                                                       C~
OoooootOOOoo  0  Sooooutolo        no~d     Bo-loo                CO000                                          o       0              oooo                                          ooOOOO           /o 3 
Aorleoooo                              0                                                                              t,ooyoo,olCo   0K. I       0i                                   A0       ottoooy
onByokoy  Mo00oooy;o  00                            +~~~~~~~~~!"\,    oF- o                r0*0                      A     D         0                                                       oooo
0  0000*O~~~~~~~~~                                                 oBo.oy~~~~~~~~  /                            Fy0~~~~~~ot0If Vor
0f0,                        0 A                    El~    (ooo                              4                                     oof                                  
4   nyyoCr-                           00000                                         A       'IT R d00A   00                                   '0...''
00     'Mondee,Il~    dtoY-IFo   \              Aoy000                          Bo o      Wooooo           Aooo              Ot0
e-  P.-                                                    r ~~~~~~0000  S  A   Id    ~>000o500                                          0
PROPOSED  HEALTH FACILITIES                                                                                                                         A6 oooole0o                                                                                                                      00    ob                                o0
Health Ceotors                                                     o  llc                         00                                                             OR may Pee                                                                                                                         WIso/'+  300N60000  700   oeBs
N-0              AZO0                 e                                           Ddtoe.o"3                                                                          odeo                                      06R           00
Type I                                                                                                         Aoooi  000                  '0o ed Bllto00Aooloo-ooo-hoo
Typ                                                                                  Z-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 *  01.                           W 1Pop                                                    .
TpeSE                                                                     No-ot'               j0,                                  4       0           00                         P-ooEoeoIDOO0
0 Tpem                                                                                                                                P,.  1    fooDooe<                           0S0<  00                                                                                                    ooeOo
ICoo.. Ko."*ono
Type aV0                                                                                                                                                                                           Iio                                                                       o                             ooo
EXISTING  HEALTH  PACILITIES                                                           A                                 0000000tocooe 00600Boy
*  Hespitonls                                                                                                                                                                       (
*    uBerl moternioty Centeyn'0,0s0*I
* Heulth Cooersi  
0   Prieato H-oloB Cenotemo
A   Dspyonesores                                                                                                                                                                000
Proecet ore  lboondory ICeonwoll Coonty)                                                                                                                                                                      S              0              26              32             Al
- County beundories                                                                                                                                                                                                                                NIO00TERS
0           01)                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~20           3C
Peri sh boundoreac,riesss RB8A,                                                                                                 SE~7A                                                                                                             tr              -
08000                         00000                                                                              0y000                                                                              0600~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M  F



