FILE COPY                           Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1859-JM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
JAMAICA
FOR A
SECOND POPULATION PROJECT
May 27, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Uhit - Jamaican Dollar (J$)
Us$ .01 o        J$ .0091
US$1.00       = J$ .910
J$ .01       = US$ .011
J$1.00         US$1.100
Government of Jamaica Fiscal Year - April 1 to March 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATICNS
CCHk           - Cornwall County Health Administration
CDB            - Caribbean Development Bank
CHA            - Community Health Aide
CIDA           - Canadian International Development Agency
CMO            - Chief Medical Officer
IERD           - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICSID          - International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes
1DB            - Inter-American Development Bank
IFC            - International Finance Corporation
JDB            - Jamaica Development Bank
JPSC           - Jamaica Public Service Company
M1H/FP         - Maternal and Child Health/Family Planning
M4HEC          - Ministry of Health and Environmental Control
NDA            - National Development Agency
NFPB           - National Family Planning Board
ODM            - Overseas Development Ministry (UK)
PEU            - Planning and Evaluation Unit
PMO            - Principal Medical Officer
RMC            - Rural Maternity Center
SMCH           - Senior Medical Officer of Health
USAID          - United States Agency for International Development
VJH            - Victoria Jubilee Hospital



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECONMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO JAMAICA FOR A
SECOND POPUILATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Jamaica for the equivalent of US$6.8 million to help finance
a second population project. The loan would have a term of 25 years
including five years of grace, with interest at 8.856 per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
2.       An Economic Report (No.967a-JM) entitled "Current Economic Position
and Prospects of Jamaica" was distributed to the Executive Directors on
1,rch 22, 1976. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I to this report.
3.       During the decade following independence in 1962, the Jamaican
economy grew at a fairly rapid pace averaging 5.7% per annum. Growth was
spurred by major developments in tourism and in bauxite and alumina production.
Tourist visitors increased from 200,000 in 1962 to 500,000 in 1972. over
the same period bauxite production expanded from 8 million tons to 13 million
tons and the output of alumina rose from 650,000 to 2 million tons. Large
capital inflows from abroad underpinned investments in these sectors and these
same capital inflows enabled Jamaica to maintain a sound foreign exchange
reserve position despite increasing deficits on the current account balance of
payments. The decade of the sixties was, therefore, a period of rising incomes
and rising expectations although the performance of the economy was by no means
uniform in all sectors. Agriculture, the traditional source of Jamaica's income,
stagnated and there was a steady decline in the volume of sugar production in
the latter part of the period from a peak of 500,000 tons in 1966 to 375,000
tons in 1972. Associated in part with weaknesses in the agricultural sector
the rural population migrated in large numbers to urban areas.  Rapid urbani-
zation gave rise to social tensions which were exacerbated by a persistently
high level of unemployment. Yet despite these problems, the achievements in
many areas of the economy were sufficiently substantial and broad based for
Jamaica to conclude its first decade of independence with a sense of accom-
plishment and optimism regarding the future potential of the island.
4.       In the early seventies, however, developments took place which signi-
ficantl- altered the medium term economic outlook.  Beginning in 1972, direct
foreign investment declined appreciably and it has averaged rather less than
US$25 million per annum during the last four years compared with an estimated
US$100 million per annum in the previous four-year period. In part this
decline was due to the completion of a major investment cycle in the tourism
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
and mineral sectors but at the same time it reflected a general deterioration
in the climate of international investment following the onset of a world-wide
economic recession. The reduction in direct foreign investment exposed the
basic vulnerability of the Jamaican economy in the face of a chronic deficit
on its current account balance of payments -- a deficit which was exacerbated
by a slackening of growth in tourism. To combat the ensuing foreign exchange
crisis (and, also, to shore-up the weakening public finances) the Jamaican
government began borrowing heavily from foreign commercial banks. At the same
time it undertook a series of corrective measures during 1972 and 1973 including
devaluation, the imposition of import controls, and restrictions aimed at con-
taining the rise in domestic credit to the private sector.
5.        In the event, however, these measures were insufficient to completely
repair either the fiscal situation or the balance of payments. When, towards
the end of 1973, Jamaica was faced with an abrupt rise in the price of petroleum
(estimated to have imposed an additional US$70 million on its 1974 import bill)
it was widely feared that this, coming on top of an already difficult economic
situation, might precipitate a crisis of major proportions. It was in this con-
text that, in 1y 1974, the government announced increases in taxes and royalties
retroactive to the beginning of 1974 on US and Canadian-owned bauxite companies
which yielded an additional US$150 million in that year -- an incremental revenue
equivalent to some 6% of GDP.    The additional revenues from bauxite were
sufficient to offset not only the rise in oil prices but also the much higher
prices which Jamaica faced for many of its food imports.  It was expected,
moreover, that revenues from the new bauxite levy would continue to rise in the
medium term future and thereby further strengthen both the fiscal position and
the balance of payments.
6.        In this respect, however, events did not move in Jamaica's favor.   The
world aluminum market softened in 1975 and has not yet regained its previous
momentum.  Bauxite production in Jamaica fell back notably in 1975 in response
to market conditions and the tax liability of the bauxite companies for that
year is still a matter of.discussion between the companies and the government.
Whatever may be the outcome of those particular negotiations, however, it appears
that annual tax revenues from bauxite are likely to be in the range of US$100-150
million during the next few years as opposed to the US$200 million anticipated
earlier. Total foreign exchange receipts from mineral exports are likewise
expected to be lower than was anticipated.
1/ The government's action to increase bauxite taxes and royalties followed
the failure to reach agreement with the companies on a renegotiation of the
tax clauses in the originnl company contracts. The companies objected to the
tax increase and three US-owned companies requested arbitration before the
International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (ICSID). Three
arbitral tribunals have been constituted and proceedings are pending. A fourth
company instituted proceedings in the Jamaican courts. The points at issue
(including land ownership, government participation in the companies and guaran-
teed supply of bauxite for the companies) are also being discussed privately
between the government and the companies. Agreement in principle has recently
been reached with two of the companies on a number of these issues, including
the bauxite tax.



- 3 -
7.        Meanwhile imports have continued to rise at a rapid pace reflecting
on the one hand high wage settlements obtained by a well-organized labor
union movement and on the other hand an expansionary fiscal policy designed
to ameliorate the severe and chronic problem of unemployment. In 1975
imports rose by an estimated 10% in real terms and foreign exchange reserves
fell by US$90 million so that the more modest gains of the previous year were
wiped out. At the end of 1975 Jamaica once again found itself in the throes
of a balance of payments crisis with foreign exchange reserves sufficient to
cover no more than two or three weeks' imports.
8.        It is clear that during the coming year or two the Jamaican economy
will require very careful management in order to overcome its present diffi-
culties and consolidate a sound basis for growth. With respect to the balance
of payments it will be of the utmost importance to improve the competitive
position of Jamaican exports while at the same time controling the growth of
imports -- particularly imports of consumer goods. An effective incomes
policy could contribute greatly to both of these objectives by limiting the
rise in incomes to gains in productivity. It is encouraging, therefore, that
in February 1976 the government announced an incomes policy including wage
guidelines.
9.        Fiscal policy is another area which will require careful management
in the next few years. Recurrent expenditures have grown rapidly in the recent
past and have largely absorbed the major boost given to government revenues by
the bauxite production levy. Public sector savings are currently estimated
at 4.5% of GDP -- similar to the historic average of the late sixties -- but
even this level of savings is expected to come under strong downward pressure
in the near future, reflecting the combined impact of a substantial decline in
bauxite production, the end of the fiscal windfall produced by high sugar prices
and an expansion of recurrent expenditures for the government's special employ-
ment program. With respect to the medium term future, however, a recent Bank
economic mission estimated that public sector savings should be raised to
between 5 and 6% of GDP in order to underpin a public sector investment program
of sufficient size and suostance that the economy may fulfil a 6% growth
potential. Despite the problems of the current economic situation, this is
not an unreasonable target. Substantial additional revenues are expected,
beginning in late 1976, from the recently announced payroll tax. More important
is the expected recovery of bauxite production beginning in 1977. Nevertheless,
it is clear that the achievement of a 5-6% public sector savings target would
depend upon the effective control of public sector wages. This should be viewed
as a key element of the wider incomes policy recently introduced by the govern-
ment.
10.       2hat the prospects for ecnromic growth in Jamaica should hinge upon
the implementation of an effective incorm.r. policy is a significant measure of
the extent to which the problem of inflation has assumed major importance.
Prior to 1972 Jamaica had enjoyed a history of relatively stable prices with
inflation averaging no more than 5-6% per annum.  In 1273, however, retail
prices shot up by 3G5/. Subsequently the ra-te of inflation has' slackened appre-
ciably; in the last six months of 1975 prices increased at an annual rate of
12%, and the trend appears to be continuing downwards.   There is reason to
believe that the acceleration of inflation sbove historic levels may have been
triggered initially from abroad by increases ir Uhe prices of key imports -- a
development that was exacerbated by the effec-vs of devaluation.



The strong and militant labor unions wore quick to respond to rising
prics b- seeking higher wage3, nowever, and domestic factors assumed a
major role in perpetuating the inflationary spiral. Between 1973 and 1975
the industrial wage index rose at an average annual rate of 46% -- considerably
more thar retail prices and well above gains in productivity.
11.       A workable incomes policy is fundamental not only to the resolution
of Jamaica!S pressing current problems but also to the solution of longer-tern
development problems. Paramount amongst the development objectives of Jamaica
is the amelicration of the chronic problem of high unemployment which has
persisted despite a relatively good growth performanca. Tn 1974 and 1975
unemployment (excluding persons not actively seeking employment) has been
estimated at 11%. 1/  The unemployment problem would have been even greater
were it not for the high level of outward migration which kept the overall
increase in population to little more than 1.5% in the past. The population
dynamics of Jamaica are, however, vulnerable to changes in the immigration
policies of foreign countries, and a significant fall in net outward migration
has been discernable in recent years as a result of more stringent control on
the part of the United Kingdom, the United States and Canada. It is to be
expected that the lower rate of migration will continue in future years and
that the growth of population will be commensurately higher. This makes the
task of expanding employment all the more urgent. It also underscores the need
for greater efforts in the field of population control.
12.       Absorption into employment of those able to work and seeking employ-
ment would require the creation of about 160,000 jobs over the period 1976-80.
About half of this figure represents existing unemployed; the rest is projected
labor force growth. One policy option open to Jamaica to increase employment
is investment in the manufacturing and agricultural sectors, primarily because
both exhibit highly favorable elasticities of employment with respect to sec-
toral growth as well as low investment costs per unit of employment. Further-
more, these two sectors are the largest sources of employment in thle economy.
To the extent that investment in them increases productivity, for which there
is considerable potentiAl, growth in these sectors could also improve fiscal
and foreign exchange earnings and encourage import substitution. Such a policy
could provide a total of about 86,000 new jobs during 1976-80.    The attainment
of this employment goal, however, will require concerted efforts by the govern-
ment to improve the cost competitiveness of export production and to increase
output in both industry and agriculture. It will also require an improvement of
the climate for private investment.
13.       As pointed out in the Bank's recent economic report, and discussed
with the government, a sectoral development thrust in agriculture and manufac-
turing initiated now, combined with an effective incomes policy and a resolution
of Jamaica's short term difficulties during the next two years, holds forth the
prospects of 6% real annual growth during 1978 through 1980, and a reduction in
the unemployment rate to 9% by 1980. Although this reduction will still leave
a significant unemployment problem, it will reverse the situation of the past
decade in which the growth of output was accompanied by the growth of the un-
employment rate.
1/   Official statistics cite a 21% level of unemployment, but include persons
not actively seeking employment.



- 5 -
14.       The aggregate investment requirement necessary to achieve
these growth and emplo-nment targets is estimated to equal about 20% of
GDP over 1976-80, or a total of about $2.6 billion in 1974 US dojlars.
Of this amount, required public sector investment is estimated at $1.6
billion, and required private sector investment at $1.0 billion.  Domestic
sources would have to finance about two-thirds of the public sector invest-
ment program during 1976-80. Of the average annual public sector invrestment
requirement of about $320 million, public sector savings would finance nearly
40V, about $120 milion,and net domestic borrowing would provide financing
of $95 million without generating undue inflationary pressure or deficient
credit availability to the private sector. Thus, the annual external finan-
cing required to cover the savings-investment gap of the public sector plus
projected amortization payments of $55 million annually would have to reach
approximately $10C million (1974 US$s). An analysis of the public sector
investment program indicates, however, that the foreign exchange component
suitable for external financing would not be sufficient, in itself, to fill
the savings-investment gap of the public sector.   This suggests that external
lenders, in addition to financing foreign exchange project costs, would have
to finance an average of about 25% of the local costs in order to cover the
gross public sector external financing requirements fully.
15.       To satisfy the external capital requirements, it is estimated that
net direct foreign investment would furnish an average of US$66 million annually,
mainly for the maintenance of capital stock and expansion in the bauxite-alumina
sector. Gross disbursements of medium- and long-term loans and credits may well
provide US$218 million annually in current dollars. External capital inflows
in this form would raise total outstanding and disbursed public external debt
from its 1974 level of US$474 million to US$1300 million by the end of 1980. The
debt service ratio during this period would average about 9.5% of foreign exchange
earnings  corresponding to 17% of domestic savings and 4% of GDP.   This is somewhat
higher tAan-the 7.8% debt service ratio prevailing in 1975 but should not prove un-
manageable providing Jamaica pursues sound economic and financial policies. Realiz-
ation of this increase in external borrowing presumes that the public sector will
substantially improve its ability to prepare projects attractive to external
lenders and that public sector savings will attain the levels required to under-
pin the expanded investment program. Provided policies are initiated and meas-
ures adapted to effectuate the above, Jamaica may be regarded as creditworthy
for the estimated externa'l capital requirements.
PART II - aANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JAMAICA
16.       To date the Bank has made 13 loans in Jamaica totalling about US$131
million. Of this amount about US$81.5 million (62%) has been for infrastructure
investments in transportation, electric power, water supply and sewerage; the
remainder has gone into education (18%) sites and services (11%), agriculture
(7%) and a population project (2%). The first population loan (Ln. 690-JM)
of US$2.0 million was made in 1970: the proposed loan would be the second for
family planning and would also include a component for nutrition. There have
so far been two IFC investments in Jamaica; a loan in 1961 to a pre-mix concrete
company and an equity/loan investment in 1968 in a hotel project. Annex II
contains a surmary statement of Bank loans and IFC investments as of AprrJ 30,
1976 and notes on the execution of on-going projects. During the last year or
so there has been an improvement in the execution of projects in Jamaica. However,
continued efforts will be required to strengthen the financial and managerial
aspects of a number of projects to ensure satisfactory progress.



-6-
Future Bank Lending
17.       Bank lending in Jamaica is aimed essentially at providing continued
transfers of long-term external capital to help finance the capital imports
associated with the country's public sector investment program. The Bank
program has been developed taking into account the role of other external lend-
ing agencies -- IDB, CIDA, ODM, USAID and the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) --
and the government's development strategy. Bank lending would support govern-
ment programs conducive to increasing employment and achieving a wider distribu-
tion of the benefits of growth and to improving the country's social and economic
infrastructure where inadequate facilities are presently constraining development.
It is also an important objective oi the Bank lending program to strengthen the
public sector institutions associated with Bank financed projects by supporting
policies designed to improve the quelity of management, their operating procedures
and finances.
18.      After a lull in Bank lending in 1972/3 -- due largely to institutional
constraints and slow project preparation -- the pace of Bank operations has picked
up in more recent years. The Bank's share of external public debt outstanding
and disbursed is projected to increase from about 8% in 1975 to about 12% in 1980
and its share of external public debt service to increase from about 6% to 9%
over the same period.
19.       In line with the government's development strategy, the Bank expects
to place increasing emphasis in its lending program on the agricultural sector
to support efforts to promote exports, stimulate import substitution, strengthen
the balance of payments, increase employment and raise living standards in the
rural areas; revitalization of the agricultural sector will also help check the
population drift from the countryside into the cities. It is expected that a sub-
stantial portion of Bank lending in Jamaica in the next few years will go into the
agricultural sector.  A rural development project will soon be presented to the
Executive Directors including land settlement for small farmers in the western
region of Jamaica, associated on-site infrastructure investments, feeder roads,
water supplies and markets, and a major restructuring of the organization and
operations of the Ministry of Agriculture. The Bank has already made two loans
to the Jamaica Development bank (JDB) for re-lending in the agricultural sector.
A third agricultural credit loan to the JDB has recently been appraised for credits
to commercial farmers for on-farm investments for livestcck, dairying, coconuts,
citrus and other agricultural export and food crops;   the project would also help
further strengthen JDB's technical capability. Also in the agricultural sector,
the Bank plans to appraise shortly a possible sugar rehabilitation project. This
might include rehabilitation of factory milling equipment and investments to
improve sugarcane yields on private farms and also on a number of co-operative
farms.
20.       In infrastructure, a second electric power project is being prepared
by the Jamaica Public Service Company (JPSC) for expansion of its transmission
and distribution facilities. Important objectives of the project would also
be to improve the reliability of the JPSC system and to strengthen the company's
finances and operations.
21.       In the social sectors, the second population project now before you
would further contribute to fertility reduction and to the reduction of mal-
niitrition in the target population groups. The need to reduce fertility
is becoming urgent in view of decreasing opportunities for emigration, the
young population structure with a built-in momentum for continued rapid population
growth, the high level of structural unemployment arid the island's limited resource
base. The proposed project would also provide for the re-organization of the



-7-
Ministry of Health and Environmental Control (MOHEC) and for strengthening its
planning and evaluation capability. The Bank also expects to continue to support
projects to improve social and infrastructure services in Kingston and other
urban areas. To this end the preparation of an urban development project is
under consideration which would be more broadly based than the sites and services
project now being implemented; in addition to the provision of infrastructure
for low-income housing, the project would try to tackle the problems of high
unemployment and poverty in Kingston and other cities. Looking further ahead,
it is expected that a third education project will be prepared for possible
Bank financing; the possible scope and content of the project, however, has
not yet been defined.
PART III - THE POPUIATION AND NUTRITION BECTCE IN JAMIICA
22.       Jamaica has a population of over 2.0 million with an average density
of 179 persons per Km2. During the sixties, the rate of natural increase was
3.1% per annum (22 years doubling time); with emigration, the net rate of popu-
lation growth per annum stood at 1.6% (44 years doubling time).  Although the
crude birthrate declined from 42.0 births per 1,000 population in 1960 to 30.4
per 1,000 in 1974, this was accompanied by a reduction in the crude death rate
including the infant mortality rate, with the result that there was no decline
in the rate of natural increase in the population. Net emigration, which amounted
to approximately 290,000 persons (mainly females of child-bearing age) during
1960-70, resulted in a rate of population growth about half the rate of natural
increase.   It appears, however, that the rate of emigration has decreased in
recent years and that this trend may continue in the future. Such a trend,
coupled with the likelihood of a further decrease in the mortality rate, lends
urgency to the need for an intensification of the family planning effort in
Jamaica.
23.       After about 30 years of modest private efforts, official family plan-
ning services were instituted by the government in 1964 and appear to have
partially contributed to the fall in the birthrate. In 1970 government estab-
lished a crude birth rate target of 25 births per 1,000 population for 1978,
corresponding to a general fertility rate of 120 births per 1,000 women in the
15-44 year age bracket.  In view of the general fertility rate of 182 births per
1,000 women obtained in 1974i, it does not appear likely that the projected general
fertility rate (120 births per 1,000 women, in the 15-44 year age bracket) could
be realized by 1978.   However, the family planning program, with the aid of the
proposed project, could realistically achieve a general fertility rate of 150
births per 1,000 women by 1980; this would require an increase in the number of
active family planning users from about 40,000 in 1974 to about 100,000 in 1980.
24.       In Jamaica, malnutrition is a contributing factor in 60-85% of deaths
among children between six months and two years of age. Furthermore, malnutrition
has been the primary or secondary diagnosis in approximately 50% of hospital admis-
sions of children under two years of age. Protein-calorie malnutrition is the
most prevalent form of child malnutrition in Jamsica. About 5S% of all children
under five years of age suffer from a moderate degree of protein calorie mal-
nutrition.   Another matter of concern is malnutrition among pregnant and lac-
tating women, nearly 45% of whom suffer from anemia caused by iron deficiency.



-8-
Population Policy
25.       Jamaica has been among the first in the Latin American-Caribbean region
to adopt a population policy aimed at curbing population growth. In 1970 it
established the National Family Planning Board, a semi-autonomous agency, res-
ponsible to the Minister of Health for the family planning program and co-
ordinating the activities of official and voluntary agencies in the field.
Recognizing the urgency of the problem and the need for rapid acceleration of
educational efforts, for new patterns of delivery of family planning services
and for an outreach program to recruit new acceptors and follow up drop-outs,
the present government reaffirmed its commitment to family planning as one of
Jamaica's highest priorities with the publication of "Ministry Paper No. 1 -
Family Planning" on January 22, 1974. This document was the first policy
directive of the MOHEC and inter-alia called for integration of family planning
into the regular health services; this took place as of April 1, 1974. Accord-
ingly, the role of the National Family Planning Board (NFPB) has been circum-
scribed. NFPB is now responsible for information, training, coordination, and
evaluation of family planning services, while the delivery of such services is
an integral function of the MOHEC. Increasing budgetary support for family
planning in every fiscal year since 1968 confirms the government's expanding
interest in family planning. The per-capita official commitment for family
planning in Jamaica (Us$0.75 in 1974) was the highest among the 32 countries
surveyed by the Population Council in 1975.
Nutrition Policy
26.       In 1974, the Government of Jamaica established a Nutrition Advisory
Council functioning under the Ministry of Commerce and Mrketing. The Council
is an inter-ministerial group, comprised of representatives of the Ministries
of Agriculture, Education, Finance, Health and Industry and other related
agencies. A major aspect of the Council's work has been the development of a
food and nutrition policy aimed at ensuring the availability by 1980 of sufficient
food to maintain adequate nutrition among all segments of the population, increas-
ing the proportion of calorie and protein requirements supplied through local
production, and eliminating malnutrition in vulnerable groups (particularly serious
protein calorie malnutrition and anemia in children from birth to four years
of age, and nutritional deficiencies in pregnant and lactating women). The
strategy proposed for achieving these objectives envisages the local produc-
tion and distribution of infant weaning foods and supplementary foods for
pregnant and lactating women, the development and promotion of nutrition
education programs, and the strengthening of an existing school lunch program.
27.       It is generally considered and a substantial body of evidence shows
that there exists a long-run relationship between low infant mortality and low
fertility, stemming from the consideration that couples are more likely to view
a small family size favorably when children are in good health and have a fair
chance of survival.  By effecting improvements in the nutritional condition of
infants from birth to four years of age and pregnant and nursing women, the
Jamaican nutrition program would reduce prenatal and child mortality and improve
child health.  These improvements, after some time lag, may encourage couples to
accept a relatively small family size. The nutrition education program would
place special emphasis on breast feeding which, besides having positive implica-
tions for infant health, also induces postpartum infertility.



- 9-
Re-organization of the MOHEC
28.       During the course of preparing the proposed project the MOHEC, with
the assistance of the Jamaica Ministry of Public Service, reviewed its organi-
zation and administration.   Following upon this review the MOHEC has decided
to establish a Planning and Evaluation Unit (PEU) to improve its capability
for forward planning, standards setting, and evaluation of on-going health
programs, especially those relating to maternal and child health/family planning/
nutrition (MCH/FP/Nutrition) services.    The unit will comprise the Chief Medical
Officer (CMO), the three Principal Medical Officers (PMO's) -- one each for MCH/
FP/Nutrition, Public Health, and Hospitals -- and the Principal Nursing Officer,
who will gradually be relieved of many of their existing routine administrative
functions so as to provide them with more time for planning and evaluation
functions.   Technical support staff will be provided to the PEU which will be
fully established by December 31, 1976, in form and with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank (draft Loan Agreement; Section 4.04). The proposed
project provides support for establishing this unit (paragraph 46 below). Because
of the expansion of the MCH/FP/Nutrition program, additional manpower and finan-
cial support is required in this area.   Therefore the government will, within
six months of the loan effective date, appoint a qualified and experienced person
to assist the PMO (MCH/FP/Nutrition) in supervising and co-ordinating the program;
also, commencing with fiscal year 1977/78, the government will Frovide in its
annual budget adequate suns specifically allocated to the financing of MCH/FP/
Nutrition programs (draft Loan Agreement;   Section 4.03 (a) and 4.o5 (a)).
29.       To ensure more effective and efficient supervision, co-ordination and
evaluation of primary health care activities the government has decided to de-
centralize the administration of health services.   As a condition of loan effec-
tiveness a Cornwall County Health Administration (CCHA) will be established with
an organization and staffing acceptable to the Bank (draft Loan Agreement;
Section 4.03 (b) and Section 5.01) to administer health services, excluding
hospitals, in Cornwall County.   A Senior Medical Officer of Health (SMOH) has
already been appointed to head the CCHA.    The CCHA will be supported by the pro-
posed project (paragraph 38 below) and tested during a four year period; provided
it is successful the administrative system will then be installed in the other two
counties of Jamaica.   The CCHA will deliver primary health care services, includ-
ing family planning, in the county using Community Health Aides (CHA's) and the
district modwives who will be supported and supervised through a system of health
centers.   The proposed project will help to strengthen and expand important
aspects of this primary health care delivery system.
The First Population Project
30.       An earlier population project in Jamaica, approved in 1970, was the
Bank's first operation in the population sector.    The primary purpose of the
project was to support the government's family planning program aimed at reducing
Jamaica's population growth rate by developing postpartum and home-visiting
programs*   The central strategy of the project was to expand delivery facilities
to allow the postpartum recruitment of family planning acceptors from the relativ-
ely large proportion (nearly 50%) of women who deliver in institutional settings.
The project provided funds for constructing and equipping 10 rural maternity
centers (RMCs) and a 150 bed maternity-wing at the Victoria Jubilee Hospital (VJH).
Furthermore, provisions were made for personnel training, for review of the pro-
gress of the national program, and for a study on the optimum use of health clinics
and personnel.



- 10 -
31.       The project had an estimated total cost at appraisal of US$3 million
and was assisted by a Bank loan of US$2 million for 20 years including five
years of grace.   The project has suffered from serious construction delays and
costs to completion are estimated at almost double appraisal estimates. The
loan closing date, originally March 31, 1975, has been postponed to March 31,
1977.   Initial delays arose over selection of sites for the RMC's while the
construction of the new wing at VJH was repeatedly delayed by union labor
disturbances at the site and by financial problems encountered by the prime
contractor.   In spite of these delays, the civil works for the RMC's and the
VJH have now been completed, apart from the remodelling work still to be done
at VJH.
32.       The VJH bed capacity for maternity services has been increased by 100%
(from 165 to 332 beds); however, the number of deliveries at VJH will not expand
proportionally since much of the bed expansion is intended to relieve serious
over-crowding which put a premium on discharging as early as possible following
delivery.   Nevertheless, the expected lengthening of stay should make the
hospital's postpartum family planning program considerably more effective. In
fact, postpartum services were organized on a systematic basis from the first
year of the project and have not awaited the completion and use of the new hospital
wing.   The services have since been extended to five other hospitals.   The last
RMC was completed in mid-1974.   Although the initial experience among the 10
centers has been uneven, the overall response to these new maternity facilities
has been 3omewhat disappointing.   In part, this may be attributed to the reluc-
tance of Jamaican women to utilize facilities reserved solely for family planning
and maternity.   In an effort to achieve higher utilization of maternity beds,
and as part of its policy to integrate family planning into the health services,
the government intends to convert a number of these single-purpose centers into
general purpose health centers. The general-purpose health centers would continue
to offer child delivery and family planning services.
33.       A mid-project review in 1972 noted the strengths of the family planning
program; for example, the widespread network of family planning clinics (although
relatively under-utilized), imaginative mass media campaigns, the expanded use of
the postpartum approach at public hospitals and emphasis on the follow-up of "drop-
out" cases.   On the other hand, the report identified some critical weaknesses
in the implementation and management of the project; for example, the lack of an
adequate home visitor program, unsatisfactory face-to-face counselling provided
by clinic staff, the lack of a comprehensive training program and lack of statis-
tical evaluation. The report's recommendations - notably those regarding the need
for greater statistical evaluation, a more effective home visitor program and a
greater training effort, as well as those for making greater use of the commercial
sector for distribution of contraceptives - have been influential in the subsequent
broadening of government strategy and in the development of the proposed second
population project.
34.       It is too early to pass any clear Judgment on the degree of success of
the 1970 project.   It appears that the VJH expansion has had a beneficial impact
on postpartum acceptances.   The RMC's appear to have a weaker appeal than hoped,
although their utilization should increase with time as a result of the conversion
to multi-purpose health centres.   On the other hand, the recommendations of
the external review mission were most useful;   the earlier strategy of provid-
ing family planning services mainly through the postpartum approach has been
broadened to provide community-based, maternal and child health, family planning
and nutrition services on an integrated basis.    The intention to develop a home-



visiting program has found expression in the Community Health Aides (CHA)
program, whose initial results have been good, and the government has success-
fully integrated the former family planning services into the regular health
services. The government's CHA program promises to follow the "bare foot"
doctor model of the People's Republic of China in providing low-cost health
care technology to the rural population. Project review missions have
provided a continuing setting for ongoing discussions between the Bank and
the government on how to make the fertility-control program more effective
and the proposed second project reflects the conclusions reached in these
discussions.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       The government established a task force to prepare the project which
was appraised by a Bank mission in October/November 1975. At the loan nego-
tiations, held in Washington, D.C. in April 1976, the Government of Jamaica
was represented by a delegation led by Mr. R. Mason, Ministry of Finance. The
project appraisal report (No.lO40b-JM, dated May 26, 1976) is being circulated
separately to the Erecutive Directors. A summary of the loan and project is
attached as Annex III.
Project Objectives
36.       The principal objectives of the project are:  (a) to contribute to
fertility reduction 'hrough further development of health and family planning
services for mothers and childrenj (b) to reduce malnutrition among children
from birth to four years of age and among pregnant and lactating women; and
(c) to improve MOHEC's capability for planning and evaluation and the quality
and coverage of its maternal child health, family planning, and nutrition
(MCH/FP/Nutrition) program. In more specific terms it would be the aim of the
project to (i) reduce the fertility rate of women of child-bearing age from
182 births per thousand women in 1974 to 150 per 1,000 in 1980; and (ii)
alleviate serious protein-calorie malnutrition by about 50% among children from
birth to four years and eliminate anemia among pregnant and lactating women
by 1980.
Project Conponents
37.       The proposed project comprises the Cornwall County Program at the
regional level and a number of health and family planning-related components of
national scope.   The principal components of the project are described in the
following paragraphs.
38.       Cornwall County Program.   Cornwall County is one of three counties in
Jamaica; it covers about one-third of the island's geographical area and about
one quarter of the country's population.   The Cornwall County program includes
the construction of 57 health centers and provision of vehicles and equipment.
The planned network of health centers will serve as a physical base for deliver-
ing primary health services, including family planning, and providing supervisory
support for CHAAs and midwives.   The expansion of the health delivery system
will require additional trained manpower.   The government will on a phased basis,
but no later than May 31, 1979, appoint suitably qualified persons necessary for
the effective operation of the MCH/FP/Nutrition programs in Cornwall County (draft
Loan Agreement; Section 4.03 (b)).



- 12 -
39.       Traiing of Community Health Aides.    Based on a successful pilot
project utilizing CHA's for combating child malnutrition in Western Jamaica,
M?HEC plans to deploy CHA's throughout the country.   The CHA is a primary-
level, community-based and locally recruited health worker responsible for the
identification through home visiting of mal-nourished children and mothers,
the promotion of community family planning and nI)trition practices and provision
of first aid and basic medical services.   Currently, CHA's are deployed at the
rate of one per 2,000 population on a countrywide basis; by 1977-78, MOHEC's
expected target is to reach a ratio of one CHA per 1,000 population.   The pro-
ject supports this objective by providing equipment for the training of 1 ,000
new CHA's and audio-visual aids for the use of 2,000 CHA's in family planning
and nutrition education. The government will by the end of 1978, provide for
the employment, in accordance with a schedule satisfactory to the Bank, of about
800 additional CHA's, and about 200 CHA supervisors (draft Loan Agreement;
Section 4.05 (a)).
40.       Midwifery Training.   The midwives, working alongside the CHA's will
be the first-level, professional health workers for MCH/F? segment of the pro-
gram.   It is estimated that Jamaica needs one district midwife per 3,000 popu-
lation to provide effective MCH/FP/Natrition coverage.   As a first step the
government plans to have one midwife per 4,000 population by 1980.   On this
basis there is a shortage of 256 midwives and the project provides technical
assistance and equipment to help in the extension of midwifery training facili-
ties to meet this need.   The existing midwifery school in VJH will graduate about
40 midwives per year and this training school will be extended to the Spanish
Town hospital which will train an additional 20 midwives a year.   In addition a
new midwifery training school wi1l be established in the Cornwall County Regional
Hospital in Montego Bay which would graduate 20 midwives a year.    The project
provides for one midwifery tutor-consultant for each of the two midwifery schools
for 12 man months each to assist in curricula development and to train counterpart
midwifery tutors and 24 man months of fellowships for training of Jamaican mid-
wifery tutors abroad.   The government has undertaken to provide for the employment
of about 60 extra midwives each year, during the period 1978 through 1982 for its
MCH/FP/Nutrition programs (draft Loan Agreement; Section 4.05 (a)).
41.       In-Service Training.   The midwifery schools and the CHA's training pro-
gram will provide training for new personnel.   To train existing staff deployed
in MCH/FP/Nutrition programs an inservice training unit has been established in
MOHEC.   The project provides funds for vehicles, equipment, and technical assis-
tance consisting of 12 man-months of a training advisor to help in the establish-
ment and functioning of the in-service training unit.
42.       Expansion of Postpartum Program.   Approximately 37% of women contacted
in the existing VJH program attended a family planning clinic within the first
three months after having been seen by a postpartum worker.    Six of Jamaica's
23 hospitals have postpartum programs and the project supports the extension of
postpartum family planning services to the remaining 17 hospitals with maternity
facilities, by financing the purchase of necessary equipment.   The government
will establish and staff the posts required for the expansion of the postpartum
program by no later than July 31, 1977 (draft Loan Agreement;   Section 4.03 (b)).



- 13 -
43.       Nutrition Education and Communicatjon 'gram.     The governient i;
concer-ned about the nutritional status of the population and presently operates
a limited program of supplementary food distribution (see paragraph 44). An
adequate program of nutrition education is lacking. The project would support
a comprehensive multi-media communication program expected to reach 80% of the
mothers in Jamaica for the promotion of sound nutritional practice. This pro-
gram would include (i) national and local campaigns to promote breast feeding
and help mothers to recognize the importance of using proper infant weaning
goods, (ii) production of audio-visual aids, (iii) research and program
evaluation. The program would also encourage the utilization of the MCH/FP/
Nutrition services by mothers and children. The communication strategy will
be implemexted and co-ordinated by an education/communications officer assisted
by an expert in media production. The communications officer has already
been appointed and his assistant will be recruited by Dbcember 31, 1976 (draft
Loan Agreement; Section 4.05 (a)).  The Agency for Public Information and the
Bureau of Health Education will collaborate with the Nutrition Unit at MOHEC
in the design , production, and use of material needed for the promotional
program. The program will be evaluated and supported by research studies
conducted at the Institute of Mass Communications of the University of West
Indies. In addition to equipment and a vehicle, the project provides a tech-
nical assistance component for the promotional program (12 man months) for
each of a communication advisor, and audio-visual aid production advisor to the
Bureau of Health Education, and a film specialist to the Agency for Public
Information.   Eighteen man months of fellowships are also included for train-
ing of communications officer, audio visual aid specialists and study tours.
44.       Feasibility Study of Supplementary Food Needs.    The government aims
to improve the nutritional status of the most vulnerable groups, children from
birth to four years and pregnant and lactating women.    It plans to achieve
this goal by the extension of its present limited nutrition program of food
supplementation of school lunches and distribution of corn soy blend through
some of the health centers, and by providing supplementary food for the vul-
nerable groups utilizing locally-grown food processed and packaged in the
country. The project includes a study, incorporating consulting services, (esti-
mated to cost US$389,000), to determine the need for supplementary foods in
Jamaica, explore alternatives for meeting this need, and recommend to the govern-
ment an economically viable and technically sound solution for the production and
marketing of supplementary foods.    The project also includes fellowships (5 man
months) for training of local staff who would assist and collaborate in the feasi-
bility study.
45.       Demographic and Research Component.   Since 1964 no information has been
available on an annual basis on age specific fertility rates; this has made it
difficult to assess the impact of the government's family planning program. The
project provides funds for the processing of age specific fertility data and the
government will as of calendar year 1977, compile and publish regular annual
records of age specific fertility rates in Jamaica (draft Loan Agreement;
Section 4.o6). The project also provides funds for follow-up studies to obtain
information on attrition rates for various contraceptive methods, and a research
component comprising studies relating to information on factors affecting the use



- 14 -
of contraceptives and household surveys to generate informnatiorn on the relation-
ship between socio-economic variables and contraceptive use.   The resear&h com-
ponent would be supported by the financing of a research ocrsulnb (12 r,ian
months). He would be assisted by three locally recruited research assista.nts
who would form part of the PEU and would be appointed by the MOIIT,C by December 31,
1976 (draft Loan Agreement; Section 4.05 (a)).
46.       Planning and Evaluation Unit.   The government, as part of its
reorganization of MOHEC, is establishing a Planning and Evaluation Unit (PEU)
responsible for the planning and evaluation of health programs, especially the
ones relating to the provision of NCH/FP/Nutrition services (paragraph 28 above).
In addition to the Chief Medical Officer, the three Principal Medical Officers,
and the Principal Nursing Officer, the unit would have supporting technical
staff.   It would function in a staff role to the Permanent Secretary, MDHEC,
and additionally manage a health information system to be established to monitor
the impact of the health services.   The project supports the establishment and
functioning of PEU by funding technical assistance consisting of 12 man-months
of a planning advisor, 36 man-months of a health information and evaluation con-
sultancy, 40 man-months of fellowship support in health planning, and 48 man-
months of fellowship support in health information and evaluation.
47.        Health Facility Iaintenance System.    The government plans to re-
organize and strengthen its capability for maintaining health facilities and
equipment valued presently at US$165 million. The project provides technical
assistance consisting of 60 man-months of qualified engineers for program
co-ordination and management, field supervision, and vocatinal training in
technical trades and maintenance logistics and procurement.
48.        Building Utilization Study.   The suitability of the designs of the
health centres would be assessed on the basis of a sampling of completed
facilities in daily use. Technical assistance provides for a modest study to
assess whether the present building designs and utilization patterns are
optimal.
49.        uither Activities.  Experience in other countries has shown that it
is most useful to provide funds in the loan for supporting voluntary organiz-
ations and other innovative activities, icoth in the public and private sectors,
which may be developed during project implementation. Such innovative activities
might include experimental programs for new contraceptive techniques, studies,
etc. The proposed loan includes US$200,000 for this purpose; proposals for
the use of the funds would be agreed upon in advance between the government and
The Bank.
Project Implementation
50.        Because of the wide ranging and significant effects of the project
and associated organizational changes or the MDHEC's operations, the Permanent
3ecretary, MUHEC, will act as ?roject Director assuming overall responsibility
for supervising the execution of the project. He will be assisted by two Project
Deput+ Directcrs in !.G)HEC who have already beer appointed;  one will be responsible
for supervising construction and pr)curement and th- ctLer so    u lervisirg the



- i5 -
health and family planning related aspects of the project. The Bank was con-
sulted about the appointment of the Project Director and the two deputies and
will be consulted in the case of any future appointments to these posts (draft
Loan Agreement, Section 3.02 (a)). In executing the construction and procure-
ment aspects of the project the MOHEC will be assisted by the National Development
Agency (NDA), a government-owned corporation, which will undertake general
contract management for the civil works and for the procurement of furniture and
equipment. NDA will be engaged by the MOHEC on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank (draft Loan Agreement; Section 3.02 (b)). NDA will be further res-
ponsible for employing architectural firms to undertake design work for project
buildings. The government will employ a qualified and experienced person as
Project Co-ordinator to assist the Senior Medieal Officer of Health for the CCHA
(draft Loan Agreement; Section 3.02 (c)); such a person has already been appointed
to the post. The Project Co-ordinator will co-ordinate and supervise the execution
of those aspects of the project that relate to Cornwall County. He will liaise
closely with the Deputy Project Directors in the MOHEC.  The Jamaica Industrial
Development Corporation will assist MOHEC in carrying out the feasibility study
of supplementary food processing. The project would be implemented over a four
year period in accordance with an agreed schedule. The construction of the health
centres will be carried out in two phases.  Phase I will include 31 health centres,
the sites for which have already been acquired by the government. The government
has to acquire the remaining 26 sites for Phase II by no later than December 31,
1977 (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.06 (b)).
Project Costs and Financing
51.       The total cost of the project (net of duties and taxes but including
contingencies) is estimated at US$13.2 million. The project involves financial
collaboration with two external donors. of the estimated foreign exchange costs
of US$6.3 million, it is expected that CIDA, would finance US$389,0ooo equivalent
for the feasibility study of supplementary food needs and that USAID would finance
US$77,000 for consultants for in-service and midwifery training. The remaining
foreign exchange costs of US$5.9 million would be financed by the Bank; the Bank
would also finance interest and other charges on the Bank loan during construction
estimated at US$0.9 million. Thus, a total Bank loan of US$6.8 million is pro-
posed with a term of 25 years including five years of grace. The government would
finance local capital costs estimated at US$6.9 million, except for a USAID con-
tribution of US$19,000 in respect of local costs for technical, assistance * In
addition the government would incur incremental local recurrent costs assbciated
with the project estimated at an average of US$2.9 million per annum during the
project period. It is proposed that foreign expenditures not exceeding
US$1 00,000, made after Dboember 1, 1975 and before loan signing, on train-
ing fellowships abroad in connection with the feasibility study for supplementary
food, and on detailed engineering, be financed retroactively from the loan pro-
ceeds (draft Loan Agreement; Schedule 1, para. 4 (a)).
52.       The Costs of conSultancy services to be provided under the project
and financed from the Bank loan are estimated in each case at US$48,o000 per
man year with the exception of the planning advisor (paragraph 46) for which
the cost is estimated at US$60,000 per man year.



- 16 -
Procurement
53.       Civil works to be executed under the project will consist of small,
geographically dispersed structures expected to range in cost from US$40,000
to US$300,000 each. To the extent possible, procurement will be based on bid
packages, arranged by consideration of geographical groupings and construction
priorities. It is not expected, however, that the packages would be large
enough to attract the interest of foreign bidders. All contracts for civil
works, and contracts for equipment, furniture, and vehicles estimated to cost
less than US$50,000 equivalent, will therefore be awarded on the basis of
procurement in accordance with local procedures which are satisfactory to the
Bank. Foreign finns would not be excluded from bidding. Contracts for the
procurement of equipment, furniture and vehicles estimated to cost more than
US$50, 000 equivalent will be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines".   In the evaluation of bids,
manlifacturers of furniture and equipment in Jamaica will be accorded a preference
:of,,,15% of -the c.i.f. bid price of such goods, or the amount of customs duty and
other import taxes levied-on a nmn-exemqpt inporter, whichever is the lower.
Disbur sements
54.       Disbursements from the loan would be over a four and a half year period
and would be made on the following basis: 100% of foreign expenditures for
special equipment, technical assistance and interest and other charges on the
Bank loan; 50% of total expenditures for furniture and equipment for health
centres, representing the estimated foreign exchange component; 33% of total
expenditures for civil works, representing the estimated foreign exchange conpo-
nent; 100% of foreign expenditures for vehicles directly imported and 90% for
vehicles imported and locally procured; and 50% of total expenditures on innova-
tive population sub-projects to be approved by the Bank.  The engagement of NDA
to assist MOHEC in the execution of construction and procurement aspects of the
project would be a condition of loan disbursement (draft Loan Agreement; Schedule 1,
para. 4 (b)).
Project Justification
55.       The proposed project, which would account for about 40% of total estimated
expenditures on the family planning program in Jamaica during the implementation
period, should make a significant contribution towards achieving the target
reductions of 22% in the gross reproduction rate and 21% in the general fertility
rate during the period 1970 to 1980. A 22% reduction in the gross reproduction
rate from 1970 to 1980, with a constant emigration assumption, would have the
effect of reducing the Jaxaaiean population by 400U,000 people by 1990. The con-
tribution of the project towards fertility decline would be the result of train-
ing, deployment and supervision of community workers, the extension of the
hospital-based postpartum program, the promotion of breast feeding and sound
nutritional practices and the associated increase in child survival. From the
viewpoint of institution building, the project would contribute significantly
to improvements within the MOHEC, relative to planning, evaluation and research.
The results of evaluation and research would contribute to policy development,
readjustment of program objectives and a more effective utilization of scarce
resources. By reinforcing basic and in-service training, the project would
improve the quality and number of community-based health workers. In Cornwall
County, with an 80% rural population, the project will double the potential for
the delivery of primary health care services, with focus on MCH/FP/Nutrition



- 17 -
components, through the deployment of trained field workers and health
personnel, operating out of small geographicaUy dispersed clinics. At
the national level, a co-ordinated multi-media campaign to promote breast
feeding of children and sound nutritional practices for mothers and children
would reach 80% of the Jamaican mothers. It is expected that an improve-
ment in the nutritional status of children and pregnant and lactating mothers
would induca a reduction in family size in the long run, thereby dampening
the growth in population. Aa can be observed, this project represents a
substantial shift in population planning strategies and underlying methodologies
when compared to the first project approved six years ago. A reduction in the
rate of population growth is imperative for Jamaica in view of the country's
limited resource base, the unemployment problem, and the rising expectations of
the people for a higher standard of living.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
56.       The draft Loan Agreement between Jamaica and the Bank, the Report of
the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of
Agreement and the text of a draft resolution approving the proposed loan are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special features of
the loan are referred to in Paragraphs 28, 29, 38, 39, 40, 42, 43, 45, 50, 51
and 54 of this report.
57.       An additional condition of loan effectiveness will be the establish-
ment of a Cornwall County Health Administration with an organization and staff-
ing satisfactory to the Bank. A condition for disbursement of the loan will
be the conclusion of arrangements for the participation of NDA in the project.
58.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMDATION
59.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. MbNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Attachments
M1y 27, 1976






Page 1 of 4 pages
TABLE 3*
JA1AICA              - SOCIAL ItDICATORS DATA SHEET
LA6D AREA (THOU Kt21                  ------    ----------
______________                                    JAMAICA                              REFERENCE COUNTRIES (19701
TOTAL        11.0                                       MOST RFCENT           TRIlNIDAD AND
AGRIC.         *-                       19o0       1970    ESTIMATE              TOBAGO     CYPRUS          ISRAEL es
GNP PER CAPITA tUSS)                      410.0        /30.0      990.0              1060.0      1010.0      2190.0
POPULATION ANo VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION IDI0-YR, MILLION)              1.6         1.9         2.0                 1.0         0.6         2.9
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SOUARE KM.                        147.0       172.0       179.0               196.0        69.0       140.0
PER SO. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND            ..          ..          ..
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND          42.0        34.4        30.4                25.0        23.3        26.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE PER THOUSAND           9.0         7.7         7.1                 7.0         7.8         7.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE I/THOU)          51.0        32.2        25.3                34.0        26.0        22.9
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH IYRS         65.0        68.0        69.0                67.0        71.0        72.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.4         2.7         2.4                 2.2         1.5         1.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATF (II
TOTAL                                   1.3         1.6         1.6                 2.1         1.1         3.2
URBAN                                     ..        6.2          ..                  ..         1.9         3.6
URBAN PnPULATION It OF TOTAL)            23.0        377 o                           1 2.0       39.0        82.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENTI
0 TO 14 YEARS                         41.2        45.9        42.1 /a             41.2        31.8        33.3 3
15 TO 64 YEARS                         54.5        48.5        51.2                54.8        60.6        60.2 j
65 YEARS AND OVER                       4.3         5.6         6.7a                4.0         1.6         6.5 /a
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                      0.8         1.1         1.0 /a              0.8         o.6         0.7
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIC                 1.2         1.7          1.31.3                         0.9/a       1.2/ab
FAmILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)             ..        49.8       120.9                25.4
USERS (I OF MARRIED WOMEN)               ..          ..          ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)            650.0 *     600.0 *     820.0 /a            350.0/a     265.0      1000.0 a
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (2)           36.0        33.0        29.2 7              22.0        36.0         9.0 a
UNFMPLOYED (t OF LABOR FORCE)            13.0        14.0        21.1 7              12.5         1.1         4.0a
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
I OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'O DY-
HIGHEST  5 OF HOUSEHOLDS              30.2 /a       ..          ..                  ..        l2.k        13.4/c
HIGHEST 20S OF HOUSEHOLDS              01.27;        ..          ..                  ..        39.1.       38.6   c
LOWEST   70T nF HOUSEHCLDS              2.2 7;              ..             ..                   1.9c 7.8 7c
LCWEST   40S nF HOUSEHOLDS              8.2          .           ..                  *.        19.6        20.5 w
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWtFRSHIP
S OWNEn BY TOP 102 OF OWNERS               ..           ..          ..
2 OWNED BY SMALLEST 102 OWNEPS              ..          ..          ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                    ..     2630.0      2580.c              2320.0      1280.0       400.0/4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          1990.0 b    1 720.0 /a   850.0 b             360.0 A     610.0       210.0 d
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED             250.0 7c    240.0       270.0 7             230.o       190.0       170.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (I OF REQUIREMENTS)           87.0       103.0       1OS.0                97.0        99.0       116.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                46.0        56.0        63.0                64.0        78.0        92.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSF           20.0 /d     29.0 7b       ..                34.0 /c     33.0 /      49.0
nEATH RATF I/THOU) AGEs 1-4                ..           ..          ..                1.8          ..         1.0
EDUCATION
ADJUSTEn ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOCL                        118.0 /e     101.0       106.0              110.0 g      82.o 0d     132.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                       10.0 k       21g 0       32.0 /d            hO.0        57.0 d      33 0 A
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIOED
IFIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)               12.0        12.0        12.0                15.0        12.0 /d     12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(t OF SECONDARY)                        9.0         9.0          *-                 8.0  d     12.0 /d     LS.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (Z)                     ..       8b.0 /c        ..                88.0       85.0
HOUSI NG
PERSCNS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)                 1.6          ..          ..                 ..           ..        I.S 
OCCUPIED DWFLLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (2)                        79.0        78.0 /d        *-               68.0 /er      *-         3.0 f
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(Z OF ALL OWELLINGS)                     ..        27.0          ..                66.0  e       ..        94.0 
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
Tn ELECTRICITY 12)                       ..           *.          *-                 .           *-        58.0 s
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)            88.0       376.0                          276.0       264.0       223.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER TFQU POP)             26.0 /c     38.0        45.0                75.0       89.0         52.0
ELECTRICITY IKWH/YR PER CAP)             362.0       825.0      1031.0             1173.0       962.0      2350.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                  2.9         4.3         4.1                 5.5         2.7        11.7
- - -    -- -FFI     -TIO    -h----      --     -                    ------                           
SFE NOTFS AND DEFINITIONS UN RFVERSE



Page 2 of 4. pages
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961., for 1970 between 1968 en 1970, and for ti.t Recent Estimate between
1971"ed 5973.
*  bt. bae.d mm official definition which includes thnee willing in work beut not actively seeking employment.
-  Irae   bhe been selected as the objective cmantry because of its similarity in population sloe and depandesce on foreign trade.
JAMA-ICA                 1960    /a   1958;    /b   1963;    Ic   1962;    /d   1961-621     /e  6-10 and 11-17 years of age respeci-tnly.
1970    /.   Per,n.-el in gover-et      ervioss only;     AQ   1964466;    /    1966;     /d  inside only.
MOST RECENT pSTngATE,      IA  1974;     /b  Including practical nursee;       /.  Governent hoopit.1 establishments only;
7- 12-18 years of age.
TRINIDAD ERND TOBAGO    U1970     a   15-61. years;    Lb  Including midwives;      /c  1964.-66;     d   Goversoemt maintained end aided schools only;
Te  1966;     af   Insids only;     &   5-il years of age.
CYPRUS                   1970    Ia   Ratio of population unider 15 and 65 and over to itotl labour force;        /b   1966, urban;     Li,  1961466;   /d   Dot
including Thrklsh schuls;       /s   5-11 and 12-17 years of age respectively.
ISRAEL                   1970    /A   Includes date relating to certain territories under occupation by Isameli military forces since June 19~6?,
______            -      2~~~~7  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labour force;      /i, Jewish wage earners, urban;
7d- Registered, not all practicing in the coutry;         /e 12-18 years of age;       af  1966.
R6, May 3, 1976
DEFiINTTIONS OF SOCIAL, INDICATORS
Laud Area ichou Ins.                                                                       P.p.lation per cursice pecuo    - Pupr,lutso  dividod by   -ebcr uf pra    -
Total1   Tutu; surface area t-ipristog Land     -ro  and inland wators,                       ing male ad female graduate curse        "trained" or "ocrttfird' u"    '
Agric. - ont recnt estimate of agricultural area used tcopotarily or Per-                    and a..niliary personnel with tra,icig or enperie--c
eacootly for cropa,    pastures. narhet b hitohon gardens or to lifo falio.               Ppootiao   cur hospital bed - Poplat-o di-sded by nuehb- of hospital
beds avilable in pubiio and privato      ceeral a-d upec-Ised h-pnyili
GNP Per cueita (01$) - fNP poroapita estimatcs at sachet prince. -aleslted                   and rehbabilttion testers, cooled- nursing bone        and esta.blish-oi
by taoo     .e .nmthod as World BOuc       Atlas (1972-74 bus.for -atodsil cnd prevetie care.
Per napfta cepeiy of ealorse     (2 of rnseot)-Conputed trot
Ppuelatten and oial ettistios-                                                               ee-cy equivalent of Oct fund sapplion      -alable in conty       -o
Population (cid-yr. nilliun) - Au nf July firit,      if cot -v-lal.      erge               capita per dey, available s-ppite     crepriso dinetic prednitre..
of two ned-year e-tinate.                                                                  inporto Iess ooporto, and rha-gen in soth, net n-pplie-       -nLludo
aelnail food, -ends. quantities usd in food pr-cene-g and lo            I
Pneulatson density - core unro.e- 1     Mid-year population per squae bib-.                  distribatioc, requirenn.ets were estimatd by FAO based cc physi-
outr (ill he-tre) of total urea,                                                           logical needs foe noal a-t-ioty and bhaleb       -cider sngecr---
PoPolatlon denity - pee osuar      ns ofaut     ln    - Conpared as abeo for                 neotal temperatern    body weights, ago and -o ,li--ibatiuei
agriciterail land only.                                                                    pepulatien, and al11eisg 102. for waite at bonseheld level
Per capita supply of prutnin (crave Per d,y) - Protein tenont-ofp-
vital statstics                                                                              .apt.a e-t supply of feed per day, ne     supply of fond is defic,d at
Criude birth rate Pec thetiand - Acoa1 lieu births por thousand uf nid-yua-                  above   requireecets for all row-e-n -i tbl-tubd by tINS,. toE-      -
populatIon, usualy fto-yea       -ctgsedsog in 1960, 1970 ued 1971 fur                     Re-erch Derci-e    p-aide for a slenr     .a..cuoce of L0 grams of
developing c..nutrien.                                                                     tolt1 prutnic per day, and 20 grams of aminol and plse protein
Crt,d  death tate per thousand -AnnualI deaths per thousand of mid-year                      whith 10 goa-    h-eld ho   -i-al    ---~ 1n,-tes   -id.ardd  -r lower
populatioIn, aual.ly finn-year averages ending in 1960. 1970 and 1915 for                  than thuse of 75 gron    of total protein and 23 gr-n of aio
de-eluping -eietrioc                                                                       proteni as an average fur the world     proposed by FA0 re the [bird
Infant .ortalisy rate ftboul - Aun...I deaths of Infants under ace year of ago               World Feed lemony.
per thbos..ad 1li- bicePs                                                                Per copita cr01etc ..pply fre animal and eAse       - Pro ocie spply of food
Life onp-otaey et birth fore) - Acecuge onober of years of life rena i.iog                   deri-ed fr- anmlsad psis-          se gras per doy
at bir-th, osually fin-yea     -cerag-s eding in 1960. 1970 and 1979 fcc                 Death rate f/thou) ages I-h - AnnualI deish per ib-sad in age group
dcc-! pi.ngreore.1-4 ye.rs.                                                                            te children -e this agc A-pP     sugg-seod usan-d-tra.e
Gr-srep prd-tio     ra-te- Acercoo    -bIhr of lion daughters a wona will bear               of malntrition,
iher normal reprodoc-ie period if nbc eupersenres pr.-cnt age-specific
fertility rates, -suelly fe--yar averges ending so 19il. 1970 and 1975                   Ed...atiun
fer d-voleping coon trie                                                                 Adiusted ec   letroti         -cpri-or  u.hul -  celete         all agesu
yopol-tto   gr-cth rate Ill - turl - Cnp.uod annua       growth ratn- of mid-yea             piare-cge of primary n-hc-al p-2        lt.n     i-l md- rhildine ofOf
population for 1950-hi. 196d-7i. ard 1960 in      -e treci.t yor.                          6-11 years but adjusted for different lengths of primary edaratiun
PupuILatn growth ratejfl,,, u Lrban - C-pyrred liko growth rate of total                    for c..utiri- with unvra         dut-tio.- enel      tny .cucd 10(77
populatrlos  differcnr defiuitions of urban ares may affect        nparabtility             ice   on   puIs are below or Ihn       th  ofllsa sIbohol a
of data  -oeg noerc.iintderlnctr:i-eenayshu                                                                                                 Cnputed aabeo
Irban pepslaison (% of total) - Ratio of urban to total popitlatten, diffo-                   .ciondary odagatien roq-tr- at loast four year      ef approved pruniury
reer definition   of   rha- areas may affet cuoparahility of dora amoeg                    ins.trooti-n, provides gucera.1  c-t-tta     or reather tralnisi
ceuetrine.                                                       inn tractruns ~~~~~~~~~~~for pupils of 12 to 17 years of ago, o erre pon.donr
Age structure ipercect) - Children (0-14 years). wrkitog-age (15-64 years).                  courses ar   gene.ralip -n1idod
acd retired (65 ya-c      d over) as perce-tagon of mid-yea     pep.arion,               Years of s-boelicg peru,ded    f/tro  and --rd levels) - Toral years ef
Age depeede..cy ratio - Ratin of peoiation uedor 15 acd 61 and ever In these                 schooling, at   -ond-ry level,    -o-tieo-1 in    rute     cy ho pa-
of ags1thouhb.dil1y or toepleecly                                                                                  o-liulded
frnni. depsdnn-y ratio - laitto of population under 15 aed 65 and over te                  ooinlurioo.T               fst     ey     I- rtlona. tos-titattoos
the labnr force in aggou       ef 19-AL yearn                                              i-lede    ehoiea.1   iod-strial or ether prgran     whiob operate iodr-
fan1l Placniog - arepgtor-a    c f"selais-, thou) - Cuelatice number of                      pendoetly or us depac.onet    of secedary i-ntstieon..
a-optcrs of bireli-oncre-    devce     nder a-pires of calt,onal fainly ple-             AdultItteaort         % lite-t. itrate adu1tu al    eradadat)a
nieg programst-      inteptuot.                                                            percentage of total adolt pepulation aged 15 year      acd 0-cr.
fai P..nin-nro(.ofmried wos              -l       - Pretge  of mrrIed
wovn of    hd-ern        ag   fI-Lyears) weuse bir'th-rontr-        dec_e    te          H....ogii
all married woe     io smage group                                                       P-rneo  per rue(aeae)-            rage number nf person    Per r-    i'm
nerupiedl -onenni..oaI d-llingn in -rasaras         d-oaL-igs curlode
F.pl.nonen                                                                                   one-permanent itrit-or- and onnuupied ports.
Total lahnr force (thousad) - Euoi-nualy autive person           iniudiseg acned           Ot-pied d.ellscun asthnat riced water (7.) - Outpied t o-oti...aI
forces ucd n...mpleyed butI-ncding h-onei-es .sudents, rip, dcinso-                        d-eiliegs ini urhac  -A rura   aeas witheot ini-de or e-t-de piped
lions in cartoo    c-trci- arc not -eparable.                                              water futilities as prneetago ef all ectupied danliog-.
Labor fort   cc agriculture (%) - Agricultural lebor f.r.. fin farmig                      A ...i- so uleet-iuy fT ef ail d..nll.sn    ) - C-e-e in..aI dwellings
forestry. siuntiog and lisbing) on pnrccage of. tul        ibr force.                       ith electricity i-s li-g quarers at penes          f Ltota  dwellings
U.eenPlopnd (2ioLj labor forc).    oIneplynd are usually deft-ed as pere-                    in urban ad trura   aras
wheor a. ble and williog to tohn a job, out of a job on a gi-en day                      uRa-I ds,iliicgc conee ied tn oleetrririt    4     C- eputed as abeor for
remined out of a jeb. and s-eieg verb fera           pentfsed ei-se. period                rnra1 dweIllings only
oet cocedief one w-k, oa       o   h   oparable bt-eo countrIes due to
cf/socestatist- ten  siplo 3our-y-s.cupolsory unnapleynen t seo-ann.                     Rai rrtern lper tr.un pop) - [11 types of reorsfor radio
breadracre to generl poblir per thou....d ef pepsiatiun.. entIlies
Io-u-. dietributsion -Pe elt.olig  of pri-Cat  incten  fboth in tah aed kind)               onlioIncId re--eter    in ro..rie    an d in year  when r-gistrotion at
received by riobost I,    richest 20%. peerent 20%. und poerot 40% of                      ral ie sts sa   in offeur   data for   -. r tes -yar  nay not be unopar-
hosicholds                                                                                 oh;          -tine u  --nite  abolished lisoe..tng.
Possegerrao      lys  thou nor) - Passeger tars~ ompr-e mntnr -tar
DistributLion of land   erhsp       -  Portentagec  of land mind by welhes-eting                      lees thneih      perse-n    xtnde-   -sbolaoe    heari-. a-d
10). and p-ooot  lOP, of land  -Ier.                                                         ittry vehicle..
E.l_itrirty (h'.th/yr pec tar) - a... I --srapsion ef industrial       too
Health and NttrtiLLn                                                                         ter-a. pblIc and privte electricity ini hilositt hours per
peecl.iase  roe phyisetie-l'lat.         divided by itnoercpvac-scng                         tapiro, generally hosed on pr-durtio     data. withost allotast    for
phyi-cians qualifIed Iron aediral s_bl at IeterI           y level                         lesse  in gr-tdn bnt o1lowig for osperts and enpore      nf el -trireco
No6i,tnc~itcryta,1   -Per capita sonultosotin           ohugra
-st-nted iron d-metic pr-d-ut-i       plancIt ivpnrtoef oc-sprint



ANNEX I
Po 3of4 page-
JAMAI-CA
SELECTED ECONOMIIC DEVELOPOONT DATA
Averag        Actual      Eat.               Projected                  Average Annual Groth Rtor                          An . of GDY
1970- 72       1974       1973        1976      1978      1980        1970-72       1972-74      1975-80        1974       1976      1978       1990
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                                                           Coo.ntant 1974 01$ Milli.o.n
CDP                                                       2077.6       2449.2     2474.0       2350      2566      2883            7.9          3 5           3 1       100 0       9464      97 0       968
Cainn f-o,T-r ef T-de                                         2 0         0          62 0        88          9        94            -            -                         0         36,        37        37
Crone: Doneetic Incom                                     2079.6       2449.2     2536.0       DAIS      2645      2977           A A           4 1           3 3       tOO 0      1000      100 0      100
Inpoe-   (tool. 0007                                      1010.0      1063.8      1135.0       1023      1196      1298          -1 I           3.3           2.7        43 4       Al19      A4  7     43 6
npmrte   lioport capacit)                                  874.0        963.2      935.0        939      1097      1243          .I.8           5.9           Sq          39.3      308S      41         4 1 7
Cocnumpuon                                                1747.6       1998.3     2248.0       2162      2194       2323          9.4           1.0           0 6        01.6       88 7      02S        789
Ino-tnec                                                   448.0        551.5      488 0        360       550        709         -5.0          12.5           7 0         27 S      148       2 07       23 8
Net local Saving                            ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~214.0  406.9  303.0  225     396        580        -IA 3          55.6          17 8         16 6       92 7      1S0       19 S
Soveetic Saving                             ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~~332.0  450.9  288.0  274    451        654          -7 9         21.1          13 9         10.4      05 3       170       7
MERSCHANDISE TRADt                                                                              Currant US5 Milioant                                                                An .of Total_
Food                                                     76.0       131.2       145.0       146        106       711          15.5         78.9            7.9        13.7       12 5      11.4      11I
Other Coc..ner Goode                                     95.5        159        120.0        114       119       123          19.5          -6.4           0.4        10.7        0 0       47         I 
Petroleum                                 ~~~~~46.8   15.1        270          2         9         378l         29.5         99.4          12.0         21.1      19s        2 70 7    7
Other Itrr-dit- Coode                                   165.7        275.8      332.0        365       516       653           8.6          35.0          14.4        74.2       3464      35.8       358
CapitaI Gooda                                           1!2J1        227.9    .329.0~        217       378       438         -10.0          24.0         8.9jL        20.7       25.4      257 7      2.7
Total Me-hamdi- Imp-rtt (.lf)                           564.1        935.8     1103.0      1067       T4-9I     1823           6.5          31.7         11.7        100.0      1000 5    T0T       T55
Nact,tn-Alomlnn                          ~~~~~~       ~~~~~~225.3  529.4  406.0  579     064      1119            -           60.4          10.7        74 2       741 3     I76.,      74I
3 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~37.9                                    81.8       132.0        92        171       156           6.1         40.4           3. 4         11.8     10 7        I0.7     1   7
Other                                                    80.5        8t4 2       9   0       109       167       180           9.0          2.8.          13.7        14 0       13.0      12 6       12 4
Total Hrh-ndiae Enp-rts (fob)                         -3r357     ~    r         71155-       780      1132      1113           2.9          44.7          15.4       r TSST    too3       Th5       117Tho
Ma-chaodtao Toodo Indiona
Import Prico loden                                       57.1        100.0      109.7        119.1     147.2     162.6         7.1          27.0           0.7
Copore Price lodno                                       17.7       100.0       117.4        131.4     157.3     175.9         3 .5         29.1           8.3
Teno   of Tradeloden                                    100.1        100.0      107.2        110.3     107.8     108.2        -3.5           1.5            -
74A.0E ADDED BY SECTOR                                                                         Co..atat 1974 US$ MiliatAn 7.                                                               f GUP
Agriculture                                                134.5        174.1       206.9       219.1      740.5     322.9         5.7          2.2           9.C          7.1       9 3       11.2      11 A
MiotIg                                                      290.4       354. 5      363.0       326.7      356.7     401.2         3.1          9.9           7.0         14.5      13 9       14.0      13.9
.a..tfot-aiog                                               226.7       275.3       302.8       293.7      372.0     3072. 7       7.5          1.7           4.0         11.2      172 5      17.7      13 3
ori-e sod Othor                                           1424.0       6jr5,.     16136S~                  167 0    1776 2         9.           2.            7.          47.       64 3       4 5       4 A
Total                                                     2077.6      ihIuII      7T   5        30.0     2560      nft             7.0          3.5           3.1        100.0     100.0     100.0      100 7
PUBL1IC FINANiCES
Correat R-cipto                                         105.8        728,5      723.0        723.0     037.1     939.9         8.5          14.1           5          7 9.7      30 7      32.5       32S
Corret tmpecdicu,rn                                     410.6        619.0      414.9        660.0     6 93. 0    770.0       13.0          15.1           5.0        03.1       280 A     27 0       26.3
S_it   Sectr Sovlnga                                 95.2        113.5      108.9         63.0     144.1     149.9       -14.1          21.7           9.3         4.6        7.7       5 5        5 7
PoI_.ecr  oetn..nt                              101.6        328.9      308.0        258.0     330.0     386.1         0.9          26.4           4.6        13.4       10 9      17.0       13.3
Ce-tra1 Gon-roomt                                                                                                               Contro-I    nrr
CURRENT EXIPENDITURE 0D0411.S                                1973        1974        1975                                       I7lE0TIRB POGRAM DETAILA                   97       1974       1975
(An -If Total C-t-et tapendictr)                                                                                                tA.. F       Tol CapitolI' -ood--ot)       -         -        _
GeneralI Adm, ini rtuo                                   33.2         28.5       31.5                                        CocmcSericos                             67.2       74 4      40 2
3oct-1 ovd Con-oity Sorv-ce                              38.8        40.2        41.0                                        Social Senior                            27.4       27 A      313
EconoIc Sorvico                                          17.3         10.2       14.3                                       Ce-ro1 Sornicot                            5.6       17        I
nth-r                                                    10.7         13.1       13.7                                        Othor                                     4.0        nI     
AELECTED INDICATORS                                         1965-       1970-      1975-                                        FINANiCIlO  OF PUBLIC SECTOR TNV0STMENST PROGRAM
(Calculatd from    5-y-u   averged data)                    1970         1971       1980                                        fAa .  o f Total CapItal Enpecdt.urn)
Snerage ICOR                                              4.5          5.6        7.1                                        Pablic Sooco    S-vinga                  74 5       34 S      is 0
Import Elotatloc                                          0.0         0.2         0.9                                        bo-etic    arrcomiog   1e                I   9      70 0      30 0
MagnlDo-tio Savingo Rate                             0.1          0.2        0.6                                        Eaternal Borroing fo-t7                  71 3       34 1      25 0
largioul So-tio-I Sntago Rotc                             0.4          0.32       0.8                                        Other                                    -6 7       It 4      30 
ECNPLOYTOENT ASS OIJTPoT                                                         Total E.ploycd                      Annua                     Value Added 'or Wnrker 71974 Proto       an.d tEch-nA   OfRul-
PCR BORKER                                                      Tho..a..de                        % of Total         Groth                            0s                         veroNAa-g     19f9-74 Crouh
1969         1974                    1969      1974     1969-74                    1960          197          195       1974(7
Agrfioslrst                                             232.0        225.3                    37.7       34.9       --662.4                              775 3        25.1        20.4           3 1
Macufactariog                              40~~~~~~~~~~~~6.4  80.2              11.1      12.4        3.7                  3 569.7        3437.6       117 0       90 3          -06
Pshlsc Adoiniatratioc          54.7         76.0                     8.0      ~~~~~      ~~~~                      ~~~~~~~~11.  60972.5  43n0.0  94.6  714.9           7 9
Ochar                                                   761.1        263.5                    42.3      40.9        --                    872.9         63121.0     123.3      144.            10.
Total or Anorage                          61~~~~~~~~rl7. 0  64_5.0                                    WI00  oo-            3141.0         3797.7    10    0 I      iS  5           3.4
nIIo     ogligible.                                                                                                                                  LonnrcodCrhha                     oonl       fc
'tort 12, 1976



ANNEX 1
Page 4 fP 4 pages
jAMAl CA
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS. EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(it correct US$ a,llio...
Avg Accua.l
Actual                               EatEnted                                  P-r-tecd                                       G-oth Rate
1970         1971        1972         1973        1974         1975             1976         1977        1978         1979        1980           1970-75        1975-80
SUMM9ARY BALANCE OP PAYMENTS
E.porta (ilcd. NPS)                             521.6        543.0       583.3        631.6       963.2        1027.0          1119.0       1338.0      1561.0       1779.0      2021.0             14 5           13 5
Icocarts (Dnl. NI'S)                            598.0        632.8       677.9        792.6      1063.5        1246.0          1219.0       1442.0      1701.0       1996.0      2110.0            iS.B            11.1
Rec..rc   Blce(X-M)                             -76.4        -89.8       -94.5       -141.0      -100.6        -219.0          -100.0       -104.0      -140.0       -119.0       -99.0              5 7          -19.7
icterect (cat)                                   -9.5         -9.6       -11.9        -17.4       -33.0         -42.0           -55.0        -63.0       -70.0        -79.0       -BB.B-            34.6           15.9
Direct 1nvectcct taoa-105.0                                 -106.3      -120.6        -50.9       -59.5           6.0           -63.0        -63.0       -75.0        -91.0      -109.0
W.orkera' RciOttac....                           16.4         13.1.        11.9        10.1        19.9          22.0             24.0        26.0         29.0        29.0         32.0             6 0             7.9
Corrent Tracsfera (cat)                          22.1         20.6         23.3        26.4        28.1          30.0             33.0        36.0        39.0         65.0         45.0             6.3             8.4
Balace c  Corect  ccouta           -.52.        -1.7.       -1.1.         1.27       -4.2          -0.               161.0      -1=69.0      .219.0      -217.0      -209.0              o.905
Private Direct Inv-t-et (tet)                   154.1        101.9        17.9         33.7        1.7.4         20.0             20.0        40.0        76.0         90.0       005.0            -50.1           39.3
Offic ia  Capital Ge.nta                           -            -..-                                               -                -           -            -           -            -
PubIc M&LT L.acs
Diiabur-e.et                                  19.0         29.4        49.3        149.3       201.7         161.0           119.0        204.0       199.0        231.0       309.0             54 9           13.3
-Recament.                                    -15.0       -1.0.9       -17.9        -16.9       -31.6         -34.0           -42.0        -67.0       -93.0        -95.0      -100.0             17.9           24.1
Net Diab.reemecta                                 3.0         17.5        31.5        131.5       170.1         127.0            116.0       137.0        116.0       136.0       200.0            115.0             9.5
Capital Traceactiana .e.                         16.5         96.6        95.6        -13.6        19.5         -30.0             25.0        23.0                       -            -
Change in Bet Reacruec (- i.crea.e.             -21.2        -44.0       -46.8         21.1       -61.9          86.0               0        -32.0         27.0        -9.0        96.0
Actual                               EtimtEEd
GRANT ANB LODAN COMMIXTMENTS                                                                                                                                        1970         .9 7-1      1.9772      1973         1974         1971
Official Orants & Gract-like Loam.                6.2          8.7         3.0           -           -                     DEBT AND DBET SERVICE
Public Debt Out. & Dichbrced          129.0       147.9        177.0       306.0        473.9        600.5
P.blric M90T LI..c.
ORESD                                          5.7         13.5          -           9.3        46.5                       Ictereat - Public Debt              9.5          9.6        11.9         17.4        33.0         45.6
IDA                                             -                              -                                           R -eapay.cetcioc PubIlc Debt       15.0         10.9        1.7.8        16.9        31.6         34.4
Other                                           -----Ttal Public Debt Earvic                                                                                  24.5         20.1        29.7         34.2        64.6         80.0
Othe   MuItil.t-rl                              -           2.1          -           7.9        19.0                       Otber Debt Service (met)             .
coveraet.                                     17.9         34.3        14.2         27.9        10.9                       Total Debt Sric    (ce t)
S,ppi-r                                         -          13.6        10.0          2.2
FicacIa Ico_tIt.i...                                       30.9        50.7         99.9       1.38.4                    urdem cc Eaport Earcieg. 
Bocdc .                                                                10.0         14.0
P.blSc   ...0c  .. ei.                          -                                     -2.4                                 Public Debt Service                 4.7          3.8         5.1         5.4          6.7          7.8
Total Public -ALT L..a.                          73.6         94.3        1015.1      ti1.1       217.2                       To tal Deb t lervica-.
TDS!Or..t Iaveet. Ic..              24.9        23.          30.9        13.15       19.:5          7.
Average Tere of Pabigo Debt
Oct. .c % Prte- Year DOiD            6.7         7.4          9.0         9.8        10.9           9.6
Actoal Debt OtstaEadgec Dc2a. 31. 1974                          A-at. ac 7. Prl.r Year 10D60        6.7          8.4        12.0          9.5        10.3          7.3
Biabur-d Onlyo                     Perceot
EXTERNAL DEBT                                                                                                                 SEED Debt Out- 4 Di.bnr.ed             29.9        33.7         34.8        36.6         37.9         49.5
W.rlid Back                                                        37.8                             9.0                          as 7, Public Debt DAD            23.1        20.8         19.1        11.4          7.9          8.2
000-                                                                                                                            at 7. PubIlic Debt Service        11.7        13.2         11.5        12.0          7.0          5.7
Other M.ltil.t.r.1                                                  3.5                            0.7
Gover-met                                                          98.8                            20.9
lo ppl tera                                                        21.7                            4.6
Pimaccial 1-ntit.ti...                                            259.3                           54.7
Boeda                                                              35.8                            7.6
Public DebtoE.                                                     o9                              3.6
Yad Public NALT L...n                                          473.9                          100.0
cot applicable.                            -  il or negligible.C-ttP.r-                                                                                                                                   Dpt..LT
cot available..L                                                                                                                                                                   - Aouori-.. CrofiacaDeRaric.ct  I    fc
March 9. i976



A=II
Page 1 of 4i
STATUS OF BAhK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JAMAICA
A.   Statement of Bank Loans (as at April 30i, 1976_)
Loan   Fiscal                                                         (US$ million)
No.     Year             Bbrrower               Purpose           Amount (less cancellation'!
Bank           UndiasD7rsea
1/                       3.
3 loans fully disbursed (408, 454 and 468)                        35.8
598     1969    The Water Cormission
Kingstons, Jamaica             Water Sapply        5.0              0.3
690     1970    Jamaica                        Population          2.0              0.8
719     1970    Jamaica Development Bank       Agriculmure         3.7              0-4
727     1971    Jamaica                        Education          13.5             10.1
099     1973    Jasica                          Highways           9.3              4-P
1003     1974    Jamaica                        Sites and Services 15.0             15.0
104s     1974    Jamaica Development Bank       Agriculture         5.5              3.7
1032     1975    Jamaica                        Highways           13.5             11.9
10432,   1975    Jamaica                        Airports           12.5             10.9
1146-    1975    The Water Commission
Kingston, Jamaica               Sewerage/Water    15.0             15.0
Total (ndt cancellation)                         130.8
of which has been repaid                            i.6
Total now outstanding                            121.2
Anount sold                     1. 6
of which has been repaid        1.4                0.2
Total now held by Bank                           121.0
Total undisbursed                                                 _3.3
B.   Statement of IFC Investments (as at Aprfi 30, 1976)
Year      Obligor                               type of               (US$ million)
Business         Loan    Equity    Total
1961      Jamaica Pre-ltx Ltd.                  Pre-mix concrete  0.2               0.2
1968      Pegasus Hotel of Jamaica Ltd.         Tourism           2.2     0.7       2.9
Total gross commitments                                 2.4     0.7       3.1
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                    1.1               1.1
Total commitments now held by IFC                       1.3     0.7       2.0
Total undisbursed                                        -       -         -
1/   The telecommunications loan (481-JM) was made in 1967 to the Jamaica Telephone
Company and wias cancelled by the Borrower during 1967.
This loan has not yet been made effective.



ANNE II
Page 2 of 4
JAMAICA
C.   Projects in Execution-/
Ln. No. 727   Second Education Project; US$13.5 million of March 25, 1971;
Effective Date: July 30, 1971; Closing Date: December 31t 1977
Project implementation is more than 30 months behind appraisal
schedule due mainly to a change in government, high turnover in project unit
staff and lack of proper project implementation machinery.   The newly estab-
lished implementation machinery is functioning well and the performance of the
project units in the Ministry of Education and the National Development Agency
has, so far, been satisfactory.  However, because of initial delays in getting
the physical aspects of the project under way and more recent delays in the
award of a number of contracts, the construction of schools will not be com-
pleted before August 1977.   Thus, the closing date, originally December 31,
1975, has been extended to December 31, 1977. Due to sharp increases in prices
.and wages in the construction sector since appraisal, a substantial construction
cost overrun of about US$15 to 18 million, or about 60% to 65% of appraisal
estimates, can be expected.
In. No. 719   Agricultural Credit Project; US$3.7 million of December 28, 1970
Effective Dates June 1, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1976
After a slow start the project picked up momentum and the Bank
loan is now fully committed and is expected to approach full disbursement by
the present closing date.
in. No. 1004  Second Agricultural Credit ProJect, US$5.5 million of June 13, 1974
Effective Date: October 3, 1974;   Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Commitments are progressing satisfactor.ly, but disbursements are
behind appraisal schedule, primarily because of delay in implementing sub-project
investments. The Borrower has, however, recently stepped up operations and a
proposed third Bank project has just been appraised. Increased efforts are
required in terms of improved management staffing and training to ensure the
project's effectiveness, the more so as the Borrower's agricultural lending
operations have increased sharply by taking over small farmers' lending programs
from other agencies. There is also an unsatisfactory loan recovery situation
(for both the first and second projects) and discussions are taking place between
JDB and the Sank on measures required to improve the situation.
In. No. 690   Population Project, US$2.0 million of June 18, 1970
Effective Date: November 2, 1970; Closing Datet March 31, 1977
There have been delays in the design/construction programs for the
Victoria Jubilee Hospital (VJH) and ten rural maternity centers (RMCs), due
primarily to problems of coordination and management. However, more recently
improved progress has been made in implementing some of the principal aspects
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directora regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them. They should
be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do not purport
to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
of the program. Construction of all ten RMCs has been physically completed
and are in operation. There are indications that some of the RMCs are under-
utilized and it is planned to broaden the range of services they provide by
including primary health care and nutrition activities. Construction of the
VJH expansion is nearly completed although there have been delays largely
due to unsatisfactory performance by the main contractor; the contractor's
insurance company is assisting in contract supervision. The loan closing date,
originally March 31, 1975, has been postponed to March 31, 1977. Progress has
been slow in implementing the training and home encouragement aspects of the
family planning program, but intensified efforts are being made in these areas
through the use of community health aides. The family planning services have
been integrated into the MLnistry of Health.
In. No. 598    Kingston Water Supply Project;  Us$5.0 million of May 14, 1969
Effective Date: June 25, 196b; Closing Date: September 30, 1976
After initial delays over the acquisition of land rights and in
the award of contracts, implementation of the physical aspects of the project has
improved and the works are now almost entirely in operation. The loan closing
date, originally June 30, 1972, has been postponed to September 30, 1976. After
a period of weak financial performance during which the Borrower, the Kingston
Water Commission, was not able to obtain the 8% rate of return required in the
Loan Agreement, the situation improved following a 60% average increase in water
rates in December 1974 followed by a 50% increase in sewerage rates in June 1975.
The Borrower achieved the financial target for the 1975/6 financial year estab-
lished in the new Loan Agreement (In. 1146), but will need to take further
measures to reduce costs and increase revenues to achieve the target for the
current financial year.
Ln. No. 1146   Kingston Sewerage and Water 9upply Project;  US$15.0 million of
July 23. 1975
(Not yet effective)s Closing Date: September 30, 1979
Implementation of the physical aspects of this project have not
begun due to delay by the Borrower in appointing engineering consultants. However,
consultants to supervise the sewerage construction works will shortly be appointed.
A Project Manager has been appointed and the Commission has selected a qualified
General Manager designate who took up duties on April 1, 1976. The terminal date
for effectiveness of this loan, originally October 21, 1975, has been postponed
a third time to June 30, 1976, because of delays in the appointment of the General
Manager designate and recruitment of supporting staff for the Project Manager.
Ln. No. 899    Road Improvement and Maintenance Project;  US$9.3 million of
June 1, 1973
Effective Date: August 31, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
After some initial delays and quality control problems, the reseal-
ing program for 250 miles of secondary main roads is progressing satisfactorily and
is about 70% completed. Work is under way on the program for resurfacing 200 miles of
arterial road and is progressing satisfactorily although it is behind schedule due
to difficulties with respect to the supply and quality of aggregates and to plant
and equipment breakdowns. The technical assistance being provided by the con-
sultants is satisfactory. Total project costs are estimated at about 50% above
the appraisal estimate due to increased costs of asphaltic overlay; nevertheless,
the project is estimated to have a rate of return of about 30%.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
I. No. 1003 Sites and Services Project; Us$*5.0 million of June 13, 1974
Effective Date: September 9, 1974.; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Progress on the project during the first quarter of 1976 was slow
partly due to political violence in Kingston which brought work to a halt on the
Mrcus Garvey site. However, the situation has improved more recently and work
has resumed on all sites.   The first site at Spanish Town will be completed
this month and self-help construction of houses will commence by early May, after
the occupants have completed their training. The staffing situation in the Sites
and Services Unit in the Ministry of Housing has improved with the appointment
of senior staff to head the three functional diviaions. A consultant has been
retained to advise the Director of the Unit on the institution of effective
management systems for the Unit. The first application for disbursement has been
received and processed by the Bank. The project is nearly one year behind
schedule. Project costa are currently estimated at US$44.9 million compared to
the appraisal estimate of US$34.9 million.
Ln. No. 1032  Third Highway Project; US$13.5 million of July 26, 1974
Effective Date: September 27, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Work has commenced on the Bog Walk to Linstead arterial road section,
which is being undertaken on force account. Bid prices for the two May Pen bypass
sections were up to 43% higher than appraisal estimates3 negotiations with con-
tractors were successful in reducing prices to 24% above appraisal estimates as
a result of the location of construction materials with improved engineering
characteristics. Construction on the by-passes has started. No acceptable bids
were received for the Williamsfield to Greenvale arterial section and the goverm-
ment is currently consulting with the Bank on the possibility of undertaking the
work by force account. Even with these increased costs the project is still
economically feasible. The UNDP financed component of the project for assistance
to the local construction industry, for which the Bank is the Executing Agent,
has been delayed due to UNDP cash flow problems; however, it is expected that
the project will start later this year.
In. No. 1043  Airort DeveloEment Projectj US12.5 miion of October 2       1974
Effective Date: -March 14, 1975;  Closing Date:  June 30, 977
Delays were incurred in appointing the engineering consultants and
establishing the project team and therefore in getting the initial design and
procurement work under way. The effect of cumulative delays encountered during
the design phase will be a delays encountered during the design phase will be
a delay of approximately six months in the overall completion of the project;
however, estimated project costs to completion are unchanged from appraisal
estimates. Design and planning for project execution is now progressing and it
is expected that the majority of the works will be ready during the 1976/77 tourist
season. The Airports Authority of Jamaica (AAJ) to now well established and the
organizational work largely complete. However, due to increased operational costs
and lower traffic receipts than forecast, the AAJ will be unable to make its
US$4.5 million contribution to the project financing plan. Government will make
good the shortfall from other sources. Consultants have been appointed to assist
the Civil Aviation Department in improving its organization and management tech-
niques and have issued their first report.



ANNEiX III
Page I of 3
JAMAICA - SECOND POPULATL'N .KIOJFCT
Loan and Project Swnmary
Borrower:             Jamaica.
Amount:                US$6.8 million.
Terms:                Payable in 25 years, including five years of grace
at 8.85% per annum.
Project Description:  To support the government's iaternal, Child Health/
Family Planning/and Nutrition (MCH/FP/Nutrition), programs
by helping tc Ctnance: the construction and equipping of
57 health centres; technical assistance, fellowships,
equipment, vehicles for training Community Health Aides
(CHA's), midwives, medical officers, nurses and other
staff in the NCH/FP/Nutrition program; equipment for
expanding postpartum family planning services to 17 remaining
hospitals; equipment, technical assistance and vehicles
for a mass communication/education program; technical
assistance for a feasibility study for local production
and processing of supplementary food, including training
fellowships; technical assistance for a health facility
maintenance system and a building utilization study;
technical assistance, fellowships and equipment for
demographic and research studies; technical assistance
and fellowships to support the establishment of a Plan-
ning and Evaluation Unit (PEU) in the Kinistry cf Health
and Environr,ental Control (MOHEC); and other innovative
activities in the field of MlCh/F?/Nutrition.
sotbinated Cost and
rinancing Plan:       Total project co:its (capital costs including contingorcio3)
are estinated at U3$13.2 million.   Of the estimated foreign
exchange costs of US$6.3 million (48%), CIDA and USAID
would finance US$389,000 anl IUS,77,000, respetI e-ly,
while the remaining foreign exchange costs of
US$5. 9 million would be financed by the Bank.   The Bank
would also finance interest and other charges on the Bank
loan during construction estimated at US$0.9 million, the
total Bank loan being US.j6.8 million. The estimated local
capital costs of U$$6.9 million would We financed by the
government except !or a US&ID contribution of US$19,000
equivalent for local cost expenditure for technical assis-
tance.  In additioni, Ihe goverimm*nt would incur incremental
local recurrent costs associated with the p.roject estim&it,ed
at an average of US$2.9 million per annmn over the four-
year project pericd.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
Project Costs
US$ (000)
Local    Foreign    Total
I.   Construction (Health Centres- )
Civil Works                               3,749    1,862      5,611
Furniture and 3quipment                     520      511      1 031
Sub-total I.                    4i,269   2,373
II.   Non-Construction
Vehicles and Spare parts                             663       663
Special Equipment                            62      337       399
Technical Assistance                        202    1,235     1,437
Innovative Activities                       200      200       4oo
Sub-Total II.                   -1i      2,435      2,899
Base Cost                                     41,733    4,808     9,541
III.   Contingencies
Physical 10%                                473      481        954
Price                                     1 672    1 033      2 705
Sub-total III.                    2                 J 
Total Cost of Project                          6,878    6,322     13,200
IV.   Interest and Commitment Charge
during Construction                             -        9L4       9441
Total Financial Requirement                    6,878    7,266     14,144
1/ Exccluding cost of site acquisition.
US$ thousands
E2stimated Dis;u.wsements:                  FY77     F'78     FY79     FY80     FY81
Annual                          335      2T76
Cumulative                      338      3155     4635     6444     68 uo
Procurement Arrangemnents:  Contracts for equipment, furniture, and vehicles estimated
to cost less than US$50,ooo equivalent, and all contracts
for civil works will be awarded on basis of procurement
in accordance with local procedures satisfactory to
the Bank. Foreign firms would not be excluded from
bidding. Contracts for the procurement of equipment,
furniture and vehicles estiJtated to c,.st bnore than
US$50,000 equivalent will be awarded on the basis of
international competitive oidding in accor dine siit the
Bank's "Guidelines". In the evaluation of bids, manu-
facturers of furniture and equ-pnent in Jamrntic- will be
accorded the usual margin of domestic preference.  To
the extent possi3le :ro _zement wi' 1 oe based on )id



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
packages arranged by consideration of geographical
groupings and construction priorities. Foreign
expenditures not exceeding US$100,000, incurred after
December 1, 1975, and before loan signing on training
fellowships abroad in connection with the feasibility
study for supplementary food and on detailed engineering,
would be financed retroactively from the loan prDcaeds.
Technical Assistance:     Individual consultants will be retained tu assist tha
government on training, the mass communications and
education program, the planning and evaluation unit,
the demographic and research studies, the health facility
maintenance system and the building utilization study.
Appraisal Report:         Report No. lO40b-JM; dated May 26, 1976.






IBRD 11939
H5~~~~~~~  WHO                             7005'                                "USAI ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J  no  MAY  SEA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~y.  A   17
JAMAA ICA                                         I          BA..     rA>I
C A RIB SEA N      S EA                           LOCATION OF THE PROPOSED HEALTH FACILITIES IN CORNWALL COUNTY                  IALN7
AND EXISTING HEALTH FACILITIES IN JAMAICA                             LU
-H    -  ISLANDS~ ~~~~ OCEAN
leOn                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~       ~~~~~Flonkes 1_1E  K airnouth                                                      -1  IICACZ~>             CID -
~~~ . ~~~~~*  Duncons  -. H SHOrn                                             HOnIL CARS FAN USA  --Ioe,"o.Hso~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CAWEN EAb-.
ony  Motg              / h,n
OLUCHO   I HooF? H T-  1Hn,IO Adh  I'00        -                       1l  O                                           NT        sH''nu  FO'I,HN'
SIAN'o kIVP O  ,tO  HAsJo    o2iCHSH,                    DS030HnHHHHS
Oseen IsI no ~~~~~~~~  *~~5  NOSH~4aHH  U  H--pCIon  H.  SendN      HTr4                               rt maria
LHSOOHAH  7  (HSInOHIMnP  HeHnnHIHO *R-bl n  O  Fbnored HO  TR ELAWNY  S  T ANN               OAA
H 11                -------HN- o,AS  0AW A    L             7 Woir Too  SCoenot sTnr
D.    Row             ' -  L-HA
AO   F2,0  T~~~~~ORELAd  -O   CarCopTo  o0          At  Won-o Noess                              'oe     Hggy
*olDn'oeinnal  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~Tennnndo   Nnogho,sl,eld  Ton~~~~~~~~C ,~2 H Hn- d                IT  H MAnYf 
Negr~~~~ISnors,00.MORELAND  H2tHofHIH   He S ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H   e95'~~            ' '0W\ -D DHO---CESEIH
Lonnbs   -        y~~~~~~Io  A'  -------n                                 Seil'eAtonn
0      0     1-     U~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 'i -o-._
La-Mar  0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~i l AppHndHHB.  4 onsolI -              -'-      R--,dl
gg.lty(  A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~KII,H      A       RensoleH-.,o
-I-Sp-,               ~~~~~~~M'le GAlln-1Soodb5s  Colonelsedo/AgKH-I*                            PORTLAND
WnAehHo5e~~~~ /        4                           Cofs\
/  0~~~~~~IIee Pen  Loooo'00  AO  W,llonnsheld0  A'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J.,IP,du,13  .-  M A
SonnoCnva                        A   7~~~Wil.-fdddae ,oAAMnesl  doePo  RAr .oo k H(1 o 'AST ANohnol
ST, ELIZPABEnTHHO AHo                             ST  CATHERINE                                      --AN-0ME4c /nN
4  ST. ELIZABETH  AO   PHnHSH~~~~~~~~~~~~!\                              4   000/.H' 
BlackRiser ~~~~~~~~PPP,MANCHS '         CLARENDON            ALaD..   e"@,,     r'      Mos-
PROPOSED  HEALTH  FACILITIES         -Mn0a                                        PnnnnM -d-\IN               STD   I''Spandisolehso
nilld   0                RHH.   AoIln    OMyPe  \              SpnshDnn-osH V,o           SH5 Iin
Typet                   Motnnoell~~~~~~~~~~~~  PnnssfnI  E  oAS Jg                                          ,- I OH-     A          00 0l-
Health Centem                        N_P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WPpe     /A obnn55A                           Unoon      ASeln      lsoeonn
O Type I                                        Nesl0* ZHSH              .     O                                                   Gono        /W
o  TypelTVI-K
EXISTING HEALTH FACILITIES                                            RoSd.n
*  Hospitals                                                                                                                               a
*  Roral Matemrniy Centers
O  Health Centers                                                          to0
o  Private Health Centers
A  Dispensaries
Couty boundaries                                                                                              M    AUFTR
---Parish baoundaries                        C                E                                            P    ML5   2
1.7v                          II'CAIBBEA  SEA9                                                2    



