CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1284 JM
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Second Population Project)
between
JAMAICA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 17, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 17, 1976, between JAMAICA (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the con-
text otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to six million
eight hundred thousand dollars ($6,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank,
for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made)
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of in-
terest and other chargea on the Loan.
(b) On each of the semi-annual interest payment dates spe-
cified in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on be-
half of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest and
other charges on the Loan accrued and payable on or before the
date set forth, and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule lto
this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time
by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works required for


﻿the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall
be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and eighty-five hundredths per cent (8.85%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on Rpril 15 and Octrober 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project through
its Ministry of Health and Environmental Control with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, public health, family planning and population planning
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facili-
ties, services and other resources required for the purpose including
funds sufficient to cover recurrent costs relating to the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall in consultation with the
Bank appoint on terms and conditions (including terms of reference)
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank: (i) a qualified and ex-
perienced person as Project Director who shall, unless otherwise
agreed by the Borrower and the Bank, be the Permanent Secretary of
its Ministry of Health and Environmental Control and shall have
overall responsibility for the implementation of the Project; and
(ii) two qualified and experienced persons as Deputy Project Direc-
tors to assist the Project Director, one of whom shall be assigned
responsibility for coordinating construction and procurement under
the Project and the other responsibility for supervising maternal
and child health, family planning-and nutrition activities under
the Project. The Bank shall similarly be consulted in the case of
any future appointments to the posts of the said Project Director
and Deputy Project Directors.
(b) The Borrower shall cause, on terms and conditions (in-
cluding terms of reference) satisfactory to the Borrower and the


﻿- 6 -
Bank its iCational Development Agency to assist the Borrower's
Ministry of Health and Environmental Control in the implementation
of construction, and the carrying out of procurement, under the
Project.
(c) The Borrover shall employ, on terms and conditions (in-
cluding terms of reference) satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Bank, a qualified and experienced person as Project Coordinator
for the Cornwall Couty Health Administration.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants and ad-
visors whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment (including terms of reference) shall be satisfac-
tory to the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to re-
place or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,


﻿-7-
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications there-
of or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request con-
cerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall take or cause to be
taken all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and
when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to
the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are avail-
able for purposes related to the -Project.
(b) Without limitation or restriction to the Borrower's
obligations under paragraph (a) above, the Borrower shall acquire
the 26 sites required for Phase 2 of the Project in the locations
specified in the Annex to Schedule 2 hereto no later than Decem-
ber 31, 1977, or such other date as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank.


﻿- 8 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.ol. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of,, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of for-
eign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or per-
mitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or adminis-
trative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfac-
tory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿-9-
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for
the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carry-
ing out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall as from fiscal year
1977/1978 provide in its annual budgets specifically allocated
sums adequate to meet the needs and further the objectives of the
maternal and child health, family planning and nutrition programs
of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) by the Effective Date establish
and thereafter maintain a Cornwall County Health Administration
which shall be organized and staffed in a manner satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Bank; (ii) on a phased basis but not later


﻿- 10 -
than May 31, 1979, appoint and thereafter retain suitably qualified
persons in all vacant positions necessary for the efficient opera-
tion of the Borrower's maternal and child health, family planning
and nutrition programs in Cornwall County; and (iii) not later than
July 31, 1977, assign such other staff as shall be required for the
expansion and efficient operation of its Ministry of Health and
Environmental Control and for the execution of the several programs
included in the Project.
Section 4.o4. The Borrower shall not later than December 31,
1976, or such other date as the Borrower and the Bank may agree,
establish and thereafter maintain in its Ministry of Health and
Environmental Control a Planning and Evaluation Unit in form and
with terms of reference satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall:
(i) within six months after the Effective Date or
such other period as the Borrower and the Bank
may agree appoint a qualified and experienced
person on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Bank to assist on a full
time basis the Borrower's Principal Medical
Officer in charge of maternal and child health,
family planning and nutrition programs;
(ii) appoint by December 31, 1976, two qualified and
experienced persons, one to serve as Communica-
tions Officer and the other as Commerce and


﻿- 11 -
Media Assistant in the Borrower's Ministry of Health
and Environmental Control;
(iii) appoint by December 31, 1976, at least three
suitably qualified persons to work as Research
Assistants in the Planning and Eva:lation Unit
mentioned in Section 4.04 above;
(iv) except as the Bank may otherwise agree, provide
for the employment of about 60 additional midwives
each year during the period 1978 through 1982 for
its maternal and child health, family planning and
nutrition programs; and
(v) except as the Bank may otherwise agree, provide
by December 31, 1978, for the employment in ac-
cordance with a schedule satisfactory to the
Borrower and the Bank of about 800 additional
community health aides and about 200 community
health aides' supervisors.
(b) The Communications Officer and the Commerce and Media
Assistant mentioned in paragraph (a) (ii) above shall be responsi-
ble to the Permanent Secretary of the Borrower's Ministry of Health
and Environmental Control and the Communications Officer shall,
with the assistance of the Commerce and Media Assistant, be re-
sponsible for carrying out the nutrition education and communica-
tion programs of the said Ministry, including Part F of the Project.


﻿- 12 -
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall compile and publish, within
six months after the end of each calendar year commencing with
the calendar year 1977, regular annual records of age specific
fertility rates in Jamaica.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely that
the Cornwall County Health Administration required under Section 4.03
(b) of this Agreement has been established.
Section 5.02. The date September 15, 1976, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 114 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The M,!,ister responsible for Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Kingston, Jamaica
Cable address:
MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Kingston, Jamaica
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
JAMAICA
By /s/ Kenneth McNeill
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
kExpressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                1,862,000          33%
(including pro-
fessional fees)
(2) Furniture and                511,000          50%
equipment for
health centers
(including pro-
fessional fees)
(3) Vehicles:                    663,000
(a) directly im-                             100% of foreign
ported                                   expenditures
(b) imported and                             90%
procured lo-
cally
(4) Special equipment            337,000          100% of foreign
expenditures


﻿- 17 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(5) Technical assis-            908,000          100% of foreign
tance and fellow-                           expenditures
ships (excluding
items to be financed
from other sources)
(6) Innovative popula-          200,000          50%
tion subprojects
approved by the
Bank
(7) Interest and other          944,000
charges on the Loan
accrued on or
before April 14, 1980
(8) Unallocated               1,375,000
TOTAL      6,8oo,ooo


﻿- 18 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expen-
ditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by,
or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on
the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan de-
creases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, ex-
cept that withdrawals may be made in respect of professional fees
under Category (1) and fellowships for a feasibility study for
supplementary food production under Category (5), on account of
expenditures incurred after December 1, 1975, in an aggregate
amount not exceeding the equivalent of $100,000; and
(b) Categories (1), (2), (3) or (4) until the Borrower has
concluded arrangements for its National Development Agency to par-
ticipate in the Project as required by Section 3.02 (b) of this
Agreement.


﻿- 19 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or lim-
iting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, designed to support and maintain the objectives
of the Borrower's maternal and child health, family planning and
nutrition programs, consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
(1) The design and construction of aoout 57 new health
centers in Cornwall County.
(2) Purchase of about 60 vehicles and furniture and equip-
ment for the new health centers.
Part B:
Purchase of training materials and equipment for the
training of about 1,000 community health aides includ-
ing their supervisors and simple audio-visual aids for
the use of about 2,000 community health aides.
Part C:
Purchase of equipment and provision of technical assis-
tance and fellowships for the new Midwifery School at
Cornwall Regional Hospital and the Victoria Jubilee
Hospital Midwifery School.


﻿-21 -
Part D:
Purchase of equipment and a vehicle and provision of
technical assistance for an in-service training pro-
gram for personnel directly involved in the maternal
and child health, family planning and nutrition pro-
grams in Jamaica.
Part E:
Purchase of equipment needed for expansion of post-
partum educational and clinical family planning ser-
vices to 17 additional hospitals in Jamaica.
Part F:
Purchase of equipment, materials, and a vehicle and
provision of technical assistance and fellowships
for a mass education and communication program to
promote breast feeding and improve child and mater-
nal nutrition in Jamaica.
Part G:
Provision of technical assistance and fellowships for
a feasibility study of local production and process-
ing of supplementary food required to improve nutri-
tional status of children, pregnant and lactating
women in Jamaica.


﻿-22 -
Part H:
Provision of technical assistance including fellow-
ships for the support of the Planning and Evaluation
Unit, backed up by a health information system, in
the Borrower's Ninistry of Health and Environmental
Control.
Part I:
Purchase of equipment and provision of technical
assistance including fellowships for upgrading of
demographic statistics and family planning related
research studies.
Part J:
Provision of technical assistance for the support
of the Borrower's health facility maintenance unit
and for the building utilization study.
Part K:
Irmovative population subprojects approved in advance
by the Bank in public and private sectors.
*              *              *


﻿- 23 -
Further details of the Project are set out in the Annex to
this Schedule, said Annex being subject to revision from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1980.


﻿-24-
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Further Details of the Project
I.   Location of Health Centers in County Cornwall
St. James     Trelawny   St. Elizabeth Westmoreland
Hanover Parish    Parish        Parish      Parish        Parish    Total
Phase 1
Type I   Great Valley   Flanker       Deeside     Braes River   Delveland
Montpelier     Glendevon     Rio Bueno                  Sheffield
Copse          Parrett Town  Stewart Town              Town Head
Johns Hall    Troy                                    ) 18
Vaughansfield
(Gaqrlands)
Springfield
lottery
Type II Sandy Bay       Catadupa          -       Pepper        Negril
Cacoon Castle                                                          6
Cascade
Type III     -          Granville     Albert Town     -         Darliston
Catherine                                             )
Hall
Type IV Lucea               -         Falmouth        -         Sav-la-Mar      3
31


﻿- 25 -
St. James     Trelawny  St. Elizabeth Westmoreland
Hanover Parish    Parish       Parish       Parish        Parish   Total
Phase 2
Type I   Askenish      Somerton      Lowe River   Fyffes Pen   Blemont/Cave
Logwood        Goodwill                  Springfield   Berkshire
Bickersteth               Bellevne      Lennox       )
Holland         Bigvood    ) 16
Cornwall Mt. )
Beeston      )
Spring
St. Leonards
Type II Cave Valley    Mt. Salem         -        Aberdeen      Bethel Town
Tower Hill                Maggotty      Petersfield  ) 8
Southfield                 )
Type III       -       Cambridge         -            -              -         1
Type IV        -           -             -        Black River        -         1
26


﻿- 26 -
II. List of Technical Assistance
Duration
1.   Health Facility Maintenance
1.1 Consultants for:
Program Coordination and Management    24 man-months
Field Supervision                       12 man-months
Logistics and Procurement               12 man-months
Instruction
Technical Trade Instruction            12 man-months
2. Training*
2.1 Consultants for:
In-service Training                    12 man-months
Midwifery Training                      24 man-months
2.2 Fellowships for:
2 Midwifery Tutors                     12 man-months each
3.   Nutrition, Information, Education
and Communications
3.1 Consultants for:
Communications                          12 man-months
Production and use of Audio-           12 man-months
visual Aids (AVA)
Training in editing of docu-            12 man-months
mentary films
*    It is expected that USAID will finance 12 man-months of con-
sultancy services for in-service training and 12 man-months
of midwifery training.


﻿- 27 -
3.2 Fellowships for:
Communications Officer                   6 man-months
AVA Specialist                           6 man-months
Study Tours                   total of   6 man-months
4.   Research and Evaluation
4.1 Adviser and Consultants for:
Health Planning                         12 man-months
Health Information and                  36 man-months
Evaluation
Research                                12 man-months
4.2  3 Research Assistants                   12 man-months each
(to be recruited locally)
4.3 Fellowships for:
Health Planning                         40 man-months
Health Information and                  48 man-months
Evaluation
5.   Feasibility Study
*5.1  Consulting Firm                         72 man-months
5.2  Fellowships                              5 man-months
6.   Building Utilization Study
6.1  Consultants                             12 man-months
* It is expected that the Canadian International Development
Agency will finance this item.


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
October 15, 1981                                  60,000
April 15, 1982                                     70,000
October 15, 1982                                  70,000
April 15, 1983                                    75,000
October 15, 1983                                  75,000
April 15, 1984                                    80,000
October 15, 1984                                   85,000
April 15, 1985                                     85,000
October 15, 1985                                   95,000
April 15, 1986                                    95,000
October 15, 1986                                  100,000
April 15, 1987                                    100,000
October 15, 1987                                  110,000
April 15, 1988                                    115,000
October 15, 1988                                  115,000
April 15, 1989                                    125,000
October 15, 1989                                  130,000
April 15, 1990                                    135,000
October 15, 1990                                  140,000
April 15, 1991                                    150,000
October 15, 1991                                  150,000
April 15, 1992                                    160,000
October 15, 1992                                  170,000
April 15, 1993                                    175,000
October 15, 1993                                  180,000
April 15, 1994                                    190,000
October 15, 1994                                  200,000
April 15, 1995                                    210,000
October 15, 1995                                  215,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 29 -
Payment of Principal
Date Porment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
April 15, 1996                                    230,000
October 15, 1996                                  235,000
April 15, 1997                                    245,000
October 15, 1997                                  260,000
April 15, 1998                                    270,000
October 15, 1998                                  280,000
April 15, 1999                                    295,000
October 15, 1999                                  305,000
April 15, 2000                                    320,000
October 15, 2000                                  335,000
April 15, 2001                                    365,000
To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 30 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three
years be Pore
maturity                                     1.05%
More than three
years but not more
than six years
before maturity                              2.10%
More than six years
but not more than
eleven years before
maturity                                     3.90%
More than eleven
years but not more
than sixteen years
before maturity                              5.65%
More than sixteen years
but not more than
twenty-one years
before maturity                              7.45%
More than twenty-one
years but not more than
twenty-three years
before maturity                              8.15%
More than twenty-three
years before maturity                        8.85%


﻿-31 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A. International Competitive Bidding
Furniture and equipment (including special equipment) and
vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or mDre shall
be procured under contracts to be awarded in accordance with pro-
cedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guide-
lines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" pub-
lished by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guide-
lines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
B. Other Procurement Procedures
Civil works irrespective of cost, and furniture and equipment
(including special equipment) and vehicles estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $50,000, shal,l be procured under contracts
to be let after competitive bidding based on local advertising in
accordance with the Borrower's procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
C. Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1. For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured in accordance with the Guidelines
and on the basis of international competitive bidding: (i) bidders
shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-
manufactured goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on


﻿- 32 -
imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on domestically-supplied
goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of in-
land freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2. Goods manufactured in Jamaica may be granted a margin of prefer-
ence in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Jamaica
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Bank that the manu-
facturing cost of such goods includes a value added
in Jamaica equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Jamaica.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.


﻿- 33 -
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the first comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest elpluated bid from group
A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported goods of-
fered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further compari-
son only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and
other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay
for the importation of the goods offered in such group C bid; or
(ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods if said customs
duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for
the award; if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the
comparison under paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall
be selected.
D. Review of Procurement Decisions b_y Bank
1. Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before quali-
fication is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure to
be followed, and shall introduce such modifications in said proce-
dure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified


﻿- 35 -
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids received, and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3. With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such de-
termination.


