Report No. PID10909
Project Name             Afghanistan-Emergency Public Administration (@)
Project
Region                   South Asia Regional Office
Sector                   Other Public Sector Management
Project ID               AFPE77417
Borrower(s)              AFGHANISTAN INTERIM ADMINISTRATION
Implementing Agency
Address AACA, MOF, AGO
Afghanistan Assistance Coordination
Authority (AACA),
Ministry of Finance (MOF)
Auditor General Office (AGO)
Address: Kabul, Afghanistan
Contact Person: H.E. Minister Amin Arsala,
Minister of Finance and
World Bank Governor
Date PID Prepared        March 11, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      March 3, 2002
Bank Approval Date       April 4, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Suffering from more than 20 years of conflict, a three-year drought, loss
or degradation of most of its infrastructure, depletion of its human
resource base, and erosion of social capital, Afghanistan is one of the
poorest and longest-suffering countries among the members of the World
Bank. The long drawn-out war of Soviet occupation and subsequent
internecine conflict severely damaged Afghanistan's economy. By the
mid-1990s, most of the country's limited modern infrastructure was
destroyed, and traditional irrigation systems greatly suffered from
destruction and lack of maintenance. Even more important than the physical
damage were the increasing breakdown of the state and civil society over
time and the progressive erosion of institutions--both modern and
traditional--which had governed the pre-war economy and society.
Government-provided social services, which never had a strong outreach
into rural areas, atrophied and to a large extent stopped functioning.
Inflation wiped out the value of the Afghan currency in the 1990s.
Agricultural output fell, livestock herds were depleted, and large-scale
industries almost ceased functioning. Millions of Afghans became refugees
in neighboring countries. And finally, the indiscriminate and wide
strewing of landmines caused enormous human and economic losses. The
Interim Authority was established on December 22, 2001. It consists of an
Afghanistan Interim Administration (AIA), a Special Independent Commission
for the convening of the emergency Loya Jirga, the Supreme Court of
Afghanistan and such other courts as may be established by the Interim
Authority. The Interim Authority is the "repository of Afghan
sovereignty." As such, throughout the interim period, it represents
Afghanistan in its external relations and occupies "the seat of
Afghanistan at the United Nations and in its specialized agencies, as well
as in other international institutions and conferences."Within the Interim



Authority, the AIA is entrusted with the day-to-day conduct of the affairs
of state and has the right to issue decrees "for the peace, order and good
government of Afghanistan." The AIA will establish a Central Bank (to
regulate the money supply of the country through transparent and
accountable procedures), an independent Civil Service Commission (to
provide the AIA and the future Transitional Authority with shortlists of
candidates for key governmental posts), and an independent Human Rights
Commission (to monitor human rights, investigate violations, and develop
domestic human rights institutions). The AIA has full jurisdiction over
the printing and delivery of the national currency and special drawing
rights from international financial institutions.The AIA will cease to
exist once the Transitional Authority is decided by the emergency Loya
Jirga. The Transitional Authority will lead Afghanistan until a fully
representative government is elected after elections to be held no later
than two years from the date the emergency Loya Jirga is convened.
Eighteen months after the establishment of the Transitional Authority, a
Constitutional Loya Jirga will be convened to adopt a new constitution for
the country.The international community made generous pledges of support
at the International Conference on Reconstruction to Afghanistan held in
Tokyo on January 21-22, 2002. However, realizing these pledges, and using
them effectively, is going to require significantly stronger fiduciary
assurances and implementation capacity than currently exist within the
AIA. While there is limited detailed assessment of the status of the
existing public administration, it is recognized by the AIA that the
current state of program planning, procurement, disbursement, accounting
and audit are all weak. Improving these systems and augmenting
them--temporarily with outside capacity--is hence crucial. World Bank and
IMF missions during January and February have ascertained that extensive
procedures and regulations do exist, many of which seem theoretically
adequate for basic purposes, but most of which have not been applied for
many years. Only a limited number of basic administrative functions have
continued to be carried out.    While some mid-level and lower-level
government employees have remained in post, many others have left their
jobs. Consequently, Afghanistan is not an institutional tabula rasa; it
will be important for reforms to work within the grain of existing
institutional arrangements. However, the time may also be opportune to
rethink some institutional arrangements.
2. Objectives
The objective of the Project is to assist the Afghanistan Interim
Administration (AIA) (and its successor) in putting in place, on an
emergency basis, capacity in key public administration areas to facilitate
better use of public resources, including donor funds, for urgent
reconstruction and development efforts. In addition, a secondary
objective is to support some basic steps towards laying the foundation for
a transparent, well-functioning public administration.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
It is imperative that the AIA and successor administrations have in place
the capacity to procure, disburse, account for, monitor, report on and
audit the use of public resources, including donor contributions. The
Bank is well placed, drawing on lessons learned in other post-conflict
settings and, more generally, in supporting capacity building and
institutional strengthening, to provide an early Grant to the AIA to
assist in establishing this capacity.
- 2-



4. Description
The Grant will finance the employment by AIA of qualified firms to work
with AIA officials to carry out, on an interim basis, government
procurement, financial management and audit functions on behalf of the
AIA; develop the administration's capacity; and assess existing systems
and procedures to recommend suitable policy reforms. Services will also
be provided to enhance aid coordination, strengthen payroll management and
budget processes, and develop capacity in economic policy formulation. In
addition, resources are available to fund studies and institution building
within selected entities of the AIA.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $0.00
IBRD
IDA $10.00
Total Project Cost $10.00
6. Implementation
The project will be implemented by the Afghanistan Assistance Coordination
Authority, the Ministry of Finance, and the Auditor General Office.
Overall reporting on the Project implementation will be the responsibility
of the AACA.
7. Sustainability
The project puts in place emergency capacity and seeks to begin to build
domestic capacity in key procurement and fiduciary areas. This capacity
should facilitate the implementation of the broader reconstruction
program. This emergency capacity should not be sustained, but rather
transferred to local authorities as soon as feasible. By also focusing
attention on laying the foundation on which to build a sound public
administration, the project should provide the first step in a much longer
term program of public sector strengthening.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Past experience in post-conflict settings shows that procurement and
fiduciary capacities are generally weak, and that this is often a
bottleneck to the reconstruction program. Past experience also shows that
when capacity is weak and requirements are vast, as in post-conflict
situations, it is often better to consolidate procurement capacity into a
single entity. This facilitates a more rapid implementation of the
reconstruction program, and it also allows for faster domestic capacity
building. However, lessons also emerge that there should be a clear
sun-set clause for such an entity, in order to ensure that the capacity
that is developed is transferred to appropriate ministries over a
reasonable period of time.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  There are no environmental issues.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
-3-



Linda Van Gelder
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 458-5761
Fax:   (202) 522-0356
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 15, 2002.
- 4 -



