Document of
The World Bank
Report No: T 7520 AF
TECHNICAL ANNEX
FOR A PROPOSED GRANT
OF SDR 8.1 MILLION
(US$10 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
AFGHANISTAN
FOR AN
EMERGENCY PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
March 12, 2002



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(exchange rate is Quetta based open market buying rate)
effective as of February 15, 2002
Currency Unit                     Afghani
US$1               =           37,000 AFA
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
March 21 - March 20
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AACA          Afghanistan Assistance Coordination Authority
ADB           Asian Development Bank
AGO           Auditor General Office
AIA           Afghanistan Interim Administration
ARTF          Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund
CSC           Civil Service Commission
EOI           Expression of Interest
IDA           International Development Association
IFC           International Finance Corporation
IFI           Intemational Financial Institution
IMF           International Monetary Fund
MOF           Ministry of Finance
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
TSS           Transitional Support Strategy
UN            United Nations
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
Vice President:  Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:  Alastair McKechnie
Sector Director:  Sadiq Ahmed
Team Leader:    Linda Van Gelder



AFGHANISTAN
EMERGENCY PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
Table of Contents
I. BACKROUND AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS ............................................................ 1
A. THE CONFLICT AND ITS CONSEQUENCES .......................1..................................... 
B. THE TRANSITION TO PEACE ............................................................ 2
C. KEY PRIORITIES FOR AFGHANISTAN ............................................................           3
D. FEATURES OF THE EXISTING PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION ....................................................... 4
II. IDA'S RESPONSE ............................................................ 8
A. AFGHANISTAN'S RELATIONS WITH IDA ............................................................         8
B. THE TRANSITIONAL SUPPORT STRATEGY .............................................................       8
C. RATIONALE FOR EARLY GRANT ASSISTANCE ......................................          ...................... 9
III. THE PROPOSED PROJECT ............................................................ 11
A. OBJECTIVES ............................................................. 11
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION ............................................................ 11
Component 1. Support to the Afghanistan Assistance Coordination Authority .................... 12
Component 2. Support to the Ministry of Finance ............................................................  13
Component 3. Support to the Auditor General Office ......................................................... 15
C. IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS ............................................................             15
D. JUSTIFICATION ............................................................                           17
ANNEX I: ADDITIONAL GOVERNANCE BACKGROUND ............................................. 19
ANNEX II: DETAILED ACTIVITIES ................                       ............................................ 23
ANNEX III: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS ............................................................ 25
ANNEX IV: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT & DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS .. 31
ANNEX V: MONITORING                ............................................................ 35






I. BACKROUND AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
A. The Conflict and its Consequences
1.    Afghanistan-suffering from more than 20 years of conflict, a three-year drought,
loss or degradation of most of its infrastructure, depletion of its human resource base, and
erosion of social capital-is one of the poorest and longest-suffering countries among the
members of the World Bank.
2.    The long drawn-out war of Soviet occupation and subsequent internecine conflict
severely damaged Afghanistan's economy. By the mid-1990s, most of the country's
limited modern infrastructure was destroyed, and traditional irrigation systems greatly
suffered from destruction and lack of maintenance. Even more important than the
physical damage were the increasing breakdown of the state and civil society over time
and the progressive erosion of institutions-both modern and traditional-which had
governed the pre-war economy and society. Government-provided social services, which
never had a strong outreach into rural areas, atrophied and to a large extent stopped
functioning.  Inflation wiped out the value of the Afghan currency in the 1990s.
Agricultural output fell, livestock herds were depleted, and large-scale industries almost
ceased functioning. Millions of Afghans became refugees in neighboring countries. And
finally, the indiscriminate and wide strewing of landmines caused enormous human and
economic losses.
3.    There was a modest economic recovery in the mid-1990s in areas that became
largely free of conflict, showing the resilience of the Afghan population. Agricultural
production increased; livestock herds sharply rose in numbers taking advantage of widely
available unutilized grazing lands; and horticultural production also grew based on
restoration and expansion of orchards and vineyards. Substantial numbers of refugees
returned to their homes. The return of some stability in large parts of the country also
facilitated the growth of various kinds of unofficial economic activity, most notably long-
distance trade (particularly re-exports to Pakistan) and opium poppy cultivation. In
addition, uncontrolled exploitation of natural resources-timber, gems, marble and
granite-resulted  in  extensive  deforestation  and  environmental  degradation.
Furthermore, the deterioration in social services (particularly education) was aggravated
by the Taliban regime's social policies, which largely excluded women from work and
girls from school.
4.    More recently, Afghanistan has been hit by a severe, protracted drought, which
started in 1999 and is on-going (although current winter precipitation gives ground for
hope that the drought is ending). Given the breakdown of the state and civil society, and
consequent inability to respond adequately, this drought led to serious malnutrition and
risk of famine. Crop production was halved and livestock herds heavily depleted, more
than erasing the modest gains of the early and mid-1990s. Large and increasing numbers
of people have lost their means of livelihood and have become displaced, either internally
or to neighboring countries. Malnutrition has significantly worsened, and mortality rates
appear to have risen sharply, especially for children.



5.    In summary, an estimated seven million people remain vulnerable to hunger and
very large numbers are dependent on a massive inflow of food aid. Afghanistan's
infrastructure has been destroyed or degraded; its human resource base severely depleted;
and its social capital eroded. State institutions are largely non-functional, and the
economy and society have become increasingly fragmented. Thus, Afghanistan faces
serious political problems, a dire humanitarian emergency in the short run, and large
needs for reconstruction and development over time.
6.    International assistance to Afghanistan prior to the latest developments (recently
in the range of US$200-300 million annually) has gone overwhelmingly for humanitarian
relief purposes, much of it in the form of food aid and other in-kind assistance. However,
in the context of a complex, emergency situation that has endured over many years, the
distinction between humanitarian and development activities was blurred. In the absence
of effectively functioning government service delivery, NGOs have been the main actors
in many sectors, such as primary education (especially for girls), rural water supply, basic
healthcare, and de-mining.  While key development sectors like education and
infrastructure have accounted for only a small proportion of total assistance, NGOs and
UN agencies essentially took up the task of providing essential social services to parts of
the population, building on community-based efforts in various parts of the country.
B. The Transition to Peace
7.    The tragic events of September 11, 2001 precipitated wholesale changes in the
political and military situation in Afghanistan, transforming the overall context for
national reconstruction and for World Bank support to Afghanistan. The military
intervention of US-led coalition forces led, within two months, to the collapse of the
Taliban regime. This was followed by the conclusion on December 5, 2001, in Bonn,
Germany, of the Agreement on Provisional Arrangements in Afghanistan Pending the
Re-establishment of Permanent Government Institutions (a.k.a. the Bonn Agreement), an
agreement among the different groups in opposition to the Taliban regime on a new
structure of government and a process that would lead to the election of a fully
representative government within a period of about two and a half years. The Interim
Authority, which consists of the Afghanistan Interim Administration (AIA), a Special
Independent Commission for the Convening of the Emergency Loya Jirga (Grand
National Assembly), and a Supreme Court of Afghanistan, is expected to remain in
power for six months. Fully vested with the sovereign functions of government, the AIA
peacefully took over central administration on December 22, 2001. An Emergency Loya
Jirga will be convened within six months of that date. It will decide on a Transitional
Authority that is expected to pave the way for a new Constitution and an elected, fully
representative government for Afghanistan within two years. The Interim Authority and
the Transitional Authority will govern Afghanistan in accordance the 1964 Constitution
and existing laws and regulations, except where superseded by the Bonn Agreement. The
Interim Authority has the power to repeal and amend laws and regulations by decree.
8.    The AIA has moved quickly to restore basic government functions and re-
establish international relations. Despite being hampered by very limited capacity and
the difficult security situation in many parts of the country, the AIA has made
2



considerable progress and has gained widespread international recognition and
considerable domestic moral authority. However, expectations among the population for
a "peace dividend" are high, and if the AIA (and its successor) does not delivery results
relatively quickly, the prospects for further progress and the peace process could dim.
9.    IDA has analyzed the Bonn Agreement and concluded that the AIA does not
constitute a "de facto government" for the purposes of Operational Policy 7.30, on
account of both the substance of Operational Policy 7.30 and the World Bank's practice
in applying it. The Bonn Agreement states explicitly that the Interim Authority is the
"repository of Afghan sovereignty," and the AIA, which is part of the Interim Authority,
is "entrusted with the day-to-day conduct of the affairs of the state." The functions of the
AIA have the attributes of those enjoyed by a government. Therefore, the AIA is a
"government" for the purposes of Operational Policy 7.30.
C. Key Priorities for Afghanistan
10.   The reconstruction and development agenda facing Afghanistan is massive.
Afghanistan's economy is in a state of collapse. The three-year drought and resulting
dislocation and hunger, the interruption of trade via Pakistan as a result of developments
following September 11, and the continuing massive displacement of population, have
exhausted what coping capacity was left among Afghan families and civil society. The
key economic institutions of State-central bank, budget preparation, execution and
monitoring, tax collection and customs, statistics, civil service, law and order, and the
judicial system-are extremely weak. Basic infrastructure-roads, bridges, irrigation
canals, telecommunications, water and power supply, and markets-have been destroyed
or oriented toward the war effort.
11.   Access to education in Afghanistan, and the quality of the education which is
available, remain poor at all levels. The primary gross enrolment rate has been most
recently estimated at 38 percent for boys and three percent for girls. Secondary and
higher education, crucial for producing future skilled professionals, present an even
bleaker picture. The situation in health is equally grim. Infant mortality is estimated by
UN agencies and NGOs to be one of the highest in the world at around 165 per 1,000 live
births, while 257 of every 1,000 live births die before they reach five years of age. The
maternal mortality rate is estimated to be 1,700 per 100,000 live births, with nearly 99
percent of deliveries taking place at home and only nine percent being attended by trained
personnel. Only around 30 percent of children under one year are fully immunized, and
life expectancy at birth is estimated at around 41 years of age. In addition, Afghanistan
probably has the largest population of disabled in the world as the direct or indirect
consequence of war. A recent study funded by the World Bank estimated that, in the
1990s, as many as 500 persons per month have been victims of mine accidents and
unexploded ordnance.
12.   Women and children are among the hardest hit from decades of conflict and
policies of marginalization. Specific attention is needed to the difficulties faced by
Afghan women and the role they can and should play in rebuilding the country. Further,
promoting and protecting human rights, promoting social, economic and political
3



inclusion of vulnerable groups, protecting children (particularly child combatants), and
facilitating the return of refugees and internally displaced persons are all early priorities.
And this all needs to be achieved in the context of an ethnically diverse country where
social, political and geographic dispersion means that a central government will need to
provide an enabling environment for local community participation.
13.   Recognizing the importance of reconstruction as well as the need to address
longer-term development issues, the international community rapidly organized a number
of meetings on Afghanistan's reconstruction, starting even before the coming of power of
the AIA.   These included the meeting of the newly-formed Steering Group in
Washington, DC on November 20, 2001, a conference on preparing for Afghanistan's
reconstruction organized by the World Bank and UNDP, together with ADB, in
Islamabad during November 27-29, 2001, a second meeting of the Steering Group in
Brussels on December 5-6, 2001, and the International Conference on Reconstruction
Assistance to Afghanistan held in Tokyo on January 21-22, 2002. In addition there were
two meetings in Brussels on gender issues in Afghanistan, and a parallel NGO meeting to
the Bonn negotiation process. At the Washington meeting, the World Bank, UNDP and
ADB were asked to produce a preliminary needs assessment for Afghanistan's
reconstruction prior to the Tokyo meeting. The preliminary needs assessment, completed
on a very tight time schedule by a team of more than 60 staff of the three agencies, was
well received at the Tokyo meeting, which generated total pledges of external support for
Afghanistan's reconstruction of $1.8 billion for the first year and $4.5 billion for the first
30 months. The AIA, represented at the Tokyo meeting by its Chairman, emphasized its
commitment to reconstruction and its determination to lead this effort, coupled with a
strong commitment to financial transparency and accountability.
14.   Although the Tokyo meeting was successful in generating large pledges of
financial support for Afghanistan's reconstruction, realizing these pledges, and using
them effectively, is going to require significantly stronger fiduciary assurances and
implementation capacity than currently exist within the AIA. Improving procurement,
financial management and audit systems and augmenting them-temporarily with outside
capacity-is hence crucial.
D. Features of the Existing Public Administration
15.   Not much detail is known about the current status of Afghanistan's public
administration. World Bank and IMF missions during January and February have
ascertained that extensive procedures and regulations exist, many of which seem
theoretically adequate for basic purposes, but most of have not been applied for many
years. Only a limited number of basic administrative functions have continued to be
carried out. While some mid-level and lower-level government employees remain in
post, many others have left theirjobs. Given the existence of functioning processes in the
past, Afghanistan is not an institutional tabula rasa; it will be important for reforms to
build on existing institutional arrangements. Given the non-functional situation of most
systems, however, the time is opportune to rethink appropriate institutional arrangements.
Some additional governance information is provided in Annex I. This section provides a
preliminary assessment of key areas.
4



16.   Existing civil service. Reliable data on the number of active public sector
employees in Afghanistan are not available. There are approximately 219,000 sanctioned
posts in the total public sector.' MOF and UNDP estimate that approximately 80,000
staff are currently verified as at their posts. This verification process to date has been
mostly in Kabul city and province. There is considerable uncertainty associated with
estimates of the current size of the civil service. Plans are underway to undertake some
spot-checking, including outside of Kabul, to attempt to increase the degree of confidence
in employment estimates. Currently, wage paymnents are being made in Kabul through a
UNDP Start-Up Fund, where funds are transferred to the Government Treasury for salary
payments based on confirmed payrolls using the existing manual check payment
process.2 Teams are currently on site in three neighboring provinces to verify payroll
lists so that payments can be made.
17.   Reintegration of former civil servants back into the civil service has been mostly
completed in Kabul. However, this is not the case in the provinces. Thus, there could be
significant increases in the numbers of identified civil servants over the next few months.
The administration seems to have a relatively well-developed system for ensuring that
staff claiming to be returning civil servants did in fact have a position previously.
Although many recruitment records have been destroyed, attendance records have been
well preserved, and returning staff are checked against previous attendance.
18.   It is likely that the eventual number of in-post civil servants, while few in
number-even compared with the number that would be required in a streamlined, highly
efficient public administration-will not have the skill profiles needed for a modern
public administration. Consequently, the immediate issue is not to define some "optimal"
size of total government employment, but rather to ensure appropriate staffing for urgent
priorities. The medium term agenda will also need to consider possible severance
packages for existing civil servants without the requisite skills. Further, focused attention
is needed immediately to guard against inevitable pressures on the authorities to hire
more and more people, as a form of political and social safety net. Limiting total public
administration employment to the minimum efficient workforce will provide the fiscal
space for adequately compensating government employees. It is strongly recommended
that the authorities consider issuing a decree that makes any new recruitment now taking
place subject to confirmation by the Civil Service Commission (CSC) when it is
established. UNDP is providing assistance to establish the CSC.
19.   Currently, civil service wage scales are very compressed. Within the twelve
grades, the average total compensation at the highest grade is only 1.2 times higher than
in the lowest grade. Average pay ranges from a low of 1,358,000 AFA per month
(US$36.70) to a high of 1,580,000 AFA (US$42.70). Pension levels are negligible.
During FY013, about 62,500 civil servants received pensions totaling some 26 billion
AFA (five percent of the wage bill). The forthcoming budget will likely contain a wage
' This number stems from the organizational chart of government from the 1970s.
2 This UNDP Start-Up Fund is expected to cease operating by the end of July. The Afghanistan
Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF), for which the World Bank is the administrator, is one vehicle through
which donors can continue to assist in financing recurrent cost requirements.
3 FYOI refers to the period March 21, 2000-March 20, 2001.
5



envelope that would permit a doubling of the average civil service wage and significant
decompression of the salary scale by focusing pay increases on the higher grade ranges.4
Attention to pension reform will also be needed.
20.    Two issues are worth highlighting. First, it is essential that donors do not entice
qualified staff away from the civil service, nor create insulated project management
units-within or outside the administration-that compensate staff outside of an agreed,
fiscally sustainable framework. Second, the re-integration of ex-combatants into society
is a key priority. However, it will be important to resist the understandable temptation to
do so by providing ex-combatants with public sector jobs (except, on a selective basis, in
police and security). In other countries, this approach has resulted in ineffective service
delivery, fiscal stress, and general dissatisfaction.
21.    Budget preparation. The AIA is preparing a budget for FY03, which starts on
March 21, 2002. Several partners, including IDA, the IMF, the United States, and
UNDP, are providing assistance. The short time span and the high degree of uncertainty
around expenditure needs have made this process very difficult. While a reasonable first
quarter budget is likely, figures for the last three quarters will be more indicative.
Further, the lack of firm commitments from donors-particularly for recurrent
expenditures-has made it difficult for the authorities to finalize even a first quarter
budget that is fully financed.
22.    Financial management. A preliminary assessment indicates that the expenditure
process, as set out in the existing Budget Law, Accounting Regulations and Treasury
Manual, while overly complex, seems functionally sound with requisite checks and
balances. Financial management systems continued to operate largely in the same
manner through various political periods, although recently much of the accounting and
nearly all the reporting aspects have not been carried out. The organizational structure
for expenditure management within the MOF consists of the Departments of Accounting
and Treasury, financial controllers in Ministries and Agencies, and a regional Mustouflat
network. Senior MOF staff seem well versed in how the financial management system is
intended to operate.
23.    There are well-specified procedures for tracking and making budget expenditures,
starting with the release of appropriations by the MOF through to payment to suppliers.
Further, the use of a chart of General Ledger Accounts would, in theory, allow budget
allotments, commitments, accounts payable, and completed payments to be tracked and
reported at regular intervals.
24.    While workable on paper, there are some practical difficulties in making the
system functional. First, while re-establishing the system at the center may be relatively
straightforward, extending it to the provinces may prove more challenging. Some
preliminary steps towards extending payments (payroll) outside of Kabul have started,
but these payments have not yet been made. Second, lack of fiscal discipline at the
4 This does not imply that the salary of each civil servant will be doubled. Rather, the intention is to
decompress the wage structure by leaving salary levels in the lower grades unchanged while more
substantially increasing salary levels in the higher grades.
6



commitment stage, coupled with infrequent offsetting within the governmental single
account, means there is a real risk that a deficit can build up. Third, the entire operation
is manual, making it impossible to produce timely, complete and accurate reports.
25.   Further, once fully functioning, the expenditure management system can still only
confirm that funds have been withdrawn from the Treasury for approved purposes. The
system cannot control what happens to the funds after they are withdrawn. This issue
needs to be addressed by expenditure tracking and confirmation that desired outputs are
in fact delivered.
26.   Audit. The Auditor General is responsible to the Chairman's Office for the audit
of budget execution in accordance with budget appropriation and financial regulations.
The Auditor General Office (AGO) is required to provide an audit report on the annual
Final Accounts when available, but accounts have not been produced by the MOF for at
least eight years. It appears that the AGO has continued to function in a limited fashion.
There is a well-defined organizational structure with key positions staffed by individuals
who have received international training, albeit some 25 years ago. There are 150
auditors; however no assessment has been made of their qualifications and capacity.
27.   Payment Systems.     The Central Bank appears to have long-standing and
adequate regulations and procedures for facilitating governmental payments.
Historically, its branches in each province around the country had cash available to make
payments, as requested by the Treasury. Currently, the Central Bank branches outside of
Kabul are not fully functioning and are not able to make payments. The IMF is currently
working with the Central Bank to re-establish its operations, both in Kabul and
throughout the country. There is an urgent need for the Central Bank to become
functional throughout the country as soon as possible so that payrnents can be made by
the AIA.
28.   Summary. The AIA fully recognizes shortcomings in local capacity. It also
endorses the urgency to implement aid effectively, and it has made repeated, strong
commitments to transparency.  In a statement at the International Conference on
Reconstruction Assistance to Afghanistan held on January 21-22 in Tokyo, the Chairman
of the AIA, H.E. Hamid Karzai stated:
Our vision is of a prosperous, secure Afghanistan. We are marching ahead with
the objective of building a credible State with an efficient and transparent
govemment. Our govemment shall be accountable to its citizens as well as to the
intemational community. ... Our goal is that the rule of law and transparent
systems would eventually allow us to realize the potential of our own natural and
human resources.
He went on to say that the AIA "need[s] urgent technical assistance to create the
procedures and systems to allow for full transparency, accountability and predictability
between central government and each of the recipients [of budget resources]." The
proposed Project addresses urgent requirements in precisely these areas.
7



II. IDA'S RESPONSE
A. Afghanistan's Relations with IDA
29.   Afghanistan is a member of IDA, IFC, the IMF, and the ADB. Afghanistan
became a member of the IMF and the World Bank in 1955. IDA has provided 21
development credits to Afghanistan since 1964 in a wide range of sectors including
education, roads and agricultural activities. The last two development credits approved by
the Board for Afghanistan in June 1979 were for roads and rural development. Of the
original US$230 million approved by IDA for Afghanistan, US$83 million was disbursed
and US$147 million was subsequently canceled. IDA operations were suspended shortly
after the 1979 Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, and the Resident Mission in Kabul was
closed. Afghanistan has repaid US$9.2 million to IDA and was up to date on debt service
payments until June 1992, when the country went into non-accrual status. Lending
operations remained suspended due to the continuing fighting, absence of a national
government, and Afghanistan's entry into non-accrual status with IDA.
30.   Afghanistan's Arrears to International Financial Institutions.  Resuming
nornal financial relations with the IFIs will require Afghanistan to clear outstanding
arrears which total, as of January 31, 2002, about US$51 million including US$25.2
million to IDA, around US$16 million to the ADB, and US$9.8 million to the IMF. The
AIA is committed clearing its outstanding arrears, which will set the stage for a
resumption of regular lending from the IFIs.
31.   Current Activities. Although IDA has not extended any credits to Afghanistan
since 1979, it has remained engaged with the assistance community. Efforts included
continuous monitoring of political and economic developments; managing selective
investments in the Afghan refugee communities; working closely with the UN and
donors; undertaking knowledge-building and knowledge-sharing activities; and providing
analytical and strategic depth for the work of the wider assistance community.5
B. The Transitional Support Strategy
32.   IDA's Transitional Support Strategy (TSS), which is being presented to the Board
with the proposed Project, is predicated on the need for well-coordinated efforts by
Afghanistan's development partners to realize Afghanistan's reconstruction and
development priorities. The key objectives of IDA's assistance over the next six to nine
months are to assist the authorities in establishing capacity in areas essential to facilitate
the reconstruction program; to support high-priority reconstruction activities that can also
help jump-starting economic activity; and to continue to build IDA's knowledge base
(including through the on-going comprehensive needs assessment) to allow for setting a
well-designed program of future assistance. In the near term, IDA's engagement with the
AIA is likely to be mainly at the central level, until such time when there is effective
decision-making at the sub-national level, and the countrywide security situation
improves. Consequently, to deliver assistance outside of Kabul, it will be vital to utilize
See Afghanistan: WorldBankApproach Paper, November 2001 for more details.
8



the experiences and networks of NGOs and UN agencies, and to develop mechanisms to
channel funds directly to community groups or traditional governance structures.
33.   Assistance to Afghanistan, for both recurrent and capital expenditures, is likely to
be received from various donors and delivered through a variety of mechanisms. Hence,
aid coordination will be essential to ensure a comprehensive and unified budget that is in
line with agreed national priorities. One mechanism to assist in such coordinated funding
is the multi-donor, IDA-administered Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF)
that will provide financing for priority expenditures including recurrent costs. Donor
funding for recurrent expenditures, including wage payments, is an essential element of
the support needed since the scope for own-revenue collection is now very limited.
Figure 1 illustrates the coordinated flow of donor assistance that is envisaged.
Figure 1: Flow of Funds
* Reconsiruction activities  o Wage payments
a Development projects  * Other recurrent costs
Development Budget  Recurrent Budget
Comprehensive Budget
Aid Coordinationil
---------- ----           -------- (::::   ~~~World
administrator  Bank
World Bank
Projects                            Donor Contributions
C. Rationale for Early Grant Assistance
34.   Afghanistan has received generous pledges of donor support for its massive
reconstruction and development program. However, donors have also expressed strong
concern about the capacity of the authorities to effectively and transparently utilize this
assistance. It is imperative that the AIA and successor administrations have in place the
capacity to procure, disburse, account for, monitor, report on and audit the use of public
resources, including donor contributions. Past experience in post-conflict settings shows
that when procurement and fiduciary capacities are weak, bottlenecks to the
implementation of the reconstruction program arise.
35.   Consequently, it was decided to rapidly prepare this Project, which focuses on
these potential bottlenecks. The Project would enable the AIA to put in place capacity on
an emergency basis. It would also allow for the launching, without delay, of a medium-
term program of domestic capacity building. The potential benefits are large. First, the
9



creation of in-country procurement capacity and adequate fiduciary controls should
expedite the implementation of IDA operations, as well as assistance from other donors.
It should also help increase the transparency with which resources are used. Further, by
supporting basic steps towards developing the foundations for solid systems of
government procurement and financial management as well as payroll management, the
Project would also begin the process of laying the foundations for future activities
designed to support medium-term public sector reforms and institution building.
36.   A proposed second grant is expected to be presented to the Board for approval
before the end of the current fiscal year. This second grant would finance specific,
reconstruction activities that are currently under identification through an ongoing, multi-
sectoral needs assessment. The implementation of this larger grant and subsequent IDA
assistance is expected to benefit from capacity established under the current Project.
37.   Legal Basis for Assistance to Non-Accrual Member. Under IDA's Twelfth
Replenishment Resolution, IDA12 donor funds may be used for post-conflict grants
under the following conditions: (i) the proposed grant has been designed in accordance
with OP 2.30; (ii) early performance is promising as evidenced by the recipient country
having taken convincing steps towards social and economic recovery; (iii) arrears to
IBRD and/or IDA are large and protracted, and cannot be easily or quickly cleared using
domestic resources; (iv) a concerted international effort to provide positive financial
flows and other assistance is underway, and other creditors have agreed not to make net
withdrawals of financial resources from the country; and (v) alternative sources of
financing for post-conflict recovery are inadequate or available only on inappropriate
terms.
38.    With respect to the first two criteria, the proposed Grant has been designed in
accordance with OP 2.30, and, as described above, Afghanistan is in the midst of
establishing its path towards social and economic recovery. As for Afghanistan's arrears
to IDA, it has been in non-accrual since June 1992, with outstanding principal of
US$74.7 million and overdue principal and charges of US$25.2 million. In terms of
criterion (iii), these amounts are "large and protracted" compared with Afghanistan's
capability to service debt, and Afghanistan does not have domestic resources available to
clear them. As for the last two criteria: the proposed Grant would be the first step in
fulfilling the pledge by the World Bank Group institutions to contribute to the
international effort to assist Afghanistan; other multilateral creditors have agreed not to
make net withdrawals of financial resources prior to arrears clearance; bilateral creditors
are not expected to make net withdrawals; and alternative sources of funding are not
adequate to meet Afghanistan's needs in the immediate post-conflict period. Thus the
proposed grant is consistent with the adopted framework for IDA's provision of post-
conflict grant assistance.
10



III. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. Objectives
39.    The objective of the Project is to assist the AIA (and its successor) in putting in
place, on an emergency basis, capacity in key public administration areas to facilitate
better use of public resources, including donor funds, for urgent reconstruction and
development efforts. In addition, a secondary objective is to support some basic steps
towards laying the foundation for a transparent, well-functioning public administration.
40.   Success in meeting the objective will be measured by: the delivery of goods,
services and works in line with the agreed procurement plan in a transparent manner;
accurate accounting and timely reporting on budget execution, including detailed reports
submitted to donors (to the extent that their resources flow through the budget); and
published audits of budget execution for FY03 and FY04, including all on-going IDA
funded projects during that time period.
41.   Success in meeting the secondary objective will be measured by: preparation by
the authorities of action plans, satisfactory to IDA, for enhancing procurement, financial
management and audit rules, practices and capacity with an aim to transfer these
responsibilities to government institutions as rapidly as possible; and publication of
comprehensive, appropriately classified budgets for FY04 and FY05.
B. Project description
42.   The approach to reconstruction. The AIA's capacity is weak, yet there is a
large amount of aid that will need to be administered. Therefore, domestic capacity
building is a priority and must be started now. But in the interim, agile and transparent
implementation arrangements are needed. These arrangements need to be set up in a way
that facilitates long-term capacity building while meeting urgent needs. Accordingly, the
AIA has established a transitional Afghanistan Assistance Coordination Authority
(AACA), managed by a Director under the oversight of the Chairman of the AIA. The
AACA is expected to be dissolved when a permanent government is elected, and its
functions would be transferred to the regular ministries at that time. The AACA will
carry out a variety of functions including donor coordination and facilitation and
procurement, which will be contracted out to a specialized international firm.
Accounting functions, located within the Accounting and Treasury Departments of the
Ministry of Finance, and audit functions, located in the Auditor General Office, will also
be contracted out to specialized international firms that will work closely with MOF and
AGO staff, respectively, until such time that a track record of accountability and
transparency can be established.
43.   The Grant will finance the employment by AIA of qualified firms to carry out, on
an interim basis, government procurement, financial management and audit functions on
behalf of the AlA; develop the administration's capacity; and assess existing systems and
procedures to recommend suitable policy reforms. Services will also be provided to
enhance aid coordination, strengthen payroll management and budget processes, and
11



develop capacity in economic policy formulation. In addition, resources are available to
fund studies and institution building within selected entities of the AIA. Figure 2
illustrates the main elements of technical assistance to be provided under the Project.
Annex II provides additional details.
Figure 2: Technical Assistance Under the Project
Cotiutions
r- -- -- - --  - --------- _ 
TA to AACA       Aid coordination
|        Comprehensivc Budget
TA to AACA         Procurement       Budget Execution     TA to MOF
| Audit | | TA to AGOl
FMdi Agent
Component 1: Support to the Afghanistan Assistance Coordination Authority
(US$4.25 million)
44.   The aim of this component is to provide support for the AACA to enable it to
carry out its responsibilities and discharge its functions as described in paragraph 42
above. It contributes to both project objectives.
(a) Procurement Strengthening (US$3.00 million). This sub-component seeks to
put in place emergency procurement capacity to facilitate rapid, transparent
utilization of donor resources for reconstruction and development. This will
be achieved by employing a specialized international firm (Procurement
Agent) for a two-year period. The Procurement Agent will work closely with
the staff of the AACA to ensure transfer of knowledge and development of
procurement capacity. The Procurement Agent will handle procurement for
all goods, works and services under operations financed directly by IDA, as
well as activities financed under the IDA-administered Afghanistan
12



Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF). In addition, the AIA has agreed that the
Agent will be used for budgetary expenditures from domestic resources.
Further, in order to streamline overall operations, the AIA has requested that
the Procurement Agent should be used for government-executed expenditures
funded by other donors.
The terms of reference for the Procurement Agent include: (i) building local
procurement capacity; and (ii) assessing existing laws, regulations, and
procedures, and developing a concrete action plan for enhancing the
procurement environment and building human capacity.
(b) Institutional Strengthening (US$0.65 million). This sub-component aims to
assist the AACA in developing its aid coordination and facilitation functions,
including funding for essential equipment and operating costs. This sub-
component also supports overall coordination and reporting efforts for this
Project.
(c) Studies and Targeted Institutional Strengthening (US$0.40 million). This sub-
component provides the AIA with flexibility to commission studies that could
generate quick impact or deal with key policy issues. Flexibility is designed
into this component in recognition of the rapidly changing environment. The
aim is to provide services to various ministries or agencies as may be
requested by the AIA.
(d) Training (US$0.20 million). A small allocation has been provided to allow
for provision of targeted training of key government staff in areas such as
computer technology and the English language, and seed money for
developing more extensive training programs that other donors may be willing
to finance.  It is important to note that the terms of reference for all
international assistance under this Project include a significant emphasis on
training and capacity building. Hence, this allocation should not be taken as
indicative of the support provided by the Project in these critical areas.
Component 2: Support to the Ministry of Finance
(US$3.95 million)
45.   Post-conflict recovery and restoration of sustainable economic growth requires a
stable macroeconomic environment to underpin non-inflationary reconstruction. This
calls for strengthening economic management and restoring critical economic and
financial institutions. A sound budget is needed that is consistent with the agreed
recovery strategy and that is implemented through a comprehensive expenditure
management system. Initially most of the financing for the AIA (and its successor) will
come from donors. In order to provide accurate and meaningful information on
government spending, donor funds should appear in the budget and, to the extent feasible
and appropriate, flow through the Treasury. This will only be possible if donors are
assured of appropriate accountability in the management of these funds.  Thus
expenditure execution-including effective accountability, cash management and control,
13



and comprehensive and accurate reporting-along with payroll management are high
priorities.
46.   In addition a broad budget framework is needed in order to begin to establish
priorities for the next budget and to determine the aggregate resource and expenditure
envelopes. One key area will be to determine a revised, fiscally sustainable wage bill,
predicated on a lean, merit-based civil service with a competitive wage structure.
47.   Consistent with the emergency nature of this operation, the support being
provided is at a basic level. It seeks to put in place emergency capacity, while laying
foundations on which to build sound institutions. Additional medium-term support will
be required. Several other partners are also likely to be involved in supporting the MOF.
IDA is currently working closely with the TMF, and IDA's support will be further tailored
to ensure complementarities with other resources to be provided. This component
contributes to both project objectives:
(a) Accounting and Treasury Department Strengthening (US$3.375 million).
This sub-component seeks to put in place emergency financial management
capacity to facilitate transparent accounting of governmental expenditures and
timely disbursements.  This will be done by employing a specialized
international firm (Financial Management Agent) for a two-year period (or
less should sufficient local capacity develop). In addition to developing and
operating an immediate stopgap financial management system (based on
existing policies and procedures) for AIA expenditures, the Financial
Management Agent-working with the MOF-will also assist in establishing
a simple, computerized expenditure management system that includes the
payroll. In the initial phase this will be limited to a consolidation of AIA
expenditures. In terms of the payroll, the focus will be on establishing clear
baseline data and monitoring changes to the payroll. Separate assistance is
provided to enhance controls over and implementation of the payroll. The
Financial Management Agent will work closely with the staff of the MOF to
ensure transfer of knowledge and development of capacity.
(b) Budget Department Strengthening (US$0.375 million). This sub-component
will provide consultants' services, equipment and operating costs needed to
strengthen the organizational structure of the department and to develop
selected functions. Technical assistance will also be provided in key areas
including: setting budget priorities, assessing recurrent cost implications of
the capital budget, defining a new salary scale, in line with budget envelopes,
and setting a new (temporary) pension rate, also in line with the budget
envelope.
(c) Economic Policy Strengthening (US$0.20 million). This sub-component will
provide consultants' services to begin building the capacity of the MOF to
carry out its function as the economic policy making organ of the AIA.
14



Component 3: Support to the Auditor General Office
(US$1.80 million)
48.   While there is a certain capacity within AGO, it is insufficient to meet the needs
of the AIA and donor community. This component will provide immediate support. In
addition the AGO will be seeking to establish a twinning partnership with a qualified
Supreme Audit Institution. The aim of this component is to enhance the capacity of the
AGO to fulfill its responsibilities as the AIA audit institution. It supports both objectives
of the project.
(a) Audit Capacity Strengthening (US$1.80 million). This component seeks to
put in place emergency audit capacity to ensure the timely audit of budget
execution, which will be largely donor-financed. This will be done by
employing a specialized international firm (Audit Agent) for a two-year
period. The Audit Agent will work closely with the staff of the AGO to
transfer necessary knowledge and develop audit capacity. The Audit Agent
will work with the AGO to audit AIA budget execution. Further, in order to
streamline overall operations, the AIA has requested that the Audit Agent
should be used by other donors, in line with their contributions flowing
through the budget. This Agent will be used to audit IDA financed projects.
The terms of reference for the Audit Agent also include: (i) building local
audit capacity; and (ii) assessing existing laws, regulations, procedures, and
capacity and developing a concrete action plan for enhancing the audit
function and building human capacity. The component also includes a small
allocation for equipment and operating costs.
C. Implementation Arrangements
49.   Project Sequencing. There is currently limited implementation capacity within
the AIA. It is for that reason that the Project is assisting in putting in place on an
emergency basis procurement, financial management and audit capacity. The selection
of these Agents has commenced, consistent with IDA procurement guidelines. It is
expected that the Agents would be in place by May 1, 2002, thereby allowing for
immediate Project start-up. To fulfill urgent needs, the Financial Management and
Procurement Agents may be requested to provide interim assistance to the AIA
immediately after their selection. This is the most urgent priority, and as such the first
stage of the project start-up will focus on ensuring that these Agents are in place. Given
limited implementationi capacity, it is only once these Agents are in place that attention
will turn to a rapid start-up of the other Project sub-components.
50.   Implementation Arrangements. The Project has three implementing agencies
Component 1 will be implemented by the AACA. Component 2 will be implemented by
the MOF. Component 3 will be implemented by the AGO. Responsibility for
coordinated reporting on Project implementation will rest with the AACA. While three
implementing agencies may seem high for an emergency operation, it is deemed
appropriate. This is because it is essential to begin building capacity in relevant domestic
15



institutions so that they can assume their responsibilities as rapidly as possible. Further,
vesting procurement with the AACA actually streamlines implementation of the overall
reconstruction program by focusing this activity within one agency. Given the fluid
environment, and the fact that the AACA is a new institution, spreading implementation
also helps to diffuse risk that would exist by vesting all implementation in a single entity.
51.   Given that the Project also emphasizes capacity building, AIA will identify and
appoint an adequate number of civil service counterparts with sufficient qualifications to
work with the firms that will be providing services.
52.   Procurement. Procurement responsibility under the project would be primarily
carried out by a specialized firm (Procurement Agent) contracted specifically to work, on
behalf of, and closely with, staff of the AACA and other line ministries. This
arrangement of having a specialized firm in place as early as possible would ensure
compliance with IDA procurement procedures from the outset, and expedite
implementation of Project activities.
53.   The three Agents, covering the Procurement, Financial Management, and Audit
core technical assistance functions on behalf of the AIA are being selected based on
Consultant's Qualifications. The Procurement Agent anchored in the AACA for this
purpose will handle all other procurement. The implementing agencies would provide
technical input into the process, however they would not be responsible for any
procurement actions during the course of the project. To ensure domestic capacity is built
up, the Procurement Agent will provide training to AACA staff, as well as key
counterpart staff in other line ministries as deemed necessary to ensure that they develop
capacity to carry out procurement on their own, and will also assist in preparing the
AIA's global procurement strategic plan for the next two years. Annex III provides more
information on procurement arrangements.
54.   Disbursement and Financial Management Arrangements. Since there is no
Country Profile of Financial Accountability (CPFA) or Country Financial Accountability
Assessment (CFAA) for Afghanistan, there is inadequate knowledge of country issues
and related strengths and weaknesses. Hence, for this emergency operation, it is assumed
that financial management capacity in the country is negligible and appropriate
mitigation measures have been built in to the Project. A Financial Management Agent is
being recruited as part of the Project to strengthen the AIA's financial management
capacity, including for the Grant proceeds. The Financial Management Agent will be
responsible for assisting the MOF to maintain the Project accounts and prepare Project
financial statements. These arrangements are adequate to account for and report on Grant
expenditures. Additional details are available in Annex IV.
55.   Disbursements: Disbursements from the IDA Grant would be made in the
traditional system (reimbursement with full documentation and against statements of
expenditure). Due to the nature of the Project activities, this Project will have a relatively
small number of payments. Initial payments will be made directly by IDA, and the
Special Account would only be established once adequate banking arrangements are in
16



place. Disbursement for operating expenditures and goods will only be made after the
Financial Management Agent is employed to carry out sub-component 2a of the Project.
56.   Audit: The Audit Agent will audit the accounts of the Project. The annual Project
financial statements audited by external auditors would be submitted within 6 months of
the close of AIA's fiscal year.
57.   Retroactive Financing. Retroactive financing in the amount of approximately
US$500,000 will be available to finance consultant services of the Financial Management
Agent and the Procurement Agent provided between March 15, 2002 and singing of the
Grant.
58.   Monitoring and Evaluation.   Monitoring arrangements include plans for
intensive supervision by IDA to ensure that any implementation difficulties are dealt with
promptly. At a minimum, a full supervision mission is needed quarterly, with specialists
visiting Afghanistan more frequently if needed during Project implementation. In
addition, particularly since a significant portion of the project (75 percent of total
resources) are to hire procurement, financial management and audit agents that will also
be used by other IDA projects, preparation and supervision missions for other operations
will also be used as opportunities to monitor progress in these areas. IDA will also carry
out a mid-term performance review. A quarterly progress report will be prepared and
submitted to IDA, which consolidates all components including progress towards
meeting implementation and development objectives, as further detailed in the Project's
procurement plan and detailed monitoring indicators. Responsibility for this reporting
rests with the AACA, with each implementing agency agreeing to provide requisite input.
Annex V provides additional details on monitoring indicators for the Project.
D. Justification
59.   The AIA does not have an established track record of transparent and efficient
implementation. This severely limits the scope for successful implementation of a large
recovery program.  Further, concerns about accountability could jeopardize the
magnitude of donor support that has been pledged and will be required. Assisting the
AIA (and its successor) in building a nucleus of implementation capacity (in
procurement, financial management and audit) and showing credible results on the
ground will help the AIA (and its successor) start building a track record of performance,
while also providing some assurance to donors of appropriate fiduciary accountability for
budget resources. The additional activities supported by the Project begin to lay key
foundations in selected areas of the public administration. Although public sector
enhancement is a medium-term objective, it is crucial to set the tone in the short-term
with effective support initial steps in this process.
17



18



ANNEX I: ADDITIONAL GOVERNANCE BACKGROUND
Governance Principles. Four over-arching governance principles for a rebuilding and
reunifying Afghanistan can be distilled from the various documentation and discussions
at recent international gatherings.
The first principle is that the role of the new Afghan state should in the foreseeable future
be focused on the inherently governmental functions of:
1. Assuring order and public safety;
2. Providing for peaceable and open political and economic relations with all
neighboring states;
3. Reducing economic distance within the country (both the cost of physical transfer
of goods and services, and the flow of relevant information);
4. Encouraging the growth of competitive goods and factor markets partly through
facilitating information and communication;
5. Exercising strong aggregate financial and (eventually) monetary control;
6. Providing a stable medium of exchange;
7. Advancing the rule of law; and
8. Protecting the most vulnerable groups.
Second, a realistic balance of powers and responsibilities between central and local
governments is necessary to achieve decentralization without disintegration. This is
possible in Afghanistan only if the central government limits its activity to these essential
national functions, and if it selects a mode of implementation that recognizes the
importance of providing an enabling environment for local community participation. The
likely balance is:
1. Sharing the service policy and standard-setting function between center and local
government in a manner suitable to the specific sector;
2. Reserving service delivery largely to local government structures and/or to the
private sector or NGOs; and
3. Reserving service financing almost entirely to the central government (through
which most external aid should be channeled).
Third, corruption should be minimized without hampering effective action. This will
require that:
1. Government regulation should be kept to the minimum necessary to protect a
demonstrable public interest;
2. Transparency should be aggressively pursued in all governmental activities;
3. Government employees should be paid well enough that they do not have to steal
in order to live; and
4. Penalties should be swift, certain, and publicly enforced.
Finally, it is important to work with the grain of existing institutional arrangements.
Afghanistan is not an institutional tabula rasa-the weaknesses in the public sector
institutional arrangements do not amount to a blank slate. There are basic laws and
procedures that were functioning during the period of the late President Daoud, during
19



Soviet occupation, during the mujahideen period and even under the Taliban regime.
Some administrative functions continued to be performed and many mid-level and lower-
level cadre government employees have remained in their jobs. This is both good and
bad as many elements of the central planning model that had been imposed on
Afghanistan by the Soviet Union remain in place. However great the need for a fresh
start, there is a need to work with these existing institutional realities.
Structure of the AIA. The AIA is entrusted with the day-to-day conduct of the affairs
of state and has the right to issue decrees "for the peace, order and good government of
Afghanistan." It is composed by a Chairman, five Vice Chairmen and 24 other members.
Each member, except the Chairman, may head a department. Decisions can be taken (if
possible by consensus, but if not by a majority) when at least 22 members are in
attendance. The AIA is charged with establishing a Central Bank (to regulate the money
supply of the country through transparent and accountable procedures), an independent
Civil Service Commission (to provide the AIA and its successor with shortlists of
candidates for key governmental posts), and an independent Human Rights Commission
(to monitor human rights, investigate violations, and develop domestic human rights
institutions).
Civil service size. In Afghanistan, the civil service comprises the core civil service
deployed in Kabul and provinces as well as employees of state owned enterprises. Based
on the organizational chart of government from the 1970s, the MOF estimates that there
are 219,000 sanctioned posts, but no information exists about how many employees are
deployed between Kabul and the provinces, between the core civil service and
enterprises, or in the different grades. Current estimates of the shape of the civil service
are necessarily extrapolations from the last recorded (1996 - Kabul only) number of civil
servants employed in ministries in 12 grades.
Number of     % of
Grade       employees   employees
I - highest grade  579        1.3
2           1,613        3.5
3           4,138        9.0
4           4,504        9.8
5           3,547        7.7
6           3,994        8.7
7           3,641        7.9
8           5,340       11.6
9            117         0.3
10           505         1.1
11          9,047        19.6
12 - lowest grade  9,047      19.6
Total        46,072       100.0
20



Civil service compensation. Civil service compensation is very compressed. This is a
result of the fact that the bulk of compensation derives from a uniform food allowance.
Compensation rates, for each of the twelve grades, are summarized in the table below.
grades      base pay food allowance  transport  professional   total pay
allowance    allowance
(monthly compensation in AFA)
1       210,000      1,200,000    154,000       16,000    1,580,000
2       170,000      1,200,000    154,000        8,000    1,532,000
3       130,000      1,200,000    110,000        8,000    1,448,000
4        110,000     1,200,000    110,000        8,000    1,428,000
5        95,000      1,200,000    110,000        8,000    1,413,000
6        78,000      1,200,000    110,000        8,000    1,396,000
7        70,000      1,200,000    110,000        8,000    1,388,000
8        63,000      1,200,000    110,000        8,000    1,381,000
9        57,000      1,200,000    110,000        8,000    1,375,000
10        51,000      1,200,000    110,000        8,000    1,369,000
11        46,000      1,200,000    110,000        8,000    1,364,000
12        40,000      1,200,000    110,000       8,000     1,358,000
21



22



ANNEX II: DETAILED ACTIVITIES
Amounts Selection
US$000
Support to the AACA
Procurement strengthening
Consultants services for procurement agent             3,000  CQ
Institutional strengthening
Consultants services for institutional strengthening     300  QCBS/QBS/CQ/SS/Lnd
Furniture, office equipment and goods                    200  LS/IS/LIB/UN/DC
Operating expenses                                       150
Studies and targeted institutional strengthening
Consultants services for designated activities           400  QCBS/QBS/CQISS/Ind
Training                                            _
Consultants services for training design or provision    200  QCBS/QBS/CQ/SS/Ind
Support to the MOF
Treasury and Accounting Department Strengthening
Consultants services for financial management agent    3,000  CQ
Consulting services for payroll management               200  QCBS
Furniture, office equipment and goods                    100  LS/IS/LIB/UN/DC
Operating expenses                                        75  --
Budget Department Strengthening
Consultants services for budget department strengthening  200  QCBS
Furniture, office equipment and goods                    100  LS/IS/LIB/UN/DC
Operating expenses                                        75
Economic Policy Strengthening
Consultants services for economic policy strengthening   200  QCBS/QBS/CQ/SS/Ind
Support to the AGO
Audit Strengthening
Consultants services for audit agent                   1,500  CQ
Furniture, office equipment and goods                    200  LS/IS/LIB/UN/DC
Operating expenses                                       100  --
23



24



ANNEX III: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
A. Institutional Capacity
This Project has three components: Component 1: Support to the Afghanistan
Assistance Coordination Authority (AACA) (US$4.25 million); Component 2: Support to
Ministry of Finance (US$3.95 million); and Component 3: Support to Auditor General
Office (US$ 1.80 million). As this Project itself is for institution building, based on the
request of Afghanistan Interim Administration (AIA), it is envisaged that IDA initially
would provide limited support to AACA till a procurement agent is put in place. The
hiring of the Procurement Agent is part of Component 1.
The Procurement Agent will work on behalf of, and closely with, the staff of
AACA and other ministries. The Procurement Agent will be responsible for procurement
of goods, works and consultancy services and for building capacity within AACA and
line ministries. IDA would arrange for training of key AACA staff to become familiar
with IDA procurement guidelines and procedures. AACA will appoint a counterpart staff
who, supported by IDA, would be involved in the selection of Procurement Agent.
In view of the post-conflict envirorment in the country, the procurement risk is
considered high, despite use of procurement expertise of the specialized firm
(Procurement Agent) in the AACA. Project supervision will include procurement
expertise in most missions over the life of the IDA Grant. Threshold limits described
below have been set considering these risks.
B. Procurement Methods
The procurement arrangements and the estimated costs for the Project
components to be funded by IDA are shown in Table A. Procurement under the IDA
Grant would be carried out in accordance with the "Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and Credits" (January 1995, revised in January and August 1996 and
September 1997and January 1999) and "Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997, revised in September 1997 and
January 1999). The "Bank's Standard Request for Proposals: Selection of Consultants"
(July 1997, revised April 1998 and July 1999) would be used for consulting services.
Bl: Procurement of Goods (US$600, 000)
The procurement of goods will consist of office supplies and equipment,
including  computers  and  vehicles.  Limited  International Bidding  (LIB),
International/National Shopping Procedures (IS/NS), Procurement through UN
Procurement Agency (UN Procurement) and Direct Contracting (DC) procedures will be
used.
25



Limited Intemational Bidding (LIB): This will be used for goods estimated to
cost more than US$200,000 or equivalent per contract. Bidders could send their request
by fax and no bid security would be required.
International/National Shopping (IS/NS): This will be used for goods estimated
to cost less than or equal to US$200,000 equivalent per contract. Under Shopping
procedures, the Procurement Agent will use simplified documents and procedures for
soliciting, receiving and evaluating competitive quotation from usually at least three
suppliers (in International Shopping from two different countries). Shopping method to
be used will be based on Bank's memorandum of June 8, 2000 (Guidance Procurement
Notes on Handling Procurement under Shopping Methods). In view of the nature of this
emergency operations, the threshold will be higher than normal limit of US$100,000.
Procurement through UN Procurement Agency (UN Procurement): This will be
used for goods estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 or equivalent per contract, with
the UN acting as suppliers pursuant to their own procedures.
Direct Contracting (DC) Procedures: This will be used for goods estimated to
cost less than US$50,000 or equivalent per contract.
B2: Consulting Services and Training (US$9 million):
Although for consulting services the preferred selection method is Quality and
Cost Based Selection (QCBS), for the three major consultancies (Procurement Agent,
Financial Management Agent and Audit Agent) that need to be selected as quickly as
possible, the method to be used is Selection Based on Consultants' Qualification (CQ).
This means seeking Expressions of Interest (EOIs) based on brief terms of reference, and
specifying in the EOIs the criteria for establishing a shortlist with a view to select the
firm with the most appropriate qualifications and references. The selected firm will be
asked to submit a combined technical-financial proposal before being invited for
negotiations. The EOIs for the above three Agents were published in the UNDB online
version on February 23, 2002 along with other targeted announcements to ensure wide
dissemination. For major consultancies the description, estimated cost and method of
selection are as follows:
26



No.   Description of Services          Estimated Cost  Method of Selection
1.   Technical Assistance and Support to  US$ 3.0 million  CQ
AACA - Procurement Agent
2.    Technical Assistance and Support to  US$ 3.0 million  CQ
MOF - Financial Management Agent
3.    Technical Assistance and Support to  US$ 1.5 million  CQ
AGO - Audit Agent
4.    Technical Assistance and Support to
AACA including:
(a) Institutional Strengthening  US$0.30 million  QCBS/QBS/CQ/SS/Ind
(b) Studies                      US$0.40 million  QCBS/QBS/CQ/SS/Ind
(c) Training                     US$0.20 million  QCBS/QBS/CQ/SS/Ind
5.    Technical Assistance and Support to
Ministry of Finance including:
(a) Payroll Management Strengthening  US$0.20 million  QCBS
(b) Budget Department Strengthening  US$0.20 million  QCBS
(c) Economic Policy Strengthening  US$0.20 million  QCBS/QBS/CQ/SS/Ind
The above consultancies may also include supply of goods of about 15 percent of
the value of consultancy to be brought by the consultants for their use during the course
of assignment and to be left with the client, after its use.
IDA's clearance of terms of reference and single source selections will be
mandatory irrespective of value of the assignment.
C. Procurement Planning
The AIA, with limited support from IDA, is expected to hire the three agents
(Procurement, Financial Management and Audit) by May 2002. A work plan in this
respect was agreed with AIA during negotiations. Once the Procurement Agent is in
place, one of its first tasks would be to forward for IDA's review a procurement plan for
the Project.
D. Prior and Post Review
All contracts for goods in excess of US$100,000 each and consulting services
contracts above US$100,000 for firms and above US$50,000 for individual consultants,
would be subject to prior review by IDA. The prior review process would also cover the
first three goods contracts, irrespective of the amount. All other contracts would be
subject to post-review on a random basis during supervision missions and audits.
27



E. Procurement Information
The Procurement Agent will prepare procurement information that will be
collected and recorded as follows:
1. prompt reporting of contract award information for the respective components; and
2. comprehensive quarterly reports prepared by AACA indicating:
*     revised cost estimates for individual contracts and total cost;
*     revised timings of procurement actions including advertising, bidding,
contract award and completion time for individual contracts; and
*     compliance report by AACA within three months of the Grant signing
date.
F. Proposed Procurement Arrangements and Frequency of Supervision
The Project elements, their estimated costs and proposed methods of procurement
are summarized in Table A. Consultant Selection Arrangements are given in Table Al.
Thresholds are given in Table B.
28



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)1
Expenditure Category          NCB             Other2           Total Cost
Goods                          0.0              0.6                0.6
Services                       0.0              8.8                8.8
Training                       0.0              0.2               0.2
Operating Cost                 0.0              0.4               0.4
Total                       0.0              10.0              10.0
1/   All costs include contingencies
2/   Includes goods to be procured through limnited international bidding; national/international
shopping and/or through UN agencies, and under direct contracting consulting services, training,
technical assistance services, and incremental operating expenses.
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)I
QCBS     QBS     SFB    LCS     CQ      Other    'NBF      Total
Cost
A. Firms           0.7      0.2    0.0    0.0     7.7       0.2      0.0      8.8
(0.7)   (0.2)   (0.0)  (0.0)   (7.7)    (0.2)    (0.0)    (8.8)
B. Individuals     0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0      0.2       0.0      0.2
(0.0)   (0.0)   (0.0)  (0.0)   (0.0     (0.2)    (0.0)    (0.2)
Total              0.7      0.2    0.0    0.0     7.7      0.4       0.0      9.0
(0.7)   (0.2)   (0.0)  (0.0)   (7.7)    (0.4)    (0.0)    (9.0)
1/   All costs include contingencies
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA.
QCBS: Quality and Cost-Based Selection
QBS: Quality-Based Selection
SFB:   Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS:   Least-Cost Selection
CQ:    Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other: Selection of Individual Consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Single
Source Selection of Firms, SOEs for Training, Commercial Practices, etc.
29



Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure.       Contract Value                           Contracts
Category            Threshold           Procurement        Subject to
(S$ thousands)          Method         Prior Review
:___________________  -:.(US$  millions)
1. Goods            Above US$100,000 and LIB/Shopping/Direct
first three contracts  Contracting/UN          0.3
irrespective of value  Procurement
2. Services including
Training:
a) Firms            Above US$100,000     Bank Guidelines as per    8.7
Paragraph B2 above.
b) Individuals      US$50,000 or above
TOTAL Value of Contracts subject to Prior Review: US$9.0 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment: High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: Once every 3 months
(includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits).
30



ANNEX IV: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT & DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Country Issues
Since there is no Country Profile of Financial Accountability (CPFA) or Country
Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for Afghanistan, there is inadequate
knowledge of country issues and related strengths and weaknesses.     Financial
management capacity in the country is considered to be negligible and appropriate
mitigation measures have been suggested through the engagement of the Financial
Management Agent.
Risk Analysis
Risk                Rating          Risk Mitigation Measure
Project implementation will be coordinated  H  The Financial Management Agent will support
by a newly established agency and the    the disbursement of funds, accounting and
country's financial management systems   reporting.  There will also be monitoring
are not functioning effectively. There are  mechanisms  through  concurrent  auditing
inherent risks that the funds: (a) may not be  arrangements. The AIA has expressed its strong
accounted for properly; or (b) may be    commitment to accountable and transparent
misused or misappropriated.              financial management arrangements.
Strengths and Weaknesses
Strengths: The engagement of the Financial Management Agent, along with the
AIA's commitment to transparent and accountable financial management, are the primary
strengths of the Project financial management.
Significant weaknesses: The country's financial management system is not
functioning effectively. Engaging the Financial Management Agent mitigates this risk;
its responsibilities will include accounting for and reporting on Project expenditures.
Funds Flow
Once appropriate banking facilities are available, IDA funds will be deposited in a
special account and Project transactions will be routed through this account. Until the
Special Account is opened, payments to the consultants will be made directly by IDA.
Staffing
Since the financial management capacity of the implementing agencies is clearly
not adequate, the Financial Management Agent (to be recruited through the Project) will
support the MOF to perform the necessary financial management functions. MOF
counterparts are available to work closely with the Agent. One of the critical functions of
the Financial Management Agent will be to provide hands-on support to implementing
agency staff to enhance their financial management capacity.
31



Accounting Policies and Procedures
The Project will follow standard AIA financial management policies and
procedures, including using the AIA Chart of Accounts to record Project expenditures.
The use of these procedures will allow for adequate recording and reporting of Project
expenditures
Accounts will be maintained centrally in the MOF (by the Financial Management
Agent) for all implementing entities and consolidated Project financial statements will be
prepared for all sources and uses of Project funds.
Audit Arrangements
The accounts of the Project will be audited by the Audit Agent with terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association. The annual Project financial statement to the
Association would include a summary of funds received (showing funds received from
all sources), and a summary of expenditures shown under the main Project components/
activities and by main categories of expenditures. The format of the annual Project
financial statements will be similar to the Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs). The
audit of the Project accounts would also include an assessment of: (a) the adequacy of the
accounting and internal control systems; (b) the ability to maintain adequate
documentation for transactions; and (c) the eligibility of incurred expenditures for
Association financing. The annual Project financial statements audited by the Audit
Agent would be submitted within 6 months of the close of AIA's fiscal year. The
following audit reports will be monitored in the Audit Reports Compliance System
(ARCS):
Responsible Agency       | Audit                  | Auditors
AACA                      SOE, Project Accounts and  Audit Agent
Special Account
Reporting and Monitoring
Quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports will be produced showing: (i) sources and
uses of funds by disbursement category and project component; (ii) physical progress;
and (iii) status of procurement activities. These will be submitted to the Association
within 45 days of the end of the quarter.
32



Disbursement Arrangements
Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Expenditure Category     Amount       Financing
US$       Percentage
Consultants & Training     9,000,000   100%
Goods                        600,000   100%
Incremental Operating Costs  400,000   100%
Total Project Costs       10,000,000
Disbursement Method. Disbursements from the IDA Grant would be transaction-
based (replenishment and reimbursement with full documentation and against statement
of expenditure).
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs). Disbursements will be made on the
basis of SOEs for: (a) consultants and training for contracts not exceeding US$100,000
for firms and US$50,000 for individuals; and (b) goods for contract not exceeding
US$100,000; and (c) incremental operating costs.
Special Account. A Special Account would be maintained in a bank acceptable to
the Association; and would be operated by MOF. The Special Account would be
operated in accordance with the Association's operational policies. The authorized
allocation of the Special Account would be US$1 million that represents about 4 months
of initial estimated disbursements from the IDA Grant. The authorized allocation of the
Special Account will be US$200,000 until cumulative disbursements from the Credit
reach SDR 2.5 million.
Due to the lack of banking facilities to maintain the Special Account, initial
payments to consultants will be direct payments by the Association. As soon as adequate
banking facilities are available, the Special Account can be opened and used to make
payments for Project expenditures.
MOF will submit withdrawal applications to the Association for replenishment of
the special account or reimbursement.
Conditions
Disbursements.  Disbursement for the Goods and Operating Expenditures
categories will only take place once the Financial Management Agent is in place.
Financial Covenants
(a) AIA shall submit to IDA audited financial statements within 6 months of the end
of each fiscal year.
33



(b) AIA shall establish and operate no later than June 30, 2002, and thereafter
maintain throughout the Project implementation period, a satisfactory financial
management system, in accordance with the financial management manual agreed
with IDA. This will be achieved through the engagement of the Financial
Management Agent.
(c) Financial Monitoring Reports will be submitted on a quarterly basis.
(d) Audit of the Special Account, SOEs and the Project financial statements will be
performed in accordance with terms of reference agreed with the Association.
Supervision Plan
From a financial management perspective, the Project will need intensive
quarterly supervision. The focus during the supervision will be on the internal control
arrangements for the Project and functioning of accounting, financial reporting and
auditing.
34



ANNEX V: MONITORING
The following table provides detailed information on monitoring outputs and outcomes
for each component of the project.
Component                 Monitoring indicators                        | Goals
Support to the AACA
Procurement strengthening  June 30, 2003: Award the work specified in the  * Procurement capacity not a
agreed procurement plan to ensure the goods,     constraint to the
services and works are delivered as per agreed  reconstruction program.
schedule. (Progress reports).                   (Supervision reports,
including from other IDA
June 30, 2004: Award the work specified in the  financed projects).
agreed procurement plan to ensure the goods,
services and works are delivered as per agreed  . Program in place for
schedule. (Progress reports).                   medium-term enhancement
of procurement environment,
March 20, 2005: Award the work specified in the  including any continued
agreed procurement plan to ensure the goods,     temporary arrangements
services and works are delivered as per agreed  (Supervision reports).
schedule. (Progress reports). Action plan for
procurement strengthening agreed and under
implementation (Supervision reports).
Institutional strengthening  June 30, 2003: AACA equipped, staffed, and  . Reconstruction program
operation (Progress and Supervision reports).   facilitated by adequate donor
Donor database operational (Progress and         coordination and support as
Supervision reports). Regular support to donors  measured by availability and
and line ministries (Progress and Supervision    publication of timely
reports).                                        information on donor
assistance (Supervision
June 30, 2004: AACA equipped, staffed, and       reports)
operation (Progress and Supervision reports).
Donor database operational (Progress and
Supervision reports). Regular support to donors
and line ministries (Progress and Supervision
reports).
March 20, 2005: AACA equipped, staffed, and
operation (Progress and Supervision reports).
Donor database operational (Progress and
Supervision reports). Regular support to donors
and line ministries (Progress and Supervision
reports). Plan prepared for transferring capacity to
other agencies (Supervision reports).
Studies and targeted      June 30, 2003: At least one interventions financed  * Support provided to facilitate
institutional strengthening  (Progress reports).                           the initiation of at least two
June 30 204Atoaoalastoinerenios "quick-win" activities
June 30, 2004: A total of at least two interventions  (Progress and Supervision
financed (Progress reports).                     reports).
March 20, 2005: A total of at least three
interventions financed (Progress reports).
Training                  June 30, 2003: A total of at least one training  . Increase in the number of
courses, developed or attended (progress reports).  personnel that have
completed training and are
June 30, 2004: A total of at least two training  in-post (Progress and
courses, developed or attended (progress reports).  supervision reports).
35



March 20, 2005: A total of at least three training  supervision reports).
courses, developed or attended (progress reports).
Support to the MOF
Treasury and Accounting  June 30, 2003: Financial Management Agent in  * Accurately recorded
Department Strengthening  place and functioning (Progress and supervision  expenditures and strong
reports).                                     internal control, including for
all IDA projects; regular and
June 30, 2004: Financial Management Agent in  timely reporting (Supervision
place and functioning (Progress and supervision  reports, including from other
reports). Computerized system for basic       IDA financed projects).
expenditure management in place and functioning
in select locations. Action plan to further enhance  * Program in place for
the financial management environment prepared  medium-term enhancement
(Progress and supervision reports).            of financial management
environment, including any
March 20, 2005: Action plan to enhance the     continued temporary
financial management environment agreed and    arrangements (Supervision
under implementation (Progress and supervision  reports).
reports).
Budget Department        June 30, 2003: New, decompressed, fiscally   . Balance established between
Strengthening            sustainable salary scale agreed (Progress and  adequate remuneration and a
supervision reports).                          sustainable wage bill
(Supervision reports).
June 30, 2004: Introduction, on a temporary basis
pending full reform, of a new pension system  * A comprehensive and
within the available fiscal envelop (Progress and  appropriately classified
supervision reports).                          published for FY04 and
FY05 (Supervision reports).
March 20, 2005: New, decompressed, fiscally
sustainable salary scale fully implemented
(Progress and supervision reports).
Economic Policy          June 30, 2003: MOF department for economic   * Economic and fiscal impacts
Strengthening            policy formulation receives assistance to define and  of policy decisions are
carry out its mandate and to build capacity agreed  incorporated into decision-
(Progress and supervision reports).            making (Supervision reports).
June 30, 2004: Action plan for building capacity in
economic policy formulation agreed (Progress and
supervision reports).
March 20, 2005: Action plan for building capacity
in economic policy formulation under
implementation (Progress and supervision reports).
Support to the AGO
Audit Strengthening      June 30, 2003: Audit Agent in place and      * Timely, high quality audit for
functioning (Progress and supervision reports).  the FY03 and FY04 budgets,
and all IDA financed
June 30, 2004: Audit Agent in place and        operations (Progress and
functioning (Progress and supervision reports).  supervision reports; review of
Action plan to enhance the audit environment   audit reports).
prepared (Progress and supervision reports).
* Program in place for
March 20, 2005: Action plan to enhance the audit  medium-term enhancement
environment agreed and under implementation    of audit, including any
(Progress and supervision reports).            continued temporary
arrangements (Supervision
reports).
36



