              Document of
           The World Bank




                                              Report No: 35264

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
             (GRTD-H0060)

                  ON A

        LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

  IN THE AMOUNT OF US$10 MILLION

                    TO

            AFGHANISTAN

                FOR AN

   Emergency Public Administration Project




             March 27, 2006

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective March 2006)

                                Currency Unit = Afghani
                                          US$ 1 = 49.92 AFA

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                   March 21     March 20

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AACA     Afghanistan Assistance Coordination Authority
ADB      Asian Development Bank
AFMIS    Afghanistan Financial Management Information System
AG       Auditor General
AIA      Afghanistan Interim Administration
ARDS     Afghanistan Reconstruction and Development Services
ARTF     Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund
CAO      Control and Audit Office
CSC      Civil Service Commission
EPAP     Emergency Public Administration Project
EOI      Expression of Interest
FM/FMR   Financial Management/Financial Management Report
IARCSC   Independent Administrative Reform and Civil Service Commission
IDA      International Development Association
IFC      International Finance Corporation
IFI      International Financial Institution
IMF      International Monetary Fund
INTOSAI  International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions
ISA      International Standards on Auditing
MoF      Ministry of Finance
NGO      Non-Governmental Organization
PA       Procurement Agent
PACBP    Public Administration Capacity Building Project
PAR      Public Administrative Reforms
PLO      Procurement Liaison Officer
PPU      Procurement Policy Unit
PRR      Priority Reform and Restructuring
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
SARFM    South Asia Region Financial Management unit
TAFSU    Technical Assistance for Feasibility Studies Unit
TSS      Transitional Support Strategy
TTL      Task Team Leader
UNDP     United Nations Development Program

                              Vice President:      Praful C. Patel
                           Country Director:       Alastair McKechnie
                            Sector Manager:        Robert Saum
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:           Paul Sisk

                                       AFGHANISTAN
                           Emergency Public Administration Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
6. Sustainability
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
8. Lessons Learned
9. Partner Comments
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project ID: P077417                                                  Project Name: Emergency Public Administration Project
Team Leader: Donna Thompson                                          TL Unit: SARFM
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: March 27, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Emergency Public Administration Project                  L/C/TF Number: GRTD-H0060
   Country/Department: AFGHANISTAN                                                        Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (100%)
                  Theme: Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (P); Public expenditure, financial
                            management and procurement (P); Other accountability/anti-corruption (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/22/2002                                     Effective: 06/07/2002                06/07/2002
     Appraisal: 02/22/2002                                         MTR: 04/12/2004                  04/12/2004
      Approval: 04/04/2002                                      Closing: 09/30/2005                 09/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          AFGHANISTAN INTERIM ADMINISTRATION/AACA; AFGHANISTAN
                                           INTERIM ADMINISTRATION/MoF; AFGHANISTAN INTERIM
                                           ADMINISTRATION/CAO
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:               Alastair J. Mckechnie                          Alastair Mckechnie
Sector Manager:                 Robert J. Saum                                 Sadiq Ahmed
Team Leader at ICR:             Paul Sisk                                      Linda Van Gelder
ICR Primary Author:             Donna Thompson; Sati Achath


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

         The objectives of the Emergency Public Administration Project (EPAP) (US$10 million equivalent
grant) were to assist the Afghanistan Interim Administration (AIA) and its successor to: i) put in place
emergency capacity in key public administration areas to facilitate better use of public resources, including
donor funds, for urgent reconstruction and development efforts, and ii) support a few initial steps toward
laying the foundation for a transparent, well-functioning public administration.

         The objectives were critically important to the country's economic and social development. They
were realistic in scale and scope given the dire needs of Afghanistan in the post-conflict period. These
objectives were appropriate to the needs of the Borrower, considering:

         (a) After 30 years of conflict, Afghanistan is one of the poorest and longest-suffering countries
among the members of the World Bank. The Soviet occupation and subsequent conflict have severely
damaged Afghanistan's economy. By the mid-1990s, most of the country's limited modern infrastructure
was destroyed; state and civil society was severely damaged; and institutions which had governed the
pre-war economy and society were significantly eroded.

          (b) Dislocation and hunger resulting from a prolonged drought; the interruption of trade via
Pakistan as a result of developments following September 11, 2001; and the continuing massive
displacement of population due to security concerns had exhausted the capacity of the Afghan government,
families, and civil society to cope with the challenges.

         (c) The key economic institutions including the Central Bank, budgeting, accounting, tax collection
and customs, statistics, civil service, law and order, and judicial systems had become extremely weak. Even
though extensive public administration procedures and regulations existed, most had not been applied for
many years. Only a limited number of basic administrative functions continued to be carried out during the
years of prolonged conflict; many mid-level and lower-level government employees had left their jobs. The
project set out to build upon and extend existing institutional arrangements where possible, and upgrade
other institutional fiduciary arrangements as appropriate.

         (d) Afghanistan had received generous pledges of donor support for its massive reconstruction and
development program. However, donors expressed serious concerns regarding the capacity of the
government to effectively and transparently utilize this assistance. It was imperative that the AIA and
successor administrations had demonstrable capacity in place to procure, disburse, account for, monitor,
report on, and audit the use of public resources, including donor contributions. Past experience in
post-conflict settings has shown that when procurement and fiduciary capacities were weak, significant
bottlenecks to implementation of reconstruction programs arose. Consequently, it was decided to rapidly
prepare this project focusing on removing these potential bottlenecks. The project was designed to enable
the AIA to put in place emergency capacity to provide fundamental public administration services. It
would also enable the launch of a medium-term domestic capacity building program.

         The project was consistent with the Bank's Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) which was
predicated on the need for well-coordinated efforts by Afghanistan's development partners to achieve
Afghanistan's reconstruction and development priorities and goals. The key objectives of the Bank's
assistance were to: i) establish emergency capacity in areas essential to facilitate the reconstruction
program; ii) support high-priority reconstruction activities that could also help to jump start economic
activity; and iii) continue to build the Bank's knowledge base to enable development of a well-designed
program of future assistance.

         To the extent possible, the project was built upon lessons learned in other post-conflict countries


                                                       - 2 -

where procurement and fiduciary weaknesses had severely delayed reconstruction programs and
jeopardized the continued high level of donor support that was needed. This would be particularly
challenging in the case of Afghanistan. Due to the decades of administrative dormancy and the severity of
the destruction to infrastructure, there was much less of a base to work with than in many other
post-conflict countries. It was determined that international Procurement Agent (PA), Financial
Management (FM) Agent, and Audit Agent firms would be engaged to support the government in these key
public administration areas on an emergency basis.

         To streamline project preparation by the Borrower and the Bank in this emergency operation, the
project design was kept fairly simple. And because of the extensive professional support provided by
international consultants on all aspects of the project, implementation was not overly demanding for the
Borrower.

         The project became effective in June 2002. In the first 18 months of implementation, the project
was nearly fully committed and was more than 60 percent disbursed. The project successfully met the
on-going emergency needs of the government. In June 2003, the Second Emergency Public Administration
Project (EPAP 2) was approved by the Board and provided supplemental financing for the Procurement
and FM Agents secured under the first project. At the time of EPAP negotiations, the full costs of the
proposed Technical Assistance contracts were not fully known so IDA agreed in principle to provide
additional financing if needed.

         The second project was quickly brought on stream and provided the much needed additional
funding for essential fiduciary contracts under EPAP. The third Public Administration Capacity Building
Project (PACBP) that went to the Board in January 2005 continues the work started under EPAP, and
extends deeper into capacity building and institutional strengthening as the government gradually
transitions away from the emergency nature of these essential administrative operations.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of three components, all related to achieving the project's objectives.

         Component 1: Support to the Afghanistan Assistance Coordination Authority
(US$4.25million)

         The aim of this component was to provide support for the Afghanistan Assistance Coordination
Authority (AACA) to enable it to carry out its responsibilities and discharge its functions.

         (a) Procurement Strengthening. This sub-component sought to put in place emergency
procurement capacity to facilitate rapid, transparent utilization of donor resources for reconstruction and
development. This would be achieved by employing a specialized international firm known as the
Procurement Agent for an initial two-year period. The PA would work closely with the staff of the AACA
to ensure transfer of knowledge and development of procurement capacity. The PA would handle
procurement for all goods, works, and services under operations financed directly by the Bank, as well as
activities financed under the Bank-administered Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF). In
addition, the PA would also process procurements for budgetary expenditures from domestic resources.
Further, in order to streamline overall operations, the PA would be used for government-executed
expenditures funded by other donors.



                                                      - 3 -

         (b) Institutional Strengthening. This sub-component aimed to assist the AACA in developing its
aid coordination and facilitation functions, including funding for essential equipment and operating costs.
This subcomponent also supported overall coordination and reporting efforts for this project.

         (c) Studies and Targeted Institutional Strengthening. This subcomponent provided the AIA with
flexibility to commission studies that could quickly generate impact or address key policy issues. Flexibility
was designed into this component in recognition of the rapidly changing environment. The aim was to
provide services to various ministries or agencies as might be requested by the AIA.

         (d) Training. A small allocation was provided to enable provision of targeted training of key
government staff in areas such as computer technology and the English language, and seed money for
developing more extensive training programs that other donors might be willing to finance.

Component 2: Support to the Ministry of Finance (US$3.95 million)

         (a) Accounting and Treasury Department Strengthening. This sub-component sought to put in
place emergency financial management capacity to facilitate transparent accounting of governmental
expenditures as well as timely disbursements. This would be accomplished by employing a specialized
international firm as a Financial Management Agent for an initial two-year period. In addition to
developing and operating an immediate stopgap financial management system for AIA expenditures based
upon existing policies and procedures, the Financial Management Agent would also assist the Ministry of
Finance (MoF) in establishing a simple, computerized expenditure management system that includes basic
payroll functions. In the initial phase, the scope was limited to a consolidation of AIA expenditures.

         In terms of payroll, the focus was on establishing clear baseline data and monitoring changes to the
payroll. Separate assistance would be provided to enhance controls over, and implementation of, the
payroll. The Financial Management Agent would work closely with MoF staff to help ensure that
knowledge was transferred and institutional capacity was developed.

         (b) Budget Department Strengthening. This sub-component would provide consultants' services,
equipment, and operating costs needed to strengthen the organizational structure of the Budget Department
and to develop selected new administrative functions. Technical assistance would also be provided in key
areas including: setting budget priorities, assessing recurrent cost implications of the capital budget, and
defining new salary scales and temporary pension rates in line with evolving budget envelopes.

         (c) Economic Policy Strengthening. This sub-component would provide limited consultants'
services to begin building the capacity of the MoF to carry out its function as the economic policy making
body of the government.

Component 3: Support to the Auditor General Office (US$1.80 million)

         This component sought to put in place emergency external audit capacity to ensure the timely audit
of budget execution by employing a specialized international firm, the Audit Agent, for an initial two-year
period. The Audit Agent would work closely with the staff of the Control and Audit Office (CAO) to begin
to transfer necessary knowledge and develop initial audit capacity. In order to streamline overall
operations, the CAO, with extensive assistance from the Audit Agent, would audit AIA budget execution,
IDA-financed projects, as well as operations funded by other donors.




                                                      - 4 -

3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised.


3.5 Quality at Entry:

        The project's overall quality at entry received a Satisfactory rating from the Quality Assurance
Group (QAG), which remarked that:

        "....The task team should be congratulated for preparing an appropriate emergency operation in a
        very short time under difficult country circumstances. Afghanistan has been ravaged by conflict for
        an extended period with massive destruction of human and physical resources. The emergency and
        reconstruction needs are enormous and the skills remaining in Afghanistan are limited. As other
        emergency situations have shown, donors are hesitant to provide much-needed funds quickly
        without the presence of adequate fiduciary safeguards. The project correctly focuses on creating
        emergency capacity in critical administrative functions with some modest levels of institutional and
        capacity building. Flexibility has been built into the allocation of funds to accommodate additional
        needs as they become clearer during project implementation.

        The project scope was kept simple and civil service reform was correctly excluded in this initial
        operation but was added under EPAP II. Because EPAP is not overly ambitious, the task team
        managed to efficiently prepare this operation in a very short time and with limited resources. The
        presence of strong champions in the senior level of government was extremely helpful.

        The project's development rationale is very specific and focused on outcomes: providing emergency
        capacity in key public administration areas and supporting rudimentary measures aimed at laying
        the foundation for a well-functioning public administration. Given the emergency situation in
        Afghanistan, the urgent need to provide improved fiduciary capacity immediately to encourage
        donors to commit funds quickly was an important priority.

        The coverage and approach of the project are appropriate, given the emergency nature of the
        project and the short preparation period. The panel felt, however, that despite the emergency nature
        of this operation and the time pressures the task team faced, a few additional days could have been
        usefully spent to consider how the consultants could best provide training to local staff and build
        capacity in the ministries concerned....."

        To a large extent the Implementation Completion Report team concurs with the findings of the
QAG panel, with the exception of the local staff training comments. Given a war-ravaged nation with an
extremely limited number of qualified Afghan nationals ready and available to train at any of the ministries,
a few days of additional project preparation is not likely to have altered the ground realities or the project
outcomes. After 30 years of conflict, Afghanistan lost an entire generation of civil servants and those that
remained had negligible experience in a modern business setting. Capacity building was, and still remains
four years later, an extremely difficult, long-term, and labor-intensive endeavor.

        The project objectives were consistent with the Bank's TSS and met the critical needs of the
country's public administration sector. During preparation of the project, major risk factors and lessons
learned from other post-conflict countries were considered and incorporated into the project design to the
extent possible.




                                                      - 5 -

         Based on the above factors, the quality at entry is satisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

         Overall, the outcome of the project objectives is satisfactory. The project has successfully laid the
emergency foundation for the fiduciary framework in Afghanistan in procurement, financial management
and treasury, and external audit. With the support of three international firms, the government was able to
perform its key public administration functions and maintain the confidence of the public and the donors.
Thus, this emergency operation performed as it was intended.

         In combination with other on-going activities and interventions, the project achieved its objectives
in assisting the AIA to put in place emergency capacity to channel public resources and donor funds toward
urgent reconstruction and development activities. Throughout the course of the project, fiduciary standards
improved and progress was made toward laying the initial foundations for a transparent, well-functioning
public administration for donor and domestic resources. EPAP provided essential emergency interventions
to jump start these programs. However, there is still a long way to go in terms of building a solid civil
service and effective public administration functions in key ministries; the task that lies ahead should not be
underestimated.

         The major outcomes and achievements of the project are as follows:

Component 1

(i) Procurement Strengthening

         This sub-component provided emergency procurement capacity that facilitated rapid, transparent
utilization of donor resources for reconstruction and development through an international Procurement
Agent, which was designated in later contracts as a Procurement Advisor, working closely with the AACA
staff to help ensure knowledge transfer and development of basic procurement capacity. The PA
successfully processed procurement for goods and services under Bank- and donor-financed operations,
budgetary expenditures from domestic resources, as well as activities financed under the Bank-administered
ARTF.

         Even in the midst of a chaotic post-conflict environment, the project succeeded in building
confidence among the donor community on basic procurement matters. The PA provided essential technical
support and capacity strengthening to the AACA procurement unit to enable it to process contracts in
increasing volume and complexity. Even though there are still major efforts required to strengthen
procurement in Afghanistan, the emergency objectives have been achieved.

         Central Procurement Facility: The project facilitated the creation of a Central Procurement
Facility that, with the support of the PA, has the skills and capacity to process large and international
procurements in Afghanistan and to support smaller and local procurement activities in a few designated
line ministries. The centralized procurement approach was deemed appropriate at project design given the
embryonic nature of competitive procurement activities in Afghanistan.

         Legal Framework: Under EPAP, the overall procurement environment was strengthened. After a
comprehensive legislative review was conducted, new procurement legislation was drafted for consideration
by the government. In 2004 a New Public Procurement Law came into effect. The Law establishes



                                                      - 6 -

transparent and competitive procurement procedures with contestable mechanisms based upon objective
and verifiable selection and award criteria. It also defines the responsibilities of government officials
involved in procurement. The legal framework is now in place; the challenge going forward is to fully
implement the provisions of the framework in a transparent and accountable manner across the
government.

(ii) and (iii) Institutional Strengthening and Studies

        Initially, the Afghanistan Assistance Coordination Authority (AACA) performed emergency aid
coordination and facilitation functions and provided overall reporting support for this project. In 2003,
under Presidential decree the AACA was dissolved because the government believed that it was not a
successful program. The functions were reallocated to different ministries. After several studies, the
Procurement function was transferred to the Ministry of Reconstruction and the Ministry of Planning,
under the coordination of the Minister of Reconstruction. The Ministers of Planning and Reconstruction
had put in place a Director of the Procurement Unit whose responsibilities included day-to-day
management and oversight of the PA's activities. The Afghanistan Reconstruction and Development
Services (ARDS) now reports to an Oversight Committee comprised of officers from Finance and Foreign
Affairs with the chair from the Ministry of Economy. Current discussions are considering transferring
most of the remaining procurement staff to the MoF and to a few selected ministries.

(iv) Training

        Targeted training of key government staff in computer technology, English, and competitive
procurement principles was provided to support other project activities and to build essential administrative
capabilities. EPAP was instrumental in creating high-level awareness and adoption of international
procurement procedures across a selected group of government staff as well as procedural mastery in the
core group of staff.

Component 2

(i) Accounting and Treasury Department Strengthening

        With the initial support of the FM Agent and later the FM Advisor, the MoF was successful in
processing government funds and enhancing the credibility of the Treasury via the implementation of basic
computerized systems on an emergency basis. The basic systems have enabled the government to make
timely and accurate payments and prepare straightforward reports to execute the administrative functions
of the government in a transparent manner. The system remains largely centralized. The lack of
communications, technology, banking, and transportation infrastructure inhibited full participation of
provincial and local governments in transactions, funds flows, reporting, and expenditure verification.
Overall, poor infrastructure has made financial management overly Kabul-centric.

        EPAP laid the foundation for the fiduciary framework for the MoF to support 19 investment and
development policy projects in Afghanistan totaling almost $900 million, and also for the ARTF totaling
more than $1 billion. The emergency institutional and fiduciary arrangements developed under EPAP and
continued under the two follow-on projects, gave donors the confidence they needed to contribute quickly,
generously, and consistently to help rebuild the nation from a very weakened state.

(ii) Budget Department Strengthening




                                                      - 7 -

         The budget, treasury, and revenue mechanisms have been strengthened under a five-year
modernization strategy embarked upon by the MoF. The budget has gradually become a policy instrument
and is used to allocate funds to the government's highest priorities. From rudimentary beginnings under
emergency conditions, budget preparation has increased in sophistication over the past few years and has
provided an opportunity for the government to increasingly use the budget process to determine priorities.
Execution of the ordinary budget has improved significantly as further assistance is provided to ministries
in support of budget management. Other operations supported by both the Bank and the IMF have also
contributed to this progress.

(iii) Economic Policy Strengthening.

         A Public Finance and Expenditure Management Law that strengthens transparency and
accountability has been passed. It calls for the MoF to prepare quarterly reports on public finances and a
Fiscal Bulletin to report to the public on broader fiscal trends. Parallel improvements have been made in
the central bank's payment systems; the Treasury Single Account now ensures strong fiduciary controls. A
Fiscal Policy Unit and a Cash Management Unit have been established. A chart of accounts that provides
a unified classification for the operating and development budgets in line with international standards has
been developed, implemented, and upgraded to help ensure consistent and meaningful reporting.

Component 3

(i) Audit Capacity Strengthening.

         After a slow start the Control and Audit Office, with the support of the Audit Agent and later the
Audit Advisor, produced audits of budget execution and financial statements with acceptable quality and
reasonable timeliness during the project period. The initial delays experienced were partly due to the lack
of availability of proper and timely financial statements. Over the course of the project, annual financial
statement audits of Bank-funded projects have improved steadily. With the support of the Audit Agent,
the CAO performed its duties acceptably.

         After the Afghanistan Financial Management Information System (AFMIS) was implemented and
revamped, audit timeliness and quality began to improve, although the audits still largely focus on
individual transactions and compliance with procedures. To a major extent, the significant pressures of
on-going audit operations limited the extent of capacity building and institutional strengthening activities
conducted by the Audit Agent under EPAP.

         Under this emergency project, progress was made in the CAO, however there is still much work to
be done to: i) align the operations with international auditing standards, ii) significantly broaden and deepen
the skills of the audit staff, iii) increase the impact of the audits, iv) achieve meaningful audit follow up,
and v) develop a legal framework and modern audit law to strengthen the independence of the CAO.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Component 1: Support to the Afghanistan Assistance Coordination Authority

(a) Procurement Strengthening

         In procurement, policy and process reforms have been instituted, capacity has been increased, the
procurement unit has been reorganized, and large numbers of contracts are now being processed. As of the



                                                        - 8 -

project close on September 30, 2005 there were 351 contracts representing more than $945 million that
were either completed or underway using internationally accepted standards.

         The Procurement Unit has aggressively recruited local counterparts to help ease the transition and
to begin to build the foundations of a viable procurement operation both centrally, and to a very limited
extent, in a few selected line ministries. Through EPAP and subsequent follow-on projects, increasing
responsibilities will be progressively transferred to designated line ministries after they demonstrate the
capacity to successfully process contracts above agreed upon thresholds. Over time, this transition toward
increased decentralization will gradually improve both procurement capacity and overall service levels; this
is a major focus of PACBP. High staff turnover has become an issue, however.

(b) Institutional Strengthening

         Comprehensive procurement process reviews were conducted which reiterated the urgency of
identifying local counterpart staff, integrating procurement into overall project implementation, and
addressing the lack of line ministry ownership of the procurement process. These outputs supported the
overall procurement unit reorganization, staff acquisition, and comprehensive and tiered training programs.


(c) Training

         The PA trained approximately 150 procurement staff from various line ministries based upon
existing Afghanistan rules as well as on general procurement principles. Computer-based training materials
were largely based on the Bank's procurement rules. Stage 1 training represented basic procurement
fundamentals. Stage 2 focused on specific procurement rules. Participants received a certificate of
completion from these two stages, but this certificate does not represent a procurement qualification.
However, in spite of this training many of the ministry staff trained in procurement were not involved by
their senior management in the actual procurements carried out by their ministries.

         In addition to the more general procurement training program for line ministry staff, 10 individuals
known as Procurement Liaison Officers (PLOs) were selected for intensive procurement training which
included on-the-job training and mentoring with PA staff in a train-the-trainers approach. They also
attended a course at the Administrative Staff College of India in Hyderabad. These 10 individuals formed
the beginning of core procurement capacity development which was intended to assist the line ministries in
broadening and deepening their capacity. However, retention of these PLOs has become a serious issue
because many of the procurement units of line ministries have not yet attained PRR status to pay enhanced
salaries. In the meantime, PLOs are finding better opportunities elsewhere and their skills are being lost
from the government.

         From a situation of absolutely no capacity, procurement was strengthened and the project achieved
its emergency objectives. However, significant strengthening in the procurement function is still needed,
and the staff skills base needs to be broadened and deepened. Challenges remain in having local
government civil servants themselves perform procurement functions that are currently performed and/or
supported by the Procurement Advisor.

         Private sector training. Local vendors were provided with seminars on how to bid and compete for
contracts under the project. After a very slow start and a myriad of incomplete and irregular bidding
documents, over the course of the project the bids began to slowly improve. As could be expected,
language barriers and low literacy levels were sometimes encountered and had to be overcome by using
local staff as trainers and interpreters. To date, there has been significant progress in the "Works"


                                                      - 9 -

category but much more needs to be done with local vendors under the "Goods" and "Services" categories.
Capacity building activities in this area will continue under PACBP.

          To meet the Bank's procurement guidelines to advertise requests for bids to reach a wider
audience, radio announcements were used so that local firms or those with limited literacy skills would not
be penalized. Competitive procurement by itself is a foreign concept in Afghan culture and many hurdles
such as the advertising requirements were overcome by instituting local adaptations.

          Achievement of this component is satisfactory.

Component 2: Support to the Ministry of Finance

(a) Accounting and Treasury Department Strengthening

            Under EPAP and other concurrent programs, the government is in the initial stages of
implementing a large-scale program of financial management improvements which is expected to have
far-reaching implications for budget preparation, budget execution, accounting, reporting, payroll, revenue
and customs administration, debt management, cash management, and asset administration activities. In a
staged approach, solid progress has been made in developing the preliminary foundations for a financial
management system within the MoF's Treasury operations.

          AFMIS. With the assistance of the FM Agent, a basic computerized Treasury payment and
accounting system was quickly implemented to issue checks and enable real-time reporting on expenditures
processed in Kabul. This system was later augmented to enable tighter control of budget execution against
budget allotments for expenditures processed in Kabul as well as recording of revenues. An applications
systems architecture study is now underway under the PACBP to determine the medium-term functional
specifications, processing platforms, information, and connectivity requirements for national, provincial,
and district levels of government.

          Standard payroll module. The government has made significant progress in implementing a
verified payroll plan, initiating individual salary payments to 24,000 staff across 17 ministries and agencies
in Kabul, and piloting a payroll database in two ministries. A payroll package was initially selected from a
Canadian vendor but there were new requirements added to have a Farsi language user interface. No
suitable applications were identified so an Access database was implemented as an interim solution. The
government intends to implement a full-featured commercial Human Resources system to integrate with
AFMIS because controlling civil service costs is fundamental to controlling total government expenditures.
A salaries and incentives pillar of the new national strategy aims for a small and well-paid civil service with
merit-based appointments. The applications systems architecture study currently in progress will provide
key management and information insights into this area.

          Grant Management Unit. This unit has been established in the MoF to assist the government in
tracking donor financing and to provide donors with acceptable financial management reports. Donor
reports often require more detailed information related to project components and expenditure categories
that are not readily available in AFMIS. Careful tracking of aid pledges, commitments, and inflows is
critical to properly managing and allocating cash.

          Training and capacity building. These on-going efforts have enhanced the core knowledge and
basic skills in selected Finance and Treasury operations staff for their primary job functions. Designated
MoF staff currently process data entry activities and check runs. A few MoF staff and local consultants


                                                      - 10 -

were also trained to handle trouble-shooting and higher-end functions. But the current state of overall skills
in Treasury is characterized as very weak arising from repeated transfers of staff, numerous vacancies in
management and staff positions, many staff who have received little or no training, as well as other factors.


        The EPAP 2 and PACBP projects have continued training efforts in an attempt to increase the
long-term sustainability of the project's achievements. But, in general, there is a lack of qualified staff in
government service. Many government staff do not have the necessary formal training or technical
underpinnings to advance beyond their current job functions; strong academic and departmental training
programs are needed over the long term.

(b) Budget Department Strengthening

        A comprehensive medium-term budget process and framework has been developed to help the
government identify and fund high-priority areas. The budget is executed by each of the line ministries, but
currently performance across the ministries is uneven.

        The government has maintained its commitment to budget transparency. An increasing number of
reports are publicly available.        Even though budget planning and execution procedures are often
cumbersome and outdated, they are generally widely understood and largely adhered to throughout the
government. Capacity constraints in many ministries still severely inhibit the ability of the government to
fully manage the budget to sound fiduciary standards. These areas are being addressed in the subsequent
public administration reforms under EPAP 2 and PACBP projects.

(c) Economic Policy Strengthening

        A key output relating to economic policy is the Public Finance and Expenditure Management Law
which strengthens transparency, accountability, and public disclosure. Another key output is the
Independent Administrative Reform and Civil Service Commission (IARCSC) that was formed to
coordinate and manage the 2006-2010 Public Administrative Reforms (PAR) program.

        In addition, the government has finalized plans to improve processes relating to mobilizing
revenues and managing government finances. A Fiscal Policy Unit, Fiscal Coordination Committee,
taxpayers register, and cash management unit have all been established to better manage and coordinate the
national economy, which is quite challenging given the large percentage of donor and other funding sources
involved.

        Achievement of this component is satisfactory.

Component 3: Support to the Auditor General Office

Audit Capacity Strengthening

        From a very low base, the capacity of the audit staff in the Control and Audit Office has improved
over the life of the project, but still remains very weak. Due to severe staff skills shortages, initial training
programs in the use of PCs and English language basics were conducted before any technical auditing
classes could be conducted. As would be expected, this pre-training resulted in extensive delays in the
technical training program. After the foundation was developed, more than 150 staff participated in the
series of technical auditing courses in order to assist on audits. But many staff do not have the necessary


                                                      - 11 -

formal education and technical underpinnings to advance beyond their current job functions. Much more
training and skill building will be required for the staff in the CAO. Building additional audit capacity is
now under discussion in the PACBP.

        At the start of the project, the severe shortage of technical audit skills and tools significantly
limited audit effectiveness and impact. The CAO, with the support of the Audit Agent, has performed
acceptable compliance audits on all Bank-funded projects, ARTF projects, and government finances while
experiencing only minor delays. To increase audit effectiveness and overall impact, the Auditor General's
independence has been confirmed by Presidential decree. A steering group within the CAO was established
to guide project implementation.

        Moving forward, the regulatory framework needs to be further strengthened to clarify the
government's responsibility to respond to audit findings and to make records public. Current efforts by the
ministries to follow up on audit findings are extremely weak. And strong academic and departmental
training programs are needed over the long term.

        To address these deficiencies, capacity building programs started under EPAP will be broadened
and deepened under the follow-on operations. In addition, the CAO will develop a framework for the
scrutiny and systematic follow-up of audit reports. Even with these improvements, effective oversight of the
budget will remain a challenge in the near- to medium-term because a new Parliament is now in place with
extremely limited capacity to perform this function.

        Achievement of this component is satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project resulted in a modest institutional development impact.

        The key contribution of EPAP was to build an emergency fiduciary foundation upon which most
international and bilateral donor programs and ARTF operations could rely. This operation provided the
essential fiduciary framework that relieved all other development programs and projects in Afghanistan
from the need to incorporate a sound financial framework, resulting in significant leverage and speed
advantages and increased aid flows. This centralized emergency approach worked quite well.

        Another contribution of EPAP was that it put in place a new FM law; the regulations are now
being completed under PACBP. The project's specific impact in the areas of procurement, financial
management, and auditing are as follows:

(i) Procurement.

Central Procurement Facility. See Section 4.1(i)

New Public Procurement Law. See Section 4.1(i)




                                                      - 12 -

(ii) Financial Management.

         Effective operation of the government's budgeting and accounting systems was a prerequisite for
effective emergency procurement and auditing so this area received more attention both early on and
throughout the project. With the support of the FM Agent and later the FM Advisor, the government has
operated increasingly sound Treasury and central bank functions that linked spending allotments to budget
ceilings, processed vendor payments, and paid civil service salaries throughout the country. Even though
much more needs to be done, measuring these achievements from the baseline at project inception shows
substantial institutional capability. It is important at this junction to solidify the gains made, adhere to
prescribed fiduciary standards, and accelerate the programs to develop finance staff in order to support the
MoF and the line ministries in this critical area.

(iii) Auditing.

         During the early delays when financial statements were unavailable to audit, the CAO was
beginning to train staff and build initial capacity in audit methods, work programs, and tools, with the
support of the Audit Agent. The result of this investment is that government audit staff are beginning to
play larger roles in actually performing and leading audits. It is expected that the Audit Advisor would
need to remain in place for the foreseeable future but the role of the Advisor has been gradually shifting
from actually performing the audits to guiding selected government staff to the extent possible. The CAO
will be further strengthened under PACBP to build upon the results achieved under EPAP.

         Across the project, one area where progress was decidedly weaker than expected was institutional
strengthening. Given the project's dual focus to simultaneously provide both operational support to get the
administration up and running quickly and to strengthen institutional capacity, to a large extent urgent
operational needs relegated institutional development to the background. As a result, much less progress
was made under EPAP on strengthening institutional capacity within the government than was envisioned.

         The government is now gradually transitioning toward decreased reliance upon the Advisors to
perform routine government functions. A new Audit law is under consideration by the CAO. Under
PACBP, operations and capacity building are separated into distinct contracts to help ensure that the
critical capacity building and knowledge transfer objectives are fully achieved. However, a word of caution
is in order in that the regulatory environment in Afghanistan has advanced significantly. Unfortunately
even mastery of basic skills in the early environment does not fully qualify the civil servants to work
effectively in the new emerging environment.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Positive Factor:

         Massive support to the project and supported programs from the UN, international, and bilateral
donors played a significant role in the implementation and successful outcome of the project under harsh
post-conflict conditions.

Negative Factors:

         (i) Fragile security environment was a significant hindrance in terms of project implementation and



                                                      - 13 -

mobilizing people, especially in identifying and recruiting well-qualified local consultants.

         (ii) Extremely weak and degraded infrastructure limited transportation, participation, and
communications outside of Kabul.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Positive factors:

         (i) Strong leadership of MoF, commitment of the government to work with donors to secure
Afghan's future, and government's cooperation and commitment to ARTF funding contributed to favorable
implementation and outcomes.

         (ii) Relatively self-contained scope of work to date within the MoF, strong team leadership, good
quality international Afghan consultants, good local recruitments, integration of qualified staff, as well as a
reform champion and strong management from the Ministry of Finance helped to make the project
successful.

         iii) The presence of IMF's resident advisor in Kabul as the Head of Treasury helped to manage the
FM Agent and Advisor.

Negative Factors:

         (i) Lack of qualified staff in the civil service, absence of proper counterparts in the government,
and delays in reforms in the pay structure and grading of civil service resulting from 30 years of war and
conflicts severely crippled the public administration of the country.

         (ii) There were deficiencies in the overall expenditure system including cash management and the
payments system. Timely budget execution remained a problem, especially in the provinces. Serious gaps
remain in finalizing an established list of civil servants.

         (iii) Less progress was made in the audit component than in the other areas. Two contributing
factors were delays in the availability of financial statements to audit and the severe lack of initial capacity
in the CAO. These contributed to audit activities being slow to gear-up and demonstrate tangible results.

         (iv) There was an identified lack of ownership in procurement, caused mainly by:

                 Lack of familiarity with modern competitive procurement practices
                 Lack of appreciation of donor requirements by the counterpart ministries
                 Non-harmonized donor requirements and procedures
                 Lack of competence of line ministry staff in providing inputs on technical specifications
                 Lack of capacity of the local private sector in following international donor procedures.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
See Section 5.2.

5.4 Costs and financing:

         The total cost of the project was originally estimated at US $10 million but due to favorable XDR



                                                       - 14 -

conversion rates US$11.62 million was available. Additional funds were used to partially defray the costs
of the contracts of the three international agents and advisors. A total of $11.39 million was disbursed as
of March 20, 2006. A time extension was granted through March 31, 2006 so there is a withdrawal
application in process for the balance of the project funds.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

         Likely. At the national level, the overriding issue is the sustainability of the government and the
fledgling economy overall. Additional pledges of $10.5 billion were made at the January 2006 donor's
conference in London. On-going support at these levels remains critical. In addition, the dynamic and
somewhat deteriorating security situation is another overriding concern.

         At the project level, the government is highly committed to implementing reforms and increasing
the efficiency and effectiveness of core services. Although the government staff are not yet capable of
assuming the full workload and responsibilities of the international advisors, and significant external
funding will be needed for the foreseeable future, the basic fiduciary frameworks for effective public
administration are in place. Given the context of a severely debilitated post-conflict environment, this is a
major accomplishment in and of itself.

         In particular, sustainability of the achievements of the project in the procurement, financial
management, and auditing areas, with the on-going support of advisors, is likely in light of the following
factors:

         Procurement. On the basis of portfolio implementation experience and the interim review of the
project, there is now general agreement on a three-pronged approach toward effective and sustainable
capacity building of public sector procurement management in Afghanistan. It involves: (a) transferring
most procurement staff from ARDS to the MoF and a few to designated ministries; (b) accelerating
capacity building programs for line ministries to enable them to gradually undertake an increasing share of
procurement responsibilities associated with their development programs; and (c) establishing a central
procurement policy unit (PPU) to oversee the implementation of procurement reforms and ensure
compliance by all public sector institutions with new procurement regulations.

         Financial Management. EPAP activities in Financial Management are likely to be sustainable
because several government staff are trained and are now performing some core functions under the
supervision of the FM Advisor. Basic MoF, Treasury, and payroll systems are in place and are operating
effectively with straightforward reports. Immediate challenges in FM include: (i) building capacity in core
Treasury functions and to increasingly transfer operating capacity and responsibility from the FM Advisor
to a larger pool of local Treasury staff; (ii) improving the quality of revenue and expenditure information of
operating and development budgets from ministries and provinces; and (iii) implementing sound bank
reconciliation practices.

         Medium-term FM challenges include: (i) defining a vision for a modern and efficient MoF
including setting out its key mandates and performance benchmarks, and assessing legislative,
organizational, staffing, and system development needs; (ii) maintaining core skills when faced with high
levels of staff turnover in the Special Disbursement Unit; (iii) ensuring that all project expenditures are
incorporated into AFMIS, (iv) developing a coherent road map for sequenced implementation of the plan in
the MoF with clearly articulated milestones; and (v) building capacity of line ministries and provincial units



                                                      - 15 -

to implement the financial policies and regulations.

         Audit. Audit activities are likely to be sustainable because many staff that were trained in auditing
are now performing basic audit activities in conjunction with the Audit Advisor. The Auditor General's
office will require an intensive, ongoing program of assistance to continue to build its nascent capacity and
to greatly broaden and deepen its skills and knowledge. The long-term vision is for the CAO to continue to
make measured progress toward becoming a modern supreme audit institution capable of managing the full
range of audits in compliance with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). Another goal is to
gradually move from purely compliance audits to audits with more of a performance-based orientation.

         Financial accountability also requires a sound governance and accountability framework for the
public sector in Afghanistan under a modern Public Expenditure and Financial Management Law. The
Law has been passed and is currently being implemented. Additional efforts are needed in the areas of
transparency, public disclosure, and legislative oversight. An Audit Law is now under consideration.

         Project sustainability is also enhanced due to the series of Bank follow-on operations. For example,
EPAP 2 is currently assisting the authorities to enhance the accountability and transparency in the
management of public resources and implement its National Development Budget. Specifically, this
includes continued emphasis on building capacity in key public administration areas to facilitate better use
of public resources for urgent reconstruction and development efforts. An additional objective of EPAP 2
was to begin to lay the initial foundation for more broad-based civil service reforms directed toward
streamlining the civil service and increasing the efficiency with which basic services are delivered to the
population.

           Similar to EPAP, EPAP 2 is also financing the continued employment by the government of
qualified firms to: i) assist in carrying out government procurement and selected financial management
functions; ii) develop the administration's capacity in these areas; and iii) assess existing systems and
procedures to recommend suitable policy reforms.

           Services are also being provided to assist the Independent Administrative Reform and Civil
Service Commission (IARCSC) to develop its capacity to undertake the development and oversight of : i)
merit-based appointments of senior civil servants and appeals, ii) civil service management, and iii) overall
management and implementation of public administration reform program. Further services are also
provided to ministries for approved restructuring and for institution building within selected entities.

         The third project in the series, PACBP, has an increased emphasis on capacity building and
institutional strengthening in parallel with continued technical assistance for operational support in core
fiduciary functions. It is financing additional capacity building efforts to: (i) strengthen the accounting and
reporting functions in MoF; (ii) prepare and implement new financial regulations and build capacity to
implement these in line ministries and provinces; (iii) strengthen professional accounting and auditing
standards and capacity throughout the country; (iv) develop a modern internal audit capacity in the MoF;
(v) consider and evaluate a regulatory framework for external audit; and (vi) develop the system for
scrutiny and response to audit reports including by a legislative Public Accounts Committee. In addition,
there will also be further technical assistance to implement priority activities in the public administration
reform program and capacity building initiatives within the MoF and line ministries. Further, PACBP 2 is
currently under preparation to provide longer-term funding for selected activities of the Advisors and other
institutional strengthening programs.

         Priority Reform and Restructuring (PRR). The Civil Service Commission (CSC) has developed


                                                     - 16 -

the PRR program under which qualifying departments or ministries can benefit when they fulfill the criteria
of providing a strategic plan to enhance the provision of their core functions. The idea is to define the
provision of common cross-cutting functions such as administration, finance, procurement, transport,
archiving/filing and then to identify experts needed to fulfill these tasks. It is envisioned that PRR will
provide an appropriate framework for capacity-building efforts. Within the PRR framework, rapid and
effective capacity building in line ministries calls for: (i) strong ministerial leadership; (ii) team of core
functionaries in Kabul and the provinces, including deputy ministers, to serve as the senior management
team of the ministries responsible for the day-to-day management of the ministries' core functions,
including program planning, budgeting, implementation supervision and monitoring, procurement,
expenditure accounting and financial reporting; (iii) a critical mass of technical professionals in Kabul and
the provinces; and (iv) technical assistance supporting ministries' program management capacity.

        On the other hand, it has to be recognized that there is a severe lack of qualified government
counterparts in MoF, many ministries, and provinces that persists until this day. Many more expatriates
and entrepreneurs were expected to return to Afghanistan before 2006. Due to the deteriorating security
situation, this is unlikely to happen in the short to medium term. Given that, it is not realistic to expect a
post-conflict government under these severe constraints to fully undertake these activities. In these
circumstances, sustainability can be ensured only with the continued help of international advisers and an
expanded and accelerated knowledge transfer and institutional strengthening program. In addition, more
skilled Afghans will need to return to their home country in addition to the long-term staff development
plans under the university system to generate a productive public sector and a vibrant private sector.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
See Section 6.1.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

           Satisfactory. The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the
project was satisfactory.

           The identification process focused on critical gaps and opportunities for interventions in
Afghanistan's public administration. The task team took into account lessons from previous emergency
operations in other countries, where applicable. Extensive consultation took place with the IMF and to a
lesser extent with the US and the UK governments. Coordination with other donors was satisfactory. The
project was prepared rapidly under very difficult conditions with imperfect and changing information. The
task team did a commendable job in producing a fully satisfactory emergency operation, and ensuring good
quality work in an extremely limited time.

           During the appraisal the Bank assessed the project's risks and benefits. At the outset, no
reference information was available on the cost of providing services in Afghanistan given the difficult
security and logistical arrangements in a post-conflict environment; not surprisingly the cost estimates for
the Agents and Advisors turned out to be too low.

           Throughout project preparation and appraisal, the Bank maintained a consistently good working
relationship with the Borrower.

7.2 Supervision:



                                                      - 17 -

         Satisfactory. The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was satisfactory.
Over the 3.5 years of project implementation, there was continuous supervision. After the second TTL
located in Kabul, there was continuous local supervision. The Bank's client relationship was very cordial
and productive. Supervision teams included specialists in public administration, civil service reforms,
financial management, and procurement.

         Initially when the project was located with the South Asia PREM unit, more FM attention was
needed on the project than was originally envisioned. The FM team was called upon to perform more than
a traditional fiduciary role on the project; they were asked to contribute to the substantive issues including
evaluating the scope and performance of the three international agents, and later the advisors. As those
needs were more clearly identified and articulated, the team expanded and eventually the project was
reassigned to be managed by the SARFM unit. This FM team leadership approach has been successful and
the two on-going projects (EPAP 2 and PACBP) and the new project under preparation (PACBP 2) are
now task managed by the SARFM unit.

         Overall, sufficient budget and staff resources were allocated. The project was adequately
supervised and closely monitored. The task team's level of interaction with the government was quite high
and it promptly responded to unexpected events, delays, and new requirements. The Bank maintained
regular formal and informal communications with the government on a daily basis. As the project needs
evolved and emerged, the FM and Procurement teams adapted their activities accordingly and later
positioned fiduciary staff in Kabul. The Bank team was very proactive and strongly supported the
government to ensure stability and to keep the administrative mechanism functioning without interruption.
Taking into account the ground realities, the Bank's approach was pragmatic. The Bank's role in terms of
coordination with the donors was highly commendable. The team demonstrated a can-do attitude and
applied flexibility and problem-solving skills to do what needed to be done. One area of shortfall, however,
was the lack of properly indexed and archived project documentation in the official Bank records systems
for easy search and retrieval.

         The Bank's country office in Kabul provided quick response and follow-up to government
requests. The staff also showed flexibility in suggesting needed modifications in implementation methods.
They worked closely with the government and the implementing agencies, and provided extensive assistance
including technical advice throughout the life of the project.

         Beginning in February 2004, the Bank and the government conducted a joint review of the Bank-
and ARTF-financed projects. The main purpose of this review was to assess portfolio performance and to
learn lessons from implementation experience to improve both the implementation of the existing portfolio
and the quality of future projects. As a result of the review process, a program of concrete actions was
identified to address the country's overarching capacity building needs for effective and efficient
preparation and implementation of a large-scale reconstruction program, as well as key project-specific
issues.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

        Satisfactory. Overall, the Bank performance was satisfactory during project preparation, appraisal,
and implementation.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:



                                                     - 18 -

         Satisfactory. The Borrower's performance in project preparation was satisfactory. This emergency
operation was prepared very quickly and as such there was little time for significant borrower inputs
beyond articulation of fundamental needs. Nevertheless, the borrower had substantial involvement in
defining the project's scope and identifying the agencies and ministries where consultants would be located
to best advantage. There were also strong champions in senior levels of government. At project preparation,
the Minister of Finance was strongly committed to the project from the beginning. This sentiment was
carried forward by the new Minister of Finance.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

         Satisfactory. The government implementation performance was satisfactory. The government
consistently demonstrated and maintained full commitment to the project and its objectives throughout the
implementation.

         In May 2002 the government, with the help of the donor community, established the AACA to cope
with urgent reconstruction tasks. Responsibility for the AACA rested with the Ministries of Finance,
Planning, Reconstruction, and Foreign Affairs. In September 2003, AACA was dissolved and the part
responsible for procurement was renamed ARDS and made responsible to the Ministers of Planning and
Reconstruction. Later oversight was provided by a committee of officers from Finance and Foreign
Affairs, with the Ministry of Economy as the chair. Because the capacity to plan and implement
reconstruction projects in the government ministries was weak, arrangements were quickly put in place to
provide centralized technical assistance in such critical areas as financial management, procurement, and
auditing.

         The government successfully executed the project. Examples of active implementation
interventions are: (i) monitoring the operations of the agents and advisors; (ii) coordinating knowledge
transfer to local counterparts whenever possible; (iii) making project course corrections where warranted;
(iv) centralizing activities until decentralized units were prepared to fully assume required duties; (v)
revamping core regulations to buttress essential reforms; and (vi) reorganizing units and activities to better
align with core capabilities and management spans of control. While working closely with the Bank, the
government positioned staff when and where needed, prepared periodic monitoring reports, communicated
issues freely and openly, and generated comprehensive project financial statements. After the project was
fully underway, the government generally complied with all legal covenants; the audit reports were
sometimes delivered behind schedule. There was initial confusion as to how the Audit Agent could both
receive funds from the project and also audit the project. Limited scope audits were introduced as a
solution to this conflict of interest situation.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

         Satisfactory. The performance of ARDS, which coordinated the project, was satisfactory. It
managed properly the Central Procurement Facility and the Technical Assistance for Feasibility Studies
Unit (TAFSU).

         Overall project management was effective including financial management and control of project
resources. The level of staffing was adequate after some difficulties in the early stages of the project. The
staff skills mix improved throughout the life of the project. There were a few difficulties in granting the
first contracts for the agents due to lack of familiarity with international procurement practices. A direct
payment model from the Bank to the international consultants was put into effect to expedite payments and



                                                       - 19 -

minimize the administrative burden on the borrower.

          Procurement of international consultants was performed in a satisfactory manner. Time extensions
were requested on an exception basis to ensure continuity of essential government administrative services
while competitive procurements were being processed. Financial Management was also performed in a
satisfactory manner. For the majority of the project funds, direct payments were made from the Bank to
the international consultants; an audit waiver was granted by the FM sector manager early in the project
because most of the project funds were never handled by the government. Limited scope audits were
performed after that to avoid a conflict of interest with the Audit Agent. After a very slow start, basic
Financial Management Reports (FMRs) using government data from AFMIS were produced and submitted
regularly.

          Monitoring and evaluation of project progress and results were satisfactory. Overall, procurement
activities proceeded both at a satisfactory pace and at acceptable quality levels. Periodic project progress
reports were a bit late at project inception before AFMIS was fully operational, but timeliness and quality
improved significantly in the second half of project implementation after standardized reporting formats
were introduced.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

          Satisfactory. The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Lessons related to post-conflict situations

         For an emergency operation to be effective in a severely damaged post-conflict environment, the
project design needs to be simple and the goals need to be realistic. It is prudent to plan a small, quick
operation first and then apply the lessons learned in follow-on operations. For such operations, intense
Bank supervision is required. Further, using professional agents for essential government functions was
critical to success. While the FM Agent, Audit Agent, and Procurement Agents did perform essential core
functions in this post-conflict environment, an additional agent for Disbursements might have helped to
overcome some of the initial delays encountered due to lack of capacity, communications difficulties, and
unfamiliarity with international procedures.

         Critical operations functions need to be separated from capacity building activities to ensure that
both are performed simultaneously. Under EPAP, initial capacity building suffered greatly due to the
pressures to get the operations up and running quickly and keep them running in an environment of
constant flux. The Agents justifiably focused on near-term deadlines while subordinating
knowledge-transfer objectives.

         The expectations for capacity building and institutional strengthening need to be closely aligned
with the availability and skill levels of the government counterparts. All assumptions regarding the
availability and capability of government counterpart staff need to be documented and validated with great
care, and then revisited over time. Many deadlines were missed because the ground realities were not taken
into account while setting them. Accordingly, comparisons between Afghanistan and other post-conflict
environments were often uninformed given the severity of the situation on the ground as well as the
on-going security threats.




                                                     - 20 -

         The government needs to continue to engage the services of the advisors for as long as it takes to
build sufficient, demonstrable capacity in core public administration areas even as the roles of the advisors
become increasingly transitional. The legal framework for Financial Management and Procurement in
Afghanistan is now more demanding and poses significant new challenges to the government.

         It is essential that the Agents' contracts be maintained continuously. The Bank must do everything
possible to be proactive in contracting for essential government operations to avoid gaps in service. An
overlap period is very important to transfer knowledge and avoid interruption of core government
administrative operations and loss of time for the new firms to maintain the pace of implementation.

         International consultants are very expensive to retain over a long period and often the incentives for
them to effectively train their counterparts are inadequate. These contracts need to be continuously
monitored by both the Bank and the government to ensure that the consultants are performing fully against
their terms of reference and vigorously reviewed for outputs, results, and necessary course corrections.

         Cash handling and management procedures need to be carefully articulated and put in place due to
the potential need to move large amounts of currency securely. Underestimating this aspect could derail
project achievements. For example, if payrolls are not met on time, it could lead to loss of confidence in
project objectives and over-arching reform programs.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

          Overall, the Government is very satisfied with the Bank's support under EPAP. The project
provided vital emergency support to fund and manage essential public administration operations at a
critical time in Afghanistan's reconstruction. The project provided a vital fiduciary framework for donor
funding for essential government programs.

          The Bank was responsive to the needs of the Government and designed an appropriate structural
reform agenda, recognizing the tremendous and ambitious program this represented.

          It was also realistic in the assessment of what had been achieved and that progressing on the path
of reform was the most crucial aspect in this early period. One area of slight criticism is that the Bank was
perhaps a little slow in moving from an agenda of technical support to actual capacity building. While
recognizing the need to have these functions established to meet the basic needs of Government, the
subsequent transition was not put into practice early on leading the Government to request more attention
to capacity building in EPAP II and subsequently. The Bank's team was very responsive and adapted the
work to have different streams for technical support and capacity building. A lesson to be learned is very
early in the development of the program there should be a clear strategy for moving from technical support
to capacity building as a progressive strategy. Benchmarks should be established to demonstrate changes
in this regard, including review of contractor support to assess performance.

          The Government set a very ambitious structural reform agenda and achieved or made substantive
progress on most elements. Clear and substantive progress was made in all targeted areas, particularly
budget and tax reform. All elements have now been completed after expansive development and
discussions within the Government. An area that could have been improved is internal coordination of
reforms across the Government. Overall, EPAP made significant first steps and inroads into a structural



                                                        - 21 -

reform program, establishing essential technical capacity and planting the seeds for capacity building of the
Government.

         The Director General of Treasury expressed strong appreciation for Bank support under EPAP and
appreciated the on-going efforts of the FM Advisor. The Auditor General also expressed a high level of
satisfaction with EPAP's outcome and with the Bank's performance. The AG seeks to continue the strong
relationship with the Bank and other donors because of the long-term needs of the Afghan government. The
government was satisfied with the Bank's support and the technical functions of the Procurement Advisor
and is looking forward to additional capacity building activities under the on-going support operations as
procurement is being decentralized to line ministries.

         The government is eager to reduce the roles of the agents and to accept more operational
responsibilities, but the government also understands that there will be a need for the advisors to continue
for quite some time to ensure the smooth functioning of the government and to retain high levels of donor
confidence.

(b) Cofinanciers:
None.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None.

10. Additional Information

A. The Bank's ICR Team consisted of the following members:

Donna Thompson            Task Team Leader
Sati Achath               Consultant
Madhu Nair                Consultant
Marietta Visaya           Program Assistant

B. List of Task Team Leaders of the project in chronological order:

(i) Linda Van Gelder
(ii) Anne Tully
(iii) Paul Sisk

C. Persons interviewed for the preparation of the ICR:

Jean Mazurelle                    Country Manager
Nancy Zhao                        Operations Advisor
Bob Saum                          FM Manager
Anne Tully                        TTL-PREM
Paul Sisk                         TTL-SARFM
Mariam Sherman                    Senior Country Officer
Stephane Guimbert                 Economist
Manoj Agrawal                     Financial Management Specialist
Quamrul Hasan                     Procurement Specialist
Dihendra Kumar                    Procurement Specialist




                                                    - 22 -

(D) Stakeholders

Allan Kelly                Advisor to Minister of Finance
Paul Banerjee              Advisor to Deputy Minister of Finance
Adib Farhadi               Director of ARDS/ANDS
V.K. Garg                  Program Manager ARDS/Rites Ltd
Julie Cooper               FM Advisor to Ministry of Finance/Bearing Point
Janis Platais              Treasury Advisor to Ministry of Finance/ IMF
Mujeebullah Sulaimankhail  Director General, Treasury
M.V. George                Audit Advisor, Deloitte Haskins & Sells
Sharif Sharifi             Auditor General
Richard Bontjer            Budget Advisor to Minister of Finance




                                            - 23 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
Action plan for strengthening procurement      Plan under implementation.                  Action Plan was successfully implemented.
capacity prepared, vetted, and under
implementation.
Government expenditures, including for IDA     Government expenditures, including for IDA  EPAP was successful in supporting the MoF
financed projects, accurately recorded and     financed projects, accurately recorded and  to process Government funds accurately and
reported on a timely basis.                    reported on a timely basis for expenditures timely.
                                               made through Kabul and selected provinces.
Timely and high quality audit for FY03 and     Audit reports for all IDA projects and for  Audits for budget execution and financial
FY04 budgets and all IDA financed              overall government budget.                  statements were produced with acceptable
operations.                                                                                quality and reasonable timeliness.




Output Indicators:
                                                                                   1
                Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                       Actual/Latest Estimate
Goods, services, and works have been           Procurement plan and arrangements in place Procurement capacity has increased and
delivered in accordance with procurement       and functioning at end of Procurement Agent large numbers of complex contracts are
plan.                                          contract.                                   routinely being processed. The Procurement
                                                                                           Advisor will need to remain in place for
                                                                                           several years.
Financial Management Agent is carrying out     Arrangements in place and functioning at    Solid progress has been achieved in
activities in accordance with agreed contract. closing of FM Agent contract.               developing the framework for an effective
                                                                                           financial management system within MoF
                                                                                           treasury operations. Fiduciary standards
                                                                                           have improved. The FM Advisor will need to
                                                                                           remain in place for several years.
Audit Agent is carrying out activities in      Arrangements in place and being             Apart from initial delays, great strides were
accordance with agreed contract.               implemented at phase out of Audit Agent     made in performing acceptable compliance
                                               contract.                                   audits and capacity is being developed. The
                                                                                           Audit Advisor will need to remain in place for
                                                                                           several years.


1 End of project




                                                                  - 24 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                Appraisal      Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                                Estimate         Estimate      Appraisal
                       Component                               US$ million       US$ million
Consultants and Training                                           9.00             10.39            118
Goods                                                              0.60              0.42             70
Operating Expenses                                                 0.40              0.58            145

Total Baseline Cost                                               10.00             11.39
                         Total Project Costs                      10.00             11.39
                  Total Financing Required                        10.00             11.39
There is a withdrawal application pending for the remainder of the project funds.




                                                   - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                      No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                          (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year   Count              Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               02/01/2002                    2    Task Team Leader, Economist

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               02/22/2002                    2    Task Team Leader,
                                                  Economist

 Supervision
               02/22/2003                    2    Task Team Leader,                     S               S
                                                  Economist
               04/12/2004                    4    Task Team Leader, Economist,          S               S
                                                  Financial Management,
                                                  Procurement*


 ICR
               01/23/06                      3     Task Team Leader,                    S               S
                                                   Financial Management, ICR
                                                   consultant

* After the TTL was located in Kabul, there was continuous supervision of the project. Many of the project

"missions" were combined with EPAP 2 which came on line shortly after EPAP 1.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                       No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                      2                             10
  Appraisal/Negotiation                          10                            111
  Supervision                                    30                            225
  ICR                                             4                             40
  Total                                          46                            386




                                                   - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and Project Status Reports

2. Project Progress Reports

3. Consultant Study Reports financed under the project

4. Memorandum and Recommendation of the President for Afghanistan: Emergency Public Administration
Project dated March 12, 2002 (Report No. P7520 AF)

5. Mid-term review report

6. EPAP 2 project documentation

7. PACBP project documentation




                                                 - 30 -

- 31 -

