Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H006-AF 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Emergency Public Administration Project) 
 
between 
 
AFGHANISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated April 9, 2002 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
GRANT NUMBER H006-AF 
 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated April 9, 2002, between AFGHANISTAN (the Recipient) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;  
 
(B) 
the Association was authorized under Resolution No. IDA 194, adopted 
by its Board of Governors on April 8, 1999, to provide financing, under the Twelfth 
Replenishment, in the form of grants in the context of assistance to post-conflict 
countries, under a framework to be approved by the Executive Directors of the 
Association; 
 
(C) 
the Executive Directors of the Association approved such a framework 
with respect to post-conflict grants on July 1, 2001, and further determined that the 
development grant referred to in Section 2.01 of this Agreement (the Grant) is consistent 
with such framework; and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to make the Grant available to the Recipient upon the conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;  
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The fol
lowing provisions of the “General Conditions Applicable to 
Development Credit  Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General 
Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
 
(a) (i) Article 
I; 
 
(ii) 
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (10), (12), (as 
 
modified below), (13) and (14), 2.02 and 2.03; 
 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
 
Page  4
-
2
-
(iv) 
Sections 4.01 (as modified below) and 4.05; 
 
(v) 
Sections 5.01, 5.03 (as such sections are modified below), 5.05, 
5.06 and 5.07; 
 
(vi) 
Sections 6.02 (as modified below), 6.03 and 6.06; 
 
(vii) 
Section 8.01 (b); 
 
(viii) 
Sections 9.01, 9.02, 9.03, 9.05, 9.06 (as modified below), 9.07 
and 9.08; 
 
(ix) 
Article X;  
 
(x) 
Article XI; and 
 
(xi) Article 
XII. 
 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
 
(i) 
the terms “Borrower”, “Credit”, “Credit Account” and 
“Development Credit Agreement”, wherever they appear in the General 
Conditions, are replaced by “the Recipient”, “the Grant”, “the Grant 
Account” and “the Development Grant Agreement”, respectively; 
 
(ii) 
the terms “Development Credit Agreement” and “development 
credit”, where used in Article I of the General Conditions, mean 
“Development Grant Agreement” and “development grant”, respectively; 
and 
 
(c) 
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“Except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or 
for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the 
Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council 
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.” 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
Page  5
-
3
-
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“AACA” means the Afghanistan Assistance Coordination Authority, an 
authority established pursuant to a Decree of the Recipient, dated March 30, 2002, as the 
same may be amended from time to time; 
 
(b) 
“AIA” means the Afghanistan Interim Administration established under 
the Agreement on Provisional Arrangements in Afghanistan Pending the Re-
Establishment of Permanent Government Institutions, dated December 5, 2001, and any 
successor thereto; 
 
(c) 
“AGO” means the Auditor General Office of the Recipient; 
 
(d) 
“Donor” means any country, multilateral agency, public or private 
financial institution, development finance institution or international organization, which 
is proposing to make, or has made, financing available to the Recipient on a grant basis or 
on concessional terms to support a development program of the Recipient; 
 
(e) 
“Fiscal Year” means the Recipient’s fiscal year, commencing on March 
21 of each calendar year and ending on March 20 of the following calendar year; 
 
(f) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(g) 
“MOF” means the Ministry of Finance of AIA; and 
 
(h) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Grant 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to eight million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 8,100,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant. 
Page  6
-
4
-
(b)  The Recipient may open and maintain in dollars a special deposit 
account in a bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. In the event 
that said deposit account is opened in a commercial bank, such terms and conditions shall 
include appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2005, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of 
such later date. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project through AACA, MOF and AGO with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and technical practices and with 
due regard for environment, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods and consultants’ services required for the Project, and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06(c) of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
 
(a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a 
plan  designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient on said plan. 
 
Page  7
-
5
-
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall, not later than June 30, 2002, establish, and 
thereafter maintain, a financial management system, including records and accounts, and 
prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect 
the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, and the records and accounts for 
the Special Account, for each Fiscal Year, audited in accordance 
with auditing standards acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each Fiscal Year, 
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such Fiscal Year as so audited, 
and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Association may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
 
Page  8
-
6
-
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraph B of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Grant, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter 
after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first 
expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, 
each Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Association not later than 
forty five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Termination 
 
Section 5.01.  The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
Page  9
-
7
-
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Vice Chairman and Minister of Finance of the AIA is 
designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Afghanistan Interim Administration 
 
Kabul  
 
Afghanistan 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  10
-
8
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in Kabul, Afghanistan,  as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
AFGHANISTAN 
 
By /s/ Hedayat Amin-Arsala,  
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Mieko Nishimizu 
Regional Vice President 
South Asia Region 
Page  11
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Goods 
500,000 
100% 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ 7,300,000 
100% 
 
services and training 
 
 
 
(3) Operating 
Expenditures 
300,000 
100% 
 
________ 
 
TOTAL
 8,100,000 
 
======= 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “Operating Expenditures” means the 
incremental expenses incurred on account of Project implementation and management, 
including the rental of office space, the operation and maintenance of vehicles, 
communication and insurance costs, office administration costs, Special Account banking 
charges, utility charges, domestic travel and per diem, but excluding salaries of officials 
of the Recipient’s civil service. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 400,000), may be 
made in respect of Category (2) on account of payments made for expenditures before 
that date but after March 15, 2002; and (b) Categories (1) and (3), unless the Recipient 
has employed a qualified consulting firm to carry out Part B (i) of the Project. 
 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (i) for goods under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (ii) for services under contracts costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent each for consulting firms; (iii) for services under contracts 
Page  12
-
10 - 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent each for individual consultants; (iv) for training; and 
(v) for Operating Expenditures, all under such terms and conditions as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
Page  13
-
11 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to assist AIA in putting in place, on an 
emergency basis, capacity in key public administration areas to facilitate better use of 
public resources, including Donor funds, for immediate reconstruction and development 
efforts; and (ii) to support certain basic steps toward laying the foundation for a 
sustainable program of public administration strengthening. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives. 
 
Part A
:
Support to AACA
Support to AACA, through the provision of goods and consultants’ services, with 
a
view to: 
 
(i) 
putting in place emergency procurement capacity to facilitate rapid, 
transparent utilization of Donor resources, and to finance reconstruction and development 
activities, and building procurement capacity within AIA; 
 
(ii) 
developing AACA’s institutional capacity to enhance its ability to carry 
out its functions; 
 
(iii) 
carrying out miscellaneous studies and institutional strengthening 
activities associated with reconstruction and development; and 
 
(iv) 
training of the staff of AACA, and other ministries and agencies of AIA, 
in computer technology and the English language, and developing training programs for 
the staff of AACA, and other ministries and agencies of AIA, for financing by Donors. 
 
Part B:
Support to MOF
Support to MOF, through the provision of goods and consultants’ services, with a 
view to: 
 
(i) 
putting in place emergency financial management capacity to ensure 
transparent accounting of AIA’s expenditures and timely disbursements, and building 
financial management capacity within AIA; 
 
(ii) 
carrying out studies and technical assistance activities with a view to 
enhancing control over, and execution of, the payroll; 
Page  14
-
12 - 
 
(iii) 
carrying out studies and technical assistance activities with a view to 
strengthening the organizational structure of the budget department within MOF, and 
developing selected functions therein; and 
 
(iv) 
carrying out studies and technical assistance activities with a view to 
building capacity for economic policy planning. 
 
Part C:
Support to AGO
Support to AGO, through the provision of goods and consultants’ services, with a 
view to putting in place, on an emergency basis, audit capacity to ensure the timely audit 
of AIA’s accounts, and building audit capacity within AIA. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2005. 
Page  15
-
13 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I. 
 
Part B
:
Procurement Procedures
1. 
Limited International Bidding
Goods estimated to cost more than $200,000 equivalent per contract, and goods 
which the Association agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, 
regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.  Bidding documents may provide 
that bidders may send their bids by facsimile, in which case, bid security shall not be 
required. Furthermore, the entity responsible for the procurement of the above-mentioned 
goods shall be required to put in place arrangements satisfactory to the Association to 
ensure confidentiality of the bids received by facsimile.   
 
2. 
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or less per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international or national shopping 
procedures, respectively, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of 3.9 of the Guidelines.  
 
4. Direct 
Contracting
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract may, with the 
Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
 
Page  16
-
14 - 
Part C
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods procured estimated to cost 
more than the equivalent of $100,000; and (ii) and the first three (3) contracts for goods, 
irrespective of the cont
ract’s value, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply when said contracts shall have been procured 
under the provisions of paragraph B.1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
In the event that any of the contracts referred to under sub-paragraph (a) 
above shall have been procured under the provisions of paragraphs B.2, B.3 or B.4 of 
Section I of this Schedule, the following procedures shall apply: 
 
(i) 
prior to the execution of any contract under shopping procedures, 
the Recipient shall provide to the Association a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping or 
direct contracting procedures, or procured from a UN Agency, 
the Recipient shall provide to the Association a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and 
 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of  
Page  17
-
15 - 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Recipients” published by the Association in January 1997 
and revised in September 1997 and January 1999, (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) 
the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for the Project, estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services under Parts A (i), B (i) and C of the Project, estimated to cost 
$3,000,000 equivalent or less per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. Quality-based 
Selection
Services under contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent each may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. 
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract 
may, with the Association’ prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  18
-
16 - 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
 
(c) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section II, the 
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring the Association’s prior review and/or 
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, 
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to contracts for the employment of 
consultants estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each for consulting firms and 
$50,000 equivalent each for individual consultants.  However, said exceptions to prior 
review shall not apply to: (i) the terms of reference for such contracts; (ii) single-source 
selection of consulting firms; (iii) assignments of a critical nature, as shall be reasonably 
determined by the Association; and (iv) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
consultants increasing the contract value to the equivalent of $100,000 or more for 
consulting firms and the equivalent of $50,000 or more for individual consultants. 
 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  19
-
17 - 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Implementation Program 
 
A. 
Overall Project Implementation and Coordination
The Recipient shall vest responsibility for the implementation of Part A of the 
Project in AACA, Part B of the Project in MOF and Part C of the Project in AGO. The 
Recipient shall cause AACA to coordinate the implementation of the Project and prepare 
the reports referred to under paragraphs B (a) and B (b)of this Schedule. 
 
B. 
Progress Reports and Mid-Term Review
The Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association: (i) on a quarterly basis, commencing September 30, 2002, a 
report on the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof; and (ii) on or about September 15, 2003, a report, to constitute 
the basis upon which the mid-term review shall take place, integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 
and consolidating the results of the reports referred to under sub-paragraph (b) (i) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by October 15, 2003, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) (ii) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
 
Page  20
-
18 - 
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of the Project;  
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to one  
million dollars ($1,000,000) to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that 
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited 
to an amount equivalent to two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Grant Account plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of two million five hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,500,000).  
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
Page  21
-
19 - 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Grant Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the  Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals 
from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
Page  22
-
20 - 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
Page  23
-
21 - 
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Performance Indicators 
 
Unless otherwise agreed between the Recipient and the Association, the 
following indicators shall be used to judge progress in the implementation of the Project: 
 
1. 
Goods, services and works have been delivered in accordance with the 
procurement plan. 
 
2. 
An action plan for the strengthening of procurement capacity has been 
prepared, vetted by the Association and is being implemented.  
 
3. 
AACA has been carrying out its aid coordination functions effectively.  
 
4. 
Budgetary expenditures of AIA, including expenditures under projects 
financed by the Association, are accurately recorded and reported on a timely basis. 
 
5. 
An action plan for the strengthening of the financial management 
capacity has been prepared, vetted by the Association and is being implemented. 
 
6. 
AGO has provided timely and high quality audits for Fiscal Years 2003 
and 2004 budget execution, including all operations financed by the Association. 
 
7. 
An action plan for the strengthening of audit capacity has been prepared, 
vetted by the Association and is being implemented. 
 
