 IEG
                                                                                                  Report Number: ICRR14907

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group




        1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 05/31/2016

               Country: Cambodia
             Project ID: P106603                                                      Appraisal               Actual
          Project Name: Road Asset                    Project Costs (US$M):                       56.1                 47.9
                         Management Project
  L/C Number:                                           Loan/Credit (US$M):                       30.0                 27.9
      Sector Board:        Transport                    Cofinancing (US$M):                       10.8                 17.4

           Cofinanciers: ADB, AUSAID, KTF,             Board Approval Date :                                05/20/2008
                         OFID                                  Closing Date:           09/30/2013           12/31/2014
          Sector(s):     Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways (97%); Central government administration (3%)
          Theme(s):      Infrastructure services for private sector development (40%); Other public sector governance
                         (40%); Administrative and civil service reform (20%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:             ICR Review                  Group:
                                                    Coordinator:
Kavita Mathur              Victoria Alexeeva        Christopher David           IEGPS1
                                                    Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 The Project Development objective (PDO) was to ensure the continued effective use of the rehabilitated national and
provincial road networks to support economic development in Cambodia (Financing Agreement p. 5).

The PDO statement in the Project Appraisal Document (p. 6) was same as that in the Financing Agreement, but it
further clarified that the project would "do so by improving the institutional and technical capacity of the Ministry of
Public Works and Transport (MPWT) for road maintenance planning, budgeting and operations, and by expanding
and strengthening maintenance activities”.

Following IEG procedures, this ICR Review is based upon assessment of the achievement of the project objective as
formulated in the Financing Agreement.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

 c. Components:
 Component A - Road Asset Management (appraisal cost US$52.3 million; actual cost US$45.5 million). This
component would support:
(a) Preservation of the Ministry of Public Works and Transport's road network through annual work plans (AWPs) for
periodic maintenance works and provide the necessary implementation support. The periodic maintenance works to
be undertaken in the first year of the project were defined at appraisal. For the subsequent years, Road Management
Decision Support (RMDS) would be used for planning of periodic road maintenance works. The component would
also support routine and periodic maintenance through increasing Government contributions. This will be carried out
using force account, and to an increasing extent using an output/performance based contract approach.
(b) Implementation support for: (i) the preparation of designs and bidding documents for the first year works; (ii) advice
to MPWT on technical designs, cost estimates, bidding documents, contract management, and safeguard activities for
works in subsequent years; (iii) support for the operation of the Road Data Collection and Management Unit (RDCMU)
and for effective implementation and operation of RDMS; (iv) construction supervision of civil works throughout the
project; (v) financial audits; and (vi) technical audits.
Component B - Capacity Development (appraisal cost US$2.6 million; actual cost US$2.3 million). The component
was to strengthen the managerial and technical capacities of MPWT at the institutional, organizational and individual
levels to enable the ministry to perform its road asset management functions effectively and efficiently.. IDA financing
would support four activities: (i) institutional (administrative) support, (ii) technical capacity development for road asset
management within General Department of Public Works (GDPW); (iii) private sector development, including analysis
of capacity building needs of the local contracting industry, ability of local training institutions to carry out training
needs, and development of procedures for divestiture of MPWT’s force account units; and (iv) HIV/AIDS Awareness.
ADB/DFAT would finance additional three activities, including (i) road safety campaign; (ii) training to facilitate
compliance with a new Sub-Decree on Resettlement; and (iii) monitoring and evaluation of project outcomes.
Component C - Merit Based Performance Incentive (MBPI) (appraisal cost - US$1.1million; actual cost US$0.14
million). This component was to finance, on a declining basis over time, the extension of the MBPI program to
selected departments of GDPW and the General Department of Administration and Planning (GDAP) within MPWT.
The government cancelled MBPI in December 2010 before any funds were disbursed under MBPI sub component
and introduced Priority Operating Cost (POC) for all projects in the portfolio. The ICR notes (p. 5) that the POC
retained some of the elements of MBPI in the form of position descriptions, criteria for selection and code of conduct,
but lacked the civil service reform elements and was to be entirely financed by donors for staff working on donor
funded projects.


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project cost: The total project cost was US$47.9 million at closure, 14.5% lower than the appraised estimate of
US$56.1 million.

Financing: The actual IDA credit was US$27.9 million compared to the appraisal commitment of US$30.0 million. The
remaining amount was cancelled. At appraisal, the cofinanciers were the Asian Development Bank and the Australian
Agency for International Development, which committed US$10.8 million. Two additional cofinanciers joined in -
Korean Trust Fund (KTF) and OPEC Fund for International Development. The actual funding from the cofinanciers
was US$17.4 million.

Borrower contribution : The Borrower contributed US$2.6 million compared to the appraisal commitment of US$15.25
million. The ICR does not explain the reason for the increase in Borrower contribution.

Dates: The closing date was extended twice, first from September 30, 2013 to June 30, 2014 due to delays in
implementation; and then from June 30, 2014 to December 31, 2014, to give time for consultants to complete
preparation of designs and bidding documents for the proposed follow-on project.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
Rated substantial.
The project objectives remain relevant to the first pillar of the World Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for
Cambodia (FY-05-08) which aimed at improving the governance and the delivery of basic services, including roads,
and doing so with efficiency and accountability through a public-private response based on transparent, competitive,
and well designed partnerships. This CAS was extended to 2011 and no recent CAS has been prepared for
Cambodia.
The project development objectives were consistent with the Government of Cambodia's "Rectangular Strategy for
Growth, Employment, Equity and Efficiency". In particular: Rectangle Phase II focussed on the development of
physical infrastructure, and Rectangle phase III (approved in 2003) focussed on local private sector strengthening.

 b. Relevance of Design:
Rated modest.
The Project Development Objective (PDO) was ambiguous, as the phrase “effective use” lacked precision and
attribution, particularly with respect to the causal link between who would benefit from the effective use and how this
would be in support of economic development in Cambodia. The project consisted of three components designed to
integrate periodic maintenance investments with institutional support and capacity development for prioritization and
planning, and implementation of maintenance activities. The causal link from these project components and the
intended outcomes in support of "economic development" is weak.
The project was designed to focus on preservation of the existing road assets and developing the capacity to carry out
maintenance. A few shortcomings highlighted by the ICR p.7-8 in the design were related to (i) the development of
procedures for divestiture of force account units (part of component B), which was only partially supported in the
design and did not target the Ministry of Economy and Finance with respect to the budgeting, contracting and civil
service separation issues that would need to be addressed to effect this change; and (ii) the Merit-Based Performance
Incentive (MBPI) (component C), which was limited to donor- financed activities and its mechanisms and procedures
for adopting were beyond the scope of the project. MBPI was eventually cancelled.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
  To ensure the continued effective use of the rehabilitated national and provincial road networks to support
economic development in Cambodia . The phrase "continued effective use" was not clear. The PAD provided the
additional clarification that to achieve the PDO, the project would enhance the institutional and technical capacity of
MPWT in the areas of road maintenance planning, budgeting and operations, and by expanding and strengthening
maintenance activities. Taking this into account, the achievement of the objective is rated substantial.

Outputs
  The ICR reports (p. 17) that of the IDA portion of 500 km, 476 km of core roads were rehabilitated. Note: the IDA
    portion of the road maintenance target was 500 km, 800 km was for all donors combined. The project team
    confirmed that 277 for other donor-financed rehabilitation programs was completed. . The total number of km
    rehabilitated under the project overall thus was 753 (out of 800 planned), or about 94% of the target.
  Periodic maintenance works. Out of the planned 1,200 km of national roads, 578 km were ongoing or completed,
    and 418 were to be awarded during 2012, for a total of 996 km. The shortfall of 204 km was explained by the
    steep escalation of international construction prices since 2009 (reaching about 22% in 2011), the need for more
    costly rehabilitation on some sections, and the additional cost of the remedial works after the 2011 flood.
  The Roads Management Decision Support (RMDS) software was operationalized.
  By project closure, more than 140 staff had been trained on road asset management, as well as in the area of
    data evaluation (including preparation of a data collection manual), interpretation and reporting within the Road
    Data Collection and Management Unit (RDCMU).
  At project closing, the strategic plan for divestiture of force account units was under discussion. The project team
    informed IEG that the government officially submitted its Strategic Plan for divestiture of force account units in
    October 2015.
  Training also was carried out for local consultants and contractors in anticipation of the transition from
    maintenance by force account to maintenance by contract.
  HIV/AIDS awareness and prevention programs were carried out on the project roads. These programs targeted
    civil works workers, indirect employees, as well as community members in the corridor of 200 meters on either
    side of project roads. As a result of the program, the awareness level on HIV/AIDS improved from 50% to 100%
    among roadside residents. Awareness among females increased from 24% to 100% in some sections of NR1.

Intermediate outcome
   Other than the first year program, which was identified during project preparation, all subsequent Annual Work
     Programs were identified and prepared by MPWT (with support from a consultant) and the budget requests were
     submitted to MEF on time (by June). The ICR reports (p.19) that the annual cycles of routine and periodic
     maintenance were carried out in accordance with the three year rolling maintenance plans,
   The Road Data Collection and Management Unit (RDCMU) was using RMDS to update annual work plans, and
     provided updated data for decision making.
   Although the amount of civil works performed by private contractors increased, little actual progress was made in
     the divestiture of force account units. In 2014, 30 percent of the civil works were performed by private contractors
     compared to 1.5 percent (baseline in 2008) and target 25 percent.
   The knowledge of trained staff in prescribed subject areas was assessed by the Road Asset Management Office
     (RAMO) and assessed as: fair=5%; good=25%, very good=70%.

Outcomes
  The target for roads in good and fair condition as a percentage of total classified network was met. The condition
    of national primary roads improved from 57 percent (baseline in 2008) to 84.5 percent in 2014 (target 65 percent)
    . For the same period, the condition of national secondary roads improved from 30 percent to 62 percent (target
    45 percent).
  Travel time per 100 km declined from 2 hours (baseline) to 1.6 hours despite an average annual traffic increase
    of 6%.
  The target for non-increase in Vehicle Operating Cost (VOC) was not achieved. While road roughness levels
    improved (included in the measurement of VOC), the costs of other inputs, in particular fuel prices, increased.

Regarding the project support of economic development in Cambodia, the ICR provides no evidence. However, the
MPWT's report on the project "Road Asset Management Project - Completion Stage Benefit Monitoring and
Evaluation" (2014) indicates that the Cambodia's annual GDP growth has been at about 6-7% since 2010 (after
recession in 2009), and there was a substantial increase in the average daily traffic. According to the survey to
estimate new investments along the selected project road sections conducted in April- May 2014, the investments
totaled US$166.4 million for the last five years (2009-2014). The report also says that while there was a general
improvement in household income, access to market, and increased opportunity for small businesses along the
project road sections as per a community survey, this could also be attributed to other development initiatives and
factors.

 5. Efficiency:
  At appraisal, cost-benefit analysis was prepared for the road asset management (maintenance) component using
the Highway Development and Management Model (HDM-4). The analysis used following assumptions: (i) an
opportunity cost of capital of 12%; and (ii) an analysis period of 20 years; and (iii) economic costs on average equal to
90% of financial costs. The estimated Economic Rate of return (ERR) was 97 percent.

At completion, ERR was calculated using HDM-4 to evaluate the whole program (i.e. both the IDA and ADB financed
road sections) by the government's consultant. The estimated ERR was over 180%. An ex-post economic analysis for
the IDA portion yielded and ERR of 49 percent with a net present value of US$90.5 million. The project team
explained that the difference in ERR for just IDA projects and the combined IDA and ADB project is due to differences
in methodology and assumptions used and not that the IDA-financed sections had lower returns than other roads
financed by other development partners. The IDA ERR used conservative assumptions and updated actual data on
costs and benefits where available. These assumptions included: (i) more conservative estimate of traffic growth i.e.
traffic slows down and begins to taper off as the road becomes more congested; (ii) more conservative trip length, as
(in the absence of extensive surveys), average trip length is assumed to be about 75% of the entire distance of the
road; and (iii) the consultant's use of the HDM model assumes that the government "optimizes" maintenance over the
next 20 years (with all necessary periodic maintenance needs invested), but doesn't appear to include the full cost of
maintaining the roads to this standard. The analysis also assumed that, without the project, VOC would be 3% higher
than with the project.
The project experienced a two-year delay in the start of implementation, and the overall project target for maintenance
of the national roads had to be reduced from 1,200 km to 996 km due to price escalation of construction materials and
labor (of about 22% by end of 2011) as well as additional costs to carry out civil works at upgraded designs as the
condition of the project roads had deteriorated due to delays. There was also an additional cost for other factors
outside the control of the project, in particular severe flooding in October 2011 which damaged several sections of the
rehabilitated roads roads and necessitated remedial works.
Efficiency is rated modest.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        No

    ICR estimate                     Yes                                      49%                                     60%
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   The relevance of objectives is rated substantial and that of design is modest. The objective- to ensure the
continued effective use of the rehabilitated national and provincial road networks to support economic development in
Cambodia - was substantially achieved. Efficiency is assessed as modest. The project outcome is therefore rated
moderately satisfactory.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   Institutional and Technical Risk : The project assisted in improving the institutional and technical capacity of the
MPWT for road maintenance planning and budgeting through annual programs for periodic maintenance works. The
project also supported the building of the capacity of private sector in preparation of bidding documents and
implementation of external funding contracts for road maintenance.
Inadequate Staffing Risk : There is a high risk that MPWT would be unable to recruit and retain technically qualified
staff. The risk is linked to the lack of civil service reform and the related failure to adopt pay scales and conditions of
service commensurate with the qualifications required for effective road asset management, which is a major
impediment to the retention of key staff.

Governance Risk: Although the project adopted Good Governance Framework (GGF) for greater transparency and
oversight and improved systems of financial management and reporting, the risk of fraud and corruption remains.
Governance related problems arising from poor conditions of service and inadequate government systems remain.

Financial Risk: The Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) supported the legal covenant requiring timely release of
annual allocations to MPWT for road maintenance thus providing as predictable and adequate funding for the periodic
and routine maintenance. During project implementation, the timely provision of allocations for several years is a good
predictor of future allocations. The funding for routine and periodic maintenance and spot rehabilitation increased from
US$26 million in 2008 to US$50 million in 2014.

Natural Disaster Exposure Risk : The project adopted climate resilient design standards plus construction supervision
to verify compliance to mitigate this risk. However, with increasing frequency and severity of adverse weather events,
the risk is high.

Overall, the risk to development outcome rating is significant.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The preparation of the project benefitted from the analytical work carried out under the previous roads projects
in Cambodia - namely the Road Rehabilitation Project (closed in 2006) and the Provincial and Rural Infrastructure
Project (became effective in 2008). The Road Rehabilitation Project focused on reconstruction of key national
roads and strengthening of MPWT through training and technical assistance; and supported initial thinking on
transport sector policy and strategy, The Provincial and Rural Infrastructure Project provided the implementation
model for this project as it moved away from a separate project implementation unit (PIU) and mainstreamed
implementation within the ministries.

The Bank collaborated with other development partners and the project was prepared jointly with the Asian
Development Bank (ADB), with support from ADB Project Preparation Technical Assistance (PPTA) grant.
Although full integration was not achieved because of incompatibilities in the area of procurement, the full
harmonization of all other aspects, e.g., environment and social safeguards and financial management, was
successful. It was agreed that the ADB financed components would follow ADB procedures, while IDA-financed
ICB procurement would be handled by an Independent Procurement Agent (IPA).

The project design also incorporated governance lessons from the Provincial and Rural Infrastructure Project and
other projects in the IDA portfolio. The project design included: (i) Good Governance Frameworks (GGFs); (ii)
mechanisms for verification and oversight, enhanced public disclosure; (iii) complaints-handling mechanism; (iv)
independent technical and financial audits; and (v) procurement by an International Procurement Agent (IPA).
The risks were appropriately identified and the project was assigned substantial risk rating at appraisal.

There were however some weaknesses in the project's design and results framework (see sections 3b and 10a).

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                         Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    Before 2011, there were procurement delays for the IDA portion of the project due to inadequate IPA
arrangement and delays in the roll-out of MBPI program. As discussed in section 9b below, the IPA, who was
tasked with carrying out ICB procurement for was overloaded as two key positions – Implementation Adviser and
Construction Supervision Consultant were not filled. The ICR (p. 23) reports that instead of frequent formal
missions in this early period, frequent short visits were made by HQ staff to supplement the ongoing interactions
by Bank staff located in Cambodia. These visits were sometimes combined with, but often in addition to, the joint
ADB-IDA missions that were carried out.

During the life of the project, nine joint ADB-IDA missions were carried out. ADB and the Bank worked
collaboratively - for example, ADB supervision consultant’s contract was amended to cover the entirety of AWP-1
supervision until the IDA financed supervision consultant was in place. Apart from the procurement procedures,
environment and social safeguards, and financial management procedures were harmonized - with one
implementation manual, one system for government to implement and one set of reports to prepare. The Bank
provided training and assistance when requested by the client.

There were a few shortcomings in supervision, mainly the M&E implementation regarding the collection of
baseline data, which was delayed due to weak performance of the first M&E consultant, and the fact that the
project team did not clarify and simplify some of the indicators during formal restructuring of the project.


     Quality of Supervision Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory

     Overall Bank Performance Rating :            Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
     The government's ownership and commitment were strong, as the objectives of the project were consistent
with the National Strategic Development Plan, particularly with respect to the importance of road maintenance and
the necessity of allocating sufficient funds from the national budget to support it. The government played an
important role in coordinating the development partners in pooling funds and adopting uniform procedures across
all the dimensions of implementation. It provided budget allocations for road maintenance of the national road
network and released funds on time, However, the project effectiveness was delayed by six months as the
effectiveness conditions were not met. These conditions included (adoption of a Project Implementation Plan,
appointment of a financial management advisor to the General Department of Administration and Planning
(GDAP), and execution and delivery of the cofinancing agreement between ADB and IDA). There were delays in
the appointment of key staff. Two key positions – Implementation Adviser and Construction Supervision Consultant
were not filled.

     Government Performance Rating                             Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The main implementing agency was MPWT, with DGPW responsible for the day-to-day management of the
project. The project experience significant delays and lack of progress during the initial years of implementation
(from effectiveness on December 19, 2008 to the end of 2010) for the following reason:
   MBPI was cancelled by the government in December 2010 and POC was adopted. The shift to POC started a
     new process, which took time to implement and the ICR reports (p. 10) that it further delayed the ability of
     MPWT to attract staff (by the time MBPI was canceled the number of MPWT staff working on the project had
     dwindled to only five regular staff out of the 70 expected, as the moved to other externally financed projects in
     MPWT that were providing salary supplements).
     Slow procurement because of additional requirements by the International Procurement Agent (IPA)
      regarding technical specifications or terms of reference and qualifications. The IPA, who was tasked with
      carrying out ICB procurement for all IDA-financed projects, was overloaded as two key positions –
      Implementation Adviser and Construction Supervision Consultant were not filled.
     Due to lack of staff, key aspects of the GGF, e.g., the complaints handling mechanism, code of ethical
      conduct with sanctions, and the setting up of the Cambodia Road Association (CAMRA), were delayed.
     The M&E consultant failed to perform and the contract was terminated without replacement. As a result the
      baseline survey was not conducted and M&E methodology and manual were not prepared on time.
Implementation improved in 2011. Staff recruitment for POC was completed in late 2011 and staff became
available to implement the project. IPA was replace and the new IPA managed to carry out more timely
procurement of key contracts. The ICR reports (p. 25) that the fiduciary compliance was good, audit reports were
submitted on time and auditor’s opinions were unqualified, and environmental and social oversight were carried
out. MPWT prepared three-year rolling maintenance plans in a timely manner, and managed the various
consultants and contractors. The ICR also notes that MPTW officials were accessible and proactive, and
implementation issues were addressed promptly. Although progress was made on the strategic plan for divestiture
of force account units, this was not implemented by project closure.

     Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                  Moderately Satisfactory
     Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The M&E framework was weak as the baseline data was not collected at appraisal. The project included M&E
sub-component (financed by ADB/DFAT) to undertake a baseline and initial project monitoring data collection and
analysis, and the capacity development within MPWT to undertake M&E. Since the focus and timeline of the
sub-component was broad, it was not a good substitute for a solid baseline. The indicator "Roads are able to
accommodate the likely rate of traffic increase, according to level of service" was ambiguous. It is unclear what was
meant by the level of service.

 b. M&E Implementation:
    Although an M&E consultant was hired in early 2010, he failed to perform and the contract was terminated.
In December 2011, an M&E workshop was conducted jointly by the Bank, ADB and JICA, for the project staff
responsible for M&E. A new M&E consultant was hired in March 2012 and M&E improved. Data collection was
initiated and the M&E manual and baseline report was prepared.
After the mid term review, outcome indicators were adjusted in the ISRs but were not formally changed in a project
restructuring. The changes included:
     The indicator "Vehicle operating costs (VOCs) and travel times do not increase" was simplified to reduction in
      travel times
     The indicator "Roads are able to accommodate the likely rate of traffic increase, according to level of service"
      was simplified to measurement of annual traffic growth; and
     The Bank’s core roads transport indicator was added in 2011.
In the roads sector, VOCs are often used to measure the impact of road condition and quality. It is not clear from the
ICR why this indicator was dropped since in the economic analysis section in the ICR (p. 35) uses VOC to quantify
economic benefits.


 c. M&E Utilization:
   The ICR reports (p. 13) that during implementation the intermediate results indicators were used to track physical
progress of civil works and capacity development. Some of the indicators are being used by MPWT after project
closing (example number and/or percentage of road kilometers in good to fair condition, percentage of maintenance
works carried out by contract, and average cost per km of rehabilitation and maintenance.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The project was classified as Category B, and following three safeguards policies were applicable: Environmental
Assessment (OP/BP 4.01), Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12), and Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10). The
environmental assessment conducted at appraisal determined that the impacts on local environment would be
temporary and limited to construction activities. These included temporary smoke, dust emission, noise and vibration
impacts at work sites could be generated and there could be spills of fuel, bitumen, oil and acid at work sites,
workshops and garages, etc. These impacts would be mitigated during construction under close supervision of the
field engineer. At appraisal following documents were prepared: Environmental and Social Safeguard Framework,
Compensation and Resettlement Policy Framework, and Indigenous People Development Framework.
The Environment and Social Office of the Ministry of Public Works and Transport, with training and support from
safeguard consultants and the Bank team, monitored the safeguards impacts of the project. The ICR (p. 14) reports
that the project remained in full compliance with the Bank's environmental policy and procedural requirements. Also,
no resettlement issues were identified during and after the road construction and rehabilitation activities. Regarding
the indigenous people, no ethnic minorities groups were found to be present or have collective attachments to the
project areas.


 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Financial Management : Financial management was carried out by the staff of the Department of Accounting and
Finance of the Ministry of Public Works and Transport. The ICR (p. 14) reports that the audit reports were completed
on time, and the auditor’s opinions for the financial statements for each year were unqualified.
Procurement: The procurement procedures for the project were managed by the International Procurement Agency
(IPA) which was handling procurement for all Bank supported projects in Cambodia. The IPA arrangement was
successful in coping with fiduciary challenges, but caused significant delays in the procurement of civil works. Despite
delays, all procurement for the project was completed. The Independent Procurement Agent was tasked with carrying
out all project procurement on behalf of the government; there was no provision for him to train MPWT officers or
facilitate learning by doing. The project adopted a Good Governance Framework to control corruption based on an
assessment of risks and supported by measures formulated around the categories of procurement, financial
management, and disclosure.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                 Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 Selected lessons from the ICR:

    Use of temporary, parallel systems does little to create lasting and durable improvements and/or change. The
     Independent Procurement Agent bypassed MPWT and the national system for carrying out procurement, and
     thus represents a missed opportunity to build procurement capacity within the Ministry.
    For M&E frameworks to be useful beyond the project, the framework needs to employ indicators that are not
     just associated with the achievements associated wit ha particular project but also relevant to decision makers
     for planning and management decisions.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No
15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR provides detailed accounts and analysis on most important aspects of the project. It reports both outputs and
outcomes of the project and its assessment of the project is evidence based and comprehensive. It is also candid
about the implementation problems that were encountered. However, there are a few shortcomings -- the ICR did not
clearly report on the kilometers of roads rehabilitated by other donors. The ICR should have explored the existing
evidence and linkages between supporting the national road network and economic development of the country. Also,
the ICR could have explained better the difference in methodology used for calculating the ERR for IDA only and "IDA
and ADB" finance roads sections since the difference in ERR is very large. The analysis of VOC was not consistent in
the ICR between the results framework and the economic analysis.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
