                                      Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR00003414




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                        (IDA-44420 TF-94862)

                                         ON A

                                       CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 18.3 MILLION
                         (US$30 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

                     ROYAL GOVERNMENT OF CAMBODIA

                                        FOR A

                     ROAD ASSET MANAGEMENT PROJECT



                                      June 8, 2015


Transport and ICT Global Practice
East Asia and Pacific Region
                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2014)

                Currency Unit = Cambodian Riel (KHR)
                       KHR 4057 = US$1
                       US$1 = SDR 0.69

                        FISCAL YEAR
                    January 1 – December 31


             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AC       Asphalt Concrete
ADB      Asian Development Bank
AusAID   Australia Aid for International Development (former name of DFAT)
AWP      Annual Work Program
CAMRA    Cambodia Road Association
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CMDG     Cambodian Millennium Development Goal
CRPF     Compensation and Resettlement Policy Framework
DBST     Double Bituminous Surface Treatment
DCA      Development Credit Agreement
DFAT     Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade, Australia
DGPW     Directorate General of Public Works
DO       Development Objective
EBCR     Economic Benefit-Cost Ratio
EIRR     Economic Internal Rate of Return
EMP      Environmental Management Plan
ENPV     Economic Net Present Value
ESO      Environment and Social Office
ESSF     Environmental and Social Safeguard Framework
FA       Financing Agreement
FM       Financial Management
GDAP     General Department of Administration and Planning
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GDPW     General Department of Public Works
GGF      Good Governance Framework
HRD      Human Resource Development
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
ICRRM    Inter-ministerial Committee for Road Repairs and Maintenance
ICT      Information and Communications Technology
IDA      International Development Association
INT      Department of Institutional Integrity
IP       Implementation Progress
IPA          International Procurement Agent
IPDF         Indigenous People Development Framework
IRI          International Roughness Index
ISR          Implementation Status and Results Report
KPI          Key Performance Indicator
KTF          Korea Trust Fund
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
MBPI         Merit Based Performance Incentive
MEF          Ministry of Economy and Finance
MPWT         Ministry of Public Works and Transport
MRD          Ministry of Rural Development
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
NR           National Road
NSDP         National Strategic Development Plan
OFID         OPEC Fund for International Development
OPEC         Organization for Petroleum Economic Cooperation
PAD          Project Appraisal Document
PDPWT        Provincial Department of Public Works and Transport
PFMRP        Public Financial Management Reform Program
PDO          Project Development Objective
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
POC          Priority Operating Cost
RAMO         Road Asset Management Office
RDCMU        Road Data Collection and Management Unit
RGC          Royal Government of Cambodia
RMDS         Road Management Decision Support
SDR          Special Drawing Rights
TA           Technical Assistance
TOR          Terms of Reference
VOC          Vehicle Operating Cost
VOT          Value of Time
WB           World Bank




               Regional Vice President:    Axel van Trotsenburg, EAPVP
                      Country Director:    Ulrich Zachau, EACTF
        Senior Global Practice Director:   Mr. Pierre Guislain, GTIDR
                     Practice Manager:     Mr. Michael Kerf, GTIDR
                  Project Team Leader:     Mr. Veasna Bun, GTIDR
                           ICR Author:     Ms. Imogene Jensen, GTIDR
                                      KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA
                                     Road Asset Management Project



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 16
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 21
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 21
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 25
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 27
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 28
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 29
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 34
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 37
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 39
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 41
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 44
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 46
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 47
  Annex 10. Photos of Roads and Road Works from Field Visits .................................. 48
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                           Road Asset
Country:                Cambodia                 Project Name:
                                                                           Management Project
Project ID:             P106603                  L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-44420,TF-94862
ICR Date:               06/05/2015               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                      Borrower:
                                                                           CAMBODIA
Original Total
                        XDR 18.30M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 18.22M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 18.30M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Public Works and Transport
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 Asian Development Bank
 Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (formerly Australian Agency for International
Development)

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process             Date              Process             Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       09/17/2007      Effectiveness:            12/19/2008        12/19/2008
                                                                                  12/19/2010
                                                                                  03/25/2013
Appraisal:            02/26/2008      Restructuring(s):
                                                                                  09/13/2013
                                                                                  03/31/2014
Approval:             05/20/2008      Mid-term Review:          12/13/2010        02/15/2012
                                      Closing:                  09/30/2013        12/31/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Substantial
Bank Performance:                                Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                         Overall Borrower
                           Moderately Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                         Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                                     Quality at Entry
Project at any time          Yes                                             None
                                                     (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                             Yes                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before             Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:     Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original             Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                        3                     3
Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways                                97                  97


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform                                 20                  20
Infrastructure services for private sector development                  40                  40
Other public sector governance                                          40                  40

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                           At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:              Axel van Trotsenburg                 James M. Adams
Country Director:            Ulrich Zachau                        Ian C. Porter
Practice
                             Michel Kerf                          Junhui Wu
Manager/Manager:
Project Team Leader:         Veasna Bun                           Maria Margarita Nunez
ICR Team Leader:             Veasna Bun
ICR Primary Author:          Imogene B. Jensen


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the project is to ensure continued effective use of the rehabilitated national
and provincial road network in support of the economic development in Cambodia. It will
do so by improving the institutional and technical capacity of the Ministry of Public Works
and Transport for road maintenance planning, budgeting and operations, and by expanding
and strengthening maintenance activities.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
N/A

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally        Actual Value
                                               Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                                 approval          Target        Completion or
                                               documents)          Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 : Vehicle operating costs do not increase (US$, Kilometers)
                 Car/0.42                   Car/0.42                           Car/0.57
Value
                 Medium Truck/0.33          Med. Truck/0.33                    Medium Truck/0.58
(quantitative or
                 Large Bus/0.52             Large Bus/0.52                     Large Bus/0.88
qualitative)
                 Motorcycle/0.04            Motorcycle/0.04                    Motorcycle/0.08
Date achieved 12/01/2008                    09/30/2013                         12/31/2014
Comments         Not achieved. Measurement of VOC in this case reflects significant declines in
(incl. %         roughness (IRI) that were overshadowed by fuel price increases (2008-2014)
achievement) beyond the project’s control.
Indicator 2 : Travel time is maintained or reduced (Hours, Custom)
Value
(quantitative or 2                          2                                  1.6
qualitative)
Date achieved 12/01/2008                    09/30/2013                         12/31/2014
Comments
                 Achieved. Travel time per 100 km declined from 2 hours to 1.6 hours despite an
(incl. %
                 average annual traffic increase of 6% (see indicator 3).
achievement)
                 Roads are able to accommodate the likely rate of traffic increase, according to
Indicator 3 :
                 level of service (Percentage)
Value
                 10% traffic growth per 10% traffic growth                     6% traffic growth
(quantitative or
                 annum                      per annum                          per annum
qualitative)
Date achieved 12/01/2008                    09/30/2013                         12/31/2014
Comments
                 Achieved. Average traffic growth was recorded at 6% per annum (maximum
(incl. %
                 26% and minimum 1%).
achievement)
Indicator 4 : Maintain or increase year on year the value of roads assets (US$ million)
Value
(quantitative or US$800 million             US$800 million                     US$2.5 billion
qualitative)
Date achieved 12/01/2008                    09/30/2013                         12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %         Target exceeded.
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Roads rehabilitated, Non-rural (Kilometers, Core)
Value
(quantitative or   0                        800                500            476
qualitative)
Date achieved      12/01/2008               09/30/2013         03/25/2013     12/31/2014
Comments
                   95% achieved. Target for the IDA-financed portion of the project was revised
(incl. %
                   downward from 800 to 500 km in line with agreed annual work programs.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                                Formally
                                             Values (from                          Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                             Revised
                                               approval                          Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                              documents)                          Target Years
                Roads in good and fair condition as a percentage of total classified network
Indicator 1 :
                (Percentage, Core)
                National                  National                            National
Value           Primary/57%               Primary/65%                         Primary/84.5%
(quantitative   National                  National                            National
or qualitative) Secondary/30%             Secondary/45%                       Secondary/62%
                Provincial/5%             Provincial/8%                       Provincial/N/A
Date achieved 12/01/2008                  09/30/2013                          12/31/2014
Comments
                Target exceeded. Annual assessment of road network condition per
(incl. %
                classification done by RDCMU (roughness measured as IRI<5).
achievement)
                Domestic revenue for routine and periodic maintenance and spot rehabilitation
Indicator 2 :
                increased (Text, Custom)
Value
(quantitative   US$26 million             US$40 million                       US$50 million
or qualitative)
Date achieved 12/01/2008                  09/30/2013                          12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %        Target exceeded.
achievement)
                Routine maintenance on National (N) and maintainable Secondary (S) and
Indicator 3 :
                Provincial (P) networks increased (Percentage, Kilometer)
Value           N-100%; 2100 km           N-100%; 2100 km                     N-100%; 2100 km
(quantitative   S-6%; 534 km              S-30%; 780 km                       S-46%; 1196 km
or qualitative) P-N/A                     P-30%; 2000 km                      P-24%; 1600 km
Date achieved 12/01/2008                  09/30/2013                          12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %        Target exceeded.
achievement)
                Periodic maintenance of National (N), Secondary (S) and Provincial (P) roads
Indicator 4 :
                increased (Percentage, Kilometer)
Value
                N-5%; 100 km              N-5%; 100 km                        N-24%; 504 km
(quantitative
                S/P-2%; 190 km            S/P-4%; 380 km                      S/P-8.5%; 807 km
or qualitative)
Date achieved 12/01/2008                   09/30/2013                         12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %        Target exceeded.
achievement)
                Capacity building of GDPW staff improved in: (a) Design of surface treatments;
Indicator 5 : (b) cost estimates; (c) M&E of road maintenance works; (d) supervision and
                maintenance works (Text, Custom)
                                           90% of relevant                    95% of relevant
                                           GDPWT staff                        GDPWT staff
                                           subject to capacity                subject to capacity
Value
                Lack of capacity within development                           development
(quantitative
                the GDPWT                  program are                        program are
or qualitative)
                                           technically                        technically capable
                                           capable in all                     in all designated
                                           designated areas                   areas
Date achieved 12/01/2008                   09/30/2013                         12/31/2014
                Achieved. The knowledge of trained staff in prescribed subject areas was
Comments        assessed by RAMO as: (fair=5%; good=25%, very good=70%). Staff turnover
(incl. %        due to budget constraints beyond the project control resulted in some loss of
achievement) capacity within RAMO, as some key staff left RAMO to work on other
                externally funded projects, but still within MPWT.
                MPWT prepares annual maintenance works plan using RMDS and submits
Indicator 6 :
                budget requests to MEF by June based on medium term program (Text, Custom)
                                           Annual work                        Annual work
                                           program and                        program and budget
Value
                Delay in preparation of budget prepared                       prepared and
(quantitative
                the budget                 and submitted to                   submitted to MEF
or qualitative)
                                           MEF through                        through ICRRM by
                                           ICRRM by June                      June
Date achieved 12/01/2008                   09/30/2013                         12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %        Achieved.
achievement)
                RMDS fully operational with proper usage of software and project level analysis
Indicator 7 :
                (Text, Custom)
                                                                              RMDS is
Value           Basic system in place,     System fully
                                                                              operational and
(quantitative   further development of operational in the
                                                                              continues to
or qualitative) technical expertise        RDCMU
                                                                              perform its task
Date achieved 12/01/2008                   09/30/2013                         12/31/2014
Comments
                Achieved. RDCMU is capable of using RMDS to update annual work plans,
(incl. %
                provided data are updated.
achievement)
Indicator 8 : Civil works performed by private contractors (Percentage, Custom)
Value
(quantitative   1.50%                      25%                                30%
or qualitative)
Date achieved 12/01/2008                   09/30/2013                         12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Target exceeded.
achievement)
Indicator 9 :     Population surveyed who are aware of HIV/AIDS (Percentage)
Value
(quantitative     90%                       90%                              100%
or qualitative)
Date achieved     12/01/2008                09/30/2013                       12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %          Target exceeded.
achievement)
Indicator 10 :    RGC commitment to increased levels of funding to MBPI (Percentage)
Value
(quantitative     0%                        30%                 0%
or qualitative)
Date achieved     12/01/2008                09/30/2013          12/29/2010
Comments
                  Indicator dropped (level 2 restructuring) when RGC cancelled MBPI. Indicator
(incl. %
                  was not replaced for POC as no government contribution was required for POC.
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                 Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                                 DO                       IP             Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                             (USD millions)
  1     06/03/2009              Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  0.00
  2     05/24/2010             Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory                 0.12
                                                          Moderately
  3     02/28/2011             Unsatisfactory                                              0.34
                                                         Unsatisfactory
                             Moderately
  4     01/15/2012                              Moderately Satisfactory                    5.27
                           Unsatisfactory
  5     05/27/2012      Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                    6.49
  6     12/26/2012      Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                          16.43
  7     06/23/2013      Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                          20.90
  8     12/21/2013      Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                          24.65
  9     06/18/2014      Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                          26.11
 10     12/24/2014      Moderately Satisfactory     Satisfactory                          27.79


H. Restructuring (if any)
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     The RGC cancelled MBPI in
                                                     December 2010 and introduced
                                                     Priority Operating Cost (POC)
                                                     for all projects in the portfolio.
                                                     As part of an Omnibus
                                                     Amendment that covered all
                                                     projects in the portfolio, a Level
 12/19/2010               U      U            0.26
                                                     2 Restructuring dated December
                                                     19, 2010 changed RAMP’s
                                                     Component C from MBPI to
                                                     POC, reallocated funds
                                                     accordingly, and dropped the
                                                     MBPI indicator in the Results
                                                     Framework.
                                                     Extended closing date from
                                                     September 30, 2013 to June 30,
                                                     2014, reallocated Credit
                                                     proceeds from goods and
 03/25/2013               MS      S          19.04
                                                     training to civil works and
                                                     consultant services, and reduced
                                                     IDA road maintenance target
                                                     from 800 km to 500 km.
                                                     Reallocated Credit proceeds
                                                     from the discontinued POC and
 09/13/2013               MS      S          22.70
                                                     from consultant services to civil
                                                     works.
                                                     Extended closing date from
                                                     June 30, 2014 to December 31,
                                                     2014, to give time for
                                                     consultants to complete
 03/31/2014               MS      S          25.33
                                                     preparation of designs and
                                                     bidding documents for the
                                                     proposed RAMP-II and reduce
                                                     the gap between operations.
I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      At appraisal in early 2008, Cambodia had enjoyed a decade of sustained economic
growth, underpinned by significant expansion in garment exports, tourism, construction and
agriculture. GDP growth per annum had averaged more than seven percent from 1995 to 2004
and achieved double digit levels thereafter. Poverty rates had declined, from an estimated 47
percent in 1994 to 35 percent in 2004, with reference to a national poverty line of US$0.45 per
day.

2.     The prospects for continuing economic growth at comparable levels were considered
good, provided that what had emerged as a low governance environment could be remedied,
and hastily reconstructed infrastructure could be strengthened and maintained. A Public
Expenditure Review1 conducted by the Bank in 2003 had identified fundamental weaknesses
in public financial management and service delivery, and highlighted issues of fiduciary
governance as a particular challenge. A review of the World Bank’s portfolio in 2005 and
subsequent INT investigations had uncovered a number of irregularities in procurement and
financial management, including for several ongoing World Bank-financed projects. The
roads sector was among those affected, as the Road Asset Management Project’s (RAMP’s)
predecessor, the Provincial and Rural Infrastructure Project (Cr. 3822-KH), had been
suspended for fraud in June 2006 for a period of eight months.

3.      Traffic levels and vehicle ownership were increasing at pace with economic expansion,
and during the four years leading up to 2008, had increased at rates of 10 to 19 percent per
annum. As the principal movement of goods and people in Cambodia was (and is) by road,
the ability of the road sector to meet the spatial requirements of equitable growth, including
enhanced accessibility for the poor, was of critical importance. As Cambodia’s roads had been
largely destroyed during the country’s two decades of conflict, the policy of the Royal
Government of Cambodia (RGC) in the ensuing period had been to construct, with the support
of donors, the maximum number of primary road kilometers possible in the shortest period of
time. However, in the absence of regular routine and periodic maintenance, these rapidly
reconstructed roads had begun to show alarming signs of deterioration.

4.     By 2008, the asset value of Cambodia’s road network was estimated to be about
US$800 million, so there was a lot at stake.2 About 57 percent of the rehabilitated national
primary (2,700 km) and secondary (600 km) road networks were still in good to fair condition,
but adequate funding and maintenance protocols to sustain the newly reconstructed network


1
 Integrated Fiduciary Assessment and Public Expenditure Review, World Bank (Report No. 25611-
KH), September 8, 2003.

2
 By 2008, Cambodia’s nominal GDP had reached US$10,286 million, World Bank East Asia
and Pacific Economic Update, 2010.


                                              1
were not in place. To ensure that this valuable asset was not lost, there was an urgent need to
shift the focus from one of reconstruction and repair to one of asset management, in which
prioritized plans for road maintenance and rehabilitation would be developed and carried out
in accordance with economic principles.

5.      The Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for the period 2005-2008 (extended to 2011),
was directed towards helping Cambodia to remove governance constraints that were impeding
Cambodia’s attainment of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Issues related to
transparency and accountability in the use of public funds, and specifically budget formulation
and execution, were being addressed in the IDA-financed Public Financial Management and
Accountability Project (PFMAP, H4210-KH). The PFMAP also supported an innovative
Merit Based Performance Incentive (MBPI) as a way to tackle civil service incentives,
performance, and capacity with respect to donor-financed activities. The program had been
successfully piloted in the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF), and on April 2, 2008, the
RGC approved Sub-Decree 29 which allowed for the expansion of the program to other
ministries, among these the Ministry of Public Works and Transport (MPWT).

6.     Against this backdrop, the rationale for continuing the Bank’s assistance to the road
sector was strong. The Bank had not only been engaged in the transport sector in Cambodia
for more than 12 years, but also – in collaboration with other donors – actively supported the
implementation of related aspects of the Government’s consolidated National Strategic
Development Plan (NSDP). A project that focused on road asset management was timely as
it would assist the RGC in adopting and implementing a sustainable approach to road asset
maintenance and management and thereby meet its accessibility goals, while at the same time
supporting the broader CAS objectives of transparency and accountability in the use of public
funds.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

7.     The objective of the project in the Financing Agreement (FA) was to ensure the
continued effective use of the rehabilitated national and provincial road networks to support
economic development in Cambodia. The PDO in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) was
consistent, but clarified that the project would do so by “improving the institutional and
technical capacity of the MPWT for road maintenance planning, budgeting and operations, and
by expanding and strengthening maintenance activities”.

8.      The key outcome indicators were:

     1. Effective use of network;
            a. vehicle operating costs do not increase
            b. travel times do not increase
     2. Roads are able to accommodate the likely rate of traffic increase, according to the level
        of service; and
     3. Maintain or increase year on year the value of road assets.




                                                2
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

9.       The PDO was not revised. Outcome indicators were adjusted in the course of
implementation as follows: (i) Vehicle operating costs and travel times do not increase was
simplified to travel times reduced after the mid-term review; (ii) Roads are able to
accommodate the likely rate of traffic increase, according to level of service was simplified to
measurement of annual traffic growth; and (iii) the Bank’s core transport indicator roads
rehabilitated, non-rural was added in 2011. Both indicators (i) and (ii) presupposed increasing
traffic volumes would be less likely to cause congestion and slower travel times if good road
surfaces were maintained, and travel times reduced was deemed a more straightforward way
to measure the benefit of improved travel surfaces. These changes were discussed in aide-
memoires and reflected in ISRs, but not formally changed in a project restructuring. (See
further discussion in Section 2.3.)

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

10.     The main beneficiaries of the project were (i) the institutions responsible for the
effective maintenance of Cambodia’s road network, in particular the Road Asset Management
Office (RAMO) within MPWT, (ii) the residents and businesses that reside along the roads
improved under the project and depend on them for efficient access to markets, services and
the like, and (iii) the users of Cambodia’s national primary and secondary road network who
would benefit from adequately maintained roads throughout the country.

1.5 Original Components

11.     The project consisted of three components designed to integrate periodic maintenance
investments with institutional support and capacity development for prioritization and planning,
implementation of maintenance activities, and expansion of civil service reform. The project
was to be implemented through separate IDA and ADB/DFAT3 agreements sharing a common
project description.4 Both the PAD and FA Schedule 1 include all components in the project
description, including those to be financed by others. The components were linked and
interdependent. Thus while this ICR views the project from the perspective of IDA and
evaluates the project accordingly, the contributions of the participating donors are reported as
well. (Further clarification is provided in Annex 2.)

The three components are as follows:




3
    DFAT is referred to by its former designation as AusAID in the PAD and FA.

4
  A condition of effectiveness was that “the Co-financing Agreement has been executed and delivered
and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness (other than the effectiveness of the FA) have been
fulfilled”.


                                                  3
12.    Component A. Road Asset Management (Total – US$52.34 million; IDA - US$27.28
million). The component comprised two subcomponents:

13.     A1. Annual Work Plans. This subcomponent supported the preservation of MPWT’s
road network through the design of Annual Work Plans (AWPs) for periodic maintenance
works. The FA includes a target of about 800 km of MPWT’s road network, including asphalt
resurfacing, resealing, re-gravelling, minor drainage works and repairs to small bridges. IDA
and ADB would each fund civil works for discrete sections of road.

14.      A2. Implementation Support. This subcomponent provided technical advisory services
and material support to MPWT for: (a) implementation of the first year program, including
the preparation of designs and bidding documents for works; (b) preparation of technical
designs, cost estimates, bidding documents, contract management and safeguard activities for
the second and subsequent AWPs; operation of the Road Data Collection and Management
Unit (RDCMU) for effective implementation and operation of the Road Management Decision
Support (RMDS) System; and restoration of office space within the General Department of
Public Works (GDPW); (c) construction supervision; and (d) independent technical audits and
independent financial audits for activities carried out under the project. The first year AWP
was already defined (preparation funded by ADB), but subsequent AWPs were to be developed
using MPWT’s RMDS System. IDA would finance RMDS support, construction supervision
of all civil works and the independent financial audits, while the independent technical audits
would be financed by DFAT.

15.      Component B. Capacity Development (Total – US$2.62 million; IDA – US$1.84
million). This component was to strengthen the managerial and technical capacities of MPWT
at the institutional, organization and individual levels to enable the ministry to perform its road
asset management functions effectively and efficiently. IDA would finance four activities,
including (i) institutional (administrative) support, (ii) technical capacity development for road
asset management within GDPW; (iii) private sector development, including analysis of
capacity building needs of the local contracting industry, ability of local training institutions
to carry out training needs, and development of procedures for divestiture of MPWT’s force
account units; and (iv) HIV/AIDS Awareness. ADB/DFAT would finance an additional three
activities, including (v) road safety campaign; (vi) training to facilitate compliance with a new
Sub-Decree on Resettlement; and (vii) monitoring and evaluation of project outcomes.

16.      Component C. Merit Based Performance Incentive (MBPI) (Total – US$1.1 million;
IDA – US$0.88 million.) This component was to finance, on a declining basis over time, the
extension of the MBPI program to selected departments of GDPW and the General Department
of Administration and Planning (GDAP) within MPWT. The MBPI program, which had been
piloted in MEF, was to lay the groundwork for performance based management by formalizing
(for staff working on donor-financed projects) an accelerated pay enhancement program for
civil servants. Under this program position descriptions and selection criteria would be defined,
participants would be selected on merit, compliance with a code of conduct would be required,
good performance would be rewarded, and non-performers could be removed as per an
established mechanism. Within MPWT, the GDPW and GDAP were selected for the initial
roll-out as, under RAMP, both units would require qualified staff with commensurate levels of
education and experience. This subcomponent would be funded by IDA.

                                                4
1.6 Revised Components

17.     The RGC cancelled MBPI in December 2010 and introduced Priority Operating Cost
(POC) for all projects in the portfolio. The POC retained some of the elements of MBPI in the
form of position descriptions, criteria for selection and code of conduct, but lacked the civil
service reform elements and was to be entirely financed by donors for staff working on donor
funded projects. In the case of RAMP, MBPI was replaced by POC before any funds were
disbursed under MBPI.

1.7 Other significant changes

18.    Including the change from MBPI to POC, there were four Level 2 Restructurings as
follows:

 Date                    Type       Reason
 December 19, 2010       Level 2    As part of an Omnibus Amendment for all affected
                                    projects in the portfolio, changed Component C from
                                    MBPI to POC, reallocated funds accordingly, and
                                    dropped the MBPI indicator in the Results Framework.
 March 25, 2013          Level 2    Extended the closing date from September 30, 2013 to
                                    June 30, 2014, reallocated Credit proceeds from goods
                                    and training to civil works and consultant services, and
                                    clarified that the IDA portion of the road maintenance
                                    target was 500 km, not the 800 km included in the FA
                                    for all donor participants combined.
 September 13, 2013      Level 2    Reallocated Credit proceeds from POC, which was
                                    discontinued June 30, 2012, and from consultant
                                    services to civil works.
 March 31, 2014          Level 2    Extended the closing date from June 30, 2014 to
                                    December 31, 2014, to allow time for consultants to
                                    complete the design and preparation of bidding
                                    documents for the proposed RAMP-II and reduce the
                                    gap between operations.


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

19.     Soundness of background analysis. RAMP would be the third IDA-financed road
project in Cambodia since peace was restored. The first project, Road Rehabilitation Project
(RRP, Cr. 3191-KH), closed in 2006 and the second, Provincial and Rural Infrastructure
Project (PRIP, Cr. 3822-KH), became effective in 2008 and was still in progress. The
preparation of RAMP benefitted from the analytical work carried out under both of these
projects. The RRP focused on reconstruction of key national roads and strengthening of
MPWT through training and technical assistance; it also supported initial thinking on transport
sector policy and strategy, including the preparation of draft policies and proposals for

                                              5
legislative and institutional reform. The PRIP sought to fill out the network by reconstructing
and maintaining secondary, provincial and tertiary roads, and unlike RRP, included roads
managed by both MPWT and the Ministry of Rural Development (MRD). The PRIP provided
the implementation model for RAMP in that it moved away from a separate project
implementation unit (PIU) and mainstreamed implementation within the ministries. However
PRIP also demonstrated supervision and accountability problems associated with having two
implementing agencies, and thus RAMP would be limited to just MPWT.

20.      The preparation of RAMP internalized a number of other lessons from the previous and
ongoing engagements. First was the need for better donor/government coordination. Both RRP
and PRIP were financed by IDA only, and RRP in particular had been criticized by both RGC
and the World Bank for fragmentation and duplication of effort. RAMP was prepared jointly
with ADB, with support from an ADB Project Preparation Technical Assistance (PPTA) grant.
In addition to ADB, the project included financing from DFAT, and in March 2009 the OPEC
Fund for International Development (OFID) contributed an additional US$7 million for civil
works (administered by ADB). Second, RAMP followed the PRIP model of mainstreaming
implementation within the ministry, so as to build capacity and strengthen accountability.
Implementation of RAMP would be managed by a unit within MPWT, staffed by MPWT
employees. Third was the need to keep projects simple, by limiting the number of components
to be managed and, as noted above, the number of implementing agencies. RAMP was
simplified to the extent that it focused on maintenance of the national network, backed up by
institutional strengthening to improve planning and management of Cambodia’s national road
assets.

21.     Another set of lessons arose from the governance problems encountered under PRIP
and other projects in the IDA portfolio. In June 2006 IDA uncovered evidence of fraud and
corruption on, among others, six contracts under PRIP and suspended further withdrawals from
the affected Credits. The suspension of PRIP was lifted in February 2007, with the proviso that
PRIP and all subsequent IDA-financed projects would meet certain conditions. The RAMP
design complied by including the following: adoption of Good Governance Frameworks
(GGFs) with code of conduct to be signed by all employees, strengthened mechanisms for
verification and oversight, enhanced public disclosure, implementation of a complaints-
handling mechanism, independent technical and financial audits, strengthened internal
financial management controls, and for the IDA financed components only, procurement by
an International Procurement Agent (IPA).

22.     The rationale for Bank involvement in RAMP was that it would build on gains obtained
from previous operations, provide appropriate levels of maintenance on a portion of the rapidly
reconstructed network including sections that had been previously financed by IDA, and most
importantly, help to establish a maintenance culture through the institutionalization of
organizational units and professional reorientation, and the development of the requisite
analytical tools to do so. In this latter respect the Bank would draw on its extensive global
experience in road asset management. The project also supported the objectives of PFMAP
through greater transparency and accountability in the use of public funds.

23.  Assessment of Project Design. The PDO was directed towards an important outcome.
However the phrase “effective use” lacked precision and attribution, particularly with respect

                                              6
to the causal link between who would benefit from the effective use and how this would lead
to the higher level objective of economic development in Cambodia. The main issue with the
PDO is that it goes beyond that for which the project could be uniquely held accountable. An
additional sentence in the PAD specifies the mechanism by which the project would intervene
by stating it would do so “by improving the institutional and technical capacity of MPWT” to
manage the national road network effectively and increase the quality and amount of
maintenance being carried out, including by the private sector.

24.      The outcome indicators in the Results Framework define effective use as “vehicle
operating costs and travel times do not increase”, “roads are able to accommodate the likely
rate of traffic increase, according to level of service”, and “value of road asset is maintained”.
Methods of collection were defined only in general terms (e.g., surveys, ICRRM report, M&E
report), and no baseline data were collected up front as the collection of baseline data was
rolled into Subcomponent B7: Monitoring and Evaluation of Project Outcomes to be financed
by ADB/DFAT. This subcomponent involved the design of a monitoring program;
organizational arrangements to undertake M&E of project outcomes, undertake a baseline and
initial project monitoring data collection and analysis; and the development within MPWT of
a permanent capacity to undertake M&E. The focus and timeline of Subcomponent B7 was
much broader than M&E for the RAMP, and thus not a good substitute for a solid baseline.
(More detail is provided in Section 2.3.)

25.    The components were well conceived to support the PDO, but with a few shortcomings
as noted below:

26.     Component A covered all operational aspects, including technical assistance ranging
from hands-on support to RDCMU to operate RMDS and come up with the AWPs, to detailed
design, preparation of bid documents, construction supervision, and independent financial and
technical audits.

27.     Component B covered capacity development in support of organizational reform and a
mix of initiatives, including modernized ICT systems5 and training, a road safety campaign,
resettlement training, HIV/AIDS awareness, and private sector development. The latter
focused primarily on assessing the capacity building needs of the local consulting and
contracting industries, the ability of local training institutions to meet these needs, and the
training of contractors. The development of procedures for divestiture of force account units
was listed in the PAD as a sub-element of this component, but as the main focus was on
capacity-building, the component did not go so far as to engage MEF with respect to the
budgeting, contracting and civil service separation issues that would need to be addressed to
effect this change. As such, a legal covenant in the FA to adopt a strategic plan for divestiture
of force account units was only partially supported in the project design.




5
 Originally identified for IDA support, the improvement of ICT technology was later financed by a
Korean Trust Fund Grant (No. TF094862), signed on August 28, 2009 and closed June 2012.


                                                 7
28.     Component C was included because professionalism of the road asset management
function would require a capable and committed staff paid at levels commensurate with the
nature and complexity of work performed. Although MBPI was limited to donor-financed
activities, the inclusion of MBPI under RAMP was expected not only to attract qualified staff
to the project, but also to demonstrate the importance of civil service reform as a means to
reduce the government’s current dependence on costly external support. However the reliance
on MBPI in the project design was problematic in three key respects: (i) the mechanisms and
procedures for adopting MBPI were beyond the scope of the project; (ii) not everyone was
eligible and the program applied only while working on donor-financed activities; and (iii)
MBPI was more of a stopgap measure than fundamental reform, and as such did not
substantially serve the institutional reform objectives.

29.     Nonetheless, the focus on developing a maintenance culture and the capacity to carry
it out was both timely and important given Cambodia’s need to transition from rapid
reconstruction to asset management and, in particular, to maintenance of existing road assets.
The components were relatively straightforward and appropriate to address this objective, and
the civil works were grouped geographically to ease supervision. Another positive feature,
with the exception of IDA’s insistence on an IPA, was the learning by doing approach.6 For
example, while the first AWP was prepared by consultants financed by the ADB, all
subsequent AWPs were to be prepared by MPWT, with the help of technical assistance and
using the skills and tools established under the project. Three year rolling maintenance plans
were to be prepared by the RDCMU within RAMO, which was to be strengthened under the
project. Incremental budget allocations were to be made by Treasury (a Credit covenant) at
sufficient levels to support the maintenance of the rehabilitated national primary and secondary
roads. Finally, in addition to MPWT’s own capacity to carry out planning, design, and
supervision of works functions, effective financial management and environmental review and
oversight were also to be developed.

30.    Another strength of the project design was the allocation of components among
financiers so as to maximize the timely availability of funds and use of expertise offered by
the participating development partners. At RGC’s request the IDA and ADB teams had
explored, during preparation, the possibility of pooling funds to enable the entire project to be
implemented using one set of reporting requirements and rules. Unfortunately harmonization
of procurement was infeasible, 7 but it was possible to adopt harmonized procedures for
environmental and social assessment and for financial management, thus simplifying some key
aspects. In the end, the allocation of components among development partners was clearly
defined and well integrated. For example, in Component A, AWP-1, included two civil works


6
  The IPA was to carry out the procurement of RAMP and other IDA-financed projects independently
from the respective implementing agency/ministry. Although this was beyond the purview of the
project team, IDA’s development objectives would have been better served if both procurement
training and transfer of knowledge functions could have been built into the IPA contract as well.

7
 Award of ICB contracts financed by ADB is restricted to ADB member countries. ADB also did
not find use of an IPA to be necessary.


                                               8
contracts, both prepared by ADB, but one to be financed by IDA and the other by ADB.
Subsequent AWPs would be allocated among IDA, ADB/DFAT (and later OFID), with RGC
financing routine maintenance from the budget allocations mentioned above. Construction
supervision would be financed by IDA throughout. Component B would be financed by IDA,
ADB and DFAT, with IDA financing four out of seven components (organizational capacity
development, upgrading and mainstreaming RMDS, private sector development and
HIV/AIDS awareness) and ADB/DFAT the other three (road safety campaign, resettlement
training, and M&E). Even more important, supervision would be coordinated, with joint
missions and one mission report whenever possible.

31.     Government’s commitment appeared solid. Despite lingering resentment over the
Bank’s handling of mis-procurement under PRIP, there was constructive collaboration
between MPWT and the development partners during preparation. MEF was supportive of the
need to enhance the professionalism of MPWT and, given the recent passage of the Sub-Decree,
agreed to the selective extension of MBPI to MPWT. The RGC’s NSDP emphasized the
importance of road maintenance and included a goal of doubling of allocations for road
maintenance. MEF thus supported the legal covenant requiring timely release of annual
allocations to MPWT for road maintenance.

32.     Assessment of risks. The project was deemed of high risk before mitigation and
substantial thereafter. One group of risks pertained to sector issues, including lack of a sector
policy beyond that which was included in government-wide strategic plans, and prioritization
of expenditure. Specific risks were the aforementioned risks of inadequate funding for road
maintenance and weak implementation capacity. Other highlighted risks were procurement-
related and dated back to the INT findings in 2006. Mitigation measures built into RAMP, and
all other IDA-financed projects prepared at that time, included adoption of GGFs that
mandated, among other things, training for ministry staff, strengthening of internal controls,
and use of an IPA. The risk relative to the sustainability of RGC financing of MBPI was
considered modest, but after financial support provided by the project, dropped to low. On
balance, the risks identified were relevant to the situation and the overall assessment of risk
before and after mitigation was reasonable, except for the risk associated with MBPI which
was clearly underestimated and over which the project had little control.

33.     To summarize, strengths at entry include: the project’s alignment with the RGC’s
strategy and the Bank’s CAS, the targeting and design of the project to address a fundamental
need, the excellent collaboration among government and development partners, and (except
for MBPI) the realistic assessment of risk. Areas that detract from a fully satisfactory rating
are: the PDO’s dependence on factors both within and beyond the project scope, the reliance
on MBPI, inadequacies in the design of the M&E framework and failure to collect baseline
monitoring data up front. For these reasons, Quality at Entry is rated moderately satisfactory.

2.2 Implementation

34.     Implementation arrangements. Consistent with the mainstreaming of implementation,
the implementing agency was MPWT, with DGPW responsible for the day-to-day
management of the project. The DGPW, in turn, was to receive input from other specified units,
e.g., financial management or environmental assessment for their respective areas.

                                               9
Approximately 70 staff, including consultant support, were expected to have some degree of
responsibility for implementation and oversight of RAMP. These staff would be responsible
for handling the implementation of components financed by all involved development partners.
Despite the reduced complement of staff during periods when neither MBPI nor POC support
was available, this arrangement had two key advantages: (i) those implementing the project
had a vested interest in the sustainability of the investments made, as the project outcomes
were linked to their regular employment within MPWT, and (ii) capacity building was linked
to responsibilities the staff would have even without the project.

35.    Progress of implementation. Project implementation effectively falls into two distinct
phases. The first phase, from effectiveness on December 19, 2008 to the end of 2010, was
characterized by significant delays and lack of progress. The second Implementation Status
and Results Report (ISR) issued in May 2010 downgraded both DO and IP to Unsatisfactory
(U), as the project was experiencing start-up delays in virtually all aspects of project
implementation. The reasons were many, but key among them were:

    (i)     Termination of MBPI. No RAMP funds had been disbursed for MBPI when it was
            cancelled by RGC in December 2010, as the establishment process (job
            descriptions, selection criteria, performance standards, etc.) in MPWT was still
            underway. The delay in establishment was devastating for RAMP, and by the time
            MBPI was canceled the number of MPWT staff working on RAMP had dwindled
            to only five regular staff out of the 70 expected.8 As noted in section 1.6, the first
            restructuring of RAMP replaced MBPI with POC. The shift to POC started a new
            process, which again took time to implement and further delayed the ability to
            attract the full complement of staff required.
    (ii)    Inadequate performance of IPA. Procurement in this early period was slow and
            some recommended awards were problematic. The IPA was imposed on the
            Ministry and there was a lack of buy-in that affected cooperation in those areas
            requiring input from the ministry, e.g., technical specifications or terms of reference
            and qualifications. The IPA, who was tasked with carrying out ICB procurement
            for all IDA-financed projects, was also overloaded. As a result, two key positions
            – Implementation Adviser and Construction Supervision Consultant – were delayed,
            and with the first civil works package about to be signed, there was a potential
            disconnect between the civil works and the supervision of those works.
    (iii)   Lack of progress on the Good Governance Framework. Due to lack of staff, key
            aspects of the GGF, e.g., the complaints handling mechanism, code of ethical
            conduct with sanctions, and the setting up of the Cambodia Road Association
            (CAMRA), were delayed.
    (iv)    Monitoring and Evaluation failures. The M&E consultant failed to perform and
            the contract was terminated without replacement. The baseline survey did not take
            place, and the M&E methodology and manual were not prepared until much later.



8
 Several RAMP staff reportedly were lost to other externally financed projects in MPWT that still
provided salary supplements.


                                                10
36.     The second phase represents the active implementation of the project, from
approximately the beginning of 2011 to project closing at the end of December 2014. Factors
that contributed to the turnaround included:

   (i)     Start of POC. Staff recruitment for RAMP POC was completed in late 2011 and
           staff became available to implement the project effectively;
   (ii)    Replacement of the IPA. The second IPA managed to carry out more timely
           procurement of key contracts; and
   (iii)   Momentum from evidence of results on the ground. AWP-1 was moving along with
           results from the ADB-financed component and the mobilization of the contractor
           for the IDA-financed works.

37.     With the necessary complement of staff and renewed vigor on the part of MPWT,
significant progress was now seen on most aspects of project implementation. Ratings for DO
and IP were raised at the end of 2011: DO to Moderately Unsatisfactory (MU) and IP to
Moderately Satisfactory (MS).

38.     Factors beyond government control. Despite good implementation progress and the
strong commitment of MPWT, external factors towards the end of 2011 made it unlikely the
project could attain its original rehabilitation and maintenance targets. These were: sharply
rising costs of labor and construction materials (the effect of which was exacerbated by the
earlier implementation delays), and severe flooding that damaged sections of recently
rehabilitated roads in October 2011. There thus was the need to take stock of the project
objectives and targets to see what could still be accomplished. In early 2012 the midterm
review, originally planned for May 2011 but delayed due to lack of progress, was now timely.

39.     Midterm review. The midterm review concluded that the PDO was still relevant and
doable and that implementation progress had greatly improved (both were upgraded to MS).
Progress included: the first three AWPs were prepared and being implemented, the road safety
action plan (financed by ADB) and HIV/AIDS awareness training were moving forward,
private sector development training had been carried out, organizational development options
were under review, asset management technical capacity was being developed, and upgraded
information architecture (financed by the Korea Trust Fund (KTF)) installed. Remaining
issues included the still delayed mobilization of the project implementation advisor and
concern over POC which was scheduled to end in June 2012. Further, although privatization
of provincial force account units was under review, no actual progress had been made and a
strategy for divestiture of force account units (a project covenant) had not yet been prepared.

40.     Adjustment of targets and project restructurings. The MTR found that some physical
targets needed to be reduced as follows:


   (i)     Periodic maintenance works. Out of the planned 1,200 km of national roads, 578
           km were ongoing or completed, and 418 were to be awarded during 2012, for a
           total of 996 km. The shortfall of 204 km was explained by the steep escalation of
           international construction prices since 2009 (reaching about 22% in 2011), the need


                                              11
           for more costly rehabilitation on some sections, and the additional cost of the
           remedial works after the 2011 flood.
   (ii)    IDA Road Maintenance Target. There was some confusion over the maintenance
           target, as the borrower had agreed to 500 km but 800 km was specified in the FA.
           The FA would be amended accordingly.

41.    Following the MTR, the second project restructuring (level 2, March 25, 2013)
decreased the IDA road maintenance target from 800 km to 500 km, and reallocated funds
from goods and training to civil works and consultant services. The restructuring released
funding for repair of flood damaged sections of recently completed civil works.

42.    After POC was terminated by RGC on June 30, 2012, a third restructuring (level 2,
September 13, 2013) reallocated the funds remaining for POC and some consultant services to
civil works. The purpose of this reallocation was to finance the repair of additional sections
damaged by unusually severe weather events and flooding.

43.     A fourth restructuring (level 2, March 31, 2014) extended the closing date from June
30, to December 31, 2014 to enable preparation of follow-on activities and provide continuity
between the current project and what was first proposed to be Additional Financing and later
a new RAMP-II project. (See Section 2.5). The preparatory activities included (i) preliminary
designs and bidding documents for civil works (strengthening of surfaces and provision of
drainage) to enhance the climate resilience of the national roads in the project area, and (ii)
design of a pilot performance based maintenance program on the same roads.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

44.     Design. The results framework measured “effective use” of the rehabilitated national
and provincial road network by tracking vehicle operating costs and travel times for users of
the roads receiving rehabilitation works. A third outcome indicator, value of road assets, was
for the network as a whole, and was calculated based on road length and condition. Thus,
while the term “effective use” was in itself overly broad, the outcome indicators helped to
assign geographical focus and attribution. The third indicator captured the benefits, albeit
indirectly, from developing the capacity of MPWT to manage the national road asset
effectively. The outcome indicators are discussed below:

   (i) Effective use of network – vehicle operating costs and travel times do not increase, was
       based on the average roughness (IRI) and typical VOCs for four categories of vehicle.
       As applied to the project, the indicator tracked cars, medium trucks, large buses and
       motorcycles. Problems inherent in the VOC indicator are: (a) the relative mix of
       vehicles operating on the roads could be expected to and did change over time; and (b)
       VOCs reflect not only road condition and quality, but also input costs and thus are
       influenced by external factors such as the price of fuel. Nonetheless, VOCs are often
       used to measure the impact of road condition and quality, and when HDM-4 input data
       are kept up to date, easily obtained. The measurement of travel time was per roads
       rehabilitated in each AWP and thus also easily obtained.



                                              12
    (ii) Roads are able to accommodate the likely rate of increase according to level of service,
         had problems of targeting (specified as 10% traffic growth per annum), measurement
         (traffic counts) and attribution. It is not clear what was meant by level of service in
         this context, and indeed level of service does not appear to factor into the calculation,
         which is based purely on traffic growth.
    (iii) Value of road assets, was to be calculated by the RMDS System, based on regularly
         updated data inputs. The value, US$800 million, was for the entire network and the
         achievement target was to maintain the value at that level (presumably in real terms,
         although this was not specified) through to project end. The ability to do so would
         depend on timely and cost-effective maintenance of the maintainable network, which
         was supported by the project; it also would depend on a continuation of the
         government’s strategic use of concessional external financing for reconstruction and
         rehabilitation, a portion of which was included under RAMP.

45.     Definition and measurement of the Intermediate Results Indicators was more
straightforward, as these indicators are by their nature more specific and thus easier to define.
The indicators for Components A and B were appropriately targeted to measure gains in road
condition, maintenance budget allocations, capacity development, maintenance planning, and
outsourcing. The MBPI indicator, however, was outside the purview of the project and not
relevant to the measurement of “effective use”.9

46.    Implementation. As previously indicated, no baseline data were collected at the
beginning of the project pending the start of the ADB-financed M&E consultancy. An M&E
consultant was retained early in 2010, but failed to perform and the contract was terminated.
The situation began to turn around in December 2011, in part due to an M&E workshop
conducted jointly by WB, ADB and JICA, and attended by the RAMP staff assigned to the
M&E task. A new M&E consultant was mobilized in March 2012, delivered the M&E manual
and baseline report, and thereafter data collection and reporting improved.

47.     Related to the above, especially in the earlier years of project implementation, not all
of the indicators were reported on at regular intervals, and adjustments were made over time
in the indicators reported on in Aide-memoires and ISRs. These changes were not formally
restructured, and as such represent a missed opportunity to clarify and yet simplify project
monitoring requirements. Only the change in the maintenance target from 800 km to 500 km,
and the removal of the MBPI indicator were formally restructured.

48.     Utilization. Once the M&E system was established by the consultant midway into the
implementation period, MPWT collected and reported on the requisite data at regular intervals.
The intermediate results indicators were used as intended to track physical progress of civil
works and capacity development. At project end, values also were obtained for all of the key
indicators for project assessment purposes. Finally, MPWT continues to use a few of the
indicators for its own purposes, e.g., number and/or percentage of road kilometers in good to


9
 The MBPI indicator was dropped with the cancelation of MBPI. Subsequent ISRs reported on
POC, but the POC indicator was not formally included in the restructuring from MBPI to POC.


                                               13
fair condition, percentage of maintenance works carried out by contract, and average cost per
km of rehabilitation and maintenance.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

49.     Safeguards. The project was classified as Environmental Category B, partial
assessment, with three policies triggered, OP/BP 4.01, OP/BP 4.10 and OP/BP 4.12. The
project thus prepared the Environmental and Social Safeguard Framework (ESSF),
Compensation and Resettlement Policy Framework (CRPF), and Indigenous People
Development Framework (IPDF) to mitigate adverse impacts. The EMP was prepared and
adopted as part of the ESSF. The project remained in full compliance; there were no deviations
or waivers from Bank environmental policy and procedural requirements. No major social
impacts and resettlement issues were identified during and after the road construction and
rehabilitation activities. No ethnic minorities groups were found to be present or have
collective attachments to the project areas.

50.     The civil works were carried out within existing rights of way and no significant
adverse impacts were identified. The Environment and Social Office (ESO) of MPWT,10 with
training and support from safeguard consultants and the Bank, monitored and reported on the
issues and impacts that resulted from construction activities and proposed measures. Some
minor issues were experienced such as dust, lack of traffic management during construction,
and construction waste. These issues were flagged and discussed with contractors from the
beginning of the activities, and actions effectively taken. Mission reports indicate that regular
monitoring and feedback provided by MPWT improved contractors' compliance with the
safeguard requirements/EMP.

51.     Procurement. In response to portfolio-wide fiduciary issues in the period leading up to
the project start in 2008, the RGC and Bank agreed at the program level to the engagement of
an IPA to handle procurement for all Bank-supported projects in Cambodia. This agreement
applied to RAMP, and procurement procedures for the project were designed accordingly. The
IPA arrangement was successful in coping with fiduciary challenges, but also caused
significant delays in the procurement of civil works. In the end, all procurement for RAMP
was successfully completed, including additional work for the supervising consultant to
prepare detailed designs and bidding documents for works to be included in a RAMP-II.

52.     Good Governance Framework. As with other projects in Cambodia, RAMP adopted a
GGF designed to control corruption based on an assessment of risks and supported by measures
formulated around the categories of procurement, financial management, disclosure, civil
society role, a process for handling complaints, and remedies and code of conduct. Among the
measures adopted in RAMP were the use of the IPA, inclusion of both technical and financial


10
   An Environment and Social Unit within MPWT was established in 2009 and benefitted from
support and training from RAMP consultants and Bank staff; it was transformed into the ESO in 2013
to cope with the increasing demand for safeguards work, not only for RAMP but also for other
national road projects.


                                               14
audits in the project design, creation of an association of truckers known as the Cambodian
Road Association (CAMRA), greater transparency through public disclosure of project
information, development of a formal complaints handling system, and adoption and
reinforcement of a code of ethical conducts with sanctions.11 Despite some initial delays, the
GGF was customized and developed for RAMP as planned, and the project remained in
compliance throughout implementation.

53.     Financial Management. Financial management was carried out successfully
throughout project implementation. Staff of the Department of Accounting and Finance of
MPWT managed the financial management of the project well throughout the project’s
operations with limited support from the FM consultant. Audit reports were completed on
time, and the auditor’s opinions for the financial statements for each year were unqualified.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

54.     The advantage of the mainstreaming of implementation is that there is no separate PIU
to dismantle, and thus while funding for certain functions may be scarce, the capacity to carry
out the functions of road asset management is not immediately lost. MEF’s ongoing allocation
and timely release of funding for maintenance of the maintainable national roads -- at levels
above the covenanted targets under RAMP -- is evidence of Government’s commitment to
road maintenance. Further, MPWT has set targets, irrespective of project support, for
outsourcing of road maintenance, with the target for FY16 set at 20 percent or more.

55.     Both the ADB and IDA are in the process of preparing follow-on “RAMP-II” projects
intended to build on the achievements of RAMP.12 The IDA follow-on project would improve
the climate resilience and longevity of about 218.3 km of national roads through the
strengthening, repair and maintenance (through three-year performance-based maintenance
contracts) of road surfaces and installation of about 94 km of side-drainage in flood prone areas.
The projects also would support the planning and development of the road maintenance
program by further enhancing the capacity of RAMO to manage the national road network in
a cost-effective and sustainable manner.




11
   The project incorporated techniques being proposed at the time to combat corruption including
mechanisms to ensure legitimacy and transparency in use of public funds, e.g., publication of requests
for expressions of interest, online availability of bidding documents, semi e-procurement, civil society
engagement in oversight activities, as well as civil service pay reform, code of conduct for public
officials, etc. See Public Sector Reform: What Works and Why? Independent Evaluation Group,
World Bank, 2008.

12
   ADB and IDA are preparing separate RAMP-II projects, given different preparation and approval
timelines.


                                                  15
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

56.     The objectives of RAMP are equally relevant today as at appraisal, as the cost-effective
management of Cambodia’s road assets remains fundamental not only to growth overall, but
also as a facilitator of the equitable distribution of that growth. The project objectives and
achievements thus remain consistent with RGC’s Rectangular Strategy for Growth,
Employment, Equity and Efficiency, Phase III which was reaffirmed by RGC in September
2013. The project directly addressed two of the four themes, in particular: Rectangle II:
Development of Physical Infrastructure, and Rectangle III: Local Private Sector Strengthening.
The Government’s strategy also calls for good governance, which was specifically addressed
in RAMP through a number of measures, e.g., enhanced disclosure and transparency, better
accounting norms, etc., and which are now a normal part of doing business.

57.     The project also remains consistent with the Bank’s CAS, in particular Pillar 1 aimed
at improving the delivery of basic services, including roads, and doing so with efficiency and
accountability. Despite being overly broad, the PDO addressed an important objective, as
funding for roads and other infrastructure remains scarce, rapid reconstruction of the network
is no longer feasible or desirable, and optimization of the network depends on an asset
management approach. RAMP was instrumental in developing the RGC’s appreciation of road
asset management, in particular the importance of timely routine and periodic maintenance,
both of which had been under-resourced in the past. Indeed, road asset management has grown
in importance due to increasing incidence of adverse weather events and the attendant need to
enhance the resilience of road surfaces, e.g., through strengthening and better drainage. The
overall relevance of the project objective thus remains high.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Substantial

58.     The development objective of RAMP was to ensure the continued effective use of the
rehabilitated national and provincial road networks to support economic development in
Cambodia. The phrase “continued effective use” in practice was taken to mean that the road
network remains in serviceable (good or fair) condition, with reduced travel times and all
weather connectivity to services and markets. While the PDO was not explicit as to who would
benefit, it was implicit that the PDO applies to all Cambodian road users. As previously noted,
the PAD provided the additional clarification that to achieve the PDO, the project would
enhance the institutional and technical capacity of MPWT in the areas of road maintenance
planning, budgeting and operations, and by expanding and strengthening maintenance
activities.

59.     The project’s design tackled the building blocks of effective management of the road
network. Component A covered operational aspects including technical assistance (TA)
targeted to technical aspects of civil works and the actual application of planning tools, while
Component B focused on institutional strengthening of MPWT and the development and
updating of analytical tools required for good asset management. Component A had
geographical limitations for the AWPs, but the routine maintenance planning under

                                              16
Component A and Component B did not as the application of analytical tools and associated
capacity building applied to asset management of the network overall. Components A and B
were thus designed to work together to build capacity through a combination of formal training
and learning by doing approaches.

60.     The main RAMP intervention in terms of coverage as well as funds allocated and spent
was Component A: Road Asset Management (IDA planned, US$27.28 million; IDA actual,
US$26.24 million). Other than the first year program (AWP-1), which was identified during
project preparation,13 all subsequent AWPs were identified and prepared by MPWT during
implementation with consultant support. Typically MPWT prepared preliminary designs, and
then consultants financed by the project prepared detailed designs and bidding documents.
Component A included advice directed towards (i) MPWT’s preparation of subsequent AWPs,
and in the areas of technical design, cost estimation, contract management and safeguards; and
(ii) MPWT’s planning and management of the increasing scope of maintenance financed by
RGC. In this regard the component provided support to the RDCMU (which dovetailed with
capacity building and training under Component B) for effective implementation of the RMDS
System.

61.     By project end Component A had provided for the rehabilitation of 476 km of road out
of the revised end target of 500, and had reduced average travel time on the rehabilitated roads
from 2 hours to 1.6 hours (below the end target of 2 hours, indicating travel time had not
increased despite traffic growth). The government allocation for road maintenance, US$50
million in 2014, exceeded the end target of US$40 million; and the percentage of roads in good
and fair condition as a share of total classified roads had increased, e.g., for national primary
roads to 84.5 percent versus an end target of 65 percent. Although the amount of civil works
performed by private contractors increased, little actual progress was made in the divestiture
of force account units. However, an appreciation of the merits of outsourcing of road
maintenance was developed, as evidenced in the government’s use of all remaining RAMP
funds to prepare a follow-on project that would include a pilot program for performance-based
maintenance contracting.

62.     As described earlier, the IDA-financed part of Component B: Capacity Development
(IDA planned, US$2.62 million; IDA actual, US$1.54 million) supported the PDO by
developing capacity to carry out the prioritization and planning functions that underpin
effective road asset management. The IDA contribution to this component focused on advisory
services for institutional structure refinement, upgraded information architecture, asset
management capacity development (training plus updating and calibration of RMDS), private
sector development and HIV/AIDS awareness.14 Due to the specialized nature of analytical


13
  AWP-1 comprised two sections, one to be financed by IDA and one by ADB, but preparation of
both was financed by ADB.

14
   Three other aspects – road safety campaign, training to implement a new sub-decree on
resettlement, and development and mainstreaming of an M&E system that would meet MPWT’s
informational needs – were financed by ADB/ DFAT.


                                               17
tools to be employed and analyses to be carried out, Component B was greatly affected by the
demise of MBPI and delayed implementation of POC.15 Nonetheless, once the staffing issue
was resolved, the program began to progress. By project end, more than 140 staff had been
trained and the RDCMU was strengthened in the areas of data evaluation (including
preparation of a data collection manual), interpretation and reporting. Training also was
carried out for local consultants and contractors in anticipation of RGC’s transition from
maintenance by force account to maintenance by contract.

63.     The logic behind Component C: Merit Based Performance Incentive was that a
transition to an asset management approach would require staff with skills that were in short
supply. The component initially financed MBPI on a declining basis, as the plan was for the
government eventually to finance this program. When MBPI was formally replaced by POC,
both the self-financing and merit-based pay aspects were eliminated. In reality neither program
contributed to fundamental civil service reform. While organizational development was within
the scope of the project, basic civil service reform was not, and in any case MBPI and POC
applied only to donor-financed projects. As such, neither program could address the root
causes of staffing shortages in key areas.

64.     In all, the project made good progress towards ensuring effective use of the
rehabilitated national primary and secondary road network under MPWT. Although VOCs
have increased due to inflation, road roughness levels and travel times have decreased. The
current annual allocation of domestic revenue for routine and periodic maintenance and spot
rehabilitation is US$50 million, which exceeds the appraisal target of US$40 million. Annual
cycles of routine and periodic maintenance are now being carried out in accordance with three-
year rolling maintenance plans, and the percentage of roads in good and fair condition has
increased at the national, secondary and provincial network levels.

3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Substantial/High

65.     The economic evaluation at appraisal stage was carried out in 2008 and focused on the
road asset management (maintenance) component (94% of total project cost). The cost-benefit
analysis was carried out using the Highway Development and Management Model (HDM-4),
which simulates highway life cycle and vehicle operating conditions and costs for multiple
road design and maintenance alternatives. The appraisal evaluation was based on the following
assumptions: (i) an opportunity cost of capital of 12 percent; and (ii) an analysis period of 20
years; and (iii) economic costs on average equal to 90 percent of financial costs. The estimated
economic internal rate of return (EIRR) in the PAD was 97% with an economic net present
value (ENPV) of US$1,089.1 million.

66.    The economic analysis at completion, also using HDM-4 but updated with actual data
where possible, confirms that the investments were economically viable for all project roads


15
  To MPWT’s credit, the end of POC prior to project closure did not affect the completion of the
project.


                                                18
assuming that the road maintenance program will be optimized over a 20-year time horizon.
This HDM-4 analysis was for the whole project, including both the ADB and IDA portions,
and given the optimization approach, represents a scenario on the optimistic side (details in
Annex 3).

67.     An ex-post economic analysis for the IDA portion only was also conducted using more
conservative assumptions regarding traffic growth and the trajectory of VOCs over time. This
ex-post analysis yields: an ENPV of US$90.48 million, at a 12 percent discount rate; an EIRR
of 49.3 percent, over a life of 20 years; and an economic benefit-cost ratio (EBCR) of 4.41. In
addition to traffic growth, which is assumed to level off as volumes approach capacity, factors
that could account for lower post-project economic results include: the substantial increases
in cost due to rapid inflation in the early years of the project; and further deterioration in the
condition of the project roads due to the delayed start of the project.

68.     Finally, in addition to the quantitative analysis, anecdotal evidence confirms that
positive social and economic impacts have been felt along the rehabilitated roads. Road users
(shop owners; truck and taxi drivers; and motorized-mobile hawkers) interviewed in Kampong
Cham and Kratie at rest stops/interchange points indicated that the improved roads have
increased the availability of transport services. Minibus operators and truckers said their travel
times have noticeably decreased, as have maintenance costs of their motor vehicles. One
minibus operator said travel time had decreased so much that he could operate two trips a day
instead of the previous one, which enabled him also to reduce fares.16

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

69.     As detailed above, the project was highly relevant to RGC’s strategy for growth and
the Bank’s most recent CAS. All outcome targets (other than VOCs reduced for the reasons
noted) were met or exceeded, and the PDO was largely achieved. The project design was
substantially relevant to the project’s objectives and the investments were economically
justified. However the cancelation of MBPI and slow roll-out of POC delayed implementation
of the project by about two years, which in turn affected costs, capacity building and the
retention of newly trained and qualified staff.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

70.     Poverty impacts were not explicitly reflected in the PDO and results framework, but
experience elsewhere confirms that all-weather roads contribute to equitable growth and
reduce vulnerability, especially for those who remain near the poverty line. With respect to
Cambodia, a recent poverty assessment indicates that while poverty rates have declined, the
loss of just 1,200 riel (about US$0.30) per day in income would throw an estimated three


16
     IDA Mission Report, March 24-April 3, 2015.


                                                   19
million Cambodians back into poverty, doubling the poverty rate to 40 percent.17 As poor
quality roads, including those prone to flooding, disproportionately affect the poor, the
availability of good quality climate resilient roads is especially critical for these populations.

71.    A beneficiary survey conducted as a baseline for the follow-on project interviewed
households along NR7 from Skun to Kratie, thereby covering some road sections rehabilitated
in RAMP AWP-2, AWP-3 and AWP-4. The survey confirms that the area is reasonably
prosperous, with many residents (men and women) employed either in farming or as “sellers”.
A large percentage of households along NR7 reported being affected by flooding, but only for
a few hours. However, about 10% reported the loss of five or more working days, and about
10% reported losses of US$50 per year or more due to damage or loss of property due to floods.
(For characteristics of the households within the vicinity of some RAMP roads, see Annex 5.)

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

72.     Institutional strengthening was a key feature of the project design, and as project
implementation was carried out by MPWT staff, the knowledge gained will be maintained
within the Ministry as long as key staff are retained.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

73.    An unintended but highly positive result is the adoption by MPWT of climate resilient
designs. The application of these designs will have a positive impact on (i) road users, as
reduced travel times and VOCs will be maintained despite adverse weather events; (ii)
businesses, as shop keepers, food sellers, etc., will be able to serve clientele traveling along the
road during the rainy season; and (iii) farms and residences, whose productivity will not decline
and physical infrastructure will not have to be rebuilt after abnormal flooding and washouts.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

74.     No beneficiary survey was conducted for RAMP, but characteristics of households in
the vicinity of one of the RAMP roads is noted in Section 3.5(a) above and summarized in
Annex 5. A Stakeholder Workshop was held in Phnom Penh after the project closed (Minutes
of the Meeting are included as Annex 6). Although invitations were sent to all Provincial
Department of Public Works and Transport (PDPWT’s), RAMP contractors, development
partners, and local authorities within the vicinity of the roads, the workshop was attended
largely by roads professionals and some representatives of local authorities. In a question and
answer session, many of the Provincial Directors conveyed requests for additional staffing,
equipment and training, to enable them to take on more responsibility for the effective
maintenance of the roads within their areas of responsibility. The response suggests that the
respective road professionals and authorities are keen to take on responsibility for maintaining
the roads passing through their areas, but are concerned that they do not have the necessary
complement of staff, facilities and funding to do so.



17
     Where Have All the Poor Gone?- Cambodia Poverty Assessment”, World Bank, 2013.


                                                20
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Significant

75.     The principal risk to development outcome involves the ability to recruit and retain
technically qualified staff. The lack of civil service reform and the related failure to adopt pay
scales and conditions of service commensurate with the qualifications required for effective
road asset management is a major impediment to the retention of key staff. Although MPWT
staff continued to carry on after the cessation of POC, this is not sustainable given that these
skills are in high demand. The impact of this risk will be postponed to the extent that new
projects, e.g., RAMP-II, provide ongoing support. However given the finite nature of external
support, this risk is high.

76.     Second, although the adoption of a GGF introduces greater transparency and oversight
and improved systems of financial management and reporting, the risk of fraud and corruption
remains. The experience being gained by MPWT with outsourcing, along with proposed
programs of performance based contracting, has been beneficial. However, governance-
related problems arising from poor conditions of service and inadequate government systems
remain. This risk continues to be significant.

77.     A third risk pertains to the availability of adequate funding for the rehabilitation and
maintenance of the network. The MEF has provided predictable and adequate funding for the
periodic and routine maintenance of the maintainable national road network. The timely
provision of these allocations for several years is a good predictor of future allocations. For
these reasons this risk is moderate.

78.    A fourth risk, beyond anyone’s control, is the increasing frequency and severity of
adverse weather events. While the adoption of climate resilient design standards plus
construction supervision to verify compliance will mitigate this risk, the additional cost will
remain. This risk thus is significant.

79.    Taken together, the risk to development outcome is Significant.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

80.     The Bank correctly identified the importance and urgency of adopting a road asset
management approach, and thus directed the proposed project towards developing the skills
Cambodia needs to make the transition from rapid reconstruction to sustainable management
of its valuable road assets. Despite some issues of scope and attribution, the PDO focused on
the outcome of good road asset management, e.g., the cost-effective provision of good quality,
serviceable roads that meet users’ needs. The M&E indicators, however, could have been
improved and baseline data collected (See section 2.3). The project concept was aligned with
the Bank’s CAS and governance agenda, and coordinated with the IDA-financed PFMAP by


                                               21
introducing, for roads, measures supporting transparency and accountability in the use of
public funds.

81.     The Bank’s preparation was thorough and collaborative, and built on lessons learned.
Specific analyses of technical, financial and economic aspects were carried out by experts in
their respective fields. As PRIP was still under implementation, the teams working on PRIP
assisted government preparation as necessary. The Bank collaborated with other development
partners, helped to prepare the project collectively with government, ADB and DFAT, and
made a concerted effort to find a way to pool funds and implement all aspects of the project as
one. Although full integration was unsuccessful because of incompatibilities in the area of
procurement, the full harmonization of all other aspects, e.g., environment and social
safeguards and financial management, was successful. The resulting project design interwove
the activities to be financed by each development partner and government into the components
in a generally clear and logical manner.

82.     The one area of disagreement between government and ADB on the one hand and the
Bank on the other pertained to how procurement should be handled. The issue dated back to
2006 when the Bank discovered evidence of fraud and corruption, and suspended several
projects including PRIP. The Bank set five conditions for lifting the suspension of PRIP and
mandated that the same conditions be incorporated into the design of RAMP as follows: (i)
engagement of an IPA to handle all procurement, (ii) mainstreaming of implementation
arrangements, (iii) adoption of an anti-corruption action plan, (iv) engagement of a firm to
provide full time engineering supervision services, and (v) use of a technical auditor to verify
outputs. Most of these requirements improved the design of RAMP, but there was a difference
of opinion as to the need for and utility of an IPA. In the final design, the ADB-financed
components would follow normal procedures, while IDA-financed ICB procurement would be
handled by an IPA.18 As capacity building was fundamental to the project objectives and
would in part be geared towards outsourcing of maintenance works, the use of an IPA was at
odds with the project objectives and a moderate shortcoming in the design (See Section 2.1).

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

83.     The Bank was proactive in carrying out a series of fiduciary, technical and managerial
training programs in the three months following Credit effectiveness. Coordination with ADB
began smoothly, with a joint inception mission in October 2008, after ADB but before IDA
Credit effectiveness. However, project momentum quickly waned due to longer than expected
delays in the roll-out of MBPI and procurement delays for the IDA portion caused by the IPA
arrangement. Instead of frequent formal missions in this early period, frequent short visits
were made by HQ and field-based staff to supplement the ongoing interactions by Bank staff


18
   The exceptions to IPA procurement were: selection of individual consultants and hiring of NGOs,
direct contracting for goods and works, single source selection of consulting services and
procurement of costs estimated to cost less than US$50,000, and procurement of works estimated to
cost less than US$100,000.


                                                22
located in Cambodia. These visits were sometimes combined with, but often in addition to,
the joint ADB-IDA missions that continued to be carried out. All told, IDA and ADB carried
out nine joint supervision missions and IDA another six.

84.     Progress began to improve in 2011, thanks particularly to the combination of MPWT
efforts and concerted Bank implementation support. For the duration of RAMP, the Bank team
worked effectively with RGC and ADB to minimize the impact of and remedy problems as
they occurred. As reported in mission documents, all parties sought to be flexible and helpful.
A relatively early example was an agreement to amend the ADB supervision consultant’s
contract to cover the entirety of AWP-1 supervision until the IDA-financed supervision
consultant could be retained. The Bank also was proactive and flexible in agreeing to reallocate
resources to repair and strengthen sections of rehabilitated roads damaged by floods. Joint
missions and mission reporting continued throughout implementation up to the closing of the
ADB part of the project on June 30, 2013.19

85.      Mission reporting also was timely and thorough, and assessments of performance were
realistic and accurately reported in ISRs. Deficiencies were evident, however, in the Bank’s
follow through on M&E. Collection of some baseline data, delayed by the failure of the first
M&E consultant, continued to await the second round of that consultancy, and opportunities
for clarifying and simplifying some of the indicators were not included in a formal
restructuring.

86.     The Bank’s supervision of fiduciary aspects, which covered ADB-financed
components as well, was exemplary. Supervision was carried out at regular intervals in the
areas of environment and social safeguards, financial management and procurement. Mission
oversight in each area was supplemented by training and assistance when requested, and
proactively offered when deemed necessary. Harmonized systems and coordinated efforts were
a major source of success, with one implementation manual, one system for government to
implement and one set of reports to prepare.

87.     Looking forward, the Bank agreed to the reallocation of all remaining funds to
consultant services for the preparation of a follow-on project, and at the request of government,
extended the project accordingly. The proposed RAMP-II would extend support to RAMO in
the areas of data collection and analysis, introduction and testing of climate resilient designs,
and implementation of a pilot for performance-based maintenance contracting.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory




19
  The ADB consultant’s ICR report, RAMP Completion State Benefit Monitoring and Evaluation
Report, September 2014, covered the IDA and other donor contributions up to that point as well.




                                                23
88.     The Bank’s performance was rated Moderately Satisfactory for quality at entry and
Moderately Satisfactory for quality of supervision. Therefore the overall Bank performance
rating is Moderately Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

89.    The RGC’s ownership and commitment were strong, as the objectives of RAMP were
consistent with RGC’s NSDP, particularly with respect to the importance of road maintenance
and the necessity of allocating sufficient funds from the national budget to support it. The
RGC had approved a Sub-decree that would permit the expansion of the MBPI program to
other ministries, including MPWT. The RGC was proactive in encouraging the development
partners to pool funds and adopt uniform procedures across all dimensions of implementation,
and thereby reduce fragmentation and encourage greater accountability in the use of funds.

90.     The project had a slow start, however, as it took six months for the conditions of
effectiveness to be met (adoption of a Project Implementation Plan, appointment of a financial
management advisor to the GDAP, and execution and delivery of the co-financing agreement
between ADB and IDA). The rolling out of MBPI to MPWT was also delayed while
organizational charts, position descriptions and the like were being developed. The
cancellation of the entire MBPI program one year after RAMP became effective greatly
compromised the availability of key staff until POC was introduced towards the end of 2011.
Only after the staffing and remuneration issues were resolved did momentum begin to build
and the implementation move forward.

91.     Fiduciary compliance was good, counterpart funds were available as needed, audit
reports were submitted on time and auditor’s opinions unqualified, budget allocations for road
maintenance of the national road network exceeded covenanted targets and were released on
time, environmental and social oversight were carried out with due diligence, and good
governance frameworks endorsed. Follow-up actions were generally taken on a timely basis
when required.

92.    Thus while problems with MBPI and POC delayed the appointment of key staff,
government performance in other areas, in particular the timely allocation of funding for road
maintenance, demonstrated commitment to the project and its objectives. Government
performance is thus rated Moderately Satisfactory.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

93.     After the aforementioned initial delays, the project was implemented efficiently and
effectively by MPWT. The mainstreaming of implementation within MPWT rather than by a
PIU necessitated good communication among various departments. Ministry officials handled
this well and ensured collaboration, for example, among those tasked with design of civil
works (including review and verification of technical designs); supervision; environmental and
social assessment; financial management, accounts and audits; data collection, economic

                                             24
evaluation, and preparation of three-year rolling maintenance plans. The MTR was a best
practice example, as MPWT compiled a complete set of materials covering all areas of project,
and arranged for the participation of the full set of agencies and consultants involved. The
MTR was an effective stock-taking and resulted in an exchange of ideas and action plan that
would help guide the remaining steps to completion.

94.     MPWT managed the various consultants and contractors well, bringing most contracts
to a successful conclusion. Ministry officials were accessible and proactive. Mission review
meetings were well attended, including high level officials whenever possible. Implementation
problems were usually addressed promptly, as seen in the Ministry’s urgent request to
reallocate funds to repair flood damaged sections of road and improve drainage. Supervision
was generally timely, and discussions towards the end of the project were directed towards
next steps. One exception was the strategic plan for divestiture of force account units, which
at project close was under discussion but not yet agreed. Considerable progress was made,
however, in the outsourcing of civil works, which by project end had reached 30 percent. The
Ministry also has been proactive in proposing the use of performance based maintenance
contacts in the follow-on project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


95.    The combination of the Government’s performance rating of Moderately Satisfactory
and the Implementing Agency rating of Satisfactory results in an overall Government
Performance rating of Moderately Satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

96.     M&E frameworks that are useful beyond the project level need to employ
indicators that are relevant to decision-makers. M&E frameworks can and should have
relevance beyond the documentation of achievements associated with a particular project. At
one level they can focus the attention of decision-makers on outcomes and justify expenditure
accordingly. At another they can inform planning and management decisions, e.g., to monitor
construction quality and durability over time, locate unsafe areas or document overloading.
The fact that a subset of indicators is being used post-project by MPWT strongly suggests that
an effective project M&E system is one that also supports normal business requirements.

97.    Use of temporary, parallel systems does little to create lasting and durable
improvements and/or change. The IPA bypassed MPWT and the national system for
carrying out procurement, and thus represents a missed opportunity to build procurement
capacity within the Ministry.

98.    Strong commitment of the Implementing Agency is key to success. Despite difficult
circumstances caused by the use of temporary, parallel systems, the cancellation of MBPI, etc.,
the RAMO/MPWT and other departments/ministries involved in RAMP showed that the
commitment of all involved is of paramount importance and can ensure success.


                                              25
99.     The combination of supervision by local Bank staff whose proximity enables them
to provide timely advice and solve problems, with the participation of international staff
with expertise in specific areas when needed, yields good results. In the case of RAMP,
the successful performance of the implementing agency in the areas of safeguards and financial
management, for example, was due both to the commitment and qualifications of RAMP staff
and the effective, timely support from local and HQ-based Bank staff when needed.

100. Civil service reform is a prerequisite to lasting change. The mainstreaming of
implementation can do a lot to build ownership and develop capacity, but sustainability
depends on competitive pay and conditions of service commensurate with the levels of
education and experience required.

101. Capacity and system gains can be leveraged to meet broader needs. In RAMP the
capacity of the ESO within MPWT was enhanced, the number of staff are increasing, and quite
a few have university degrees relevant to the field of environment. With additional training
and support, the Office has the potential to address safeguard requirements of other
government and donor-financed projects.

102. Reform takes time. Support for the drafting of a new Cambodia Roads Act was
provided by various development partners including IDA. The IDA support was under the
Road Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 4030-KH), which closed in September 30, 2006. The new
Roads Act was eventually finalized, but only passed into law in 2014.




                                             26
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The borrower (MEF) did not comment on the draft ICR. The implementing agency (IA) concurred with
the substance of the ICR and provided comments for the purpose of clarification, which were
incorporated in the final draft of the ICR. The IA provided a two-page summary of the Ministry’s views
on the Project (See Annex 7).

(b) Cofinanciers

Comments received from the co-financiers on an earlier draft of the ICR addressed both editorial and
substantive issues. IDA expressed appreciation to the co-financiers and incorporated their suggestions
into the final draft of the ICR.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
N/A




                                                 27
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                       Actual/Latest
                                 Appraisal Estimate                               Percentage of
           Components                                  Estimate (USD
                                   (USD millions)                                  Appraisal
                                                          millions)
Component A: Road Asset
                                        46.61                45.52                    98%
Management
Component B: Capacity
                                          2.62                 2.27                   87%
Development
Component C: MBPI
                                          1.10                 0.14                   13%
Payments/POC payments
             Total Baseline Cost        50.33                47.93                    95%
Physical Contingencies
                                             3.56                   0                  0
Price Contingencies
                                            2.18                 0                     0
               Total Project Costs         56.07                47.93                 95%
Front-end fee PPF                           0                    0                     0
Front-end fee IBRD                          0                    0                     0
       Total Financing Required            56.07                47.93                 95%




(b) Financing
                                                       Appraisal        Actual/Latest
                                         Type of        Estimate           Estimate Percentage of
          Source of Funds
                                       Cofinancing        (USD               (USD       Appraisal
                                                        millions)          millions)
 Asian Development Bank                Loan          6.00               5.56          93%
 AUSTRALIA: Australian Agency for
                                       Grant         4.82               4.60        95%
International Development
                                       Counterpart
 Borrower                                            15.25              2.63        17%
                                       funds
 International Development Association
                                       Credit        30.00              27.92       93%
(IDA)
Korean Trust Fund (KTF)                Grant         --                 0.24
OFID                                   Credit        --                 7.00




                                               28
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

COMPONENT A – ROAD ASSET MANAGEMENT

Subcomponent A1. Annual Work Plans and Civil Works Completed (IDA financed
only)

(i) IDA First Year Road Maintenance Contracts (96.2 km of NR1, US$4.57 million): The
   maintenance works for the first year program consist of two lots: Lot-1 stretching from
   PK69+200 to PK 100+000 and Lot-2 from PK 100+000 to PK 165+400. The works of the
   two lots, with a total cost of US$4.57 million and total length of 96.2 km, were awarded in
   December 2010 and successfully concluded in July 2013. The two sections of NR1 were
   subsequently transferred to Svay Rieng Department of Public Works and Transport
   (DPWT) for routine maintenance. The Provincial DPWT has carried out routine
   maintenance works under force account contract with budget allocated from national level
   of Riel 1,140 million (or about US$285,000) in 2013 and Riel 1,641 million (or about
   $410,250) in 2014.

(ii) IDA Second Year Road Maintenance Contracts (58km of NR73 and 84 km of NR7-1
   US$9.58 million): The maintenance works contract for 84km of NR7 (section 1) was
   awarded in October 2011 and successfully completed in January 2013 at a total cost of
   US$7.2 million. During the defects liability period, this road section was damaged by the
   2013 flood. As a result, additional works for flood damage repair of US$0.048 million were
   approved. These additional works were fully completed and the contract was concluded at
   the end of the defects liability period in February 2014. The maintenance works contract
   for 58 km of NR73 with a total cost of US$2.38 million was awarded in September 2011
   and completed in July 2013 with additional works (US$0.415 million) for full depth repair
   of about 10-km. Similar to the above road section, additional works of US$0.099 million
   for 2013-flood damage repair were provided and the repair works were completed in
   February 2014. The defects correction works were completed before the end of the defects
   liability period in July 2014 for 58km of NR73. The two road sections were transferred to
   the provincial DPWT for routine maintenance. The Provincial DPWT is carrying out
   routine maintenance at sections with minor damage after the rainy season and raising the
   embankment of about 1.4km at PK140 of NR7 where the road was severely affected by the
   overflow floods in 2014.

(iii) IDA Third Year Road Maintenance Contracts (95.3 km of NR7-2, 13.37 km of NR72,
   31.178 km of NR71, and 32.7 km of PR2714: US$6.20 million): Two packages, namely
   NR71&PR2714 package consisting of 64.15 km of road and NR7-2 & NR72 package
   consisting of 108.67 km, were implemented under the third year program. The maintenance
   works were substantially completed in June and July 2013 for NR71&PR2714 and NR7-
   2&NR72, respectively. Minor damages and potholes as a result of the 2013 flood on NR7-
   2 and NR72 were repaired as additional works, which were covered by contingencies
   within the contract. Additional works of US$0.097 million for 2013-flood damage on
   NR71 and PR2714 were also completed. The contractor completed the defects rectification
   before the end of the defects liability period in June and July 2014 and these two road
   sections were transferred to the Provincial DPWT for routine maintenance.

                                             29
(iv) IDA Fourth Year Road Maintenance Contracts (35 km of NR7-3, US$ 1.40 million):
     The contract for 35 km, from PK 254+400 to PK 289+400, was signed on December 13,
     2012 with an original contract amount of US$1.397 million. With reallocation of unused
     POC funds, additional works of US$0.397 million for 10 km was approved and this
     variation order No.1 was signed on January 16, 2014. The entire works, including the
     additional works of 10 km, were completed on May 8, 2014, and the defects liability period
     ended May 8, 2015.

A summary of the civil works completed and final costs for maintenance programs financed
by all funding agencies is provided Table 2.1.

  Table 2.1. Summary of Physical Progress and Final Costs for All Annual Work Programs
                          Financed by All Funding Agencies

     a. By IDA:
                                                   Location        Original                                    Amount (USD)
             Contract Nº and Name                                  Contract      Original      Unit Rate per                        Additional New Total Length
                                                 From      To                                                   Total of VO's
                                                                    Length       Contract       Kilometer                             Work (Km)        (Km)
RAMP-CKP-W-ICB002-Lot1, Maintenance of National
                                                69+200 100+000      30.80 Km $ 1,566,915.26 $      50,873.87 $ 493,209.00                 0.00 Km      30.80 Km
Road Nº1 (PK69+200 - PK100+000)
RAMP-CKP-W-ICB002-Lot2, Maintenance of National
                                                100+000 165+400     65.40 Km $ 1,651,977.23 $      25,259.59 $ 859,894.00                 0.00 Km      65.40 Km
Road Nº1 (PK100+000 - PK165+400)
RAMP-CKP2011-ICB-W003, Maintenance of National
                                                 75+000 159+000     84.00 Km $ 7,196,168.00 $      85,668.67 $      47,831.09             3.70 Km      87.70 Km
Road Nº7 (PK75+000 - PK159+000)
RAMP-CKP2011-ICB-W004, Maintenance of National
                                               158+600 216+600      58.00 Km $ 1,963,307.69 $      33,850.13 $ 513,409.18                12.20 Km      70.20 Km
Road Nº73 (PK158+600 - PK216+600)
RAMP-CKP2011-ICB-W005, Maintenance of National 159+000 254+300      95.30 Km                                                                           95.30 Km
Road 7 (PK159+000 to PK254+300) and Nº72                                       $ 3,764,058.34 $    34,637.51                    -                -
(PK179+530 - PK192+900)                        179+530 192+900      13.37 Km                                                                           13.37 Km
RAMP-CKP2011-ICB-W006, Maintenance of National 105+822 137+000      31.18 Km                                                                           36.18 Km
Road 71 (PK 105+822 – PK 137+000) and Provincial                               $ 2,431,676.30 $    38,085.99 $ 313,342.63                 5.00 Km
Road Nº2714 (PK 136+284 - PK 168+953)            136+284 168+953    32.67 Km                                                                           32.67 Km
RAMP-CKP2012-ICB-W007, Maintenance of National
Road Nº7, Section 3 (from PK254+400 -          254+400 289+400      35.00 Km $ 1,397,296.95 $      39,922.77 $ 400,000.00                10.00 Km      45.00 Km
PK289+400)
                                       Total =                     445.72 Km $ 19,971,399.77                   $ 2,627,685.90            30.90 Km     476.62 Km


     b. By ADB:




                                                                    30
Subcomponent A2. Implementation Support

Implementation support to MPWT was to encompass (i) a project implementation advisor who
assisted RAMO with implementing the project; (ii) works supervision; (iii) a short term
consultant to assist RAMO in preparing the first-year work program, encompassing contracting
of civil works and supervision consulting services; (iv) an intermittent consultant to perform
regular independent technical audits; and (v) independent financial audits of the project
accounts.

COMPONENT B - CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT

Subcomponent B1. Organization Capacity Development for Road Asset Management.

   a) Upgraded Information Architecture (IDA, Korea Trust Fund). This activity
      initially was to be funded by IDA, but in August 2009 a KTF Agreement was signed to
      provide support (US$240,000) for the component on a grant basis. The activity was
      completed in June 2012. The Fund supported purchase of ICT equipment (servers,
      routers, computers, laptops, cabling, software, printers, scanners, workstations),
      specialized software (for accounting, project management and others), and an ICT
      consultant to troubleshoot and provide technical advice. With addition support from
      IDA, the component assisted the upgrading of the financial management system used
      by the Department of Finance and Accounting for the project and other applications.
      Some of the purchased equipment is to be registered and transferred as state property,
      and some will be kept for RAMO’s use for RAMP-II.

   b) Training (IDA). The training programs delivered by the IAS consultants, other
      consultants involved in RAMP and contracted training organizations were completed.
      A total of 149 staff were trained, which among others, strengthened the capacity within
      the RDCMU in the areas of data evaluation, interpretation and reporting.

Subcomponent B2. Asset Management Technical Capacity Development (IDA)

   The HDM4 training was completed and the model is being used by MPWT to evaluate all
   the roads, but recalibration of the model will need to be done under the next project. A data
   collection manual has also been prepared. Supervision manuals prepared under RAMP are
   being used by other external funding projects and also by MRD.

Subcomponent B3. Private Sector Development (IDA)

   RAMP has helped to strengthen the capacity within the private sector through the various
   trainings organized by the project for local civil works contractors and supervision
   consultants. The outsourcing of road maintenance activities has begun to gain momentum,
   in line with the MPWT’s target to outsource 30% of maintenance activities. However, the
   MPWT force account units have not yet outsourced road maintenance activities as intended
   by the project. The first set of contracts of this nature, amounting to $5.2 million, is
   currently in the bidding process with contract award expected within 2015.



                                              31
Subcomponent B4. Road Safety Campaign (ADB/DFAT)

   The activity was almost fully implemented, with road safety education for children of
   grades 10 to 12 already completed. The guidelines have been amended for pedestrian safety
   by including in the school curriculum an item that instructs students to walk on the road
   carriageway, against vehicular traffic, where there is no separate pedestrian sidewalk.
   These materials continue to be circulated. The practical training for students in the field
   will be implemented thereafter, in coordination with the Ministry of Education and Youth
   Affairs. Anti-speeding and helmet-wearing campaigns were also completed for medium-
   level management staff of relevant Government agencies, for road safety awareness.

Subcomponent B5. HIVAIDS Awareness (IDA)

   HIV/AIDS awareness and prevention programs have been completed on the project roads.
   Vulnerable groups and contractor personnel have participated in HIV/AIDS awareness and
   prevention programs before the start of civil works. The HIV/AIDS awareness program
   was implemented in parallel with the civil works. The program targeted not only the civil
   works workers, but also the indirect employees, along with the community in a corridor of
   200 meters on either side of project roads. As a result of the program, the awareness level
   on HIV/AIDS improved from 50% to 100% among roadside residents. Awareness among
   females increased from 24% to 100% in some sections of NR1.

Subcomponent B6. Sub-Decree on Resettlement Training (ADB/DFAT)

   This activity was canceled at the request of MEF because the legal framework was not in
   place. The funds were reallocated to road safety activities.

Subcomponent B7. Monitoring and Evaluation of Project Outcomes (ADB/DFAT)

   The objective of the assignment was to assist MPWT in the monitoring and evaluation of
   the impacts, outcomes and outputs of the project, and through this assistance, to develop a
   permanent capacity within MPWT to undertake M&E. The first contract with five months
   of input (March 29, 2010 to August 23, 2010) was terminated. No material was available
   for reference.

   A new M&E consultant, JL Narayan, International M&E Consultant, started afresh in
   March 19, 2012 and completed the work as per the TOR on September 19, 2012. The mid-
   term Benefit Monitoring and Evaluation (BME) Report was submitted in September 2012.
   In the course of the assignment, the M&E Consultant conducted training, carried out traffic
   counts and an origin-destination survey, and a community survey. A pilot survey was
   conducted to ensure quality and adjust for practical difficulties in the field. In order to
   supplement the non-availability of secondary data, additional sample surveys were
   conducted to obtain data on passenger fares and freight charges, and other economic data.
   These survey results were then used to analyze the ADB and IDA Framework for
   Monitoring & Evaluation of the RAMP. Further surveys, including an investment survey,
   were conducted at the final stage of the project, in April-May 2014. The final BME
   Completion Stage Report was submitted in October 2014.


                                             32
COMPONENT C – MBPI/POC (IDA)

  No funds were disbursed under MPBI. POC provided salary support totaling US$139,753
  for key positions in MPWT up to the termination of the POC program on June 30, 2012.




                                         33
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis


Methodology

The economic evaluation at appraisal was carried out in 2008 and focused on the road asset
management (maintenance) component (94% of total project cost). The cost-benefit analysis
was prepared using the Highway Development and Management Model (HDM-4), which
simulates highway life cycle and vehicle operating conditions and costs for multiple road
design and maintenance alternatives. The appraisal evaluation was based on the following key
assumptions: (i) an opportunity cost of capital of 12%; and (ii) an analysis period of 20 years;
and (iii) economic costs on average equal to 90% of financial costs. The estimated EIRR in the
PAD was 97% with the ENPV of US$1,089.1 million.

At completion, the economic evaluation presented in the government’s RAMP Completion
Stage Benefit Monitoring and Evaluation Report (September 2014) also uses HDM-4 to
evaluate the whole program. The analysis in this report assumes the road maintenance program
will be fully optimized for the next 20 years, which is on the optimistic side. The EIRR is
reported to be over 180% for the whole program, including both the IDA and ADB-financed
road sections.

To ensure that the conservative side of the analysis is also covered, a cost-benefit analysis of
road maintenance activities (sections of NR1, NR7, NR71 & 2714, NR72, and NR73) was
performed for the IDA portion of these roads, using actual data where possible and updated
forecasts from the government’s completion report. This analysis is presented below.

Assumptions

Many of the key assumptions follow the methodology at appraisal, such as a 12% discount rate,
analysis period of 20 years (including implementation), and economic cost at 90% of financial
cost. However, to be conservative, some of the assumptions were refined as elaborated below.

Traffic growth. Table 2.1 shows the annual average daily traffic from the 2014 survey, as well
as the average growth rates taken from survey data from 2009, 2012, and 2014. The analysis
assumes that the traffic grows with decreasing returns to scale, i.e., the growth rate slows down
over the years. Figure 2.1 illustrates the assumed traffic growth patterns for each road section.

Table 2.1: Annual Average Daily Traffic (AADT, 2014)
                                                                                                               Annual
                                                                                NR
                    (Year 2014)              NR 1        NR 7       NR 71                 NR 72      NR 73     Growth
                                                                               2714
                                                                                                                Rate
 Motorcycle or scooter                     12,757.56   10,878.00   7,240.00   6,745.00   9,130.67   8,884.00    22%
 Medium passenger cars                      1,540.22    1,151.00    482.00    1,401.00   1,345.67   1,701.75    17%
 Landrover/Jeep type vehicle                 400.11      548.33     394.00     316.00     471.33     414.00     8%
 Small bus based on panel van chassis       1,225.33     627.33     396.00     469.00     667.00    1,299.88    14%
 Light bus (approximately < 3.5 tonnes)       24.67       18.33      32.00      21.00      28.00      21.38     52%
 Medium bus (3.5 - 8.0 tonnes)               140.44       41.67      13.00      13.00      27.00      57.13     20%



                                               34
 Small two-axle rigid truck (approx. < 3.5 tonnes)        554.78      284.33              110.00                    208.00                 223.33                    369.88                  9%
 Medium two-axle rigid truck (> 3.5 tonnes)               550.00      411.33              297.00                    144.00                 508.67                    446.88                  5%
 Multi-axle rigid truck                                   258.67            89.67         212.00                     28.00                 200.00                    110.13                 10%
 articulated truck or truck with drawbar trailer (4axT)   142.67            62.33              86.00                 96.00                      93.33                 93.88                 30%
 articulated truck or truck with drawbar trailer (5axT)   132.44            98.33              91.00                 62.00                 105.67                     98.00                 38%
 articulated truck (multi axT)                            135.33      153.67                   78.00                 11.00                      73.00                 81.00                 31%


 30,000
 28,000                                                    NR 1
                                                                               50.00
                                                                                                  VOC Saving
 26,000                                                                                           VOT Saving
 24,000
                                                           NR 7                40.00
 22,000




                                                                     US$ Million
                                                           NR 71
 20,000                                                                        30.00
                                                           NR 2714
 18,000
 16,000                                                                        20.00
                                                           NR 72
 14,000
 12,000                                                    NR 73               10.00
 10,000
  8,000                                                                             ‐




                                                                                        2014
                                                                                               2015
                                                                                                      2016
                                                                                                             2017
                                                                                                                    2018
                                                                                                                           2019
                                                                                                                                  2020
                                                                                                                                         2021
                                                                                                                                                2022
                                                                                                                                                       2023
                                                                                                                                                              2024
                                                                                                                                                                     2025
                                                                                                                                                                            2026
                                                                                                                                                                                   2027
                                                                                                                                                                                          2028
          2014 2016 2018 2020 2022 2024 2026 2028 2030

       Figure 2.1: Assumed AADT trends (vehicles/day)                                   Figure 2.2: Stream of economic benefits


Investment and Recurring Costs. In addition to substituting actual investment costs and timing
during project implementation, the analysis also assumes that: recurring routine and periodic
maintenance and spot rehabilitation (cost weighted by the share of lane-km of roads under the
project) are carried out as needed, and that the government is committed to do this as part of
the US$50 million annual allocation for the whole network.

The main quantifiable economic benefits measured are reduction in VOC and time savings
(value of time; VOT) for passengers. Additional benefits, such as and access to schools,
hospitals, markets and employment opportunities, could not be quantified with enough
certainty and thus were not included in the analysis. The streams of VOC and VOT savings
are illustrated above in Figure 2.2.

In the absence of origin-destination data, a further assumption for both VOC and VOT is that
vehicles on average travel 75% of the total length of the roads. The 75% assumption is
considered conservative as the roads are major arteries and many vehicle would travel the full
length of the road. VOT savings is calculated based on the average wage of US$200 per month,
and the actual time saved (reported in 2014) is about 20% on average (with a range of between
19% to 25%, depending on road section). Although spot checks suggest that time savings can
be up to 50% in some cases, for conservative analysis purposes, the survey numbers of between
19% and 25% were used. It is also assumed that, without the project, VOC would be 3% higher
than with the project, also a conservative estimate.

Economic Evaluation Results and Sensitivity Analysis

With the assumptions above, the conservative economic analysis shows an ENPV of US$90.48
million, at a 12% discount rate. The EIRR, over a life of 20 years (of which 15 years of
operation), is 49.3%, and an economic benefit-cost ratio (EBCR) of 4.41. The sensitivity

                                                           35
analysis is illustrated below for sensitivity to different levels of VOC saving and willingness
to pay.


           55.0%                                                                             Reduced                     B/C
                                                                                                       IRR     NPV
                                                                                               VOC                      Ratio
           50.0%                                                                                5%     49.4%   136.40     5.79
           45.0%                                                                               4%      45.2%   110.35    4.88
           40.0%                                                                               3%      40.5%    84.29    3.96
           35.0%                                                                               2%      34.8%    58.24    3.05

           30.0%                                                                               1%      27.4%    32.18    2.13

           25.0%
         20.0%
    VOC Saving             5%            4%            3%             2%            1%
    Wage sensitivity ‐20%            ‐10%               0%             +10%           +20%




                                                                       36
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                           Responsibility/
            Names                          Title                 Unit
                                                                             Specialty
Lending
Ahsan Ali                   Lead Procurement Specialist         GGODR   Procurement
Veasna Bun                  Senior Infrastructure Specialist    GTIDR   Infrastructure
Kannathee Danaisawat        Financial Management Specialist     EASFM   FM
Christopher J. De Serio     Transport Specialist                GTIDR   Transport
Edward B. Dotson            Consultant                          SASDT   Transport Sector
Simon David Ellis           Lead Transport Specialist           GTIDR   Transport
Arun Kumar                  Consultant                          EASTE   Capacity Develop
Roch Levesque               Senior Counsel                      LEGAM   Legal
                            Lead Financial Management
Donald Herrings Mphande                                         GCFDR Financial Management
                            Specialist
Maria Margarita Nunez       Sr Highway Engineer                 GTIDR Highway Engineering
Koji Tsunokawa              Consultant                          EASCS
Manida Unkulvasapaul        Consultant                          CEAMV Procurement
                            Lead Social Development
Chaohua Zhang                                                   GSURR Social Safeguards
                            Specialist

Supervision/ICR
China Chhun                 Program Assistant
Christopher J. De Serio     Transport Specialist                GTIDR Transport
Edward B. Dotson            Consultant                          SASDT Transport Sector
Seida Heng                  Consultant                          GHNDR FM
Samnang Hir                 Consultant                                Highway Engineering
Imogene Jensen              Consultant                          GSURR Transport Sector
Sophear Khiev               Financial Analyst
Arun Kumar                  Consultant                          EASTE Capacity Develop
Bunlong Leng                Environmental Specialist            GENDR Environment
Latharo Lor                 Procurement Specialist                    Procurement
Chanin Manopiniwes          Infrastructure Economist                  Economist
Vanna Nil                   Social Development Specialist       EASTS Social safeguards
Maria Margarita Nunez       Sr Highway Engineer                 GTIDR Engineering
Sybounheung Phandanouvong   Social Development Specialist             Safeguards
Perry Lee Radford           Program Assistant                   MNAVP
John Richardson             Consultant                          EACVF Governance
Ratha Sann                  Infrastructure Operations Officer   EASTS Engineering
Sirirat Sirijaratwong       Procurement Specialist              GGODR Procurement
Reaksmey Keo Sok            Financial Management Specialist           FM
Sreng Sok                   Procurement Specialist              GGODR Procurement
Makathy Tep                 Consultant                                Environment
Manida Unkulvasapaul        Consultant                          CEAMV Procurement


                                           37
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                     USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                           travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY07                                    0                             9.67
  FY08                                   47.62                        254.22
                          Total:         47.62                        263.89
Supervision/ICR
  FY09                                   33.56                         90.19
  FY10                                   43.39                        133.47
  FY11                                   37.08                        117.99
  FY12                                   31.37                         97.89
  FY13                                   12.86                         82.20
  FY14                                   23.05                        127.88
  FY15                                   23.70                         64.40
                          Total:        252.63                        968.27




                                       38
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Although no beneficiary survey was conducted specifically for RAMP, a Household Baseline
Survey for Road Asset Management Project, Phase II (RAMP-II), October 2014, overlapped
with several sections of NR7 rehabilitated under RAMP. As such the Household (HH) Survey
helps to inform the socioeconomic characteristics of households and land uses along the
rehabilitated sections of NR7 in RAMP as follows:

 RAMP AWP           NR7 Location       RAMP-II HH         NR7 Location       Overlap with
                    (PK)               Survey Package     (PK)               RAMP
 2                  75-159             2                  136-196            136-159
 3                  159-254            3                  196-268            159-254
 4                  254-289            4                  268-340            254-289

Data collection was carried out using focus group discussions and household interviews using
a structured questionnaire. About 55% of respondents were female spouses of the head of
household, and about 85% were 30-60 years old. The ethnicity of all respondents along NR 7
was reported as Khmer.

Household characteristics and occupation. About half of the household heads had an
educational level at the primary school level, nearly one-fourth had attained secondary school,
13% finished high school, about 2% had attended university, and 10% had never attended
school. In addition, around 40% of the household members had attained education at primary
school level, with another 22% each at secondary school and high school levels.

The average family size was between 4 and 5 members, of which an average of 3 were
economically active. Occupations varied, but about one third were either “sellers” or “farmers”,
followed by about one fourth who were students. Small percentages engaged in such activities
as government work, salaried work in the private sector, construction or as day laborers. The
proportion of economically active members was similar for males and females. About 70% of
households interviewed had some sort of employment. About 30% of households earned 10-
20 million riel per year, followed by 25% in the 5-10 million riel range. However the averages
mask a wide range in incomes. For example, in Survey Package 2 (which falls entirely in the
range of RAMP AWPs), about 90% of households earned income less than 20 million riel per
year; and in Survey Package 4 (only about one-third within the range of RAMP AWPs), about
70% of households earned income less than 10 million riel per year.

Physical Assets. The survey identified the area as relatively stable, as about half of the
residents along NR7 had resided in their homes since before the year 2000. More than 80% of
households reported they owned their own home. Most households had their house on their
own land, although about 7% reported they had their house on other people’s land and 2% on
public land. Less than 15% said their house was new or in good shape, but another 70% said
their house was in medium shape, or fairly good. About 40% had a rice field (about 0.75 ha)
and slightly more than 25% had a farm (about 2 ha). Over three-quarters of the households
owned a motorcycle, about 60% owned a bicycle, but fewer than 20% owned a car.


                                              39
Road Use. Consistent with ownership, the overall survey reported that about 90% of families
use motorcycles to travel to different destinations and about 10% use a bicycle. The primary
trip purpose was to market (about half), followed by school (about one-quarter), work (less
than 10%), visits to relatives (5%) and leisure (2%). Total household trips per week averaged
11-12. About 12% of families interviewed had a family member who had experienced a traffic
accident. When asked the cause of accidents in general, most responded high travel speeds.

Incidence and Impact of Floods. Households in Survey Package 3 (which fully corresponds
to RAMP road sections) reported the highest incidence of flooding in the past year, as floods
affected roads, houses, markets, schools and health centers. A subset of the same households
reported productivity losses of about 5 working days due to lack of mobility due to floods. The
residents differentiated between flash floods caused by heavy rain in areas that lack drainage
and cause water to overflow on roads, and floods caused by homesteads that block water flow
and in turn cause flooding. Flooding was reported in all three RAMP-related Survey Packages,
and in all areas was deemed particularly difficult for those households that run shops located
on the road shoulder and/or sell goods in front of their houses. Overall, about 10% of
respondents reported they were disturbed by floods and estimated productivity losses of about
US$50 per household in a given year.




                                              40
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results


                   IDA Cr.Nº 4442-KH, ADB Loan 2406-CAM(SF),
           Australian Government Grant 0104-CAM and KTF Grant 094862
                     ROAD ASSET MANAGEMENT PROJECT

                     Minutes of Meeting of Stakeholder Workshop20

Opening of the meeting:
The stakeholder meeting for RAMP was held in a conference room of MPWT, Phnom Penh,
in the morning of December, 23 2014. This is the final workshop for RAMP in Cambodia
where the sophisticated implementation of RAMP and final results obtained were presented by
members from Road Asset Management Project Office (RAMO).

Invitations were sent in early December 2014 to all Provincial Department of Public Works
and Transport (PDPWT’s), RAMP contractors, donors, all local authorities where the project
roads pass by and relevant stakeholders. About 56 people participated in the workshop.

The agenda and a copy of the presentation to be made was distributed to the workshop. The
presentation consisted of nine sections: project arrangement, selection of roads for road asset
management project, project implementation, resettlement, environmental & social safeguards,
road safety, HIV/AIDS awareness and prevention program, capacity building for MPWT and
local contractor training, priority operation cost (POC) and others. It was prepared and
presented by H.E. Pheng Sovicheano.

The workshop was opened by H.E. LIM Sidenine, Secretary of State of MPWT, and H.E.
PHENG Sovicheano, Under-Secretary of State of MPWT/RAMP-Project Director (PD), who
welcomed the participants and briefly introduced about the project. The workshop aimed to
share information about the experience gained, through implementation of the project, on
routine and periodic maintenance, environmental and social safeguard, capacity development,
HIV/AIDS and road safety awareness, and lessons learned from RAMP. It was mentioned this
would be the final meeting for data presenting and results discussion in Cambodia.

After opening, the PD presented a speech sharing the experience and lessons learnt from
RAMP, the background of RAMP, project objectives, structure of RAMP, project components
and funding, key personnel, procurement of consultant services and administrative supports,
capacity building objectives, training program, institutional and road management
strengthening, private sector development, POC/MBPI, M&E challenges, HIV/AIDS



20
  The workshop was prepared and managed by the implementing agency, MPWT. The
workshop began with a powerpoint presentation of the project and discussion followed. The
minutes were prepared by MPWT.


                                              41
awareness and prevention program and road safety awareness. After the WB’s observation and
recommendation, all participants were requested to have a coffee break for 15 minutes.

After the coffee break, WB representative Mr. BUN Veasna (Task Team Leader) and Egis
International Consultant Mr. Mehdi Hakami (Team Leader) were as facilitators to the questions
and mentioned about their own experience and lessons learnt from RAMP, and made
suggestions on betterment of similar projects in future. The dynamic interactive discussions,
questions and comments were:

-        Mr. Moeng You Leng (Director of PDPWT of Kandal Province) requested additional
staff for supervision on quality control, construction management and equipment management.
PD responded that “this is a good suggestion, this request will be recommended to the MPWT
top management to consider and approval”.

-       Mr. Ky Vyrin (Director of Tbong Khmum PDPWT): requested drainage systems in
all urban areas along the national road Nº7 because the terrain is flat and the existing drainage
is blocked and only covers about 30%. PD responded that all these sections were considered
in RAMP-II, WB TTL justified that 94 km of U-drain, pipe drain and lined side drain were
included in RAMP-II, and RAMP Team Leader (Mr. Mehdi Hakami) also mentioned that
according to the condition of low land of NR7, the side drains must be designed accurately and
efficiently to evacuate the flooded water from roads.

-       Mr. Khan Chamnan (Deputy Director of Kratie Governor) requested the delegated
authority from MPWT to jointly inspect defected road and road safety, strengthen the staff
capacity of PDPWT, additional road furniture, development from 2 digit number road to one
digit number roads, and requested the royal superior officer to support the PDPWT. PD
responded that this request will be recommended to the MPWT top management to consider
and for approval.

-       Mr. PHY Lida (Director of Heavy Equipment Center, HEC) requested the training
courses on equipment operation and material quality control. PD responded that this request
will be recommended to the MPWT top management to consider and for approval.

-     Mr. Moeng You Leng (Director of PDPWT of Kandal Province) requested about the
waste water treatment Plant. PD responded that this request will be recommended to the
MPWT top management to consider.

-      Mr. Sreng Sros (Director of Kratie PDPWT) requested the additional side drainage
system, raised on the difficulty of drainage system maintenance and the land development
before backfilling it should be permitted by PDPWT. PD responded that the maintenance
works are to be carried out by performance based contracts and the land development
management will carry to the MPWT top management to consider.

-       Mr. Cheng Nhan (Director of Kampong Chhnang Governor) thanked RAMP for
including NR5 in the project, JICA constructed the drainage system in the center of town and
the enlargement of National Road Nº5 from two lane road to four land road and requested the

                                               42
drainage system for the Pralaymeal commune. PD informed that NR 5 is under construction
by two development partners, the first one from Phnom Penh to Preakdam is being upgraded
from a two-lane road to four-lane road by China fund, and the second from Preakdam to
Banteay Meanchey is being upgraded by JICA fund. The JICA section is separated in two
sections, the first section from Banteay Meanchey Province to Pursat Province and the second
section is from Pursat to Preakdam.

After the interactive questions, answers, discussions and comments, PD informed that the
suggestion related to the drainage systems was already included in RAMP-II, and that he will
bring other suggestions to the senior officers of MPWT to be included in development and
implementation plan.

Discussion and Conclusions
There was a dynamic constructive discussion after the presentation. The participants from
different PDWT’s and private sector commented and discussed about road maintenance issues
in Cambodia. The relevant comments were summarized and recorded as mentioned below:
       -   Regarding the drainage system: Most of the roads affected by flooding caused by
           lack of drainage system were in urban areas. It is recommended the solution be
           included in the next projects.
       -   PDWT’s requested training courses on quality control, construction management
           and equipment: It is recommended for the top management to approve such
           training.
       -   PDWT’s requested budget for maintenance of the constructed drainage system: It
           is recommended to the top management to be considered.
       -   The land development of people along the road network: It shall be reviewed and
           approved by the PDWT and then recommended to the top management to be
           considered.
       -   The drainage systems in RAMP-II: It was already included in scope of works of
           RAMP-II.

Closure
The meeting was closed at 11:30AM on 23rd December 2014 by H.E. Pheng Sovicheano.




                                            43
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR


The Royal Government of Cambodia implemented the Road Asset Management Project I
(RAMP I) with support from the International Development Association, IDA, Asian
Development Bank, ADB, Australia Aid for International Development, AusAID,
Organization for Petroleum Economic Cooperation, OPEC, the Royal Government of
Cambodia, RGC, and Korea Trust Fund, KTF. The project activities included periodic
maintenance of National and Provincial roads under the responsibility of the Ministry of Public
Works and Transport (MPWT). The project was due to be implemented over a five year period,
(started on 19 December 2008; completed on 31 December 2014).

The Project had a unique nature as several financing institutions jointly working together to
finance a project that their certain Guidelines can be harmonised, whereas, others have to be
implemented according to their institutional policies. The project started in the difficult time
when the trust between the RGC and the WB was at the lowest level in 2008. To build up trust
the Project had designed several integrity measures such as an application of Good Governance
Framework and employment of Independent Procurement Agency (IPA) for execution of the
procurement for consultant services and civil works of the IDA financing packages. MPWT
had appointed a highly qualified and experienced Project Director to run the project.

Despites difficult commencement in 2009, the Project has achieved the main objective to
provide periodical maintenance to 476 km of national roads under IDA package. This greatly
contributed to assist Cambodia the continued effective use of the rehabilitated national and
provincial road network in support of the economic development. The length of maintained
road could have been extended for at least another 10 km as the saving of about US$ 0.45
million was used for the preparation of RAMP II and some of the Project roads were severely
flooded during the years of 2011 and 2013 while the Project budget were used to repair the
flood damaged roads.

The Project also helped improving the institutional and technical capacity of the MPWT for
road maintenance planning, budgeting and operations, and by expanding and strengthening
maintenance activities, preservation of MPWT’s road network through annual programs for
periodic maintenance works. The project also supported the capacity development at the
institutional, organizational and individual level for MPWT to perform its road asset
management functions effectively and efficiently and to build capacity of private sector
development and to enhance Cambodia Road Maintenance Management System capacity.

Many important and essential trainings in all aspect of project implementation requirement had
been provided to RAMP and MPWT staff, as a result, most RAMP I trained staff now become
senior managers in other DP funding projects.

The Project also provided great assistance to build capacity of the Cambodia private sector in
preparation of bidding documents and implementation of external funding contracts using
FIDIC. The Cambodia Road Association, CAMRA, has been established and approved by
Ministry of Interior. The objectives of CAMRA are to promote interest and further building

                                              44
capacity of local road contracting companies, provide trainings, and coordinating with RGC
and other client bodies.

The Project faced many key challenges. The delay in procurement of Consultants, specially,
the services of the Supervision Consultants by IPA and the poor performance of the Project
Implementation Advisor, made the Project greatly suffered.

The lack of adequate number of Contractor’s with project management skill in international
financed projects, prolonged rainy seasons and flooding in 2011 and 2013, first time ever for
MPWT to carry out the Project using national system that most project staff lacked of
experiences in external funding project and language skill.

Trust and excellent coordination and corporation between donors and IA have gradually built
up during the project implementation, and thanks to high calibre talents of young Cambodian
professionals working for Donors, IA, Contractors and excellent team spirit of the above
parties had solved all above obstacles and problems and made RAMP I a successful project.
The joint efforts of Donors, IA and private sectors (on-job training local Contractors and
Supervision Consultants) had overcome the obstacles; some of the key points for the success
were: high level of Supervision Consultation, guidance and leadership of MPWT, MEF, and
Donors.




                                             45
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

The co-financiers reviewed an earlier draft of the ICR and their suggestions were
incorporated into the final ICR report.




                                           46
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Country Assistance Strategy for the Kingdom of Cambodia. World Bank and International
Finance Corporation (Report No. 32118-KH), April 18, 2005.

Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report for the Period FY05-08. World Bank (Report
No. 43330-KH), April 17, 2008.

Household Baseline Survey for Road Asset Management Project, Phase II. October 2014.

Integrated Fiduciary Assessment and Public Expenditure Review, World Bank (Report No
25611-KH), September 8, 2003.

National Strategic Development Plan, Update 2009-2013, Mid-term Review, Royal
Government of Cambodia, 2011.

Ramp Completion Stage Benefit Monitoring and Evaluation Report (Version 2). Ministry of
Public Works and Transport (Report. No. 183), September 2014.

Road Asset Management Project, Project Appraisal Document. (Report No. 42427-KH),
April 23, 2008.

Road Asset Management Project. Asian Development Bank (Report No. RRP-41123),
December 2007.

Road Rehabilitation Project. World Bank Project Appraisal Document. (Report No. 18977-
KH), February 16, 1999.




                                           47
Annex 10. Photos of Roads and Road Works from Field Visits




  NR73, NR71 and PR2714: maintenance works           NR3, conditions after routine maintenance




          NR7-1: Lack of side drainage                 NR71: scarifying existing road subbase




            PR2714, Surfacing works               PR2714, road condition after maintenance works



                                             48
PR2714: Depression and rutting         NR73: Depression Deformation at
   deformations at PK 149                         PK189




  NR7-1: AC overlay section               NR7-1: SBST overlay section




NR7-1: Damages caused by flood        NR71: damages caused by flood at PK 120




                                 49
MAP




 1
