Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                             LOAN NUMBER 2898 EC
           (Second National Low-Income Housing Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                 BANCO ECUATORIANO DE LA VIVIENDA
                        Dated May 24, 1988
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated May 24, 1988, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and BANCO ECUATORIANO DE
LA VIVIENDA (BEV).
     WHEREAS (A)  by  the  Loan  Agreement  of  even date herewith
between the Republic of Ecuador  (the  Borrower) and the Bank, the
Bank has agreed to  make  available  to  the Borrower an amount in
various   currencies   equivalent   to   sixty   million   dollars
($60,000,000), on the terms and  conditions  set forth in the Loan
Agreement, but only on condition  that BEV agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and  BEV,  the  proceeds of the loan provided
for under the Loan Agreement will  be made available to BEV on the
terms and conditions set forth  in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
and
     WHEREAS BEV, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with  the  Borrower,  has  agreed  to undertake the
Page  2
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the  Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this
Agreement and the  General  Conditions  (as  so  defined) have the
respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. BEV declares  its  commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth  in  Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement,
and, to this end, either directly or, for Part A.1 (i) of the Pro-
ject, with the assistance  of  JNV  and  Private Developers as set
forth, respectively, in Sections 2.08  and 2.09 of this Agreement,
shall carry out the Project  with due diligence and efficiency and
in  conformity  with   appropriate   administrative,  financial,
engineering, public  housing,  and  banking  practices,  and shall
provide, or cause to be  provided,  promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
     Section 2.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  5 to the Loan
Agreement.
     Section 2.03. BEV shall carry out  or cause to be carried out
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08
and 9.09 of the General  Conditions (relating to insurance, use of
goods and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition,  respectively) in respect of the
Project.
     Section 2.04.  BEV  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except  as  the Bank shall
otherwise agree, BEV shall not take  or concur in any action which
would have the effect of  amending, abrogating, assigning or waiv-
ing the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a)  BEV  shall,  at  the  request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank  with  regard  to the progress of the
Project, the performance of  its  obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan  Agreement, and other matters relat-
ing to the purposes of the Loan.
     (b)  BEV shall  promptly  inform  the  Bank  of any condition
which interferes or threatens  to  interfere  with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment  of  the  purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by BEV of its obligations under this Agreement and
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     Section 2.06. No later than  September  30 of each year until
completion of the Project, BEV shall  carry out and furnish to the
Bank a survey, in form and  substance satisfactory to the Bank, of
consumer demand for Housing  Units, covering the quantity, quality
and type of such Housing  Units,  to  serve as the basis for BEV's
investment program during the immediately following calendar year.
     Section 2.07. BEV shall enter into an agreement, satisfactory
to the Bank, with JNV  and  GTZ, providing for GTZ's assistance to
BEV  and  JNV  in   strengthening  (i)  their  administrative  and
implementation capacity; (ii) their  carrying out of basic studies
and their procedures for  programming, execution and evaluation in
the establishment of  norms,  standards  and operating systems for
Page  3
site   selection,    land    acquisition,   design,   contracting,
supervision, reporting,  beneficiary  selection  and  titling; and
(iii)  their  programming,  coordination  and  utilization  of the
resources provided for technical assistance under the Project.
     Section 2.08. (a) BEV shall enter into an agreement with JNV,
satisfactory to the Bank, providing for JNV's assistance to BEV in
carrying out Part  A.1  (i)  of  the  Project, providing for BEV's
transferring  a  portion  of  the  Subsidiary  Loan  to  JNV,  and
containing, inter alia,  the  terms  and  conditions  set forth in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     (b)  BEV shall cause  JNV,  with  respect  to  any portion of
Part A.1 (i) of the  Project  to  be  carried  out by JNV with the
assistance  of  Private  Contractors,  to  enter  into  contracts,
satisfactory to the Bank, with such Private Contractors, providing
for the  obligations  of  such  Private  Contractors  to construct
Housing Units and related  infrastructure,  if any, to be financed
under  Part  A.1  (i)  of   the  Project  and  setting  forth  the
corresponding financing arrangements.
     Section 2.09. With respect to any  portion of Part A.1 (i) of
the Project being carried  out  by  BEV  without the assistance of
JNV, BEV shall  enter  into  contracts,  satisfactory to the Bank,
with Private Developers,  providing  for  the  obligations of such
Private Developers  to  develop  and  construct  Housing Units and
related infrastructure, if any, to  be financed under Part A.1 (i)
of the  Project  and  setting  forth  the  corresponding financing
arrangements.
     Section 2.10. (a) No  later  than  September  30 of each year
until completion of the Project, BEV  shall furnish to the Bank an
action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth in reasonable
detail a program of actions and policies, to be implemented during
the next succeeding calendar year, for the purpose of: (i) achiev-
ing the  then  applicable  Operational  and  Financial Performance
Targets; and (ii) improving  its  management and operations in the
areas of financial management  and accountability, housing produc-
tion capacity, operational  efficiency, employee relations, public
relations and commercial practices.
     (b)  BEV and  the  Bank  shall,  starting  on  June 30, 1988,
review at the request  of  either  party,  but not less frequently
than annually, the Operational  and Financial Performance Targets.
Based on such review, the  Bank  may,  by notice to BEV, adjust or
modify  the   Operational   and   Financial   Performance  targets
applicable for the next succeeding calendar year.
     Section 2.11. BEV shall carry  out  Part A.1 (ii) of the Pro-
ject  by  extending  loans   for   home  improvement  projects  to
Beneficiaries selected in accordance with criteria satisfactory to
the Bank, such loans to  be  made  on the terms and conditions set
forth in Schedule 3  to  this Agreement and otherwise satisfactory
to the Bank.
     Section 2.12. BEV  shall  cause  JNV, Private Developers, and
Private  Contractors,  as  the  case  may  be,  to  carry  out all
construction  and  other  works,  including  infrastructure works,
under Part A.1 (i)  of  the  Project,  which they may undertake to
carry  out  pursuant  to  the  JNV  Agreement  or  any Development
Contracts or any Contruction  Contracts,  as  the  case may be, in
accordance with design guidelines,  engineering criteria and other
norms and standards satisfactory to the Bank.
     Section 2.13. BEV shall, no  later than June 30, 1989, select
and acquire title to land  appropriate and adequate for the devel-
opment of Housing Unit sites  under  Part  A.1 (i) of the Project,
all in accordance  with  a  schedule  and  site selection criteria
satisfactory to the Bank.
     Section 2.14. BEV shall set,  and shall cause JNV and Private
Developers, as the case may  be,  to  set the sales prices for any
Page  4
Housing Units constructed by them and financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan so that such prices  are comprised of the price of the
underlying land, the cost of  site preparation, a prorated portion
of urbanization  and  infrastructure  costs,  including design and
supervision, all superstructure  costs,  and  the  cost of capital
during construction.
     Section 2.15. BEV shall  take,  and  shall cause JNV, Private
Developers,  and  Private  Contractors,   as   the  case  may  be,
participating in the carrying out of  Part A.1 (i) of the Project,
to take, all reasonable measures  to  ensure that the execution of
Part A.1  (i)  of  the  Project  is  effected  with  due regard to
ecological, environmental,  geological  and  sociological factors,
including (i) taking into account,  as appropriate, the results of
any  relevant  environmental   impact   studies  coming  to  their
attention; (ii) incorporating  construction  standards designed to
improve the  ability  of  structures  to  withstand earthquakes or
other geological instability;  and  (iii) locating new structures,
to the extent  practicable,  so  as to minimize earthquake-related
risks affecting such structures.
     Section 2.16. (a) Unless the  Bank shall otherwise agree, BEV
shall at all times, in all loans, including Sub-loans, made by BEV
from and after  October  30,  1988  to  any  person, including any
Beneficiary, to finance  or  refinance  any  Housing  Units or any
home-improvement projects, charge a rate of interest which exceeds
the Reference Rate by a  margin  of  no less than one and one-half
(1.5) percentage points.
     (b)  BEV and the Bank shall,  annually starting on October 1,
1988, and at such other times as either party may request, review:
(i) the results  and  effectiveness  of  BEV's  utilization of the
Lending Instrument; (ii)  the  results  and effectiveness of BEV's
implementation of the Variable Interest Rate System; and (iii) the
adequacy of  the  levels  of  interest  rates  charged pursuant to
clause (a) of this  Section  2.16  and,  as  part of reviewing the
levels of such interest rates,  the adequacy of BEV's mobilization
of resources under the indicators set  forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement. Towards these ends, BEV  shall  furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
     (c)  BEV shall  take,  in  a  timely  fashion, and thereafter
maintain, all remedial measures agreed  with  the Bank as a result
of any of the reviews referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
2.16. If BEV and the Bank  fail to reach agreement on any remedial
measures by the December  1  or  June 1 immediately following such
review, or within sixty (60)  days  after the commencement of such
review, whichever is  earlier,  the  Bank  may,  by  notice to the
Borrower  and  BEV,  suspend  its  disbursements  under  the  Loan
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.
     Section 2.17. (a) BEV shall develop and implement the Lending
Instrument and the Variable Interest  Rate System according to the
program and  schedule  set  forth  in  the  letter,  of  even date
herewith, from BEV to the Bank.
     (b)  Not  later  than  October  30,  1988,  BEV  shall  begin
utilization of the  Lending  Instrument  and the Variable Interest
Rate  System,  on  an  exclusive  basis,  in  all  of  its lending
operations, including those  referred  to  in  Section 2.16 (a) of
this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of BEV
     Section 3.01. BEV shall  carry  on its operations and conduct
its affairs in  accordance  with  sound administrative, financial,
banking, engineering and public housing practices under the super-
vision of qualified  and  experienced  management assisted by com-
petent staff in adequate numbers.
Page  5
     Section 3.02. BEV shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and  other  property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make  all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance  with  sound engineering, financial and
public housing practices.
     Section 3.03. BEV shall  take  out  and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make  other  provision satisfactory to the Bank
for, insurance against such risks and  in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  BEV  shall  maintain  records and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition, including separate records
and accounts to reflect the  resources and expenditures related to
the Project.
     (b)  BEV shall:
          (i)  have   such   records,   accounts   and   financial
               statements (balance  sheets,  statements  of income
               and  expenses  and  related  statements)  for  each
               fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
               auditing   principles   consistently   applied,  by
               independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  four months after the end
               of each  such  year,  (A)  certified  copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year  as so audited
               and (B) the report  of  such audit by said auditors
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said records, accounts and financial statements
               as well as  the  audit  thereof,  as the Bank shall
               from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, BEV shall:
          (i)  maintain, or cause to  be maintained, in accordance
               with  paragraph  (a)   of  this  Section,  separate
               records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, or cause to be retained, until at least one
               year after the Bank  has  received the audit report
               for the fiscal  year  in  which the last withdrawal
               from  the  Loan  Account   was  made,  all  records
               (contracts, orders,  invoices,  bills, receipts and
               other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such separate  accounts are included in
               the annual audit  referred  to  in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether the  statements  of  expenditures submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. BEV shall complete,  no later than December 31,
Page  6
1988, the implementation of a  program  to improve and upgrade its
accounting procedures and financial management systems in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
     Section 5.02. This Agreement and  all obligations of the Bank
and of BEV thereunder  shall  terminate  on  the date on which the
Loan Agreement shall terminate  in  accordance with its terms, and
the Bank shall promptly notify BEV thereof.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For BEV:
          Banco Ecuatoriano de la Vivienda
          Ave. 10 de Agosto y Cordero
          Quito, Ecuador
                                            Telex:
                                               2399-BEV-ED
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of BEV may be taken or executed by the Gerente
General or such other person or  persons as BEV shall designate in
writing, and BEV shall furnish  to the Bank sufficient evidence of
the authority and  the  authenticated  specimen  signature of each
such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
Page  7
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                    BANCO ECUATORIANO DE LA VIVIENDA
                    By /s/ Mario Ribadeneira
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
               Terms and Conditions of JNV Agreement
     The JNV Agreement  shall  include,  inter alia, the following
terms and conditions in a form satisfactory to the Bank:
1.   The JNV  Loan  shall  be  made  and  shall  be denominated in
Sucres.
2.   The JNV Loan shall  bear  interest on the outstanding balance
thereunder from time to time  at  the  same rate as the Subsidiary
Loan.
3.   Payments of principal  and  finance  charges  on the JNV Loan
shall be made in accordance  with  the current practice of BEV and
JNV, whereby BEV transfers funds to JNV on a short-term basis.
4.   JNV shall be  obligated,  either  directly or through Private
Contractors, to construct  Housing  Units  and related infrastruc-
ture, if any, under  Part  A.1  (i)  of the Project, in accordance
with  engineering  criteria,  construction  standards  and  design
guidelines satisfactory to  BEV  and  the  Bank, and in accordance
with   the   environmental,   ecological   and   earthquake-safety
considerations set forth in Section 2.15 of this Agreement.
5.   To the extent JNV elects to construct Housing Units under the
JNV Agreement through  Private  Contractors,  JNV shall enter into
Construction Contracts, satisfactory  to  BEV  and  the Bank, with
such Private Developments, as provided in Section 2.08 (b) of this
Agreement.
6.   JNV shall enter into the  GTZ  Agreement with BEV and GTZ and
carry out its obligations thereunder.
7.   JNV shall develop and implement a program for the improvement
and upgrading of its  accounting  procedures and financial manage-
ment systems.
8.   Procurement  of  goods,   works   and  consultants'  services
required for Housing Units  and related infrastructure constructed
by JNV and to be  financed  out  of  the  proceeds of the JNV Loan
shall be governed by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  5 to the Loan
Agreement.
Page  8
9.   To the extent that  JNV  provides any financing to purchasers
of Housing Units, such  financing  shall  be provided on terms and
conditions acceptable to  BEV  and  the  Bank, including utilizing
legal  documentation  equivalent  to  the  Lending  Instrument and
selecting Beneficiaries in  accordance  with criteria satisfactory
to BEV and the Bank.
10.  JNV shall  comply  in  all  respects,  mutatis  mutandi, with
Section 4.01 of this Agreement in respect of those portions of the
Project being carried out by  JNV,  including giving access to its
records to representatives of the Bank.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                 Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
1.   Sub-loans shall be made and denominated in Sucres.
2.   Sub-loans shall  bear  interest  at  rate  which  exceeds the
Reference Rate  by  at  least  one  and  one-half (1.5) percentage
points,  unless  otherwise  agreed  by  the  Bank  and  subject to
adjustment in accordance with  Section  2.16  (b)  and (c) of this
Agreement.
3.   Sub-loans shall be made  on  the basis of legal documentation
utilizing the  Variable  Interest  Rate  System  and on instrument
substantially equivalent to the Mortgage Instrument.
4.   BEV shall  have  the  right  to  suspend  disbursements or to
accelerate repayment upon  the  occurrence  of specified events of
default.
