Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2898 EC
           (Second National Low-Income Housing Project)
                              between
                        REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated May 24, 1988
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated May  24,  1988,  between REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  BANK  FOR  RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     (B)  the Project will be carried out by the Banco Ecuatoriano
de la  Vivienda  (hereinafter  called  BEV),  with  the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to BEV the  proceeds  of  the  Loan  as provided in this
Agreement; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this  Agreement  and in the Project Agree-
ment of even date herewith between the Bank and BEV;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank
and BEV of even date  herewith,  as  the  same may be amended from
time to time, and such  term includes all schedules and agreements
supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (b)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and BEV pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement, as the  same  may  be amended from time to
time, and such term includes  all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and "Subsidiary Loan" means  the  loan to be granted by
the Borrower to BEV under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (c)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (d)  "Sucre" means the currency of the Borrower;
     (e)  "GTZ"   means    the    Gesellschaft   fuer   Technische
Zusammenarbeit of the Federal Republic of Germany;
     (f)  "Banco Central"  means  Banco  Central  del Ecuador, the
Borrower's Central Bank;
     (g)  "JNV"  means  the   Borrower's   Junta  Nacional  de  la
Vivienda;
     (h)  "GTZ Agreement" means the technical assistance agreement
to be entered into among BEV, GTZ and JNV pursuant to Section 2.07
of the Project Agreement and  pursuant to the applicable provision
of the JNV Agreement;
     (i)  "Private Developers" means  any  private person, company
or other entity  engaged  as  a  housing construction developer in
Ecuador;
     (j)  "Private Contractors" means  any private person, company
or other entity engaged  as  a  housing construction contractor in
Ecuador;
     (k)  "JNV Agreement" means the  agreement  to be entered into
between BEV and JNV pursuant  to  Section  2.08 (a) of the Project
Agreement; and "JNV Loan" means the loan  to be made by BEV to JNV
under the JNV Agreement;
     (l)  "Development   Contracts"    means,   individually   and
collectively, any  contract  entered  into  by  BEV  and a Private
Developer, pursuant to Section 2.09 of the Project Agreement;
     (m)  "Construction   Contracts"   means,   individually   and
collectively, any  contract  entered  into  by  JNV  and a Private
Contractor pursuant to Section 2.08 (b) of the Project Agreement;
     (n)  "Investment  Program"  means  BEV's  investment  program
referred to in Part A.1 of the Project;
Page  3
     (o)  "Annual  Action  Plan"  means  the  action  plan  to  be
submitted annually by BEV to the  Bank pursuant to Section 2.10 of
the Project Agreement;
     (p)  "Sub-loans" means  loans  extended  to Beneficiaries for
home improvement  projects,  pursuant  to  Part  A.1  (ii)  of the
Project and Section 2.11 of the Project Agreement;
     (q)  "Reference Rate" means the  interest rate paid from time
to time on demand deposits by BEV;
     (r)  "Lending Instrument" means  a  form  of legal instrument
providing for the lending of money, whether or not secured by real
property, and containing,  inter  alia,  the  terms and conditions
described in the letter, of  even  date  herewith, from BEV to the
Bank;
     (s)  "Variable  Interest  Rate  System"  means  a  system  of
periodically  adjustable  interest  rates,   as  applied  to  loan
transactions, with the  specific  terms,  conditions and features,
including capitalization of interest,  described in the letter, of
even date herewith, from BEV to the Bank;
     (t)  "Housing Unit" means any house or other shelter financed
by BEV as part of the  Investment Program or constructed by JNV or
a Private Developer under the Project;
     (u)  "Beneficiary" means  any  purchaser  of  a  Housing Unit
financed by BEV, or any recipient of a Sub-loan; and
     (v)  "Operational and  Financial  Performance  Targets" means
the targets and indicators set forth  in Schedule 2 to the Project
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.O1. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in this Agreement,
an  amount  in  various  currencies  equivalent  to  sixty million
dollars ($60,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods  and  services  required  for  the  Project  described in
Schedule 2  to  this  Agreement  and  to  be  financed  out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in Banco Central on
terms and conditions satisfactory to  the Bank. Deposits into, and
payments out of, the Special  Account  shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date  shall be December 31, 1993 or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one-
half  of  one  percent  per  annum  above  the  Cost  of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
Page  4
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.08.  BEV  is  designated  as  representative of the
Borrower  for  the  purposes  of  taking  any  action  required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other  obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall
(i) cause BEV to  carry  out  the  Project either directly or, for
Part A.1 (i) of  the  Project,  with  the assistance of JNV and/or
Private Developers,  with  due  diligence  and  efficiency  and in
conformity  with  appropriate  administrative,  financial,  public
housing, engineering  and  banking  practices;  (ii)  cause BEV to
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement
all the obligations of BEV  therein  set  forth; and (iii) take or
cause to be taken  all  action,  including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate
to enable  BEV  to  carry  out  the  Project  and  to perform such
obligations, and shall not take  or  permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or  interfere  with  such carrying out or such
performance.
     (b)  The Borrower shall relend  the  proceeds  of the Loan to
BEV under a subsidiary loan  agreement  to be entered into between
the Borrower and BEV, under  terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Bank and which shall include, inter alia, the
following terms and conditions:  (i)  the Subsidiary Loan shall be
made and denominated in Sucres;  (ii) interest shall be charged on
the amount of the Subsidiary Loan outstanding from time to time at
a variable rate to be  adjusted  annually  and  to be equal to the
Reference Rate; (iii) the  outstanding principal of the Subsidiary
Loan shall be repaid  by  BEV  in  accordance with an amortization
schedule reflecting BEV's projected  cash  flow,  but in any event
not exceeding a maximum amortization period of seventeen years and
with payment dates corresponding to the payment dates of the Loan;
(iv) interest on the Subsidiary  Loan  shall  be paid by BEV semi-
annually; (v) a commitment  charge corresponding to the commitment
charge payable on the Loan shall be  paid by BEV; and (vi) for the
purpose of carrying out Part A.1  (i) of the Project, BEV shall be
required to on-lend or transfer  a  portion of the Subsidiary Loan
Page  5
to JNV and/or Private  Developers,  as  the  case  may be, in such
amounts, at such interest rates and in such manner as set forth in
Sections 2.08 and 2.09, respectively, of the Project Agreement.
     (c)  The Borrower shall exercise  its rights under the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank  and  to  accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and except as the  Bank  shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign,  amend,  abrogate  or  waive the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  5  to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and
9.09 of the  General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance, use of
goods and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and reports,
maintenance and land  acquisition,  respectively) shall be carried
out by BEV pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower  shall cause JNV to enter into
the JNV Agreement with BEV and  shall  cause JNV to perform all of
its obligations therein set forth, all as provided in Section 2.08
and Schedule 1 of the Project Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  cause  JNV  to  exercise its rights
under the JNV Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of JNV and the Bank  and  to  accomplish the purposes of the Loan,
and except as the Bank  shall  otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause  JNV  not  to  assign,  amend,  abrogate  or  waive  the JNV
Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower shall  cause JNV: (a) to establish
new staff positions, within JNV,  consisting of or equivalent to a
national finance division  chief,  a  cost accounting departmental
chief, a control and  planning  section chief, a national director
of information systems and  a  national director for the promotion
of BEV's housing program; and (b)  to recruit, appoint and, at all
times until Project completion, employ persons possessing adequate
qualifications and experience to fill such new staff positions.
     Section 3.06.  The  Borrower  shall  cooperate and coordinate
with BEV and take all  actions, including legal, administrative or
regulatory actions, necessary  or  appropriate  in order to enable
BEV to (i) in each  calendar  year  beginning with 1988, carry out
its Annual Action Plan with respect to such year; (ii) utilize, in
accordance with Section 2.17 of the Project Agreement, the Lending
Instrument for all  of  its  loan  transactions  which finance the
acquisition of Housing Units by Beneficiaries, or home-improvement
projects undertaken by Beneficiaries, and (iii) charge interest on
all of such  loan  transactions  in  accordance  with the Variable
Interest Rate System, as provided  in  Section 2.17 of the Project
Agreement, and at the levels  required  by Section 2.16 (a) of the
Project Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. The Borrower  shall:  (i) for each fiscal year,
have the records and accounts  for the Special Account audited, in
accordance  with  appropriate   auditing  principles  consistently
applied, by  independent  auditors  acceptable  to  the Bank; (ii)
furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as  available,  but in any case not
later than four months after the  end of each such year the report
of such audit by said auditors,  of  such scope and in such detail
as the Bank shall have  reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to
the  Bank  such  other  information  concerning  said  records and
Page  6
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  BEV shall have failed to  perform any of its obligations
under  the  Project   Agreement,   or   the   event  described  in
Section 2.16 (c) of the Project Agreement shall have occurred.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the  Loan  Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation  shall have
arisen which shall make  it  improbable  that  BEV will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (c)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of BEV  or  JNV  or  for  the  suspension of their respective
operations, unless,  at  the  time  of  such  action,  a successor
institution or agency  is  established  with  functions and powers
substantially equivalent to those of  BEV  or JNV, as the case may
be.
     (d)  Any party or parties  to  the  JNV  Agreement or the GTZ
Agreement shall  have  failed  to  perform  any  of  its  or their
respective obligations under any of such agreements.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in  paragraph  (a) or (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice  thereof  shall  have been given by the
Bank to the Borrower; and
     (b)  the event specified in paragraph  (c) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  has  been  executed on
behalf of the Borrower and BEV;
     (b)  BEV,  JNV  and  GTZ  shall  have  entered  into  the GTZ
Agreement;
     (c)  BEV and JNV shall have entered into the JNV Agreement;
     (d)  JNV  shall  have  appointed  the  staff  referred  to in
Section 3.05 of this Agreement; and
     (e)  BEV and JNV,  either  jointly  or separately, shall have
furnished to the Bank the  terms  of  reference for a study and an
implementation schedule for  a  program,  each satisfactory to the
Bank, for the purpose of  improving and upgrading their respective
accounting and  financial  management  procedures  and systems, as
referred to  in  Section  4.02  of  the  Project  Agreement and in
paragraph 7 of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
Page  7
furnished to the Bank:
     (a)  that the Project Agreement  has  been duly authorized or
ratified by BEV, and  is  legally  binding  upon BEV in accordance
with its terms;
     (b)  that the Subsidiary Loan  Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the Borrower  and BEV, and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and BEV in accordance with its terms; and
     (c)  that the  JNV  Agreement  has  been  duly  authorized or
ratified by BEV and JNV, and  is  legally binding upon BEV and JNV
in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date of August 24, 1988 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. Except  as  provided  in  Section  2.08 of this
Agreement, the  Ministro  de  Finanzas  y  Credito  Publico of the
Borrower is designated as  representative  of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministerio de Finanzas
          10 de Agosto y Jorge Washington
          Quito
          Ecuador
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               MINFINANZAS                       2449 MINFIN ED
               Quito, Ecuador
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64l45 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
                    By /s/ Mario Ribadeneira
                                         Authorized Representative
Page  8
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each  Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in       Expenditures
    Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Works under                               81%
     Part A.1 (i)
     of the Project
     (i)  being                 35,700,000
          carried
          out by
          JNV
     (ii) being                  1,000,000
          carried
          out by
          Private
          Developers
(2)  Sub-loans under            21,300,000     81% of amounts
     Part A.1 (ii)                             disbursed
     of the Project
(3)  Equipment and                 500,000     100% of foreign
     vehicles under                            expenditures and
     Part A.2 of the                           81% of local
     Project                                   expenditures
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in       Expenditures
    Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(4)  Consultants'                              100%
     services:
     (i)  under Part               500,000
          A.3 of the
          Project
     (ii) under Part B           1,000,000
          of the
          Project
                                __________
          TOTAL                 60,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
Page  9
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
incurred  prior  to  the  date  of  this  Agreement,  except  that
withdrawals, in an aggregate  amount not exceeding $2,000,000, may
be made on account of payments  made  prior to that date but after
November 20, 1987.
4.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be  made  in  respect  of expenditures (a) under
Category (1)(i) in the  table  in  such paragraph, unless the Bank
shall have received a model  of the Construction Contract, in form
and substance satisfactory to the Bank,  to be used by JNV for the
purpose of contracting with  Private  Contractors to carry out any
part of the Project; and  (b)  under Category (1)(ii) in the table
in such paragraph, unless the Bank  shall have received a model of
the Development Contract,  in  form  and substance satisfactory to
the Bank, to be used  by  BEV  for the purpose of contracting with
Private Developers to carry out any part of the Project.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
further withdrawals shall be made in respect of expenditures under
Categories (1)  and  (2)  in  the  table  of  such paragraph after
$6,000,000 have been  disbursed  under  such  category, unless BEV
shall have developed,  implemented  and  begun  utilization of the
Lending  Instrument  and  the  Variable  Interest  Rate  System as
provided in Sections 2.16 (a) and 2.17 of the Project Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of  the  Project  are  to:  (i)  assist BEV in
adopting new interest rate  policies  and a new lending instrument
designed to improve  resource  mobilization  and allocation in the
Borrower's housing  sector;  (ii)  streamline  and  strengthen the
financial, administrative and productive efficiency of BEV and JNV
while  further   rationalizing   the   Borrower's  public  housing
investment program;  (iii)  enable  BEV  and  JNV  to target their
housing   stock   production   more   accurately   at   low-income
beneficiaries; and (iv) encourage greater participation of Private
Developers and Private  Contractors  in low-income housing through
increased subcontracting  by  JNV  to  Private  Contractors and by
providing Private Developers with direct access to BEV funding.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Investment Program
1.   Implementation of a portion  of  BEV's investment program for
the period from 1988  through  1993, such portion consisting inter
alia of (i)    development  and  subsequent  financing of serviced
building lots or completed Housing  Units, which building lots and
Housing Units  are  estimated  not  to  exceed,  in the aggregate,
15,000, and (ii)  granting  of  Sub-loans for approximately 15,000
home improvement projects throughout the Borrower's territory.
2.   Acquisition and  utilization  of  vehicles  and equipment for
purposes of carrying out the Investment Program.
3.   Technical  assistance  for  purposes   of  carrying  out  the
Investment Program.
Part B:   Technical Assistance
Page  10
1.   Technical  assistance  to  BEV  and  JNV  to  enable  them to
improve: (i) norms and  standards for low-income housing construc-
tion; (ii) contracting and supervision practices; (iii) loan port-
folio management; (iv) operational  efficiency; and (v) accounting
procedures and financial management systems.
2.   Technical assistance to BEV and  JNV to enable them to imple-
ment policies to  promote  the  mobilization of domestic financial
resources  while   being   responsive   to  Beneficiaries'  needs,
conditions and circumstances.
               *               *               *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                           Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (Expressed in dollars)*
On each April 1 and October 1
     beginning October 1, 1992
     through   October 1, 2004                     2,310,000
On   April 1, 2005                                 2,250,000
_______________________
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
Section 3.O4 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                          Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                             .18
     before maturity
More than three years but                             .35
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                               .65
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                            .88
     more than 15 years
     before maturity
More than 15 years                                   1.00
     before maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
Page  11
     (a)  the  term  "eligible   Categories"  means  Categories  1
through 4 set forth in the  table  in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $4,000,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the  Loan Account and
deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Special Account shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible expendi-
tures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized  Allocation,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower, withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the Bank shall with-
draw from the Loan  Account  and  deposit into the Special Account
such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount  of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall
be withdrawn by the Bank  from  the Loan Account under the respec-
tive  eligible  Categories,  and   in  the  respective  equivalent
amounts, as shall have  been  justified by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit  furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
          (i)  the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
               from the Loan Account in accordance with the provi-
               sions of Article  V  of  the General Conditions and
               paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
         (ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan allocated
               to the eligible Categories  minus the amount of any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Condi-
               tions with respect to  the  Project, shall be equal
               to the equivalent of twice the amount of the Autho-
               rized Allocation.
Page  12
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from the  Loan Account of the re-
maining unwithdrawn amount of  the  Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after and to the extent  that the Bank shall have been satis-
fied that all such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit in the Special
Account as of the date of  such  notice will be utilized in making
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special  Account  (i) was made for any expendi-
ture or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule, or (ii)  was  not  justified  by  the evidence furnished
pursuant to paragraph  4  of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall,
promptly upon  notice  from  the  Bank,  deposit  into the Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall  so request, refund to the Bank) an
amount equal to the amount of  such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. No  further deposit by the Bank into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such
deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account and immediate
cancellation.
                            SCHEDULE 5
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof,  goods  manufactured in Ecuador may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Equipment  and  vehicles  may  be  procured  under  contracts
awarded on the basis  of  competitive bidding, advertised locally,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Civil works estimated to cost less than $1,200,000 equivalent
per contract, up to an  aggregate amount of $18,200,000 equivalent
may  be  procured  under   contracts   awarded  on  the  basis  of
competitive  bidding,  advertised   locally,  in  accordance  with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
3.   Goods and works financed by  Sub-loans under Part A.1 (ii) of
the Project may be  procured  in  accordance with BEV's and/or the
purchaser's  normal  practices   in   accordance  with  procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
Page  13
     (a)  With respect to the  first  five (5) contracts for civil
works to be financed under  Part  A.1  (i) of the Project, and, in
addition,  with respect to each contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of  $1,200,000  or more, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4  of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply. Where payments for such contract  are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall  be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of  the contract required to be furnished
to the Bank pursuant  to  said  paragraph  2, clause (d), shall be
furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out
of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be furn-
ished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01  (a)  (ii)  of the Loan Agreement and
4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2. The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist BEV in carrying out the Project, BEV shall
employ consultants whose qualifications,  experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall  be  satisfactory to the Bank. Such
consultants shall be  selected  in  accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the  Bank  on  the basis of the "Guide-
lines for the Use of  Consultants  by  World Bank Borrowers and by
the World Bank  as  Executing  Agency"  published  by  the Bank in
August 1981 (the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants).
Section III:   Special Provisions
A.   In addition to and without limitation of any other provisions
set forth in  this  Schedule  5  or  the Guidelines, the following
principles of procurement  shall  expressly govern all procurement
of goods and works  referred  to  in  Section  I of this Schedule,
other than those referred  to  in  paragraph  3  of Part C of such
Section I:
1.   Bids for contract awards  must  be permitted to be submitted,
at the risk of the bidder, by mail.
2.   Bids for contract awards must  be required to be submitted in
one single envelope, and all information contained therein must be
considered simultaneously.
3.   Foreign bidders must not be  required  to have a local repre-
sentative  for  purposes  of   submitting  bids,  and,  after  the
submission of bids, may be required to have a local representative
only on a case-by-case basis in light of the circumstances of each
contract.
4.   Foreign bidders must  be  permitted  to  have their financial
solvency certified by a  foreign  bank without re-certification by
any Ecuadorian bank or other Ecuadorian person or entity.
5.   Bid and performance guarantees  issued  by foreign banks must
be admissible without  re-certification  or other participation by
any Ecuadorian bank or other Ecuadorian person or entity.
Page  14
6.   Contracts must be awarded  to  the lowest evaluated bidder in
accordance with criteria set forth in the bidding documents.
7.   Price adjustment clauses must be  permitted to be included in
all contracts.
8.   Adjustments of contracts for the  acquisition of goods or the
provision of works must not exceed 15%, as set forth in Section I,
Part D, paragraph 2 of this Schedule.
9.   Letters of Credit issued to any supplier of goods or provider
of services must not be  required to be counter-guaranteed by such
supplier or provider in whole or in part.
B.   In addition to and without limitation of any other provisions
set forth in this  Schedule  5  or  the  Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants,  the  following   principles   of  procurement  shall
expressly govern all procurement of consultants' services referred
to in Section II of this Schedule:
1.   Foreign consultants must not be required to be locally regis-
tered or associated with  local  firms  as a condition of bidding,
and  at  the  time  of  contracting,  may  be  required  to  be so
registered or associated only on  a case-by-base basis in light of
the circumstances of each such contract.
2.   Foreign consultants must not  be required, either directly or
indirectly, to give any participation  in or share of any consult-
ing contract to any  local  firm  or  person, except in connection
with a joint venture arrangement  where (i) a sufficient number of
capable  domestic  firms  exist  to  allow  a  foreign  consultant
reasonable freedom  of  choice;  (ii)  the  contribution of either
party to the joint venture  arrangement will not be constrained by
any prescribed manner or  extent  of  participation; and (iii) the
foreign consultant is not  required  to  associate itself with any
specific named domestic firms.
3.   Foreign consultants, including any  foreign staff employed by
them, must  be  exempted  from  all  requirements,  other than the
requirement to hold a  valid  visa,  established in the Borrower's
Ley de Extranjeria,  Ley  de  Migracion,  Reglamento  a  la Ley de
Extranjeria and Reglamento a la Ley de Migracion.
