Report No. PID10905
Project Name             Ethiopia-Food Security
Region                   Africa Regional Office
Sector                   Other Agriculture
Project ID               ETPE50383
Borrower(s)              FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
Implementing Agency
Address REGIONAL GOV'TS OF AMHARA,
OROMIYA, SOUTHERN NATIONS, TIGRAY
Ministry of Economic Development and
Cooperation
Address: Box 1037, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Contact Person: Girma Birru, Minister
Tel: 251-1-564778
Fax: 251-1-519061
Ministry of Agriculture
Address: Box 62347, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Contact Person: Belay Ejigu, Minister
Tel: 251-1-150110
Fax: 251-1-512984
Email: Moavm@telecom.net.et
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared        May 15, 2001
Projected Appraisal
Date                     June 11, 2001
Projected Board Date     October 4, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Food security may be defined as "access by all people at all times to
sufficient food, in terms of quality, quantity, and diversity, for an
active and healthy life without risk of loss of such access." Chronic and
transitory problems of food insecurity are severe in Ethiopia, where half
the population lives below the poverty line. Chronic food insecurity is
brought about by lack of assets, lack of purchasing power, low
productivity, lack of employment opportunities, inability to make
effective use of food, a poor transport system and infrastructure, and
lack of appropriate storage facilities. Transitory food insecurity arises
from various "shocks" such as drought, warfare, depression in economic
activity, disruption of food trade, displacement of people, and variations
in food prices.The Government of Ethiopia believes that the key to a food
entitlement strategy is to build the resource base of poorer rural
households, to increase employment and incomes in both rural and urban
areas, and to provide targeted transfers to households that have special
needs. A National Food Security Strategy was developed and presented to
the donor community in December 1996. The first investment program under
the strategy was presented to the donors for their consideration in
mid-1998. It is summarized in the document produced by the Ministry of



Economic Development and Cooperation (MEDAC) entitled Food Security
Programme: 1998-2000. The latter is a synthesis of four regional state
documents (from Amhara, Oromiya, Southern Nations, and Tigray) which focus
on their particular needs and outline local implementation strategies. The
Food Security Project (FSP) aims to reduce vulnerability and ensure
self-provisioning in the long term. The Government expects the country to
close its food gap over time, but sees the need for food aid to continue
in the foreseeable future, to supplement the food supplies of many
households who will remain unable to meet their own needs. At the end of
the first (five year) phase of the FSP, the Government expects the current
size of the vulnerable population in the target areas to be reduced, after
which subsequent phases can expand in the target areas and move to new
focus areas.
2. Objectives
The development objectives of the Food Security Project are to build the
resource base of poorer rural households, increase their employment and
incomes, lower the real costs of food, and improve nutrition levels
especially for children under five years of age, and pregnant and
lactating mothers.It is proposed that the funds for the project would be
made available through 4 windows, each of which would have its own
development objectives, as follows:(a) Grants to Communities/Kebeles
these would take up the majority of project funds; the development
objectives would be to increase household and community assets and incomes
by: better management of rainfed agriculture (crops and livestock);
investment in small-scale irrigation; better natural resource management
through "zero tillage" techniques on farms, and catchment level activities
to conserve soil, reverse soil degradation, improve water harvesting and
use, and improve distribution of labor; development of off-farm
enterprises; reduced stunting in children under five years of age and
improving child and adult nutrition through a community-based child growth
promotion program; and investments in training and development.(b)
Capacity building grants to Woredas, Regions, and Federal Ministries for
specific, project-related activities; development objectives would be to
increase Woreda, Region and Federal level capacities in key agencies by
investments in training and development, and changes in key policies.(c)
Investments undertaken at the federal and regional levels in initiatives
and policies to lower the costs of food marketing and distribution
throughout the country; the development objectives would be to increase
real incomes and reduce isolation of communities by reducing food prices
and decreasing their variability, through regional and national programs
to construct roads and market places (outside this project), and
investments in information systems, grading and inspection, contract
enforcement, and other measures to lower transaction costs in food
markets.(d) Investments in communications, impact evaluation and
administration of the flow of funds - a small proportion of project funds;
the development objectives would be to facilitate the community nature of
the project by improving communications, and to increase capacities,
especially at the Woreda level, by investments in training and
development, and equipping administration units adequately.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank is working in close consultation with all the major food aid
donors to Ethiopia, attempting to ensure that there is consensus and
agreement at each step as project preparation proceeds. This work is
-2 -



first and foremost a response to the borrower's explicit request that the
Bank lead and coordinate donor work on the proposed FSP. Second, the Bank
has carried out analytical work on food security since the 1980s, and
played a coordinating and leadership role during preparation of the food
security strategy in 1996, of which this program is the first major
investment outcome. Third, the Bank is able to draw comprehensively on
existing knowledge, research, and practical experience with poverty
reduction projects across the world, including other large sectoral
programs in Ethiopia, such as the road, health, education and energy SIPs.
Fourth, the Bank is able, in close consultation with the other donors, to
assist the Government to take a careful look at needed national policy
reforms. Fifth, the Bank has advised introducing the Community-based Child
Growth and Nutrition Program and the National Markets Food Markets
initiative, which are expected to be key elements of the FSP.
4. Description
The project would approach under-nutrition and food insecurity as a
development crisis that is in the process of stunting people for life,
reducing life expectancy, and degrading household and community assets and
coping mechanisms, causing them to spiral downwards.The project is built
on the concept that the only way to strengthen people is to give them the
means to make themselves strong, and help them to take responsibility for
helping themselves. There have been too many initiatives to do things for
people, and this project would focus on helping people do things for
themselves. It would try to put purchasing power into the hands of
communities.It is proposed that the funds for the project would be made
available through 4 "windows":(a) grants to Communities/Kebeles - these
would take up the majority of project funds, and four different kinds of
grants would be offered (see below);(b) capacity building grants to
Woredas, Regions, and Federal Ministries for specific, project-related
activities;(c) investments undertaken at the federal and regional levels
in initiatives and policies to lower the costs of food marketing and
distribution throughout the country; and(d) investments in communications,
impact evaluation and administration of the flow of funds - a small
proportion of project funds.While the grants to communities would be at
the heart of the project, a portion of the project funds would be used for
food security related capacity building at Woreda, Region and Federal
levels, and for initiatives designed to increase the efficiency of food
marketing, and reduce real food prices.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost The total project cost would be about US$100 million,
with US$80 million coming from an IDA Credit, and US$20 million from other
donors and the Government. Approximately two thirds of the funds would be
allocated for grants to communities, about one quarter for capacity
building at Woreda, Regional and Federal Government levels, and 4 percent
each for investments to increase efficiency of food marketing, and for
communications, administration of the project, monitoring and evaluation.
6. Implementation
It is proposed that a National Food Security Council/Committee would
provide overall leadership. Its proposed membership would include the
Vice Ministers of Finance, MEDAC, Agriculture, Water, and Regional Affairs
(Prime Minister's Office), together with Heads of the Food Security Units
-3 -



of the Regions of Amhara, Oromiya, SNNP, and Tigray. Food Security
Councils/Committees would be established at Regional, Woreda, and Kebele
levels, and recently-established Food Security Units in each of the four
regions would be strengthened.A central Program Coordination Unit would
disburse funds to all implementing levels. Its functions would be
confined to facilitating and accounting for the flows, and it would not be
responsible for judging the merits of applications for funds or the uses
to which they were put.The project would aim at helping people do things
for themselves by putting purchasing power into the hands of communities.
The focus of the entire project would be on building productive assets -
financial, human, social, and natural resources. All asset building would
prepare people for better linking with the wider economy, while many parts
of the project would seek to reduce the isolation of communities in the
drought-prone, vulnerable Woredas.The project would begin by selecting
(from the Government's list of 156 vulnerable Woredas) a small number of
Woredas (Group A) that could qualify for receiving development funds to
pass on to Community/Kebeles. If the Woredas qualify, they would
immediately receive funds to pass on as grants to Kebeles. A small number
of additional Woredas (Group B) would be selected initially to receive
capacity-building grants designed to make them eligible to receive
development funds for Kebeles as soon as possible.All Kebeles in a Group A
Woreda would be offered development grants. A Kebele would apply to the
Woreda for a grant using a simple, standard application form that would
require it to provide a brief technical, administrative, and financial
plan for the activities it proposes to finance using the grant, with
details of community contributions in cash or labor. A Food Security
Council at the Woreda would receive the grant applications, and award
grants for eligible activities.Eligibility for the two main types of
grants to communities would be judged as follows:(a) capacity building -
automatic, upon having established a food security committee, held a
workshop, and set up an accounting system. These grants would be to help
communities procure any assistance they need to prepare a plan of action
for using the other grants. The plan of action would describe broadly the
community's proposals to use production grants.(b) production - these
would be the primary and predominant type of grant - to qualify, the
community would need to have prepared a broad plan of action, and to
present to the Woreda Food Security Council an acceptable proposal for
asset-building activities in the community. Eligible activities would
include almost any investments in income-raising enterprises - on farm or
off-farm, for a community-owned (common-use) resource, or for assets owned
by individual households. In the latter case, the application would need
to demonstrate that the asset-building was spread widely through the
community, was comprehensive in assisting as many households as possible
(whether directly or indirectly), and was appropriate to the situation of
different kinds of households of different economic status. The proposal
could include using a portion of the grant for procuring technical
assistance and training from registered NGOs or other agencies able to
provide such assistance. A proportion of the initial grant would be
required to be allocated to support a child growth promotion program
covering the whole community. The most important feature of the
application would be a persuasive case that the investments to be financed
by the grant would increase incomes, savings and income-producing assets
of the community. Upon certification - using a simple, standard form -
that a grant had been used for the proposed investments, the community
could apply for another, and then another. Over time, the certification
- 4 -



and the applications would have to demonstrate increasingly that incomes,
savings, and assets of the community were rising steadily, that the
community's own contributions to asset-building were increasing as a
proportion, and that the grants were encouraging, rather than interfering
with, the expansion of market-based production activities, and finance and
marketing services.In addition to these capacity-building and production
grants it may be necessary and useful to make provision for two other
kinds of grants, or alternatively to make the production grants flexible
enough to encompass the following two concepts:(a) entitlement - under
this concept, a kebele grant would be designed to help households that had
no assets other than labor, and wherever possible to develop a supporting
environment for productive investments. For able-bodied persons, such a
grant could finance employment in construction of infrastructure designed
to open up the community to the outside world. For persons too
under-nourished, sick, or elderly to be employed, the grant could finance
rehabilitative and caring measures, as well as providing a means to
increase and sustain their access to the market economy.(b) emergency -
under this concept, a kebele grant could be used to underpin the entire
development process, providing a risk management mechanism, and a means of
preventing asset gains made by using production and entitlement grants
from being lost when a community experienced a shock arising from natural
disasters or economically adverse events. Such a grant could be triggered
by criteria that could be measured objectively and accurately (e.g. not
estimates of yield declines in crops or livestock, but a measure of
rainfall deficit), and upon the criteria being met the grants could be
given to communities for their purchase of food or implementation of
relief operations and measures. Although their award would be triggered
by objectively measured events, the communities would have to demonstrate
that they were using them for acceptable activities, distributed across
communities in a widespread manner. A major aim of this grant mechanism
would be to persuade communities to adopt bold measures for financing with
their production and entitlement grants, in the confidence that their
livelihoods would be supported in the case of adversity. The cash grants
would be designed to replace food aid distribution, so in the case of food
shortfalls, it would be anticipated that purchase of food from outside the
community (and re-distribution by purchase within the community) would be
top priorities. The project would aim to test, adapt, and build financial
flow structures that would stand the test of time and in the long-term
could become the basis for a wider local government financing system.
Over time this system could increasingly accommodate other donors as they
move towards budget support and towards cash aid instead of food aid. In
addition to the grants to Kebeles, the project would support activities -
especially capacity building, and food marketing investments - at levels
of the Federal Government, Regional and Woreda governments. The community
grants would predominate, in order to increase incomes of people in
drought-prone areas, and to put purchasing power directly in their hands
to enable them to do that. The grants application and award processes
would be made as transparent as possible, with widespread flows of
information throughout the system. Among other things, lists of
applications received, and grants given, would be posted in many public
places in Woredas and Kebeles, made freely available in periodic meetings
of Kebele and Woreda Councils, and broadcast through public media such as
newspapers, radio and TV. Random audits would be undertaken to ensure
that the grants were being used in the ways intended.The project would
encourage the substantial use of workshops at all levels, and would
- 5 -



provide incentives for using a proportion of grants funds for this
purpose. The workshops would be part of enhanced communications
arrangements needed to facilitate the application and award of grants to
communities.Receipt of grants would be automatic in some cases (especially
for capacity-building), and for all other cases the approval processes
would be as simple as possible, with an emphasis on reducing
bureaucracy.Simplified procurement, disbursement, accounting and auditing
procedures would be used for communities (Africa Region's Guidelines for
Simplified Procurement and Disbursement, March 1998; see also Bank
Procurement Guidelines, Jan. 1999, Section 3.15 Community Participation in
Procurement). Local shopping, single-source selection, and direct
contracting would all be allowed under specified procedures. Random
audits would be undertaken to review the use of funds.A lack of bank
branches and facilities at Kebeles (and sometimes elsewhere) would be
addressed through use of mobile banking units or twice-a-week visits from
larger centers.To the maximum extent possible all activities financed by
grants would be contracted out to private individuals or groups whose
income-earning enterprises they would become. There would be, for
example, no more government or community owned plant nurseries, bull
stations, seed-cleaning establishments and the like, but all of these
would become private enterprises. The project would provide simple,
standard contract forms.Monitoring would be based to the maximum extent
possible on impact measures, such as increased incomes, increased savings
in local savings institutions, lower levels of stunting in children (and
perhaps under-nutrition in adults), increased "exports" to the outside
world, and other similar measures. In other words, less emphasis would be
placed on "process" measures such as kilometres of roads built, or number
of farmers visited by a Development Agent, and more on the resulting
increases in people's income.
7. Sustainability
The main issue of sustainability is whether the program of investments
that are undertaken with grants to communities will result in consistent,
effective gains in production, incomes, and savings in the target
communities, to the degree required to make such communities
self-provisioning, and economically self-sustaining over time. With food
aid programs in Ethipoia, there has been in some cases a development of
dependency on the food handouts, to the extent that sometimes the same
communities and households receive them year after year. This project
will put funds directly into the hands of communities, and encourage them
to seek good technical assistance, with the aim of maximizing the
incentives for the communities to use them for the most productive
investments. By making successor grants contingent on demonstrated
increases in production, incomes, and savings, and by underwriting the
risks of agricultural failures in drought years, it is envisaged that the
communities will move on to a sustained path of economic growth. By this
means, it should be possible to promote self-reliance, and reduce external
assistance over time. Sustainability beyond the implementation phase will
also to a degree depend on whether the roles of the public sector can be
re-defined successfully to allow room for the private sector to develop at
the local level. Rural financial markets must also be developed to permit
investment in productive activities that provide small entrepreneurs with
means to grow competitively.A second issue is the speed at which funds
will be able to flow to the communities, in other words the speed of
disbursement of the IDA Credit. In view of slow movement on the latest
- 6 -



SIPs in the social sectors, and slow establishment of financing and
accounting mechanisms, there is concern about the shape of the financing
instrument, and its implications for speed of both processing and
implementation. By making application and screening procedures as simple
as possible, by providing that repeat grants will be linked to
demonstrated progress on a few key indicators, by designing the grants
system to be transparent and open, by agreeing with the Government that
there would be no offset against regular budgetary provisions to the
Regions, and by providing ample funds for capacity building at all levels,
it is envisaged that the funds will flow as rapidly as the accounting
systems can be established.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
In 1988, the World Bank launched a Food Security Initiative in the Africa
Region and established a Food Security Unit in the Africa Technical
Department, with five higher level staff. The Unit continued until 1993,
when it was subsumed into a newly established Poverty Division, and by
1994 it had lost its separate identity. In 1996, the Poverty Division
became part of a larger Institutional and Social Policy Group. During its
5-6 year lifetime the Food Security Unit supported preparation by the
Operations Divisions of the Africa Region of 12 country food security
reports, six stand-alone food security projects (Benin, Burkina Faso,
Cameroon, Madagascar, Mozambique, and Rwanda), and 2 major studies - on
food aid, and on food security in the context of disasters such as
droughts. Lessons learned from this experience, noted by Thierry Brun and
Keiko Kokubun, "The Food Security Initiative in the Africa Region: Status
Report, June 1998" include the following:(a) the Poverty Task Force
concluded that reducing chronic food insecurity and poverty are virtually
the same task;(b) the food security initiative did not intervene
sufficiently comprehensively in food systems (the ways in which food is
grown, imported, transported, stored, marketed, processed, distributed
among consumers, prepared, and consumed), which are generally inefficient,
with high marketing margins, and uneven product quality;(c) many of the
studies and sector work pieces did not achieve a deep understanding of the
complex causes of food insecurity in specific country settings; their
general recommendations were not sufficiently derived from the country's
circumstances;(d) stand-alone projects demonstrated that reducing chronic
malnutrition requires a combined approach of production, income
generation, and education of childcare-providers;(e) stand-alone projects
demonstrated the capacity of rural communities to use additional resources
in a cost-effective way for poverty reduction, but were not enough, by
themselves, to increase food security at the national level;(f)
substantial work is needed to develop good indicators of household food
insecurity, and the indicators should be used in the context of
participatory, community-level self-monitoring and evaluation, which leads
to program modification in the event that not enough progress is being
made;(g) transitory food insecurity (arising from droughts, pest attacks,
civil unrest, and other human-made disruptions of food production and
consumption) is dealt with by food aid, food/cash-for-work schemes, and
strategic storage schemes, with a reasonable degree of success.These
lessons have been incorporated into the current project by including major
components aimed at increasing the efficiency of national food markets,
and directly attacking child undernutrition through community-based child
growth promotion efforts; using a financing mechanism designed to put
funds directly into the hands of communities to be used for raising
-7 -



production, incomes, and savings; acknowledging that improving food
security requires a complex set of actions including reducing the risks
faced by destitute people; proposing indicators that measure directly
increases in incomes and savings, and reduction in under-nutrition in
children, and that make communities responsible for reporting progress;
linking interventions to address chronic food insecurity (the focus of
this project) with others that address transitory food insecurity (largely
supported by other projects), acknowledging that the transitory problems
can turn into chronic ones without action. A significant part of the
report of the multi-donor team that reviewed the FSP considered past food
security initiatives. This section summarizes this critique of food aid,
nutrition initiatives, emergency and relief operations, safety nets, food
for work programs, women's programs, NRM, agricultural development, and
rural development.Food Aid. Despite large amounts of food aid, this has
had very little impact on under-nutrition in the country, mainly because
it has been insufficient and poorly distributed across regions and within
households. In the past decade, there have been few initiatives
addressing directly the manifest problems of under-nutrition in the
country. The Government has reduced substantially the size of the
Ethiopia Nutrition Research Institute, which used to be a strong body, and
has absorbed it into wider organisations dealing primarily with health.
UNICEF has been supporting small programs in Vitamin A distribution, and
limited nutrition surveillance in combination with immunization. The
Government has not provided sufficient budget funds for these efforts, and
they have remained small and with spotty coverage. The World Food
Programme supports supplementary feeding programs in urban areas, reaching
a small number of women and children with FAMIX, a locally produced and
rather expensive blended food. The impact of this program is good among
those with whom it is working, and a lesson from the program is that
supplementary feeding does best when combined with health care, and health
and nutrition education. A school feeding program implemented by WFP,
that started in 1994, now reaches more than 200,000 students. The
positive lesson from programs of this nature is that alleviating
short-term hunger is important for mental function and educational
outcomes. On the other hand, these programs do almost nothing to address
the underlying causes of malnutrition, and the food they provide is often
offset by reductions in provision to vulnerable persons arising from the
mistaken belief that the supplements are a substitution for food regularly
provided. Furthermore, they do not reach children at the critical weaning
age. The FSP therefore proposes to attack directly the underlying causes
of malnutrition, which includes access to food and dietary
practices.Vulnerability Assessments. Measurements of vulnerability, such
as those conducted by the Emergency Food Security Reserve Administration
and the Disaster Prevention and Preparedness Commission, have been
inadequate, although there has been considerable progress through the work
of the Famine Early Warning System, the Vulnerability Assessment Mapping
Unit, and the Save the Children Fund (UK). There is little doubt that
improving this assessment will help planners and researchers to target
relief and resources and strengthen coping mechanisms of food insecure
household, and the FSP should include provisions to help achieve this. The
concept of cycles of asset buildup and depletion that is at the heart of
coping strategies is a particularly useful one for planning food security
programs, and is used as a guiding and justifying principle for this
project. The project will try to replenish and develop the assets of
vulnerable communities, households and individuals, increasing the
- 8 -



resistance of such communities to future shocks, building up and
strengthening their own coping ability. Ethiopia's Safety Net Programme
(SNP). This program combined successfully relief and development to offset
the adverse effects on target groups of a major reform initiative in
1993-94. The SNP was short-lived, but demonstrated many important lessons,
such as the capacity of sub-regional bodies to develop and implement a
complex program at low cost. It also showed that simple small loans to
destitute groups can help increase sustainable incomes. The findings from
the SNP will be built into the FSP by including risk management activities
among those funded by the community grants.Food For Work Programs. The
WFP's food-for-work program has been operating since 1980 and is the
largest of its kind in Africa. Since in the initial years monitoring was
poor, it has not been easy to judge its success, but there have been many
criticisms of its long delays in food payments, inappropriate design, poor
technical planning, and lack of follow-up and maintenance. Among other
things, experience with this and other food-for-work and employment
schemes shows that there have been cases where structures have
deliberately been allowed to degrade, sometimes because the structures
were not designed properly, sometimes because communities did not
understand the principles of their design, and sometimes because of an
assumption that future employment generation and food-for-work schemes
would take place to rehabilitate and/or maintain the structures. There
have been many instances of disconnects between soil conservation measures
and farmers perceived needs, and WFP acknowledges that it was a mistake to
provide food in return for maintenance activities. Because of the long
period of implementation, still ongoing, there have been opportunities to
redress mistakes and change direction. The current phase of the project
is using a strong community participation approach (called Local Level
Participatory Planning) to enhance local ownership of assets, combined
with extensive training of field staff (in such subjects as biological
measures of soil conservation, aerial photograph interpretation, land
classification methods, and integrated soil and water conservation
packages) to improve the appropriateness of technical solutions. There is
an increasing emphasis on small-scale schemes at community levels (such as
village ponds, small irrigation, water harvesting, and spring development,
all integrated with vegetative soil conservation measures, and close
attention to improving soil management). The WFP program has also
improved monitoring by designing more sharply focused and relevant
indicators, and trying to have monitoring done more at community level.
Since the FSP will be implemented in areas where food-for-work programs
have been, and may continue to be carried out, the FSP will link its focus
on chronic food insecurity with other focuses on transitory food
insecurity, and keep under close and continuous review the lessons from
WFP's experience.Women's Programs. There has been an almost total lack of
study in Ethiopia of the participation of rural women in labor intensive
public works such as those that are central to most relief and development
activities involving food security assistance. In the absence of
knowledge about the impact of these programs on women, there remains a
crucial gap between perceptions that women have already an enormous labor
burden (fetching water and fuel wood, grinding cereals by hand, caring for
children, managing food provision in the household, and sustaining a
considerable load of agricultural work especially weeding), and the
expectation that they will be able to participate in significant numbers
in public works programs. In fact, although women do take part in public
works schemes, the paradox of relief from labour through labour remains
- 9-



unresolved in the planning of almost all such schemes. The FSP will
incorporate into its monitoring components carefully designed indicators
of the project's impact by gender, and the effects of gender in causing
shortfalls in achievement. It will also seek ways to incorporate gender
impact proposals into the criteria communities would have to meet in
successfully submitting proposals for receiving grant funding.Agricultural
and Rural Development Projects. Many of these projects undertaken in
Ethiopia in the past have been implemented in the higher potential regions
with more reliable rainfall and better soils. These regions were chosen
because it was expected that the gains in production and incomes would be
greater than those anywhere else in the country. Because the FSP is now
planning to move into regions of less reliable rainfall, where the risks
of agricultural production are greater, experience in past projects may
not be a useful guide to how to proceed. Nevertheless, the main elements
of agricultural development initiatives are similar, and some lessons can
be drawn:(a) One important lesson is that an unfavorable policy
environment - especially for grain marketing - constrained significantly
the achievements of some of the rural development projects that were
otherwise reasonably successful on the technical side. (b) Uptake of
improved agricultural technology will be the key in the more drought-prone
regions as well, but the natural conditions in these deficit regions are
quite uninviting for this model of development, with farmers less able to
take the risk of adopting packages of inputs involving cash expenditures
when the likelihood of these expenditures being lost because of adverse
climatic events is much greater. This points to the need for a strong
focus in the FSP on risk management.(c) The more drought-prone regions
need more comprehensive packages of interventions than do the better
endowed regions, packages in which good management is needed of a number
of techniques, all working together. Such packages include soil and water
management, plant nutrient generation and recycling, more drought tolerant
and pest resistant varieties of crops, improved post harvest management,
and in some areas a move away from traditional food crops to specialized
oilseeds, fruits and vegetables, and livestock activities suitable to
specific areas, whose outputs can be sold for cash, and even in some cases
exported from the lower potential zone for cash returns. The focus in
such systems is more on management than on inputs, which puts a premium on
the skills of farmers, and an emphasis on thorough understanding of the
farming systems, and thorough training programs. While this may initially
suggest a much more comprehensive and well-trained extension service, the
reality is that such an intervention is also less affordable and
sustainable in the lower potential agricultural areas. Just as every
ounce of gain must be squeezed from scarce agricultural inputs in such
circumstances, so much more economical extension systems must be found,
such as those using the "farmer to farmer" approach successfully tried in
Tigray under the Shire Integrated Food Security Programme. Some promising
experience being gained with woreda based poultry rearing and dairy goat
development may point the way to small livestock activities that can
provide valuable cash and/nutrition supplements to food insecure
households.(d) Just as agricultural development in the lower rainfall
regions requires a more comprehensive package of initiatives, the lesser
potential for agriculture implies that off-farm employment opportunities
and deliberate development of these, loom larger in the development
strategy. Such activities are, however, also harder to develop in the
lower potential regions, because agriculture even there is frequently both
the main engine of growth, as well as the main source of the growth
- 10 -



linkages that are the best way to stimulate off-farm employment and income
generation opportunities. Furthermore, the capital needed to develop
off-farm enterprises is usually at lower levels in these poorer regions.
Therefore, at a minimum, the links between the lower potential and the
higher potential agricultural regions should be developed to the maximum
extent possible, with increased investments in roads, health and
education, so that people in the lower potential regions may take
advantage of lower real food prices from more efficient inter-regional
marketing of food, of migration where opportunities present themselves,
and of economic opportunities opened up by comparative advantage and the
beginnings of specialization which may accompany well-distributed economic
growth. Although the FSP will not be large enough itself to encompass all
the necessary investments, the project would try to ensure that funds from
large national programs especially the multi-donor roads, education and
health programs would be focused on the selected Woredas to the extent
needed to further enhance the growth of the local economies and link them
to the national economy.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Yes
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        As environmental factors are perceived to play a
key role in the current level of chronic food insecurity in the program
target areas, they have long been considered central to any policy or
strategy development, or proposed programs aiming to increase agricultural
production and household food security. Environmental rehabilitation
therefore is a key component within the food security project with a view
to building up and sustaining the natural resource base. Through soil and
water conservation, reforestation, and controlled grazing measures, the
target areas will be ecologically stabilized. The farmers, supported by
extension services and by provision of inputs, will increase land
productivity. Livestock production with improved feed management will have
a positive effect on the effort being made to rehabilitate and stabilize
the natural grazing land in particular and the resource base in general.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
W. Graeme Donovan
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-4182
Fax: 202-477-0515
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
- 11 -



not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
February 8, 2002.
- 12 -



