Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3646 ET
Development Credit Agreement
(Food Security Project)
between
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 24, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER 3646 ET
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 24, 2002, between FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC 
OF ETHIOPIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association).
Page  2
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in 
the financing of the Project; 
(B)
the Association has received a letter dated April 25, 2002, from the Borrower, 
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies (the Program) designed to strengthen the 
Borrower’s efforts and actions aimed at increasing access by its population, at all times, to 
sufficient food in terms of quantity, quality and diversity, and thereby reducing the incidence of 
poverty, specifically with respect to the most vulnerable social groups, and declaring therein the 
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Beneficiary Community” means any group of 5 or more people in the territory 
of the Borrower sharing a common aim; any cooperative organization, CBO (as hereinafter 
defined), gender-based or child-advancement group, youth organization, and Committee on Food 
Security (as hereinafter defined), to whom an IGA Grant (as hereinafter defined) under Part A of 
the Project is made or proposed to be made;
(b)
“
Birr
” means the currency of the Borrower;
(c)
“CB Grant” and “Capacity Building Grant” mean a grant made or proposed to be 
made under Part B of the Project to a 
Woreda 
(as hereinafter defined),
or a Region (as hereinafter 
defined);
(d)
“CB Grant Agreement” means the Agreement to be entered into between a 
Recipient (as hereinafter defined) being either a 
Woreda
 and a Regional Government, or a 
Page  3
Regional Food Security Coordination Office and a Region, for the purpose of financing a 
Subproject for the carrying out of capacity building activities;
(e)
“CB Subproject” means a specific activity in training and capacity building to 
benefit a 
Woreda
 or a Region of the Borrower utilizing the proceeds of a CB Grant made under 
Part B of the Project;
(f)
“Community Based Organization” and “CBO” mean a group of individuals of a 
particular community in the Borrower's territory, registered in accordance with the Borrower’s 
laws, and which is the beneficiary of an IGA Grant (as hereinafter defined) or the Recipient of a 
CB Grant under the Project;
(g)
“Donor” means any country, government or multilateral agency, public or 
private financial institution, development finance institution or international organization, which 
is proposing to make, or has made, financing available to the Borrower on a grant basis or under 
concessional terms to support a development program of the Borrower;
(h)
“Financial Monitoring Report” and “FMR” mean each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(i)
“Fiscal Year” and “FY” mean the Borrower's fiscal year beginning July 8 and 
ending July 7 of the next calendar year;
(j)
“Food Security Department” and “FSD” mean the structure under the authority 
of MRD responsible for the coordination of Project activities at federal level, and referred to in 
Section 6.01 (e) of this Agreement;
(k)
“Food Security Steering Committee” and “FSSC” mean the steering committee 
established at federal level for the overall leadership and guidance on food security interventions 
in the territory of the Borrower;
(l)
“IGA Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by a 
Woreda
 to a 
Beneficiary Community for the carrying out of an IGA Subproject for an Income Generating 
Activity (as hereinafter defined);
(m)
“IGA Grant Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between a 
Beneficiary Community and a 
Woreda
 for the purpose of financing the carrying out of an IGA 
Subproject;
(n)
“IGA Subproject” means a specific project in income generation to be carried 
out by a Beneficiary Community utilizing the proceeds of a Grant made under Part A of the 
Project;
(o)
“Income Generating Activity” and “IGA” mean, for purposes of the Project, any 
activity designed to increase household and community assets and incomes as further set forth in 
the Project Implementation Manual;
(p)
“IEC” means Information, Education, and Communication;
(q)
“KFSC” means Kebele Food Security Committee, a committee of the Borrower 
Page  4
established at Kebele (as hereinafter defined) level to appraise and approve eligible IGA Grants;
(r)
“MoFED” means the Borrower's Ministry of Finance and Economic 
Development;
(s)
“MRD” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Rural Development;
(t)
“MOU” means a memorandum of understanding to be entered into for purpose 
of Project implementation between MRD and a Region; 
(u)
“NBE” means the National Bank of Ethiopia, the Borrower’s central bank;
(v)
“NGO” means a Non-Governmental Organization established and operating 
under the laws of the Borrower;
(w)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 6.01 
(c) of this Agreement consisting of different modules setting out respectively, 
inter alia
, the 
administrative, financial and accounting procedures; the procurement and disbursement 
procedures; eligibility criteria for: (i) Beneficiary Communities and Recipients; (ii) Subprojects 
for Income Generating Activities under Part A of the Project, including the environmental 
assessments thereof; and (iii) Subprojects for capacity building; terms and conditions for related 
Grant Agreements, including procurement and accounting procedures thereof; performance 
indicators to be used for the Project, and other activities and arrangements to be used for the 
purpose of implementing the Project, to be adopted by the Borrower not later than the Effective 
Date, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes any schedules to 
the Project Implementation Manual;
(x)
“Project Account” means the Account referred to in Section 3.04 of this 
Agreement;
(y)
“Project Year” and “PY” mean each twelve month period during Project 
Implementation starting from the day after the Effective Date;
(z)
“Recipient” means a 
Woreda
 or Region of the Borrower to which a Capacity 
Building Grant under Part B of the Project is made, or proposed to be made;
(aa)
“Region” means an administrative area within the Borrower’s territory as 
defined in the Borrower’s Constitution;
(bb)
“Regional Food Security Coordination Office” and “RFSCO” mean the regional 
project coordination unit responsible for the coordination of Project activities at regional level, 
and referred to in Section 6.01 (e) of this Agreement;
(cc)
“Regional and Local Government” means the government of a Borrower’s 
administrative area defined in the Borrower’s Constitution;
(dd)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; 
(ee)
“Subsidiary Financing Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
Page  5
between a Region and a 
Woreda
; for the purpose of financing an IGA Subproject under Part A of 
the Project;
(ff)
“
Woreda
 Development Committee” means a development committee established 
under the Project in selected parts of the Borrower’s 
Amhara
, 
Oromiya
, 
SNNP
, and 
Tigray
Regions to carry out the appraisal and approval of eligible IGA Subprojects; and
(gg)
“Zones, 
Woreda
s, and 
Kebeles
” mean different local government levels within 
the Borrower’s territory established and operating pursuant to the relevant Regional 
Constitutions.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to sixty-eight million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
68,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for (i) expenditures made (or, if 
the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) 
amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be paid) by FSD on account of withdrawals 
made for the benefit of a Beneficiary Community or a Recipient under an IGA Grant or a CB 
Grant respectively, to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services required for an IGA 
Subproject or a CB Subproject, to be financed under Parts A and B, respectively, of the Project, 
and in respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purpose of the Project, open and maintain in Dollars 
a
special deposit account in NBE on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2009 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the date 
of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn 
Page  6
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 
immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall repay 
the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
May 15 and November 15 commencing November 15, 2012 and ending May 15, 2042. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on May 15, 2022 shall be one percent 
(1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such 
principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's 
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of 
the Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
Page  7
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the modification 
referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts 
of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the 
principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the 
Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the 
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to 
conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of  the United States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate agricultural, health, public utility, 
administrative practices, and with due regard for environmental practices and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan designed to ensure the 
continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Page  8
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04
Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower, for the purposes of making available its counterpart contribution to the 
financing of the Project, shall:
(a)
open and maintain, for the duration of the Project, an account (the Project 
Account) in 
Birr
 in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
promptly thereafter, make an initial deposit into the Project Account, in an 
amount equivalent to 
Birr
 7,500,000 to finance the Borrower’s contribution to the Project;
(c)
thereafter deposit into the Project Account by
 
July 31
 
in each Fiscal Year during 
Project implementation such amount as shall be required to timely replenish the Project Account 
back to the amount of the initial deposit referred to in paragraph (b) above; and
(d)
ensure that amounts deposited into the Project Account shall be used exclusively 
to make payments to meet expenditures made or to be made in respect of the
 
reasonable cost of 
goods and services for the Project in addition to those financed from the proceeds of the Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for 
such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records 
and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
Page  9
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account 
were made on the basis of Financial Monitoring Reports and statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Financial Monitoring Reports 
and statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting obligations 
set out in paragraph 7 (a), (b) and (c) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement
,
the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar 
quarter after the Effective Date, and thereafter not later than 45 days after each calendar quarter, 
a
Financial Monitoring Report for such period, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association which:
(i)
sets forth actual and projected sources and uses of funds for the Project, 
both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds 
provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the projected and 
actual sources and uses of such 
funds;
(ii)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for 
the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the previously 
forecast and actual 
implementation targets; and
Page  10
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the 
period 
covered by said report.
(b)
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the 
incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar 
quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after 
each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that a situation shall have arisen which shall make it 
improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof will be carried out.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of 
the General Conditions: 
(a)
the Borrower has established the accounting and financial management system 
for the Project referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement, satisfactory to the Association; 
(b)
the Borrower has opened the Project Account pursuant to Section 3.04 (a) of this 
Agreement and has deposited therein the initial deposit referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this 
Agreement;
(c)
the Borrower has adopted the Project Implementation Manual in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association;
(d)
the Borrower has completed the work program, including the budget and the 
procurement plan for the first year of Project implementation, satisfactory in form and substance 
to the Association; and 
(e)
the Borrower has staffed FSD and all RFSCOs with personnel having experience 
and qualifications satisfactory to the Association, including for FSD: (i) a Project Coordinator, 
(ii) a Financial Officer, (iii) a Procurement Officer, and (iv) a Monitoring and Evaluation 
Officer, and has employed them in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Page  11
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Economic Development of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance and Economic Development
Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
P.O. Box 1905
Addis Ababa,
Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
Cable address:
Telex:
21147
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
Page  12
/s/
Kassahun Ayele
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
/s/
Ishac Diwan
By
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
2,400,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
90 % of local
expenditures
(2)
Consultants’
8,100,000
100 % of foreign
services and training
expenditures and 
85% of local
expenditures
(3)
Grants
51,900,000
100% of
amounts disbursed
(4)
Operating costs
2,600,000
70 %
Page  13
(5)
Unallocated
3,100,000
68,100,000
TOTAL
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term “operating costs” means the incremental expenses incurred on account 
of Project implementation, including audits, office equipment and supplies, vehicle operation and 
maintenance, communication and insurance costs, office administration costs, utilities, travel, per 
diem and supervision costs, salaries of locally contracted employees, but excluding salaries of 
officials of the Borrower's civil service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)
Category (3), unless: (i) an IGA Grant Agreement has been entered into between 
a 
Woreda
 and a Beneficiary Community; and (ii) a CB Grant Agreement has been entered into 
between: (A) a 
Woreda 
and a Regional Government, or (B) RFSCO and a Regional or Local 
government, all in accordance with the procedures and the terms and conditions referred to in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement and set forth in detail in the Project Implementation Manual, as 
shall be evidenced by the first such IGA Grant Agreement and CB Grant Agreement furnished to 
the Association for its prior approval. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods under contracts costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent each; (ii) services under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each for consulting firms and less than $30,000 equivalent each for individual 
consultants; (iii) grants; and (iv) operating costs, under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Page  14
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to build the resource base of poorer rural households, 
increase their employment and incomes, reduce their real costs of food, and improve their
 
nutrition levels especially for children under five years of age, pregnant and lactating women.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Support to Communities
1.
Provision of grants to 
Woredas
 for the benefit of Beneficiary Communities for the 
carrying out of community-initiated subprojects in income generation or asset increasing 
activities, including, 
inter alia,
 diversification of agriculture, small-scale irrigation, development 
of dairy activities, soil conservation and water harvesting catchment investments, agro- 
processing and marketing, crop enhancement, and child growth promotion activities such as 
weighing, inadequate weight gain identification and counseling, community recommendations 
about improved feeding, health and collective child-care needs. 
2.
Provision of technical advisory services to Beneficiary Communities for the 
identification, preparation and processing of IGA Subprojects.
3.
Carrying out of workshops, meetings and seminars for dissemination of Project concepts 
and procedures, training of trainers, facilitators, and supervisors.
4.
Carrying out of advocacy activities and social mobilization for the promotion of 
community-based child growth initiatives.
5.
Acquisition of goods and equipment for nutritional purposes, including drugs and 
micronutrients.
6.
Carrying out of a communication strategy for child growth promotion.
Part B:
Institutional Capacity Building
1.
Provision of technical advisory services and carrying out of workshops, study tours and 
training programs for capacity building in income generation activities and child growth 
promotion interventions for selected personnel of various agencies of the Borrower involved in 
Project implementation at 
Woreda
, regional and federal levels.
2.
Acquisition
of office equipment, vehicles, transport animals and other transport material 
and equipment.
Page  15
3.
Provision of CB Grants to 
Woredas, R
egions and federal ministries of the Borrower for 
the carrying out of training activities.
Part C:
Food Marketing Initiatives
Improving the marketing, trading, transportation and processing of food in order to 
reduce transaction costs thereof and improve food security through the carrying out of studies 
for:
(a)
an improved management of food aid to secure a stable price 
environment for producers and traders;
(b)
the establishment of a market information system for analyzing food 
trade market and price trends for the private sector;
(c)
the development of a warehouse receipt and food inventory credit system 
for traders; and
(d)
the development of a competitive and efficient market in warehousing 
services sufficient to support a warehouse receipt system.
Part D:
Communication Interventions
1.
Design and implementation of a communications strategy for enhancing the quality of 
IGA and CB Subprojects and child growth promotion interventions, including dissemination of 
lessons learned and good practices, of said strategy.
2.
Carrying out a message and materials development workshop with representatives of all 
levels of government, Donors, NGOs and the private sector. 
Part E:
Project Administration And Monitoring
1.
Supporting Project coordination activities of: (i) FSD at federal level, and (ii) RFSCOs at 
regional level.
2.
Establishment of a monitoring and evaluation system for the Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2008.
Page  16
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines).
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $700,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National or International Shopping
Page  17
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national or international shopping procedures, subject to local availability of such goods, 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 or less equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $1,000,000 may be procured from the Inter-Agency Procurement Services 
Office (IAPSO) of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) or the United Nations 
Procurement Agency (UNIPAC) in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the 
Guidelines.
4.
Community Participation
Goods and works required for IGA and CB Subprojects under Parts A and B of the 
Project shall be procured in accordance with the Project Implementation Manual and procedures 
acceptable to the Association.
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have 
been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract procured under competitive bidding and estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more for goods, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first 3 contracts procured under shopping procedures and 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or less each, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the execution of any contract under shopping procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Association a report on the comparison 
and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy of the 
Page  18
specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and revised in September 
1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines).
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list 
of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for financial and technical audits and services of a standard nature estimated to 
cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Page  19
Services for architectural design, civil works supervision, preparation of bidding 
documents and training estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $2 million, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services for simple tasks which are estimated to cost less than $5,000 equivalent per 
contract, and local community services, not to exceed $250,000 in the aggregate, may with the 
Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 
through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for the organization of seminars, the carrying out of small studies, and tasks that 
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have 
been given.
Page  20
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Institutional arrangements
1.
(a)
The Borrower shall maintain FSD and RFSCOs at all times during Project 
implementation: 
(i)
to be responsible for the coordination of Project activities at federal and 
regional levels, including financial management thereof; and 
(iii)
with staff having qualifications, experience and under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Association, including, 
inter alia, 
a Project Coordinator, a Financial Officer and an Assistant 
Financial Officer, a Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist, a Communication and Information 
Specialist and a Procurement Specialist. 
(b)
The Borrower shall maintain FSD under the administrative authority of the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Rural Development.
2.
The Borrower shall maintain the National Food Security Steering Committee for overall 
leadership and guidance at all times during Project implementation. NFSSC shall be comprised 
of representatives of: (i) the Ministries of Finance and Economic Development, Rural 
Development, Agriculture, Health, Water resource Development, Federal Affairs, and Women’s 
Affairs; and (ii) the heads of RFSCOs for the 
Amhara, Oromiya, SNNP and Tigray
 Regions.
Execution covenants
3.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare and furnish to the Association by June 30, 2003, or such later date as the 
Association and the Borrower shall agree, multi-annual targets for monetized food aid as 
identified, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
based upon the recommendations of a study, prepare and furnish to the 
Association not later than December 31, 2003, a plan to ensure a competitive and efficient 
market in warehousing services sufficient to support a warehouse receipt system,
 
in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, and thereafter not later than June 30, 2004 implement 
Page  21
such plan;
(c)
carry out, not later than June 30, 2003, a study for the establishment of an 
information system to provide the private sector food trade with quality analysis of market and 
price trends, thereafter establish, not later than December 31, 2003,
a funding mechanism for 
such system;
(d)
develop, not later than December 31, 2003, a legal framework for the 
establishment of a warehouse receipt and inventory credit system; and thereafter establish, not 
later than June 30, 2004, the relevant regulatory capacity;
(e)
prepare and furnish to the Association, not later than December 31, 2002, 
guidelines for NGO participation in the Project, including assistance to communities with 
planning and implementation of income generation activities; and 
(f)
prepare and furnish to the Association annual progress reports of procurement 
activities under the Project, commencing one calendar year after the Effective Date.
4.
The Borrower shall: (i) maintain the Project Implementation Manual and all schedules 
thereof for the implementation of all components of the Project; (ii) take all measures necessary 
to ensure that the Project is carried out in conformity with the Project Implementation Manual; 
and (iii) not amend or waive any provision thereof, which in the opinion of the Association may 
materially and adversely affect the implementation of the
Project.
Eligibility Criteria for IGA Subprojects and CB Subprojects 
5.
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph 4 of this Schedule, no Subproject shall 
be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit unless: (i) a 
Kebele
 Food Security 
Committee or a 
Woreda 
Development Committee shall have determined, on the basis of an 
appraisal conducted in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the Project Implementation 
Manual, that the IGA Subproject satisfies the eligibility criteria specified in the Project 
Implementation Manual; and (ii) RFSCO shall have determined, on the basis of an appraisal 
conducted in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the Project Implementation Manual, that 
the CB Subproject satisfies the eligibility criteria specified in the Project Implementation 
Manual, all of which shall include the following:
(a)
the Subproject shall be for the carrying out of: (i) income generating activities; 
and (ii) training and capacity building services for improved service delivery, administrative and 
advisory capacity to local governments and Beneficiary Communities;
(b)
the Subproject shall be responsive and demand-driven, prepared by (i) a 
Beneficiary Community under Part A of the Project, submitted to and technically appraised by a 
KFSC and approved by a 
Woreda
 Development Committee; and (ii) a Local or Regional
 
Government, under Part B of the Project, submitted to and technically appraised by and approved 
Page  22
by a RFSCO; and
(c)
the IGA Subproject and the CB Subproject shall be in compliance with the 
standards set forth in the laws of the Borrower relating to safety and environmental protection.
Terms and conditions of the IGA Grant Agreements and CB Grant Agreements
6.
In financing: (i) an IGA Subproject, a 
Woreda 
shall enter into an IGA Grant Agreement 
with a Beneficiary Community; and (ii) a CB Subproject, a regional government or a RFSCO
 
shall enter into a CB Grant Agreement with a Recipient, all of which shall set forth the respective 
obligations of the parties thereunder, under terms and conditions which shall include the 
following:
(a)
financing for the Subproject shall be on a grant basis, not to exceed $18,000 
equivalent per IGA Grant Agreement and $25,000 equivalent per CB Grant Agreement; 
(b)
the requirement that the goods, works and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the IGA Grant Agreement and the CB Grant Agreement shall be procured in 
conformity with the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement and that such goods, 
works and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the IGA Subproject and the 
CB Subproject;
(c)
the requirement that the proceeds of the IGA Grant Agreement and the CB Grant 
Agreement be used exclusively for the purposes specified in the IGA Subproject and the CB 
Subproject as approved;
(d)
the requirement that each Beneficiary Community, 
Woreda
,
Region, Federal 
Ministry, and Recipient maintain an accounting and financial management system, including 
records and separate accounts, in a format satisfactory to the relevant approving authorities, 
reflecting the operations, resources and expenditures related to the IGA Subprojects and CB
 
Subprojects;
(e)
the right of 
Woreda 
Development Committee
,
FSD and RFSCO
 
to inspect by 
themselves or jointly with the Association the services, goods, works and constructions included 
in the IGA Subproject and the CB Subproject, the operation thereof and any record or relevant 
document; and
(f)
the right of a 
Woreda
 Development Committee, (FSD and RFSCO) to (A) 
suspend or terminate the right of a Beneficiary Community or a Recipient to use the proceeds of 
the Credit thus made available upon failure by such 
Woreda,
 Regional or Local Government, or 
Recipient to perform any of its obligations under the IGA Grant Agreement or the CB Grant 
Agreement; (B) the subsequent refund by the 
Woreda
 or
the Recipient of any such proceeds upon 
the occurrence of the foregoing suspension or termination of rights under an IGA Grant 
Page  23
Agreement or a CB Grant Agreement. 
Reviews
7.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association, on or about December 31, 2004, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said 
report, including procurement thereof, and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by June 30, 2005 or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and 
the Association’s views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $6,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $2,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all 
Page  24
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 5,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special Account at 
such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn 
by the Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, 
at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Page  25
Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
Page  26
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Performance Indicators
Unless otherwise agreed to by the Association, for the purpose of this Agreement, the 
performance indicators to be used for the implementation of the Project are as follows:
1.
Participation by 
Woredas
 and 
Kebeles
Number of 
Woredas
 and 
Kebeles
 participating in the project meets or exceeds agreed targets set 
forth in the Project Implementation Manual.
2.
Flow of funds to beneficiary communities
Grant flows to 
Woredas
 and 
Kebeles
 meets or exceeds agreed targets set forth in the Project 
Implementation Manual.
3.
Food Marketing Interventions
Food price data collected more frequently for a wider range of markets and products, capacity to 
analyze food markets enhanced, and findings widely disseminated.
4.
Gender Participation
At least 25% women participation in capacity building and income generating activities.
