                                  Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR00001850



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                (IDA-36460 IDA-3646A TF-51169 TF-52696)



                                      ON A

                                      CREDIT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 68.1 MILLION
                      (US$85.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

              FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA

                                      FOR A

                         FOOD SECURITY PROJECT



                               October 31, 2011




Agriculture and Rural Development
Sustainable Development Department
Ethiopia Country Department – AFCE3
Africa Region
                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2010)

                   Currency Unit = Ethiopian Birr (ETB)
                            1.00 = US$ 13.595
                         US$ 1.00 = SDR 1.4789

                              FISCAL YEAR
                        Ethiopian Fiscal Year (EFY)
                               July 8 – July 7
                            EFY04 ~ IDA FY12

                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BPR     Business Process Re-engineering
CBN     Community Based Nutirition
CCI     Complementary Community Investments
CDD     Community Driven Development
CGP     Child Growth Promotion
CSA     Central Statistical Agency
ECX     Ethiopia Commodity Exchange
EFY     Ethiopian Fiscal Year
EMP     Environmental Management Plan
ESMF    Environmental and Social Management Framework
ETB     Ethiopian Birr
FAO     Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FM      Financial Management
FMR     Financial Monitoring Reports
FSP     Food Security Project GoE                Government of Ethiopia
HABP    Household Asset Building Program
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
ICR     Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA     International Development Association
IFPRI   International Food Policy Research Institute
IFR     Interim Unaudited Financial Report
IGA     Income Generating Activities
ISN     Interim Strategy Note
ISR     Implementation Status and Results Report
KDC     Kebele Development Committee
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MFIs    Microfinance Institutions
MPC     Multipurpose Cooperatives
MTR     Mid-Term Review
NFSP    National Food Security Program
NFSS    National Food Security Strategy
NNP     National Nutrition Program
OFSP    Other Food Security Program
PAD     Project Appraisal Document
PCU       Project Coordination Unit
PDO       Project Development Objectives
PIM       Project Implementation Manual
PSNP      Productive Safety Nets Program
RuSACCo   Rural Saving and Credit Cooperative
SDPRP     Sustainable Development and Poverty Reduction Program
SNNPR     Southern Nations Nationalities and Peoples Region
SOE       Statements of Expenditures
SDR       Standard Drawing Rights
UNICEF    United Nations Children’s Fund
USD       United States Dollar
WFP       World Food Programme




                         Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
                       Country Director: R. Gregory Toulmin
                        Sector Manager: Karen McConnell Brooks
                   Project Team Leader: Laketch Mikael Imru
                      ICR Team Leader: Louise Scura
 
                                              ETHIOPIA
                                       FOOD SECURITY PROJECT



                                           TABLE OF CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 7
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 15
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 23
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 23
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 28
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 30
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 31
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 33
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 35
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 38
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 40
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 85
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 86
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 87
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 88
  MAP
 
A. Basic Information
Country:                Ethiopia                Project Name:             Food Security Project
                                                                          IDA-36460,IDA-
Project ID:             P050383                 L/C/TF Number(s):         3646A,TF-51169,TF-
                                                                          52696
ICR Date:               10/31/2011              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          FEDERAL
                                                                          DEMOCRATIC
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          REPUBLIC OF
                                                                          ETHIOPIA
Original Total
                        XDR 68.10M              Disbursed Amount:         XDR 45.70M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 45.70M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Disaster Risk Management & Food Security Sector, Federal Ministry of Agriculture & Rural
Development
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA)
 Italian Development Cooperation Department

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process             Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       08/25/1999     Effectiveness:            11/26/2002         11/26/2002
Appraisal:            12/10/2001     Restructuring(s):                            12/10/2008
Approval:             05/30/2002     Mid-term Review:          06/30/2006         08/08/2006
                                     Closing:                  06/30/2009         06/30/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower       Ratings
                        Moderately
Quality at Entry:                               Government:    Moderately Satisfactory
                        Unsatisfactory
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory Implementing   Moderately


                                                i
                                                   Agency/Agencies:           Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                                       Overall Borrower
                           Moderately Satisfactory                            Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                       Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                              Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                               (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                             Quality of
                            Yes                                             Moderately Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                      Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before            Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:    Unsatisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                   Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Agro-industry, marketing, and trade                                    1
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                       38                  80
General public administration sector                                   23                  10
Other social services                                                  38                  10


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Child health                                                           13                  10
Improving labor markets                                                25
Nutrition and food security                                            25                  40
Other environment and natural resources management                     13                  10
Other rural development                                                24                  40

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                        At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:             Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili           Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:           R. Gregory Toulmin                   Ishac Diwan
Sector Manager:             Karen Mcconnell Brooks               Karen Mcconnell Brooks
Project Team Leader:        Laketch Mikael Imru                  W. Graeme Donovan
ICR Team Leader:            Louise F. Scura
ICR Primary Author:         Louise F. Scura




                                                   ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The overall objectives of the project are to build the resource base of poorer rural
households, increase their employment and incomes, and reduce their real costs of food
and improve their nutrition levels, especially for children under five years of age,
pregnant and lactating women.

  Specific objectives are as follows:
  A. Economic well-being: Increase access to food for poorer, food insecure rural
households and communities.

 B. Food markets & prices. Increase and stabilize real incomes by reducing food price
volatility.

  C. Nutrition: Improve nourishment for children under five years old.

  D. Coping with shocks: Build assets of households and communities so that they can
provision for themselves, and cope with shocks arising from drought, pest and disease
attacks, and marked price rises for food.

  E. Off-farm income: Increase economic well-being in local communities by building
their assets and improving their links with the wider regional and national economy.

  F. Financing mechanisms: Establish financing mechanisms that allow funds to flow to
Woredas, and to vulnerable communities and households, in such a way that they are
empowered to invest in their own priorities, secure the technical assistance, services, and
infrastructure they need to achieve economic growth, emerge from poverty, and secure
their food needs.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
"to build the resource base of poorer rural households, increase their employment and
incomes, and improve their nutrition levels, especially for children under five years of
age, pregnant and lactating women"

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally      Actual Value
                                             Values (from        Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value
                                               approval          Target      Completion or
                                              documents)         Values       Target Years
                  Average increment in the number of months of food consumption covered from
                  own resources among vulnerable HHs in targeted communities --- end user
Indicator 1 :
                  evaluations

Value                                                                     Oromiya (all
                                          3 months
quantitative or                                                           woredas) 4.3



                                               iii
Qualitative)                                                                 months Amhara (25
                                                                             woredas): 1.25
                                                                             months SNNPR:
                                                                             2004 entrants: 1.02
                                                                             months 2005
                                                                             entrants: 1.98
                                                                             months 2006
                                                                             entrants: 1.11
                                                                             months Tigrai (5
                                                                             woredas): 1 month
Date achieved                             06/30/2010                         06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                % of children under 2 within project kebeles weighed each month (average for
Indicator 2 :
                the year) -- annual report
                                                                              Amhara:72%
Value
                                                                              Oromiya:49%
quantitative or                            70%
                                                                              Tigrai:76%
Qualitative)
                                                                              SNNPR:84%
Date achieved                              06/30/2010                         06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                % of HHs within project kebeles reporting distress sales of productive assets in
Indicator 3 :
                past 2 years
                                           consumption of
Value                                      seed stock: 12%
quantitative or                            renting oiut of                    Not available
Qualitative)                               land: 5% sale of
                                           livestock 10%
Date achieved                              06/30/2010                         06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                % of HHs (beneficiaries) involved in new non farm income generating activities
Indicator 4 : --- end-user evaluations

                                                                             SNNPR (10
                                                                             woredas): 12%
Value
                                                                             Amhara (25
quantitative or                           20%
                                                                             woredas): 6%
Qualitative)
                                                                             Oromiya (all
                                                                             woredas) 14%
Date achieved                             06/30/2010                         06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



                                                iv
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                  Actual Value
                                                              Formally
                                             Values (from                    Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                           Revised
                                               approval                     Completion or
                                                            Target Values
                                              documents)                    Target Years
                  Number of HHs benefiting from IGA loans and community asset grants --
Indicator 1 :     cummulative from annual report

                                                                             > 500,000 from
                                                                             IGA loans -- first
                                                                             round of loans
                                           460,000 HH (PAD
Value                                                                        (excluding on-
                                           estimate page 9
(quantitative                                                                lending is equal to
                                           #target
or Qualitative)                                                              607 million birr)
                                           population#)
                                                                             103,453from
                                                                             community asset
                                                                             grants
Date achieved                              06/30/2010                        06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                  Number of end-beneficiaries trained Number of CGP volunteers and
Indicator 2 :     supervisioros trained for the year -- annual report

                                                                             91,798 end
                                                                             beneficiaries 2424
Value
                                                                             CGP trainees
(quantitative                              Not available
                                                                             (including trainers
or Qualitative)
                                                                             of trainees) during
                                                                             FY09
Date achieved                              06/30/2010                        06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                  Number of Woredas with operational food Security teams
Indicator 3 :
Value                                      93 (revised as
(quantitative                              woredas have been                 93
or Qualitative)                            split)
Date achieved                              06/30/2010                        06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                  Percentage of women participation in capacity building and income generating
Indicator 4 :     activities -- annual report

Value
                                           > 25%                             IGA 39%
(quantitative


                                                v
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                           06/30/2010                             06/30/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                    Actual
         Date ISR
 No.                            DO                             IP               Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                (USD millions)
  1     12/18/2002        Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     06/19/2003        Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                      2.00
  3     11/25/2003        Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                      2.49
  4     06/04/2004        Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                      6.67
  5     12/10/2004        Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                    11.75
  6     06/15/2005        Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                    16.59
  7     11/19/2005        Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                    24.44
  8     03/27/2006        Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                    27.26
  9     09/14/2006        Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                    34.05
                           Moderately                     Moderately
 10     03/31/2007                                                                          38.28
                         Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
 11     11/30/2007    Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                48.15
 12     05/23/2008    Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                53.52
 13     12/22/2008    Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                62.58
 14     05/31/2009    Moderately Satisfactory        Moderately Satisfactory                67.88
                           Moderately                     Moderately
 15     11/02/2009                                                                          68.91
                         Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory
                           Moderately                     Moderately
 16     06/28/2010                                                                          68.91
                         Unsatisfactory                 Unsatisfactory


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                        Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                              Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
 12/10/2008       Y       MS    MS           61.72


If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving
body) enter ratings below:
                                                            Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets                              Moderately Satisfactory



                                                vi
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets         Moderately Satisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                    Moderately Satisfactory


I. Disbursement Profile




                                       vii
 
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      At the time of Appraisal of the Food Security Project (FSP), Ethiopia was a
post-conflict state. The armed conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea, which erupted along
their common border in May 1998, continued for two years. On June 18, 2000, the two
governments signed an Agreement on the Cessation of Hostilities and, subsequently, a
peace agreement in December 2000. The Country Assistance Strategy in place in 1998
was suspended at the outbreak of the conflict. Following cessation of hostilities, an
Interim Strategy Note (ISN) was put in place in November 2000 to guide Bank assistance
for a two-year post-conflict recovery program, and was the governing assistance strategy
for the FSP design.

2.      Decentralization was still unfolding and untested. Following the adoption of the
1995 Constitution, the Government of Ethiopia (GoE) created a federal state structure
established on ethnically-based regional states with a broad range of responsibilities for
political, economic and social objectives. As part of this decentralization, vast service
delivery responsibilities were transferred to the regions, over 300,000 personnel were
redeployed from the federal level to the regions, and a formula-driven, equity-based
system of subsidies to the regions was put in place. In a second phase of decentralization
initiated in 2002, woredas (district governments) were given the main responsibility for
primary service delivery, and with this a significant portion of regional subsidies were
transferred to woredas in the form of formula-based block grants, and staff were
redeployed from regional bureaus to woredas.

3.      Smallholder agriculture was, as it remains today, the most dominant sector of
Ethiopia’s economy. The agriculture sector accounted for about 45 percent of Gross
Domestic Product, almost 90 percent of exports, and 85 percent of employment. More
than 80 percent of the population lived in rural areas, and livelihoods of rural households
were remarkably undiversified1 – their main source of income was agriculture, and within
agriculture income was derived mainly from cereals and livestock. Moreover,
opportunities for off-farm employment were limited, so labor remained in the agriculture
sector even though underemployed.

4.     Despite significant government and donor support since the early 1990s, the
agriculture sector remained largely rain-fed and primarily subsistence oriented. The
moderate growth in agriculture in the period 1991-2001 was slightly less than population
growth, and was mainly due to an expansion in the area cultivated, the liberalization of
grain markets, and increased access to fertilizer which led to increased productivity in
areas with predictable rainfall.




1
    Non-farm income accounted for only 24 percent of rural household incomes.


                                                          1
5.       Rural financial markets were underdeveloped and access to financial services
was severely constrained. There was a nascent microfinance sector, initiated in 1997. In
2002, four public microfinance institutions (MFIs) each operated in one of the four main
regions (Amhara, Oromia, Tigray and Southern Nations Nationalities and Peoples Region
(SNNPR)). However, while these MFIs had a rural focus, they were not really accessible
to poor households with limited assets, which were considered high credit risks. Also,
there were few grassroots community financial institutions in existence providing savings
facilitation and credit services targeted to poor rural households.

6.      Food insecurity 2 was pervasive in large parts of rural Ethiopia, and the
situation had worsened over time and had been periodically exacerbated by recurrent
natural and man-made shocks, such as droughts, and food price escalation. At the
time of Project Appraisal in early 2002, about 5 million people were considered
chronically food insecure in Ethiopia, up from about 2 million in 1996. 3 The food
security situation was exacerbated markedly as a result of the 2002/2003 drought caused
by the failure of the short season rains (belg) in February-March 2002, followed by a
delay in the main season rains (mehr) in June 2002. As a result, transitory food insecurity
increased sharply – approximately 7 million people required food aid in 2002, and
approximately 13 million in 2003.

7.      The ISN focused on Ethiopia’s immediate post-war recovery needs, but
nonetheless included the medium- to long-term goal of addressing inadequate
agricultural production in many of the food-deficit areas of the country. The GoE’s
Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper, published in November 2000, continued the
Agriculture Development Led Industrialization approach adopted in the mid-1990s,
which introduced a differentiated strategy according to a simple typology of three main
zones –(a) humid areas with reliable moisture (high-potential areas); (b) moist but
drought-prone areas with unreliable rainfall (low-potential areas); and (c) arid pastoral
lowlands. GoE’s first Sustainable Development and Poverty Reduction Program
(SDPRP), issued in 2002, continued this three-pronged focus, and set the ambitious goal
of achieving food security for 5 million chronically food insecure by 2009.

8.      Responses to food insecurity in Ethiopia were dominated by food aid, largely
sourced through yearly international “emergency? appeals. The resources from these
appeals were unpredictable, and often were not available at critical times. Moreover, the
support did not go beyond food aid to address the underlying causes of food insecurity
nor to assist affected households to become more food secure.

9.     The GoE developed with the support of Development Partners, including the
Bank, its first National Food Security Strategy (NFSS) in 1996, which it subsequently


2
  Food insecurity is defined as lack of access to sufficient food for an active, healthy life. Chronic food insecurity
refers to the persistence of this situation over time, even in the absence of shocks. Transitory food insecurity refers to
incremental, temporary food insecurity resulting from shocks.
3
  The increase in chronic food insecurity is likely partly a result of a definitional change, but is largely due to increases
in population, as well as other contributing factors such as decreased farm size, environmental deterioration and
stagnating productivity, as well as very limited opportunities for off-farm employment.


                                                              2
revised in March 2002. Recognizing that provision of food aid alone could lead to
dependency, the NFSS sought to introduce a productive safety net and to address better
the underlying causes of chronic and transitory food insecurity. The World Bank played
a major convening and coordinating role with other Development Partners and
Government in the development of the NFSS.

10.     At the GoE’s request, the Bank also led and coordinated the donor engagement
to conceptualize the first investment operation to support key activities under NFSS,
which became the FSP. The Bank was well placed to provide such assistance given its
long experience with analytical work on food security and with providing similar support
in other countries, as well as its broad engagement in related sectors in Ethiopia.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

11.     The overall objectives of the FSP were “to build the resource base of poorer
rural households, increase their employment and incomes, and reduce their real costs of
food and improve their nutrition levels, especially for children under five years of age,
pregnant and lactating women?. The specific objectives and key indicators were as
indicated in Table 1.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

12.     In November 2008, the PDO was revised4 as follows: “to build the resource base
of poorer rural households, increase their employment and incomes, and improve their
nutrition levels, especially for children under five years of age, pregnant and lactating
women?. This revision eliminated reference to “real cost of food?, reflecting the
cancellation of the Food Marketing Initiatives component.

13.     The specific objectives and revised key indicators are as in Table 1. In line with
the change in PDO, the related outcomes and the associated indicators were dropped.
Also, progress towards two outcomes: “coping with shocks? and “improving financing
mechanisms at the local level? were monitored through two additional indicators to
reflect firstly, that support was provided to selected communities that would help FSP
end-beneficiaries sustain incomes from investments in livestock assets in the face of
shocks; and secondly, where revolving funds were established, that support would be
provided to ensure proper management of such funds.




4
  The PDO was revised as part of a portfolio restructuring which, at the time of the 2008 food crisis, freed IDA
resources for reallocation to the Emergency Food Crisis Response Program. For details see Annex 3 of the Emergency
Food Crisis Response Program of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia under the Global Food Crisis
Response Program, Emergency Program Paper for Additional Financing for the Projective Safety Net APL II Project
and the Fertilizer Support Project.




                                                        3
  Table 1. Specific development objectives and key indicators

                                                                                 Key Indicators
          Specific Objective                                 Original                                 Restructured
Economic well-being. Increase access          Incomes in targeted communities          Average annual increment in the number
to food for poorer, food insecure rural        increase.                                 of months of food consumption covered
households and communities.                   Savings held in local savings             from own resources among vulnerable
                                               associations increase.                    households in targeted communities.
Food markets & prices. Increase and           Direction of food price movements
stabilize real incomes by reducing             more coordinated.
food price volatility.                        Coefficient of variance of food                      DROPPED
                                               prices declines.
                                              Food price spreads between regions
                                               and woredas decline.
Nutrition. Improve nourishment for            Stunting (height for age <2 s.d.)        Percentage of care givers of children up
children under five years old.                 among children under two reduced          to two-years old (children registered
                                               in project areas.                         with the CGP program) that report
                                                                                         change in nutrition patterns.
                                                                                        Number of trained health extension
                                                                                         workers and community worker
                                                                                         deployed in project kebeles.
                                                                                        Proportion of children within a kebele
                                                                                         under two-years old weighed each
                                                                                         month (average for year).
Coping with shocks. Build assets of           Proportion of population receiving       Percentage of households within project
households and communities so that             food aid declines in each “normal?        kebeles reporting distress sales of
they can provision for themselves,             year.                                     productive assets (as measured by sale of
and cope with shocks arising from             Observed reduction in coping              livestock, renting out of land and
drought, pest and disease attacks, and         activities that are inimical to           consumption of seed stock) over a period
marked price rises for food.                   sustained development, such as            of two years.
                                               sales of draft animals.                  Percentage of households in selected
                                                                                         project kebeles reporting loss of
                                                                                         livestock due to illness and drought.
Off-farm income. Increase economic            Incomes from non-farm activities         Number of households (disaggregated by
well-being in local communities by             increases                                 gender of head) involved in new non-
building their assets and improving           Women start businesses on a wider         farm income generating (average/project
their links with the wider regional and        scale                                     kebele).
national economy.                             Savings increase in community            Number of households with savings
                                               saving and credit associations.           account in community association or
                                              Off-farm income diversification           formal financial institution (average per
                                               activities increase.                      project kebele).
Financing mechanisms. Establish               Grants flows from woredas to             Number of project woredas that channel
financing mechanisms that allow                kebeles increases rapidly and             funds to kebeles each year.
funds to flow to woredas, and to               steadily.                                Average volume of community
vulnerable communities and                    Other Government programs use             revolving funds (2nd round) distributed
households, in such a way that they            financing mechanisms.                     by grassroots financial organizations.
are empowered to invest in their own          Donor funds increasingly flow
priorities, secure the technical               through financing mechanisms.
assistance, services, and infrastructure
they need to achieve economic
growth, emerge from poverty, and
secure their food needs.




                                                                 4
1.4 Main Beneficiaries

14.    The FSP’s primary target groups were poor rural households, children under
age 5 and pregnant and lactating women in selected food-insecure woredas and kebeles
(sub-districts) in four regions: Amhara, Oromia, Tigray and SNNPR.
       a. The community-level asset building activities under Component 1 were
            intended to benefit the broader community in the target kebeles.
       b. The household asset building and income generating activities under
            Component 1 were intended to benefit the poorest households in the kebeles,
            identified through wealth ranking done by the Kebele Development
            Committee (KDC) and validated by the community.
       c. The child growth promotion activities under Component 1 were intended to
            benefit children under age 5 and pregnant and lactating women in the target
            kebeles.
       d. Capacity building efforts under Component 2 were initially focused on key
            government entities including federal ministries, regions and woredas with
            key roles in food security activities. Capacity building efforts were later
            extended to target communities and community grassroots financial
            institutions.
       e. Information, education and communications activities under Component 4
            were focused on the target beneficiaries of Component 1.

1.5 Original Components

15.    FSP was originally designed to comprise 5 components:
       a. Grants to communities/kebeles. Under this component, there was to be 3 main
          activities:
          (i) Community-level Assets Building – Funding was to provided to kebeles to
               support investments that would benefit the whole kebele, such as rural
               roads, rural water supply, and water and soil conservation activities on
               public land;
          (ii) Household Asset Building and Income Generating Activities (IGA) –
               Funding was to be provided to the kebeles to support technical advisory
               services to beneficiary groups to identify and prepare proposals for IGA,
               as well as to fund beneficiary groups’ proposals for IGA;
          (iii)Child Growth Promotion (CGP). Funding was to be provided for social
               mobilization, weighing and measuring of children 2 years and younger,
               and counseling for pregnant and lactating women.
       b. Capacity building for woredas, regions, and federal ministries. Under this
          component, funding was to be provided to build capacity of woredas, regions
          and federal ministries for project-related activities through training, workshop,
          study tours, technical advisory services, office equipment and vehicles;
       c. Food marketing initiatives. Under this component, FSP was to have
          undertaken studies that would have informed reforms and institution building
          for: (i) improved management of food aid to secure a stable price environment
          for domestic producers and traders; (ii) establishment of a food market



                                            5
          information system; (iii) development of a warehouse receipt and inventory
          credit system for traders; and (iv) the development of a competitive and
          efficient market in warehousing services sufficient to support a warehouse
          receipt system;
       d. Communications and public education. Under this component, funding was to
          be provided for designing and implementing communication strategies and
          public education campaigns focused on mobilization of communities to
          participate the IGA and CGP, as well as dissemination of key messages and
          good practices from these activities;
       e. Project administration and impact evaluation. Under this component, funding
          was to be provided for coordination of project implementation and
          administration of project funds, as well as for monitoring and evaluation.

1.6 Revised Components

16.   The Food Marketing Initiatives component, representing 0.5percent of the total
IDA Credit, was cancelled as part of a portfolio restructuring in November 2008. The
GoE implemented the concerned activities under separate arrangements (see paragraph
32).

17.    All other components remained from the original project design, but with the
following modifications:
       a. Definition of community grants was clarified so that the ‘beneficiary
           community’ of such grants was defined as a project kebele, reflecting the
           management of such grants at the kebele level by KDC rather than the group
           level envisaged in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD);
       b. Capacity building efforts were extended to beneficiary communities with the
           intention to allow deeper community involvement and decision making over
           the project’s resources, and improvement in management of community grants
           at the kebele level, as well as to grassroots financial institutions to allow the
           project’s revolving funds to be sustained over the longer term.

1.7 Other significant changes

18.     The number of participating kebeles and woredas increased from the originally
planned 984 kebeles in 60 woredas, to 1,291 kebeles (between 10-15 kebeles per woreda)
in 93 woredas (out of a total of 274 woredas designated as food insecure). This increase
partly resulted from the administrative split of many project woredas during the project
period, and was possible within the original project costs because of substantial exchange
rate gains (totaling over US$18 million), even with the cancellation of a portion of the
IDA Credit.

19.     Implementation arrangements were adjusted with the intention to: (i) increase
responsibility of line bureaus and agencies such as regional bureaus of health, the federal
cooperative agency and its regional counterparts in the oversight of relevant project
activities; (ii) introduce better performance and impact monitoring mechanisms; and (iii)
introduce more flexible disbursement arrangements.


                                             6
20.     Cancellation of US$35 million of the IDA allocation was undertaken as part of a
portfolio restructuring. The cancelled amount was reallocated to the Ethiopia Emergency
Food Crisis Response Program, a complementary operation intended to arrest the sharp
rise in domestic food prices, which placed FSP beneficiaries, who were net purchasers of
food, at greater risk. This was partly compensated by exchange rate gains over the life of
the project which totaled over US$18 million.

21.    The Credit closing date was extended by one year to properly implement
grassroots capacity building initiatives and to effectively link the Project’s interventions
to the newly formulated National Nutrition Program (NNP) and the second five-year
National Food Security Program (NFSP), which was initiated in 2010.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

22.     Lessons from earlier food security initiatives were taken into account in both
the NFSS and the FSP design. For example, the FSP design incorporated key lesson
related to:
        a. moving away from a sole focus on emergency provision of food to address
            food security;
        b. using a financing mechanism to provide funds directly to communities to
            enable acquisition of assets and raising production, and diversifying
            livelihoods and incomes;
        c. employing a Community Driven Development (CDD) approach, which had
            not been used in Ethiopia prior to the time, to ensure broader-based
            community engagement and participation in key aspects of the project;
        d. ensuring a strong gender focus through targets for women’s participation;
        e. directly addressing child under-nutrition through community-based child
            growth promotion efforts; and
        f. linking with other efforts which were focused on addressing food insecurity.

23.     The FSP design advanced the approach on food insecurity from an exclusive
focus on emergency relief towards building assets of and diversifying and expanding
employment opportunities for food insecure households. However, the PDO was overly
ambitious, and the scope was too broad to be achieved with the available resources. The
objectives were set at a very high level and covered wide a scope (economic well being,
food markets and prices, nutrition levels, coping with shocks, off-farm income, and
financing mechanism).

24.    The FSP pioneered decentralized implementation arrangements, which reached
down to the regional, woreda and kebele levels. These type of arrangements
subsequently have become the norm for projects in the Ethiopia portfolio following the
2002 decentralization reforms. Since implementation was innovative, and in a
completely new environment, start-up problems and capacity issues should have been
expected.


                                             7
25.     The FSP design, however, underestimated the risks of operating in the newly
decentralized setting at the woreda and kebele levels. As was subsequently envisaged in
the Country Assistance Strategy approved by the IDA Board in 2003, the newly
decentralized system needed time to evolve, so that the roles and incentives of each layer
of government could be clarified, and the requisite staffing put in place and capacity
strengthened to fulfill the newly assigned functions.

26.     Further, the FSP design did not adequately elaborate the implementation
arrangements and the fund management modalities to be used for the largest
component, funds to communities/kebeles. In the PAD, the funds were conceptualized
as community grants to go to communities to be used to build community assets as well
as to groups of 5 or more to strengthen livelihoods and build assets of poor households.
The PAD, however, was silent on how and by whom the revolving funds were to be
managed at the community level, although grants to micro-finance institutions were listed
as ineligible for project support. While the Project Implementation Manual (PIM)
provided more details, it proved insufficient to guide appropriately implementation.

27.     The institutional arrangements for the Child Growth Promotion activities did
not fit well with the mandates and roles of the involved institutions. There was no
health extension system in place at the time of the FSP design because the
decentralization was still unfolding at the woreda level. As a result, CGP implementation
arrangements relied heavily on community volunteer animators (i.e., volunteer
community health workers), who received inadequate supervision and support from the
health sector.

2.2 Implementation

28.    The NFSP 5 co-evolved with and had important implications for the
implementation of FSP. The NFSP, developed through a broad consultative process in
2003, sought to provide a framework for a more comprehensive approach to addressing
the problem of chronic food insecurity in terms of both meeting the immediate needs of
the food insecure and getting at the underlying causes of food insecurity. To this end, the
NFSP introduced new large programs which overlapped in some areas with the FSP and,
in doing so, the NFSP, de facto, limited the scope of FSP.
       a. The Productive Safety Nets Program (PSNP), introduced in 2005 as a pillar of
           the NFSP, largely supplanted the role of FSP to support building of


5
  The original NFSP comprised:
  (i) a safety net, aimed at closing household food gaps and guarding against distress sales of assets;
  (ii) resettlement of food insecure households to areas with more agriculture potential; and,
  (iii) so-called “other food security? activities, including FSP, as well as infrastructure investments, and a GOE
        channel for credit and extension linked to “household packages? of agricultural inputs and technical assistance
        aimed at graduating households from the safety net by rebuilding assets, diversifying faming systems and
        improving agricultural productivity.
In 2009 the NFSP was redesigned and now includes four sub-programs: (i) Productive Safety Net Program (PSNP); (ii)
Resettlement Program; (iii) Household Asset Building Program (HABP); and, (iv) Complementary Community
Investments (CCI).


                                                          8
          community assets. PSNP provided resources to chronically food insecure
          households, mainly through cash payments but also through food transfers to
          the able-bodied for participation in labor-intensive public works, as well as
          through direct support to labor-poor, elderly or otherwise handicapped
          households. Given the significant resources going into public works in food
          insecure woredas through PSNP, the FSP target communities opted to use the
          community grants mostly for establishment of revolving funds for investments
          in household asset building and income generating activities. Thus, while the
          FSP design envisaged a broad program of support to communities, the actual
          focus during implementation was narrowed considerably, to a community
          revolving fund for support to household assets building and income generation
          activities;
       b. The PSNP cash transfers to food insecure households were a potential
          complement to FSP revolving funds where there was overlapping coverage by
          the two programs. FSP beneficiary households who received PSNP cash
          transfers to help them with food needs would be more likely to use the FSP
          credit for the productive investment for which it was intended rather than for
          consumption. However, in most FSP woredas there was partial but
          incomplete overlap of the two programs due to difference in beneficiary
          targeting. The incomplete strategic linkage between the programs meant that
          the potential complementarities were not fully realized;
       c. The other parts of the “Other Food Security? channel for credit and technical
          assistance to households, linked to a Household Package, was a potential
          complement to FSP revolving funds if well sequenced. FSP targeted the
          poorest of the poor and provided small loans to households which had been
          adversely affected by shocks, such as recurrent drought, to rebuild existing
          livelihoods. In contrast, the Household Packages under the Other Food
          Security Program (OFSP) were more suited to relatively better off households
          among the food insecure in that these offered larger amounts of credit and
          related agriculture inputs and technical assistance for more transformative
          (and more risky) changes in livelihoods. The FSP credit, albeit small,
          contributed to strengthened livelihoods, and as the household’s position
          improved, they would be more likely to demand larger loans and be more
          willing to take on slightly riskier activities with higher returns. However, only
          in Tigray Region were these two interventions –FSP revolving fund and OFSP
          Household Packages—implemented as complements. In the other regions,
          these programs were likely implemented separated in an attempt to increase
          coverage.

29.    The implementation arrangements and modalities for management for
revolving funds were worked-out during project implementation. To avoid direct
subsidy and to increase outreach, the GoE took the position early in project
implementation to deviate from the original design of the portion of the funds to kebeles
going to poor households, and insisted that these funds should revolve within the kebele,
providing loans to households rather than outright grants. This was not foreseen in either
the PAD or the PIM. In practice, the revolving funds were initially implemented through



                                            9
KDC in Oromia and SNNP regions, and by Multipurpose Cooperatives (MPC) in Tigray,
Amhara, and SNNP. However, neither of these institutions had the skills or the capacity
to manage the revolving funds properly. Therefore, at the Mid-Term Review (MTR), the
decision was taken to focus on establishing and building the capacity of Rural Saving and
Credit Cooperative (RuSACCo), community grassroots financial institutions, and to
progressively transfer the responsibility of management of the revolving funds to the
RuSACCos. This was a move in the right direction, but the transition to RuSACCos was
not fully implemented by project closing.

30.     Frequent and widespread turnover of government staff, particularly at the
woreda level, undermined capacity building efforts and contributed to implementation
delays. Also, the volunteer animators (i.e., volunteer community health workers) under
CGP component turned-over frequently, adversely affecting the implementation of the
component. FSP was one of the first World Bank-financed projects to operate in the
newly decentralized government system, but subsequently most projects in the Bank’s
portfolio have similarly decentralized implementation arrangements. Staff turnover is
driven by a number of factors, including civil service policies and local politics, and is a
serious systemic issue throughout the portfolio.

31.     Funds flow bottlenecks plagued project implementation and limited
disbursements. Disbursements in the initial years were limited (e.g., only US$2.5
million in the year following Effectiveness), but were not far-off the original projections,
since considerable capacity building activities were needed at the kebele level on project
procedures (including particularly participatory methodologies) to introduce the new
CDD approach. Also, participating woredas were phased-in gradually, starting with only
12 woredas. As a broader set of activities were initiated and more woredas were phased-
in, however, funds flow bottlenecks were experienced. Limitations on advances and
transactions based disbursement arrangements contributed to the bottlenecks. However,
it was difficult to increase advances and move to report-based disbursement arrangement
due to the limited financial management capacity and related high fiduciary risks.

32.    GoE undertook through other mechanisms activities that had been intended to
be implemented through the food markets initiatives component, as follows:
       a. Food aid provided in-kind was believed to have distorted food markets in food
          insecure areas of Ethiopia by depressing prices in local markets and, by
          reducing local market transactions, limiting integration with national markets.
          This market distortion was addressed through the PSNP by a predominant
          shift to cash transfers to chronically food insecure households that formerly
          received food aid in-kind. Additionally, in cases where food aid continued to
          be provided in-kind, such aid was sourced to the extent possible from
          domestic markets, in order to moderate its potentially distorting impact on the
          market. In practice, however, food transfers are still largely procured on the
          local market due to FoE restrictions for local food purchases;
       b. The Ministry of Agriculture developed a web-based grain market information
          system with support from the World Food Programme (WFP) and the Food
          and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and in collaboration with the Central



                                            10
          Statistics Authority (that collects monthly price data from 120 market centers)
          and the Ethiopian Grain Trade Enterprise (that collects price data on major
          grains from 26 markets). Also, the Ethiopia Commodity Exchange (ECX)
          launched in February 2008 established remote access terminal centers in
          major markets and electronic price tickers at woreda level which is a source of
          updated, independent and real time price information on major grains
          produced and marketed in the country;
       c. ECX also established a warehouse receipts and credit system and an
          associated warehousing services.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

33.     The FSP M&E system was designed to use qualitative assessments generated
from participatory M&E methods to assess progress towards the development objectives.
As such, end-user surveys were undertaken in the target regions at mid-term and project
closing. However, despite repeated recommendations from the Bank, a baseline was not
established during the project life for participating and control kebeles against which
progress could be assessed.

34.     At the time of the MTR it was recognized that the end-user evaluations would
not allow attribution of outcomes exclusively to the project, as they did not distinguish
influences of other variables, such as climatic conditions and non-FSP interventions.
It was therefore agreed, in keeping with commitments during IDA replenishment to
strengthen results monitoring, that, as a supplement to the end-user evaluations, the
project would undertake an impact evaluation prior to project closing. However, lack of
a baseline presented difficulties in developing the sampling methodology to be used.
Also, the availability of the Central Statistical Agency (CSA) to undertake the survey was
constrained. For these reasons, the survey was not undertaken before project closing.
Subsequent to closing, the survey for the impact evaluation was undertaken and the data
was validated by CSA, and the data was provided to the World Bank for analysis. The
preliminary results of the assessment are provided in Section 3.6 and Annex 5.

35.     In 2010, the International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) conducted the
third round of the longitudinal household survey and related assessment of the impact of
all components of the NFSP, of which FSP is a part. While it did not specifically assess
the impacts of the FSP, it nonetheless provides context and an assessment of the impacts
of the overall NFSP against which to compare the results of the post closing assessment
of FSP and the end-user surveys.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

36.     FSP experienced issues and problems with safeguards and fiduciary procedures.
These types of issues and problems were not unique to FSP, but rather were similar to
those faced in projects across the Bank portfolio in Ethiopia.




                                           11
Safeguards Compliance
37.    The project was not considered to have significant safeguards risks at Appraisal,
but during project implementation it was recognized that there were risks to some
project activities (e.g., acquisition of livestock under the IGA) that posed potential risks
to the fragile drought-prone environment. At the same time, the Implementation Status
and Results Report (ISR) Safeguards rating deteriorated from satisfactory to moderately
unsatisfactory just after mid-term, and to moderately satisfactory at closing. This was
mainly due to procedural non-compliance. Safeguards risks of the activities under the
project were not significant, and no significant adverse impacts were identified.
        a. EMP. The PAD indicated that only OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment and
            OP 4.09 Pest Management were triggered by FSP. The PAD further indicated
            that an Environmental Analysis (EA) was conducted during project
            preparation, and proposed mitigation measures were outlined in the
            Environmental Management Plan (EMP) and incorporated into the PIM. A
            separate Pest Management Plan was not developed. The EMP outlined
            procedures for sub-project screening, as well as institutional responsibilities
            and reporting mechanisms from the kebele to woreda to Project Coordination
            Unit (PCU). However, it appears that project staff was unfamiliar with the
            EMP, training did not focus on environmental safeguards, and the EMP was
            never implemented in the first half of the project and was replaced by a new
            safeguards instrument in 2008;
        b. ESMF. In late-2008, when the ISR Safeguards rating was downgraded to
            moderately unsatisfactory, it was agreed, in view of the fact that the FSP EMP
            was not implemented and that a new Environmental and Social Management
            Framework (ESMF) had been introduced under PSNP, that the PSNP ESMF
            would be adapted and adopted for FSP. The ESMF was subsequently adopted
            for FSP, environmental training was conducted, and the ESMF was partially
            but not systematically implemented for FSP activities through project closing.

Procurement Compliance
38.    The project’s overall procurement risk was rated high at Appraisal, and
remained substantial throughout the life of the project. At the same time, the ISR
Procurement rating deteriorated from satisfactory to unsatisfactory, largely due to the
following issues:
       a. Inadequate capacity and insufficient training. Procurement at the regional and
           woreda levels was handled in a pooled system using regional bureau or
           woreda procurement officers who also served on the tender committees to
           review and approve procurement contracts. These officers typically lacked
           procurement experience, and there was frequent staff turnover in these
           positions. Procurement staff at all levels did not have access to adequate
           training, partly due to resistance to send procurement staff to specialized
           training;
       b. Lack of familiarity with and deviation from agreed project procurement
           arrangements. Agreed procurement procedures were largely followed under
           the project, but there were cases of non-compliance. Procurement staff at



                                            12
          regional and woreda levels were not sufficiently conversant with project
          procurement arrangements, and used procurement manuals introduced as part
          of the Business Process Re-engineering (BPR) to guide procurement
          processes and contract administration without due consideration of the
          exceptions stipulated in the project financing agreement that World Bank
          procurement procedures should prevail in cases of material difference
          between World Bank and Government procedures;
       c. Deficient record keeping. Procurement filing at the regional and woreda
          levels was unsatisfactory. The filing system was found to be unreliable, and
          vital procurement files could not be produced for procurement audit purposes.

Financial Management Compliance
39.     While the project’s inherent Financial Management (FM) risk remained
substantial throughout the life of the project, the control risk deteriorated from
moderate to substantial. At the same time, the ISR FM rating deteriorated from
satisfactory to moderately unsatisfactory, largely due to the following issues:
        a. Inadequate capacity and insufficient training. Project accountants were in
            place at PCU and regions at all times and additional accountants were
            recruited in the final years of the project at the woreda level. However, due to
            frequent staff turnover, the FM staff capacity at woredas was, in general, low.
            Capacity building activities in the form of regular training and regular field
            visits from the PCU and the regions to the woredas were not adequate to
            address the deficiency;
        b. Weak budget monitoring. The budget preparation process was in line with
            government procedures, the project budget was included in the official
            proclamation, and the annual work plan and budget was submitted to the Bank
            on time. However, budget monitoring was weak. Although the budget
            utilization information was submitted to the PCU and regional project offices,
            seeking explanation and taking corrective measures for variances was not
            undertaken or was not documented;
        c. Advances to regions not settled in a timely manner. Funds flow bottlenecks
            plagued the project throughout – delays at the woreda level in reporting back
            on expenditures caused delays in replenishments to regions and woredas. The
            PCU requested that, because of the highly decentralized nature of the project,
            the 10 percent advance be increased and the basis of disbursement be changed
            from Statements of Expenditures SOE to Interim Unaudited Financial Reports
            (IFR). However, the Bank did not agree due to the perceived high level of
            risks and limited FM capacity.            This situation seriously constrained
            disbursements. Out of the original IDA commitment of SDR 66.3 million,
            about SDR 22.3 million was cancelled and recommitted following
            restructuring, and SDR 0.12 million was cancelled after closing. The
            cancelled funds were reallocated to the 2008 Food Crisis Response;
        d. Consistent delays in and incomplete submission of Financial Monitoring
            Reports (FMR). FMRs were submitted late largely due to delays by the
            regions in compiling the reports they received from the woredas and




                                            13
            submitting the consolidated reports to the PCU. Also, the Bank had to reject
            some FMRs due to incomplete information, and ask the PCU to resubmit;
       e.   Inadequate internal audit oversight. Internal audit oversight of the project
            activities at the federal and the regional levels was inadequate. The internal
            audit departments at MoA and the regions did not review the project activities;
       f.   Repeated and significant delays in submission of audit reports. The project
            audit reports for most of the project life were delayed by more than two
            months. The final audit covering the period from July 8, 2009 to October 31,
            2010 was submitted in two reports – one covering the year from July 8, 2009
            to June 30, 2010 and the other one covering from July 1, 2010 to March 31,
            2011, which included the final refund of the unused balances following the
            grace period. The final two audit reports were submitted with more than three
            months delay;
       g.   Unresolved internal control weaknesses noted in the management letter of
            audit reports. The overall internal control environment was relatively strong
            especially in terms payment authorization and segregation of duties. However,
            the audit reports for most of the project life, including the final audit report of
            the project (excluding the grace period) were qualified. The qualification of
            the yearly audit reports was due to lack of internal controls on which the
            auditors could rely to ensure disbursements had been accounted for in the
            correct accounting period. The management letters for the audits revealed a
            number of internal control issues which went unresolved. The PCU prepared
            action plans on yearly basis to rectify the irregularities, but the irregularities
            persisted throughout the life of the project. The PCU clarified that the sample
            of woredas which were audited changed each year, making it difficult to
            integrate lessons from the audit. The pointed out that while similar issues
            were reported each year, it was related to different woredas;
       h.   Ineligible expenditures.       The audit reports also revealed ineligible
            expenditures which were identified and refunded back by the project. The
            final audit report also revealed some expenditure which may be ineligible,
            hence the Federal Food Security Coordination Directorate was advised by
            letter to investigate the findings and ascertain whether these are ineligible
            expenditures. If the expenditures are found to be ineligible, the government
            will be obliged to refund the stated amounts to the Bank. This remained
            unresolved at the time of this review.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

40.     To move toward the sustainability of revolving funds created under the FSP, the
establishment and strengthening of RuSACCOs were undertaken in the latter half of
the project. Also, it had been agreed that the revolving funds created under the project
and implemented through KDC and MPC would be audited and progressively moved to
be implemented by RuSACCOs for a management fee. However, the transition to more
sustainable arrangements was not yet fully operational at the time of the ICR mission. As
of project closing, 954 RuSACCOs had been established and received capacity building
support, and of these 282 RuSAACOs had managed project revolving funds. The



                                             14
transfer of the revolving funds managed by KDCs in Oromia Region was not undertaken
as of the ICR mission due to significant delays in audits of the funds by the Oromia
Bureau of Finance and Economic Development. Delays were also experienced for audits
by Woreda Cooperative Offices of the revolving funds implemented by MPC, and the
transfer of these funds to RuSACCOs was not fully implemented.

41.    FSP pioneered a number of interventions which have been picked-up and
continued in ongoing programs.
       a. Building community assets in food insecure areas. Since 2005 the multi-
          donor funded PSNP, now in its third phase, has implemented an extensive
          public works program focused on soil and water conservation activities, as
          well as small-scale irrigation and rural access roads;
       b. Building household assets and strengthening livelihoods in food insecure
          areas, and building capacity of grassroots institutions. Related support
          continues through the Household Asset Building Program (HABP), which is
          funded through Federal block grants to Regions, with technical assistance
          provided by development partners (including the World Bank) through the
          PSNP;
       c. Child growth promotion. The child growth promotion initiatives of the FSP
          helped target communities to undertake regular weighing of children under 2
          years, taught caregivers to monitor child growth; and, provided counseling to
          households with under-nourished children. The FSP piloted a new approach
          in the area of community based nutrition in Ethiopia and its interventions have
          now been taken up by the NNP with assistance from the United Nations
          Children’s Fund (UNICEF).

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

42.     The FSP’s development objective remains highly relevant to Ethiopia’s
development priorities and focuses directly on the national goal of reducing food
insecurity in Ethiopia. The current Country Assistance Strategy, approved by the IDA
Board in April 2008, includes reducing vulnerability as a strategic objective, and
addressing chronic food insecurity and vulnerability to shocks is an important element of
the strategy.

43.    The FSP design was visionary in that it moved the approach on food insecurity
from an exclusive focus on emergency relief towards building assets of and diversifying
and expanding employment opportunities for food insecure households. However, the
PDO was too ambitious, and the scope was too broad to be achieved with the available
resources.

44.    While the FSP design envisaged a broad program of support to communities, the
actual focus during implementation was narrowed considerably, principally to a
community revolving fund for support to household assets building and income



                                           15
generation activities. This narrower intervention alone – e.g., small loans of Birr 1,500 to
2,000 per household—was inadequate to make a transformative change for food insecure
households. Complementary and supplementary measures, not included in the original
design, were needed. While some of these measures materialized as part of the evolution
of the GoE NFSP (such as PSNP, Household Package), the linkage with FSP in practice
was not well established and varied across regions. The MTR of FSP suggested
strengthening of the linkages between FSP and the other parts of the NFSP. While good
progress was made in conceptualizing the potential complementarities and desired
linkages, limited progress was made in strengthening linkages in practice before project
closing. Subsequently, significant efforts were made to link FSP interventions to follow
on operations.

45.     Nonetheless, the lessons from experience with FSP revolving fund
implementation enabled a constructive dialogue with GoE on the need for loan products
appropriately matched to the repayment capacity of very poor households, in addition to
the larger loan products focused on riskier activities included in the Household Packages.
This was integrated in the adoption NFSP graduation model, which envisaged a stepwise
progression of credit access, to enable progress from asset stabilization to asset
accumulation and eventual graduation from food insecurity.

46.    Also, the FSP pioneered implementation arrangements which were relevant to the
then newly decentralized functional assignments for the sub-national administrations.
Such implementation arrangements, which reach down to the regional, woreda and
kebele levels, have become the norm for projects in the Ethiopia portfolio and remain
relevant.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

47.     At the time of FSP closing, the project implementing agency presented evidence
from end-user evaluations on project impacts and outcomes. However, at the MTR it had
been agreed that the project would undertake an impact evaluation prior to FSP closing,
since the end-user evaluation methodology did not allow exclusively attribution of the
outcomes to the project. Lack of a baseline, which the project implementing agency had
resisted putting in place throughout the project life, presented difficulties in developing
the sampling methodology which delayed the initiation of the survey for the impact
assessment. Thus, at FSP closing, achievement of key indicators was considered by the
Bank to be inconclusive, and on that basis the project was rated moderately unsatisfactory
for PDO in the final ISR. The Borrower took exception with this rating, and requested
that the Bank ensure that FSP achievements would be properly documented in the World
Bank’s ICR and that the moderately unsatisfactory rating of the PDO in the final ISR
would be revisited on the basis of the results of the impact evaluation.

48.    Following closing, two impact assessments with relevance to FSP have become
available.
       a. An FSP-specific impact assessment was undertaken subsequent to project
           closing. The sample for the assessment included 6000 households in 240



                                            16
          kebeles, including 120 FSP kebeles selected randomly (30 from each
          participating region) and 120 nearby non-FSP kebeles. The questionnaire was
          jointly developed by CSA and the World Bank Africa Region Gender Practice,
          and was administered by developed by CSA. The resulting data was analyzed
          by the World Bank Africa Gender Practice;
       b. An overall assessment of the NFSP, of which FSP is a part, was conducted by
          the International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) based on a survey in
          July-August 2010. This was part of a biannual longitudinal household survey
          to assess the impact of all components of the NFSP first conducted in 2006
          with a sample of 3,700 households, and then again in 2008 re-sampling the
          2006 households as well as an additional 1,300 households. The 2010 survey
          re-sampled the 2008 households.

49.     Both end-user surveys and the post-closing impact assessment showed that
progress was made towards meeting the revised PDO, “to build the resource base of
poorer rural households, increase their employment and incomes, and improve their
nutrition levels, especially for children under five years of age, pregnant and lactating
women?. The results are summarized in Table 2.
        a. End-user surveys, done separately in participating regions at mid-term and
            project closing, reported that beneficiaries of the project had been able to
            increase their assets and reduce their food gap, appeared to be resilient to
            shocks, and some had diversified their income streams. Moreover, some
            behavioral changes in nutrition practices were observed.
        b. The impact assessment, done retrospectively after project closing, also
            reported outcomes from the project interventions, including: (i) a small
            increase in the number of months households reported they were food secure
            and a small decrease in number of months of food consumption covered by
            own resources; (ii) a modest increase in resilience to shocks; and (iii) a small
            increase in diversification of income/off-farm employment. The impact
            assessment also showed a positive effect of the project on knowledge of and
            behavior regarding child nutrition. For more details, please refer to discussion
            in Section 3.6 below and in Annex 5.
However, the financing mechanism that allowed funds to flow to vulnerable communities,
empowering them to invest in their own priorities was piloted but not established
sustainably, since the repayment rates remained low and the transition to RuSACCos was
not completed. Also, there was no demonstrable increase in nutrition levels for children
under five years old.

50.     The IFPRI assessment of the NFSP, unlike the post closing assessment of FSP,
did not specifically focus on the impact of FSP. However, it provides additional context
for and support of the general findings of the post closing assessment and the end-user
surveys conducted for FSP in that the findings of all of these assessments are in general
agreement. In particular, the longitudinal surveys showed that the food insecure areas in
which the FSP beneficiary households were located were subjected to a variety of severe
shocks (e.g., drought, food price increases) over the project life, which might have been




                                            17
  expected to cause severe hardship. In that context, the modestly positive results with
  regard to food security and coping with shocks should be considered a good achievement.

  Table 2. Specific development objectives, revised key indicators, and documented
  outcomes
    Specific Objectives                   Key Indicators                                   Documented Outcomes
                                          (Restructured)
                                                                            End-User Survey /           Post-Closing Assessment
                                                                             Annual Reports
Economic well-being. Increase      Average annual increment in the       Oromiya (all woredas) 4.3    Small increase in the number
access to food for poorer, food     number of months of food               months; Amhara (25            of months (0.16-0.24 month)
insecure rural households and       consumption covered from own           woredas): 1.25 months         FSP households were food
communities.                        resources among vulnerable             SNNPR: 2004 entrants:         secure and a small decrease
                                    households in targeted                 1.02 months,2005              in number of months of food
                                    communities. – Target: 3               entrants: 1.98 months,        consumption covered by own
                                    months                                 2006 entrants: 1.11           resources
                                                                           months; Tigray (5
                                                                           woredas): 1 month
Nutrition. Improve                 Percentage of care givers of                                        Positive effect on caregivers’
nourishment for children            children up to two-years old                                         knowledge of and behavior
under five years old.               (children registered with the                                        regarding child nutrition.
                                    CGP program) that report
                                    change in nutrition patterns.
                                   Number of trained health              2424 CGP trainees
                                    extension workers and                  (including trainers of
                                    community workers deployed in          trainees) during FY09
                                    project kebeles.
                                   Proportion of children within a       Amhara:72%
                                    kebele under two-years old             Oromiya:49% Tigrai:76%
                                    weighed each month (average            SNNPR:84%
                                    for year). Target: 70%
Coping with shocks. Build          Percentage of households within       Not Available                FSP households slightly less
assets of households and            project kebeles reporting distress                                   likely to have had at least one
communities so that they can        sales of productive assets (as                                       shock (a 3-5% lower
provision for themselves, and       measured by sale of livestock,                                       probability) in the last five
cope with shocks arising from       renting out of land and                                              years. FSP households less
drought, pest and disease           consumption of seed stock) over                                      likely to have used savings or
attacks, and marked price rises     a period of two years.                                               a loan to buy food.
for food.                          Percentage of households in
                                    selected project kebeles
                                    reporting loss of livestock due to
                                    illness and drought.
Off-farm income. Increase          Number of households                  SNNPR (10 woredas):          FSP households reported an
economic well-being in local        (disaggregated by gender of            12% Amhara (25                increase of off-farm work as
communities by building their       head) involved in new non-farm         woredas): 6% Oromiya          measured by households with
assets and improving their          income generating                      (all woredas) 14%             at least one member working
links with the wider regional       (average/project kebele).                                            off-farm (3%) or the number
and national economy.              Number of households with                                            of household members
                                    savings account in community                                         working off-farm (4%).
                                    association or formal financial
                                    institution (average per project
                                    kebele).
Financing mechanisms.              Number of project woredas that        FY03=0 woredas;
Establish financing                 channel funds to kebeles each          FY04=28; FY05=50;
mechanisms that allow funds         year.                                  FY06=74; FY07=74;
to flow to woredas, and to         Average volume of community            FY08-10=93.
vulnerable communities and          revolving funds (2nd round)           Total = ETB 111.2 million
households, in such a way that      distributed by grassroots              Amhara=ETB 21.3
they are empowered to invest        financial organizations.               million;
in their own priorities, secure                                            Oromia=ETB 6.0 million;
the technical assistance,                                                  Tigray=ETB 33.1 million;
services, and infrastructure                                               SNNP=ETB 50.8 million
they need to achieve economic
growth, emerge from poverty,
and secure their food needs.




                                                                    18
51.    The PDO revision eliminated reference to “real cost of food?, which related to
the Marketing Initiatives component dropped as part of a portfolio restructuring at the
time of the Food Crisis. Since this was a minor component (estimated cost at Appraisal
of US$0.59 million), and GoE undertook the related activities through other means, the
influence is considered to be insignificant to the rating.

3.3 Efficiency

Efficiency of use of funds
52.    The largest part of the project, support to communities, was narrowed during
implementation to mainly focus on community revolving funds for support to household
asset building and income generation activities. Such revolving funds represented over
89 percent of the project financing.

53.     The efficiency of use of these funds in terms of money spent to achieve specific
project objectives, such as increased food security and improved coping with shocks, was
acceptable. There were 457,664 households which benefited from the project revolving
funds totaling ETB.603,199,175, and on average each household received ETB 1,318.
While transformative changes in the livelihoods of the households could not be achieved
for this relatively small amount, good outcomes did result. For example, households
which received on average ETB 1,318 to invest in IGA were food secure for at least 0.16
– 0.24 month more. This corresponds to a cost of ETB 5,491 – 8,237 to achieve an
increase in food security of one household month. Similarly, the households which were
beneficiaries of the revolving funds were 3-5 percent less likely to experience a shock
with which they could not cope through their own provisioning. This represents a cost of
only ETB 264 – 439 to achieve a 1 percent decline.

Returns from household asset building and IGA
54.    The household-level asset building and IGA included a variety of activities, but
the most popular by far was investments in livestock for fattening and selling for cash
income. During the project, assessments of returns to IGAs were undertaken, which
showed returns from such investments at the household level were generally positive,
ranging from 18 to 228 percent (see Annex 3.)

Management of revolving funds
55.      The revolving funds were managed primarily by MPC (which normally focus on
trade in agricultural inputs and output), but also by KDC and, to a lesser extent, by
RuSACCOs. The MTR of FSP and subsequent supervision missions raised concerns that
revolving funds established through the project had not been properly managed as
reflected in low repayment rates, and limited on-lending of repaid funds. It was further
recommended that revolving funds be handled by specialized grassroots financial
institutions such as RuSACCOs and that community participation in the management of
the funds be strengthened. As a result the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
Development developed guidelines for joint management of revolving funds by
grassroots financial institutions and the community and embarked on grassroots



                                          19
institutions building to prepare the ground for transfer of the administration of FSP
revolving funds to RuSACCOs.

56.     At the time of project closing and continuing to the time of this evaluation, the
revolving funds established through FSP’s community grants were not yet operating
efficiently. The key issues were:
     a. Inappropriate loan products (loan size, loan period, and repayment schedule not
         matched well with type of activity; interest rate insufficient to cover management
         costs and risks) since the communities had been allowed to determine these
         relatively independently with limited guidance;
     b. Outstanding mature loans which were likely to add to the already high prevalence
         of non-performing loans;
     c. Delayed audit of KDC- and MPC-managed funds and incomplete turnover to
         RuSACCOs;
     d. Limited capacity of RuSACCOs to assume responsibility for management of
         revolving funds without continued technical support.


3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

57.     On the one hand, the relevance of the FSP objectives continue to be significant,
the innovative approaches introduced under FSP to address food insecurity informed
much of the thinking on re-orientation of the National Food Security Program, and the
project pioneered arrangements for working in a newly decentralized environment which
have provided key lessons to subsequent projects. Also, the outcomes documented
through the end-user surveys were positive. These were substantiated through the post
closing impact assessment, which showed modestly positive impacts, and were in line
with the assessment of the overall NFSP. The efficiency was acceptable, since the value
for money was within a reasonable range for a CDD type operation. On the other hand,
the revolving funds created under the project were not operated efficiently, and there
were limited follow-up actions before project closing to facilitate timely and orderly
turnover of funds from KDPs and MPCs to RuSACCos. However, subsequent to closing,
transitional arrangements to the HABP have been pursued. Balancing these factors, the
overall outcome of the project is rated as moderately satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

58.     Poverty and gender focus was strong in project design and implementation.
Poverty-based screening of beneficiaries was conducted by KDC and confirmed in
community meetings. Moreover, there were gender targets in selection of committees,
selection of beneficiaries, and training, and reporting on project activities was
disaggregated by gender. This appears to have paid-off in terms of project impacts. The
impact assessment confirmed that FSP effectively targeted the poor and the vulnerable –



                                            20
FSP beneficiary households were more likely to poor, female-headed or headed by
elderly. The impact assessment concluded that female participants in FSP revolving fund
reported at least as significant if not more significant outcomes than did male participants.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

59.     The institutional capacity building component initially targeted woreda, regional
and federal institutions involved in project related activities. These interventions helped
to build capacity within the target institutions in the newly decentralized administration,
but were somewhat undermined, particularly at woreda level, by the high level of staff
turnover.

60.    Following the mid-term review, the focus of capacity building shifted downward
to include beneficiary communities, kebeles, grassroots financial institutions
(RuSACCOs), and a network of community animal health workers in selected project
woredas. Beneficiary communities were provided end-beneficiary training in both
technical and business skills related to livestock management, support to on-farm
production of animal feed and fodder, and support to plant nurseries. Such interventions
were intended to improve the sustainability of the FSP’s interventions which established
revolving funds at the kebele level and related investment by FSP revolving fund
beneficiaries.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

Post-Closing Impact Assessment
61.    An impact assessment, undertaken subsequent to project closing, showed the
following results.

62.     Targeting. The assessment confirmed that the targeting of FSP interventions was
generally satisfactory and clearly targeted poor households. Female headed households
were around 10-15 percent more likely to be FSP beneficiaries. This is a strong
indication of poverty as well as gender targeting since the value of assets (livestock) of
female-headed households is currently about 50 percent that of male-headed households.
Also, the assessment showed that having an older household head was associated with a
greater chance of participation in the program.

63.     However, the assessment also suggested indications of some elite capture.
Holding an official position in the kebele or woreda increased the chance of being a
beneficiary by 9 to 11 percent, even though these households were not among the poorer
in the kebele. Amongst FSP beneficiaries, households where the heads have an official
position have wealth holdings about one-third higher than others in the sample. In both
Tigray and Amhara, those with official positions received around 300 Birr on average
more in loans than those without an official position. There was no significant difference
observed for Oromia and SNNP. In Tigray and Oromia, those households with a head
who had a position in the kebele Food Security Task Force received higher value loans.




                                            21
64.     Linkages with PSNP and OFSP. In the sample for the assessment there was
significant overlap with complementary programs, such PSNP (which provides cash for
work) and OFSP (which provided loans and related technical support). The overlap
between FSP and PSNP beneficiaries in the sample was about 21 percent, and the
proportion of FSP borrowers in the sample who also had access to OFSP credit was
nearly 44 percent. Thus, it is difficult to differentiate the impacts of the various programs.

65.    Limited revolutions of revolving fund. The assessment demonstrated that there
was limited coverage of the revolving funds. About 94 percent of all beneficiaries in the
sample reported only having taken one loan from the program. The region with the
highest percentage of second time borrowers was Tigray where 14.5 percent of
households had taken a second loan and 2.7 percent had taken a third.

66.      IGA-related impacts. The assessment suggests the following impacts:
         a. FSP has resulted in a small increase in food security – households on average
            reported that they were less food insecure –on the order of 0.16 to 0.24
            months. The program also seems to be associated with a reduction in the
            number of months that the household sourced food from its own resources
            which, coupled with the result on food security would imply increased
            purchases of food;
         b. FSP seems to have caused a decline in the livestock holdings, including cattle,
            of participating households in the sample6. This is an odd result give that the
            majority of the loans were take for livestock related activities;
         c. FSP seems to have caused an increase in off farm work. Whether measured
            by at least one household member working off farm (3 percent increase) or the
            number of household members working off farm (4 percent increase) this
            indicator has increased for program participants;
         d. FSP households were slightly less likely to have had experienced at least one
            shock (a 3-5 percent lower probability) in the last five years. Perhaps as a
            result, they were less likely to have used savings or a loan to buy food.
            Overall, they were more likely to have sold a productive asset for any reason
            (not just shocks);
         e. FSP households also received significantly less transfers from outside the
            household.

67.    CGP-related impacts. The assessment concluded that, although the CGP activities
under FSP did not have a discernible effect on the likelihood of a child’s weight being
recorded, there was a positive and significant effect on behavior and on knowledge.
Women in CGP kebeles were 7 percent more likely to exclusively breastfeed at least 1




6
  Livestock changes were measured by taking the current median regional price for a given type of livestock and
multiplying it by current and (where applicable) past household livestock holdings. This approach is more robust than
simply using the number of cattle.




                                                         22
child in the first 3 days of life and were 12 percent more likely to identify correctly the
recommended age to introduce complementary foods.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Significant

68.     At the time of this evaluation, the revolving funds managed by KDC and MPC
were not yet audited and, in the interim since project closing, collection of loan
repayments on outstanding mature loans had not been pursued. Therefore, repayment
rates have further deteriorated and turnover of funds to RuSACCO management remains
incomplete. Also, capacity of RuSACCo remains weak, so continued support will be
needed. However, arrangements for the transition to HABP support have moved slowly.

69.    Taking into account the above, without timely and targeted follow-up actions, the
overall risk at the time of this evaluation that development outcomes will not be
maintained is significant.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

70.     The Bank performance in ensuring Quality at Entry is rated as moderately
unsatisfactory, since there appear to have been significant shortcomings in identification,
preparation and appraisal. Key aspects considered in the rating of Quality at Entry
include:
        a. Strategic Relevance and Approach. Project preparation was undertaken in a
           difficult post-conflict environment. The FSP design was visionary in that it
           moved the approach on food insecurity from an exclusive focus on emergency
           relief towards building assets of and diversifying and expanding employment
           opportunities for food insecure households. However, the design was overly
           ambitious and included too broad a scope. At the same time, the approach
           was not sufficiently comprehensive to make a transformative change for food
           insecure households. Complementary and supplementary measures not
           included in the original design, but which later became part of the NFSP, were
           needed to be linked to the FSP initiatives;
        b. Technical, Financial and Economic Aspects. Key design details were not
           sufficiently elaborated and left to be worked out during implementation. For
           instance, the FSP design did not adequately elaborate the implementation
           arrangements and the fund management modalities to be used for the largest
           component, funds to communities/kebeles. These funds were envisaged in the
           design as grants to communities and eligible groups, but were implemented as
           revolving funds. However, the institutional arrangements and guidelines for
           implementation of revolving funds, including design of loan products, had to
           be worked out during implementation;



                                             23
       c. Poverty, Gender and Social Development Aspects. Poverty, gender and social
          development aspects were at the core of the project design, and were well
          addressed. A CDD approach was introduced to Ethiopia, with significant
          community participation, core poverty focus and specific gender targets;
       d. Safeguards and Fiduciary Aspects. Coverage of safeguards and fiduciary
          aspects in the PAD was adequate;
       e. Institutional Aspects and Implementation Arrangements. The institutional
          arrangements for implementation were not well elaborated in the original
          design. For example, the arrangements for managing the community grants
          were not well thought out;
       f. Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements. M&E arrangements lacked
          establishment of a baseline against which project related impacts and
          outcomes could be assessed;
       g. Risk Assessment. The FSP was appraised in early 2002, so the assessment of
          risk was done to the standard in place at the time, and a comprehensive
          assessment of risks, as required for projects prepared in subsequent years, was
          not undertaken. The overall risk rating in the PAD was “Modest?, and most
          identified risks were rated as “Negligible?. Key design and implementation
          risks were not recognized. For example, in terms of design, the key issue of
          the absence of detailed arrangements for the community funds was not
          recognized. Also, in terms of implementation, capacity limitations in the
          newly decentralized administration were not foreseen;
       h. Bank Inputs and Processes. The composition of the preparation team was
          balanced. However, the preparation and appraisal processes could have better
          highlighted apparent design deficiencies.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

71.    The quality of Bank Supervision is rated as moderately satisfactory overall, as
there were moderate shortcomings in the proactive identification of issues and of
opportunities for their resolution. Key aspects considered in the rating of Supervision
include:
       a. Focus on Development Impact. From early in project implementation through
           closing, there was a strong emphasis on establishing a baseline and putting in
           place arrangements for project impact assessment. However, even though this
           was not done, the project was rated satisfactory until after mid-term when the
           rating was downgraded substantially. Nonetheless, even after project closing
           there was proactive and close follow-up by the Bank to work out
           arrangements for a supplemental impact assessment in order to have a better
           evidentiary basis for demonstrating the development impact of the project;
       b. Supervision of Fiduciary and Safeguard Aspects.
           (i) FM aspects were covered appropriately in implementation support
               missions to ensure that the FM arrangements remained acceptable to the
               Bank. The missions focused on assessing the status and adequacy of the
               project’s financial management arrangements and their implementation



                                           24
        with the objective of ensuring: (a) the project funds were used only for the
        intended purposes in an efficient and economical way; (b) the preparation
        of accurate, reliable and timely periodic financial reports; (c) the
        compliance with the legal covenants related to financial management; and
        (d) safeguards were in place for the entities’ assets;
   (ii) Procurement aspects were covered appropriately in implementation
        support missions and post-procurement reviews to ensure that the
        procurement arrangements and implementation remained acceptable to the
        Bank. The missions focused on assessing the status and adequacy of the
        project’s procurement arrangements with the objective of ensuring that
        throughout project implementation: (a) organizational arrangements,
        staffing, capacity and record keeping for procurement acceptable to the
        Bank were in place; (b) agreed procurement procedures were followed and
        appropriate procurement controls were in place; and (c) legal covenants
        related to procurement were complied with;
   (iii)Safeguard issues were not covered sufficiently in implementation support
        missions, except in the final years of the project. Prior to the mid-term
        review, safeguards specialists did not participate in missions, and review
        of safeguards implementation was not documented in aide memoires.
c. Adequacy of Supervision Inputs and Processes. There were 4 Task Team
   Leaders (TTLs) assigned over the life of the project—1 during preparation,
   and 3 other during implementation (2 before mid-term and 1 after mid-term).
   There was a substantial difference in the quality of supervision over the course
   of project implementation – supervision was relatively weaker up to the MTR,
   and much stronger subsequently. Also, the Borrower reported that the
   transition between the Bank TTLs was not completely smooth, as each had a
   different vision of and approach to the project. Nonetheless, there was a large
   team from the Bank, including a wide range of technical specialist, which
   provided substantial implementation support for the project which was
   appreciated by the client;
d. Candor and Quality of Performance Reporting. The candor and quality of
   performance reports improved over the life of the project. Ratings were
   unrealistically high before the MTR. Violence and increased political tension
   in the aftermath of the 2005 national election created a charged atmosphere
   which limited the scope for candid discussion between the Bank team and
   GoE regarding key implementation issues. Following the MTR, at which time
   the ratings on both DO and IP were downgraded from satisfactory to
   moderately unsatisfactory, ratings were realistic and the quality of the ISRs
   and aide memoires during this period were also good;
e. Role in Ensuring Adequate Transition Arrangements. The Bank team worked
   proactively with government and donor partners and was instrumental in
   ensuring the transition arrangements described in Section 2.5.




                                    25
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

72.     Overall, the Bank’s performance is rated as moderately satisfactory, taking into
account the moderately unsatisfactory rating for the Bank’s role in ensuring Quality at
Entry, the moderately satisfactory rating for the Bank’s Supervision, and the moderately
satisfactory rating for Project Outcomes. The project concept, which refocused support
for food security away from exclusively emergency aide, was visionary and introduced
new approaches to address long-standing problems, from which key lessons were learned.
While there were deficiencies in key design aspects, effective and intensive
implementation and technical support was provided, particularly after mid-term, which
addressed design challenges and responded to implementation issues as they arose.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

73.    The GoE performance is rated as moderately satisfactory, as there was adequate
performance, albeit with moderate shortcomings, in the following areas:
       a. Government ownership and commitment to achieving development objective.
          The Government displayed a high degree of commitment to FSP specifically
          and the broader National Food Security Program more generally, for which
          the Government provided significant funding from its own budget for
          complementary activities under OFSP;
       b. Enabling environment. In 2008, the GoE implemented the BPR to restructure
          and reform public sector service delivery. This process brought some
          disruption due to changes in staffing and procedures, but also had positive
          effects. However, FSP implementation was adversely affected by systemic
          weaknesses in the Ethiopian civil service. While, to partly compensate,
          greater levels of contract staff and technical assistance were agreed to later in
          the project, the underlying problem was not addressed;
       c. Adequacy of beneficiary/stakeholder consultations and involvement. The
          GoE agreed to adopt a CDD approach under FSP, which was unique in
          Ethiopia at the time, and allowed for strong community engagement in
          poverty ranking and targeting, and participation of project beneficiaries in
          decision making and implementation. GoE also agreed to channeling the
          largest portion of the project resources to woreda and kebele levels in a newly
          decentralized system, which was unprecedented at the time, and putting
          resources in the hands of communities;
       d. Transition arrangements.        The GoE facilitated the transition of the
          RuSACCOs established under FSP into the HABP, as well as integration CGP
          interventions within the NNP as part of the Community Based Nutirition
          (CBN) interventions. For FSP RuSACCOs, it was agreed that continuing
          support would be provided under HABP. For CGP: (i) plans were developed
          for CBN activities in all former CGP woredas; (ii) the number of community
          health promoters (referred to as animators under CGP) was increased from 1



                                            26
           per 25 to 50 households, from the 1 per 100 households under CGP; and (iii)
           training was provided to community health promoters, health extension
           workers and supervisors at the woreda level.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

74.    The Implementing Agencies’ performance, at the federal, regional, woreda and
kebele levels, is rated as moderately unsatisfactory, as there were significant
shortcomings in the following areas:
       a. Readiness for implementation, implementation arrangements and appointment
          of key staff. Key aspects of the design were not well elaborated, and these
          needed to be worked out during project implementation. The required
          adjustments during implementation put an extra burden on the project
          implementing agencies, and distraction attention from implementation of the
          annual work plans. There was a tendency early in implementation, due to the
          desire to implement the project through national systems, to over-estimate
          local capacity and under-estimate the need for additional project staff for
          technical assistance and backstopping. The limited capacity was exacerbated
          by widespread and frequent staff turnover.             However, as chronic
          implementation issues highlighted the need, supplementary project staff was
          belatedly put in place;
       b. Timely resolution of implementation issues. Because of the decentralized
          nature of the implementation arrangements, the federal level had to work to
          resolve implementation issues through the decentralized chain of
          implementation responsibility, which took significant effort and time;
       c. Safeguards. Insufficient attention was given to safeguards. Woreda and
          kebele level staff was unfamiliar with EMP, and later with the adapted ESMF
          and checklists, and these documents were not routinely used for screening and
          vetting of sub-projects. Moreover, monitoring of the application of the ESMF,
          checklists and mitigations actions was not routinely done, and safeguards
          aspects were not included in monthly and quarterly project reports;
       d. Fiduciary aspects. Financial management performance deteriorated during
          project implementation from satisfactory to moderately unsatisfactory, largely
          due to: (i) inadequate capacity and insufficient training; (ii) weak budget
          monitoring; (iii) late settlement of advances; (iv) delayed submission of
          FMRs; (v) inadequate internal audit oversight; (vi) delayed submission of
          audit reports; and (vii) internal control weaknesses. At the same time
          procurement implementation deteriorated from satisfactory to unsatisfactory,
          largely due to: (i) inadequate capacity and insufficient training; (ii) deviation
          from agreed project procurement arrangements; and (iii) deficient record
          keeping;
       e. Monitoring and evaluation. While end-user surveys were conducted at mid-
          term and project closing, there was apparent resistance to establishing an
          empirical baseline against which program performance could be assessed
          periodically during implementation and at closing.



                                           27
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

75.     Overall, the Borrower’s performance is rated as moderately satisfactory, taking
into account the moderately satisfactory ratings for the Borrower, the moderately
unsatisfactory rating for the implementing agencies, and the moderately satisfactory
rating for development outcome.

6. Lessons Learned

Lessons for related operations

76.     Targeting the poor, vulnerable groups and women can be done effectively in a
highly decentralized setting if communities are appropriately mobilized to confirm the
status of households. However, even with such community engagement there are risk of
elite capture by those with positions of influence, which require appropriate safeguards
and consistent monitoring.

77.     Results tend to be better where there is political commitment and where
communities have been effectively engaged in decisions regarding program delivery.
For example, while repayment rates on FSP loans have been low on average, this poor
performance has not been uniform across beneficiary communities. Where repayment
has been relatively high, there has also been active engagement by communities both in
the selection of borrowers and in determining appropriate action against potential
defaulters. Training of local authorities on participatory approaches and putting in place
systems that enable communities to influence decisions on the management of revolving
funds is critical in ensuring proper operation of such funds.

78.    Community determination of interest rates and payback period, while
encouraging ownership of revolving fund management, if not well directed can also
lead to inappropriate loan products. Although communities should be empowered to
decide on all aspects of the community revolving fund, communities need assistance to
design loan products (loan size, lending interest charge to cover costs and risks,
repayment schedule, loan period, etc.) that fit their needs, as well as to establish and
operate a sustainable community finance institution.

79.     Small loans are of an appropriate size for very poor households to repay, and
can lead to modestly positive impacts related to assets, incomes and resilience to shocks,
but are insufficient in themselves to catalyze a transformation of household livelihoods.
For better outcomes, FSP needed to be paired with complementary and supplementary
parts of the NFSP. While following the MTR, linkages were sought to be strengthened,
in practice each region determined how the NFSP was implemented in its territory, and as
a result, the linkages with FSP remained weak and incomplete.

80.     Poor, rural food insecure households will invest in their livelihoods, but tend to
be initially conservative in the choices they make, requiring more services as their



                                           28
situation improves. Initially, poor households will tend to invest only to rebuild existing
farming systems with which they are familiar (oxen, small ruminants, etc.). As they, gain
experience and generate a surplus, however, they are more willing to take on other
activities and assume more risk, and demand larger loans. Therefore, credit to food
insecure households should be flexible and able to address diverse needs. Small repeater
loans have significant advantages for very poor households. The experience with FSP
revolving fund implementation showed that, while providing small loans to very poor
food insecure households is important, its impact is amplified if followed-up by repeater
loans and technical assistance allowing a differentiated approach to the development of
livelihoods.

81.      While it is possible to provide financial services through many channels,
effective and sustainable management of such services requires that they be provided
through financial institutions. FSP implementation showed that while community
grants can be handled by local administrative bodies, the effectiveness of such
institutions tends to be limited to oversight of its management and in facilitating
community engagement. Administration of funds, whether revolving funds or external
credit lines are best management by financial institutions. Where they are operational,
RuSACCos are able to provide good financial services to the rural poor and can integrate
community empowerment with financial prudence.

Generally applicable operational lessons

82.     Weak capacity within the regular government systems needs to be assessed
objectively and appropriate arrangements for technical assistance back stopping, as
well as capacity building, put in place to ensure smooth implementation while capacity
is developed. The initial implementation of FSP was seriously constrained by limited
capacity. Measures such as recruiting contracted staff can reinforce capacity. During the
course of project implementation, technical assistance positions were progressively added
which helped to improve implementation.

83.     Frequent government staff turnover, which is a systemic problem in Ethiopia,
particularly at the woreda level, can be a significant contributing factor to limited
capacity development. This problem is difficult to address on a project basis. Given the
significant implications for implementation performance of donor-assisted and the
government’s own development programs, options to address the issue systematically
should be put forward for a high-level dialogue between the Bank, Development Partners
and GoE.

84.     Funds flow arrangements within a highly decentralized implementation system,
including the level of advances, need to be designed realistically so that implementation
is not constrained by lack of funds. The related capacity for financial management
reporting must be assessed objectively, and appropriate technical support put in place to
ensure the possibility of timely funds replenishment while also ensuring adequate
management of fiduciary risks.




                                            29
85.     International Competitive Bidding (ICB) for procurement of vehicles does not
necessarily result in economy and efficiency, and the competitive method can lead to
selection of inferior brands which perform poorly in local conditions. There is an
apparent difficultly to reflect appropriately in technical specifications attributes related to:
(i) appropriateness for rough roads, extreme weather, and harsh environmental conditions
typical of rural Ethiopia; (ii) reliability and durability; and (iii) widespread availability of
parts and maintenance services.

Strategic Lessons

86.     Assessment of important programs needs to be evidence based. Early
establishment of a baseline and appropriate arrangements for quantitative impact
evaluation are important not only to measure program benefits but to identify areas that
can improve impact. While qualitative assessments are helpful, they are best interpreted
in the context of quantitative results.

87.    Graduation to food security cannot be expected to be achieved with only safety
net participation, and limited assistance from FSP revolving funds and OFSP
interventions. While these programs have demonstrated benefits to bridge food gaps,
reduce asset depletion, increase resilience to shocks, and modestly diversify and increase
income, full graduation will require more comprehensive assistance targeted to assisting
poor households progress along multiple paths out of poverty.

88.    Transitioning at scale from food insecurity will require a broad-based approach
beyond specific food security focused interventions. Since the 1990s GoE and its
development partners have sought to meet the challenge of food insecurity primarily
through investments that directly targeted a relatively large chronically food insecure
population. The earlier transition, from reliance on emergency response to the current
focus on meeting food gaps and strengthening livelihoods of food insecure households,
was a major milestone. However, long-term food security cannot be achieved through
exclusive attention to the vulnerable, particularly in low potential areas. Rather,
complementary efforts are also needed to diversify livelihood and employment
opportunities, in both rural and urban areas, as well as to enhance agricultural growth, in
both low potential and high potential areas, and thereby reduce food prices. To this end,
greater synergies between the Food Security Program and the Agricultural Growth
Program should be pursued.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
Not yet available.

(b) Cofinanciers
Not yet available.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
Not applicable


                                              30
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
(a1) Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)
                                                              Actual/Latest
                                     Appraisal Estimate                              Percentage of
           Components                                           Estimate
                                       (US$ millions)                                 Appraisal
                                                              (US$ millions)
 FUNDS TO
                                               76.73                NA                     NA
COMMUNITIES/KEBELES
 CAPACITY BUILDING
GRANTS TO WOREDAS,
                                               27.90                NA                     NA
REGIONS, AND FEDERAL
MINISTRIES
FOOD MARKETING
                                                0.59                   0.00               0.00
INITIATIVES
 COMMUNICATIONS &
                                                1.51                NA                     NA
PUBLIC EDUCATION
 ADMINISTRATION AND
                                                3.43                NA                     NA
IMPACT EVALUATION

             Total Baseline Cost              110.16
Physical Contingencies
                                                0.00                   0.00
Price Contingencies
                                                0.00                   0.00
             Total Project Costs              110.16
Front-end fee PPF                               0.00                   0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                              0.00                   0.00
     Total Financing Required                 110.16

Note: The FSP accounting system did not track, and the IFR did not report cost by component. Rather
costs were tracked and reported by expenditure category only.

(a2) Project Cost by Expenditure Category: IDA (in US$ Million equivalent)
                                                              Actual/Latest
                                     Appraisal Estimate                              Percentage of
     Expenditure Category                                       Estimate
                                       (US$ millions)                                 Appraisal
                                                              (US$ millions)
GOODS                                           3.00                 2.08                 69.33
CONSULTANTS AND
                                               10.00                   4.62               46.20
TRAINING
GRANTS For COMMUNITIES                         64.73                 58.92                91.02
OPERATING COSTS                                 3.27                   3.13               95.72
UNALLOCATED                                     4.00                   0                   0.00
           Total Project Costs                 85.00                 68.75                80.88
MDRI SPLIT                                                            -2.72
    Total Financing Required                   85.00                 66.03                77.68




                                                  31
(a3) Project Cost by Expenditure Category: CIDA (in US$ Million equivalent)
                                                        Actual/Latest
                                 Appraisal Estimate                      Percentage of
    Expenditure Category                                  Estimate
                                   (US$ millions)                         Appraisal
                                                        (US$ millions)
GOODS                                                          0.35
CONSULTANTS AND
                                                               0.77
TRAINING
GRANTS For COMMUNITIES                                         6.85
OPERATING COSTS                                                1.30
           Total Project Costs            3.00                 9.27         308.67
    Total Financing Required             85.00                 9.27         308.67

(a2) Project Cost by Expenditure Category: ITALY (in US$ Million equivalent)
                                                        Actual/Latest
                                 Appraisal Estimate                      Percentage of
    Expenditure Category                                  Estimate
                                   (US$ millions)                         Appraisal
                                                        (US$ millions)
GOODS                                                          0.72
CONSULTANTS AND
                                                               0.56
TRAINING
GRANTS For COMMUNITIES                                         1.89
OPERATING COSTS                                                0.98
           Total Project Costs            4.00                 4.14         103.5
    Total Financing Required              4.00                 4.14         103.5

(b) Financing
                                                   Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                       Type of      Estimate      Estimate Percentage of
         Source of Funds
                                     Cofinancing (US$ millions (US$ millions Appraisal
                                                        )             )
 Borrower                                        8.16          5.73         70.22
 CANADA: Canadian International
                                                 3.00           9.26       308.67
Development Agency (CIDA)
 Local Communities                               7.00            0.00      0.00
 UK: British Department for
                                                 3.00           0.00       0.00
International Development (DFID)
 International Development
                                                 85.00          68.75      80.88
Association (IDA)
 ITALY: Dev. Coop. Department
                                                 4.00           4.14       103.50
(MOFA)




                                            32
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Grants to communities/kebeles

Community revolving fund.
1.     FSP supported 280 community asset building subprojects, benefitting 103,453
households, with at total cost of ETB 8.97 million. These included rural roads, rain water
harvesting, spring development, hand-dug wells, ponds and soil and water conservation.

Table A2.1 Community Asset Building Sub-Projects
         Regions              Number of Sub-            Number of Beneficiary             Cost (ETB)
                                 projects                   Households
         Amhara                     27                          5,261                      1,432,632
         Oromia                    138                        47,375                       2,036,155
         Tigray                     70                        24,404                       4,271,260
          SNNP                      45                        26,413                       1,229,365
          Total                    280                       103,453                       8,969,412

2.      FSP supported 60,711 household asset building (income generation) sub-projects,
benefitting 457,664 household, with a total cost of ETB 603.2 million.

Table A2.2 Household Asset Building Sub-Projects
         Regions              Number of Sub-            Number of Beneficiary             Cost (ETB)
                                 projects                   Households
         Amhara                   27,097                     149,046                      206,607,620
         Oromia                   14,953                     121,506                      160,930,555
         Tigray                   10,868                     103,297                      135,175,904
          SNNP                     7,793                      83,815                      100,485,096
          Total                   60,711                     457,664                      603,199,175

Table A2.3 Beneficiaries of Household Asset Building Sub-Projects
 Region     Number of:      FY03   FY04     FY05        FY06   FY07     FY08     FY09       FY10       Total     %
                                                                                                                Fe-
                                                                                                                male
Amhara      Woredas           5      11       19        27        27       33       33        33
            Kebeles          50     110      190      365        405      461      461       461
            Beneficiaries     -    19,333   36,747   21,414    12,639   27,138   28,890    2,885    149,046      33
Oromia      Woredas           3      7        13       21         21       25       25        25
            Kebeles          30      70      130      275        315      353      353       353
            Beneficiaries     -    8,108    24,240   27,499    21,372   18,017   13,588    8,682    121,506      47
 Tigray     Woredas           2      6        11       16         16       20       20        20
            Kebeles          20      71      121      216        241      278      278       278
            Beneficiaries     -    3,874    20,409   19,611    15,013   25,464   18,358      568    103,297      34
 SNNP       Woredas           2      4        7        10         10       15       15        15
            Kebeles          20      40       70      135        150      200      200       200
            Beneficiaries     -    4,925    14,254   11,521    15,827   14,222   16,095    6,971       83,815    38
 Total      Woredas          12      28       50       74         74       93       93        93
            Kebeles         120     291      511      991       1,111    1,292    1,292     1,292
            Beneficiaries     -    36,240   95,650   80,045    64,851   84,841   76,931    19,106   457,664      38


3.     FSP established 954 RUSACCOs, out of which 733 RUSACCOs received the
capacity building support and 282 RUSACCOs managed FSP revolving funds.


                                                   33
Table A2.4 Status of RuSACCOs established under FSP
                               Number of RuSACCOs:

  Region        Target for    Established        Received    Managed FSP         Amount of
              establishment                      capacity   revolving funds     RuSSACO
                                                 building                        managed
                                                 support                      Revolving Fund
                                                                               (ETB million)
  Amhara           461           350               200            48               21.3
  Oromia           335           204               116            25                6.0
  Tigray           278           265               223           106               33.1
   SNNP            200           200               194           129               50.8
   Total          1272           954               733           282               111.2




                                            34
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Economic Analysis

1.   Conventional economic and financial analysis was not undertaken during appraisal
because, given the community demand driven nature of the Project, community and
household level benefits are not predictable.

2.      The efficiency of use of these funds in terms of money spent to achieve specific
project objectives, such as increased food security and improved coping with shocks, was
acceptable. There were 457,664 households which benefited from the project revolving
funds totaling ETB.603,199,175, and on average each household received ETB 1,318.
While transformative changes in the livelihoods of the households could not be achieved
for this relatively small amount, good outcomes did result. For example, households
which received on average ETB 1,318 to invest in IGA were food secure for at least 0.16
– 0.24 month more. This corresponds to a cost of ETB 5,491 – 8,237 to achieve an
increase in food security of one household month. Similarly, the households which were
beneficiaries of the revolving funds were 3-5 percent less likely to experience a shock
with which they could not cope through their own provisioning. This represents a cost of
only ETB 264 – 439 to achieve a 1 percent decline.

3.    The funds to communities for household level income generation or asset building
were mostly investments in livestock for fattening and selling for cash income. During
the project, an assessment of returns was undertaken for 11 types of IGAs (e.g., Ox
fattening, livestock trade, small-scale livestock rearing, petty trade, vegetable and cereal
production, honey production). In 32 kebeles in 11 woredas across the four project
regions, a total of 250 male and female household heads were interviewed (12 to 20 per
sample woreda).

4.    The assessment showed returns from such investments at the household level were
generally positive, ranging from 18 to 228 percent (see Table A3.1), and that returns were
used to meet household needs, such as food consumption, farm and household asset
building, savings, housing improvements and education of children, as well as to repay
loans.

Table A3.1
                      Type of IGA                    Estimated Average Rate of Return
1.   Oxen fattening                                               20 – 36 %
2.    Livestock trade                                                 135%
3.    Camel fattening                                                   37%
4.    Sheep and goat rearing                                            31%
5.    Dairy cow                                                 (-)61 – 11%
6.    Ginger marketing                                          105 – 200%
7.    Cereal marketing                                           143 -146%
8.    Honey production                                                  29%
9.    Vegetable production
     a. Rainfed                                                   18 - 25%
     b. traditional irrigation                                    16 – 46%



                                            35
    c. pond irrigation                                                        41 – 48%
    d. pump irrigation                                                             46%
10. Horticultural crops                                                      56 – 139%
11. Petty trade                                                             107 – 228%



5.    In additional to the direct returns, which differed by type of investment, there were
two notable benefits that were not readily quantifiable. First, by investing in oxen, FSP
beneficiaries were able to use the oxen for plowing during the fattening period 7 and
thereby leverage access to additional agricultural land and a higher share of their harvests
in addition to the benefits gained from breeding or fattening – farming systems were
therefore strengthened and income from those systems increased. Improved household
consumption, both in terms of meal frequency and diet quality, was reported as part of
the assessment of returns study. Second, by taking on small loans, FSP beneficiaries who
tended to be among the poorest in their communities were able to start saving, and were
in a better position to participate in complementary initiatives under the overall National
Food Security Program that provided larger loans and introduced innovation to increase
the farm productivity or to promote diversification.

Financial Analysis

6.       Grants to communities/kebeles comprised the biggest use (about 80 percent) of
project funds. While the FSP design envisaged a broad program of support to
communities, the actual focus during implementation was narrowed considerably,
principally to a community revolving fund for support to household assets building and
income generation activities. Such funds have been managed primarily by MPC (which
normally focus on trade in agricultural inputs and output), but also by KDC and, to a
lesser extent, by RuSACCOs. The MTR of FSP and subsequent supervision missions
raised concerns that revolving funds established through the project had not been
properly managed as reflected in low repayment rates, and limited on-lending of repaid
funds. It was further recommended that revolving funds be handled by specialized
grassroots financial institutions such as RuSACCOs and that community participation in
the management of the funds be strengthened. As a result the Ministry of Agriculture and
Rural Development developed guidelines for joint management of revolving funds by
grassroots financial institutions and the community and embarked on grassroots
institutions building to prepare the ground for transfer of the administration of FSP
revolving funds to RuSACCOs.

7.     As of June 2010, the project has disbursed about 603.2 million Birr for 457,664
beneficiaries through KDC, multipurpose cooperatives and RUSACCOs, and of this
about 329 million was reported as non-performing loans. The performance of the


7
 The oxen fattening cycle commonly takes place over a period of 6 to 7 months between September and
May , and involves three sequential activities: (i) oxen are bought in local markets often from primary
producers; (ii) oxen are used for ploughing during the fattening cycle and are fed (both grazing and cut-
and-carry); and (iii) oxen are sold in local market to farmers and cattle traders.



                                                    36
revolving fund, measured in terms of repayment rate, was very low, varying from 58
percent in Amhara region to 67 percent in SNNPR (Table A3.2). The repayment rate
also varied across woredas and kebeles. For example, although the average repayment
rate at the end of the project in SNNPR was about 66.7 percent, there were woredas
which had repayment rates above 90 percent (Kindo Didayo, 99.4 percent; Damot Waydo,
98.6 percent; Euba Debretsehay 90.5 percent; and Damboya 90.4 percent), and other
woredas with payment rates below 40 percent (Boloso Bombie, 36.7 percent; Damot Sore,
36.9 percent; and Kucha, 40.1 percent).

Table A3.2 Value of loans disbursed and non-performing loans (NPL), refinancing
and repayment rates (June 2010)
   Region        Number of          Loan                   NPL         Refinancing   Repayment
                beneficiaries     disbursed           (million Birr)       (%)        rate (%)
                                (million Birr)

  Amhara           149,046         206.61                118.96            37          58%

  Oromiya          121,506         160.93                 81.72            65           62

   Tigrai          103,297         135.17                 95.13            23           66

   SNNP            83,815          100.48                  33.1            77           67

    Total          457,664          603.2                 328.9            44           61



8.      At the time of project closing and continuing to the time of this evaluation, the
revolving funds established through FSP’s community grants were not yet operating
efficiently. The key issues were:
     a. Inappropriate loan products (loan size, loan period, and repayment schedule not
         matched well with type of activity; interest rate insufficient to cover management
         costs and risks) since the communities had been allowed to determine these
         relatively independently with limited guidance;
     b. Outstanding mature loans which were likely to add to the already high prevalence
         of non-performing loans;
     c. Delayed audit of KDC- and MPC-managed funds and incomplete turnover to
         RuSACCOs;
     d. Limited capacity of RuSACCOs to assume responsibility for management of
         revolving funds without continued technical support.




                                                 37
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                              Responsibility/
            Names                              Title                 Unit
                                                                                Specialty
Lending
W. Graeme Donovan             Principal Economist                           1st Task Team Leader
Berhane Manna                 Senior Agricultural Specialist
Assaye Legesse                Agricultural Economist
Surjit Singh                  Lead Operations Officer
Milla McLachlan               Nutrition Adviser
Prasad C. Mohan               Senior Communications Specialist
Eshetu Yimer                  Financial Management Specialist
Samuel Haile Selassie         Procurement Analyst
Eyerusalem Fasika             Research Analyst
Francesco Sarno               Lead Procurement Specialist
                              Senior Financial Management
Brighton Musungwa
                              Specialist
Solange Alliali               Senior Counsel
Jaime Biderman                Operations Adviser
Almaz Teklesenbet             Task Team Assistant
Christine Cornelius           Senior Operations Officer
Supervision/ICR
Christine Cornelius                                                 AFTAR 2nd Task Team Leader
Menno Mulder Sibanda          Nutrition Specialist
Tafesse Freminatos Abrham     Consultant                            AFTFM
Harold H. Alderman            Consultant                            DECPO
Shimelis Woldehawariat
                              Procurement Specialist                AFTPC
Badisso
Derek R. Byerlee              Consultant                            AFTFP
Jean J. Delion                Senior Operations Officer             AFTCS 3rd Task Team Leader
Edward Felix Dwumfour         Sr Environmental Spec.                AFTEN
Eyerusalem Fasika             Research Analyst                      AFTP2
Azeb Fissha                   Consultant                             ARD
Serigne Omar Fye              Consultant                            AFTED
Marito H. Garcia              Lead Human Development Economist      AFTSP
Eleonora Genovese             Consultant                            HDNHE
Samuel Haile Selassie         Senior Procurement Specialist         EAPPR
                                                                    AFTS2-
Gertrude Marie Halkjaer       Consultant
                                                                     HIS
Laketch Mikael Imru           Senior Rural Development Specialist   AFTAR 4th Task Team Leader
Renate Kloeppinger-Todd       Rural Finance Adviser                  ARD
Assaye Legesse                Senior Agriculture Economist          AFTAR
Rahel Lulu                    Program Assistant                     AFCE3
Esayas Nigatu                 E T Consultant                        AFTAR
                                                                    AFTS2-
Poul George Marcher Ottosen   Consultant
                                                                     HIS



                                                 38
                                                               AFTS2-
Michelle Phillips         Rural Development Specialist
                                                                HIS
Mercy Mataro Sabai        Sr Financial Management Specia       AFTFM
Louise F. Scura           Sector Leader                        AFTAR
Meera Shekar              Lead Health Specialist               HDNHE
Meron Tadesse Techane     Financial Management Analyst         AFTFM
Mulat Negash Tegegn       E T Consultant                       AFTFM
Frew Tekabe               E T Consultant                       AFTHE
Almaz Teklesenbet         Temporary                            AFTAR
Abiy Admassu Temechew     Procurement Analyst                  AFTPC
Gelila Woodeneh           Communications Officer               AFREX
Eshetu Yimer              Sr Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM
Amare Teklu Yirbecho      Consultant                           AFTPM
Amdemariam Yohannes       Consultant                           AFTAR



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                        US$ Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY99                                                                  153.18
  FY00                                          25                       95.74
  FY01                                          28                      153.76
  FY02                                          29                      120.03
  FY03                                          19                       76.55
  FY04                                                                    0.00
  FY05                                                                    0.00
  FY06                                                                    0.00
  FY07                                                                    0.00
  FY08                                                                    0.00
                          Total:             101                        599.26
Supervision/ICR
  FY99                                                                    0.00
  FY00                                          10                       37.69
  FY01                                                                    2.61
  FY02                                                                    0.00
  FY03                                                                    0.00
  FY04                                        22                         83.47
  FY05                                        30                         92.91
  FY06                                        32                         92.31
  FY07                                        44                        145.96
  FY08                                        47                        174.11
  FY09                                        24                          0.00
                          Total:             209                        629.06




                                           39
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

End-User Surveys.
1.      The FSP M&E system was designed to use qualitative assessments generated
from participatory M&E methods to assess progress towards the development objectives.
As such, end-user surveys were undertaken in the target regions at mid-term and project
closing. End-user surveys, done separately in participating regions at mid-term and
project closing, reported that beneficiaries of the project had been able to increase their
assets and reduce their food gap, appeared to be resilient to shocks, and some had
diversified their income streams. Moreover, some behavioral changes in nutrition
practices were observed.

Post-Closing Impact Assessement.
2.      At the time of the MTR it was recognized that the end-user evaluations would not
allow attribution of outcomes exclusively to the project, as they did not distinguish
influences of other variables, such as climatic conditions and non-FSP interventions. It
was therefore agreed, in keeping with commitments during IDA replenishment to
strengthen results monitoring, that, as a supplement to the end-user evaluations, the
project would undertake an impact evaluation prior to project closing. However, lack of
a baseline presented difficulties in developing the sampling methodology to be used.
Also, the availability of the Central Statistical Agency (CSA) to undertake the survey was
constrained. For these reasons, the survey was not undertaken before project closing.
Subsequent to closing, the survey for the impact evaluation was undertaken and the data
was validated by CSA, and the data was provided to the World Bank for analysis.

Sample
3.      The questionnaire was administered by CSA to 6000 households in 240 kebeles,
of which 120 FSP kebeles were selected at random (30 each from Tigram, Amhara,
Oromiya and SNNP) and then the nearest neighboring kebele which was not participating
in FSP was also selected. Within the non-FSP kelebeles, 25 households were selected at
random to participate in the survey. In FSP kebeles, a list was compiled of all FSP
beneficiaries using FSP program records. From this list 17 households were selected at
random to participate in the survey. In addition, among the population of non-
beneficiaries, 8 households were selected at random for interviews. This sampling
structure provides two potential comparison groups to compare to FSP participants: non-
beneficiaries within FSP kebeles and those residing in non-FSP kebeles. Appendix 1
provides summary statistics of all of the variables discussed below for these three groups.

Who is a FSP beneficiary?
4.     There are two possible definitions. The first definition of FSP beneficiary uses
administrative records from the FSP program in the kebele to identify a group of people
who participated (the variable “beneficiary?). This was the list that was used to draw the
sample. The second definition uses the individuals sampled who reported that they had
taken a FSP loan (the variable “fspborrow?). The second definition gives a significantly


                                            40
smaller set of people. The following table summarizes the breakdown of these two
groups within the FSP kebeles:

                                                           Beneficiary
                                                             0                1     totals
                          Ever                  0          880            479         1,359
                        borrowed
                                                1           71           1,578        1,649
                                       totals              951           2,057        3,008


5.      The table shows that there are 2051 listed beneficiaries as compared to 1653
respondents who reported that they actually took a loan. While 75 people indicated that
they took a loan but do not appear on the official list, there are significantly more
individuals (473) who appear on the official list but did not indicate on the survey that
they took a loan. This latter discrepancy could be due to: (a) reporting errors by the
respondents (they do not remember or strategically in the hope of getting future benefits)8,
(b) a lack of probing by the survey enumerator, and/or (c) that individuals appear on the
official list before they actually take a loan and hence these are eligible individuals who
have not participated.

6.      To understand more about the possible sources of the discrepancy, we examined
the knowledge of individuals about the FSP program. In this analysis we compare those
who claim to have taken an FSP loan but do not appear on the kebele list (Group 3)
against those who both appear on the kebele list and who reported a loan on the survey
(Group 4) as well as those who appear on the list but did not report a loan in the survey
(Group2).

                                                                 I                               II
                                                        Group 2 vs Group 4               Group 3 vs Group 4
                                                       2                 4               3           4
       % of HHs who knew about the
       development task force in the kebele          81%           ***89%              75%        ***88%

       % of HHs who knew the existence and
       contacted the task force                      57%           ***72%              55%        ***72%

       % of HHs who heard about FSP loan
       through formal means (kebele leader or        82%           ***92%              76%        ***92%
       meetings)

                                                    KEY                      Beneficiary list
                                                                             0            1
                                            Ever             0               I            II
                                          borrowed
                                                             1               III             IV




8
  Another explanation for this could be that the respondent did not identify an FSP loan as originating from the FSP.
We looked in the credit section for possible instances of this and found a minimal number of cases.




                                                           41
7.      The table shows that relative to those who both appear on the kebele list and said
they took an FSP loan on the survey (group 4), those who either said they took a loan but
did not appear on the list (group 3) and those who appear on the list but did not report a
loan on the survey (group 2), have worse knowledge or familiarity with the FSP program.
And these differences are statistically significant for all three questions. This suggests
that some of the individuals are mistakenly on the kebele list or, to a much lesser extent,
mistakenly reported a loan as an FSP loan on the survey. But this is not true for all of
these individuals as for both group 2 and group 3, knowledge is significantly higher in
most dimensions than individuals who are not beneficiaries (results not shown here).

8.     To shed further light on the possible differences across these four groups, we
conducted a set of mean comparisons of some socio-economic characteristics. Among
borrowers, there are some significant differences between group 3 (FSP borrowers not on
the beneficiary list) and group 4 (households who were both on the administrative lists
and also report taking a loan). Group 3 household heads were significantly more likely to
perceive themselves as wealthy, had a higher value of livestock holdings, were better
educated and were almost two times more likely to be Orthodox Christian, when
compared with their fellow borrowers in group 4.

9.      On the other hand, further examination of households on the official beneficiary
list shows that households who did not report or missed out on the actual loan (group 2)
tend to be more female headed, less educated, with less kids and more seniors, a bit older
and have less connection with kebele administration compared to those who took out the
loan (group 4). In terms of wealth ranking, those who appeared on the list and report the
loan (group 4) were less likely to report themselves as among the richest households but
more likely to report themselves as richer than most households than those households
which appear on the list but do not report the loan (group 2). Taken together, these
results suggest that the households which appear on the list but do not report loans are
more likely to have characteristics associated with poverty (e.g. female headship, lower
education) but are less likely to be among the top of the wealth distribution.

10.    With respect to regional differences, the bulk of group 2 and 3 households appear
to come from Tigray and, in the case of group 2, Amhara. The discrepancy between the
administrative lists and self-reported FSP borrowing is much less pronounced in Oromiya
and SNNP.

Missing & additional beneficiaries, by region

                                            Tigray   Amhara      Oromia     SNNP      Total
Within groups
Group 2 "missing" beneficiaries (% of
beneficiaries)                              58.0%     32.0%       3.2%       0.6%     23.3%
Group 3 "additional" beneficiaries (% of
borrowers)                                  17.1%     2.0%        2.1%       1.7%     4.3%




                                            42
11.     The bottom line is that there seems to be some error in our measures of program
participation and hence in the analysis that follows we will present results for both the
variable beneficiary (those who appear on the kebele list) and fspborrow (those who
report taking an FSP loan).

Who participates in FSP?
12.    The regression results presented in Appendix 2 explains the participation in FSP
using our two definitions – beneficiary (which is derived from the program lists) and
fspborrow (which comes from the surveyed households who indicated that they borrowed
from FSP).

13.     What we can see from these tables is that the program was clearly targeted on
poverty. Female headed households are around 10-15 percent more likely to be FSP
beneficiaries. Given that the value of their current livestock is currently around 50
percent that of male headed households, this is an indication of poverty targeting9. In
addition, more direct measures of wealth also show positive effects. The value of
livestock 5 years ago (before the program started) is negative. The respondent’s view of
the household’s relative poverty five years ago also shows evidence of pro-poor targeting.
Those who saw themselves among the richer households in the kebele five years ago are
less likely to have participated, while those who saw themselves as poorer (especially the
poorest) are more likely to have participated in FSP.

14.     In addition to poverty, holding an official position 10 is also associated with
participation in the program – increasing the chance of being a beneficiary by 9 to 11
percent (the variable offpo). And these households are not among the poorer in the
village – for example, amongst FSP beneficiaries, households where the heads have an
official position have wealth holdings about a third higher than the others in our sample.
Finally, having an older household head is also associated with a greater chance of
participation in the program.

15.     Other factors that predict participation vary by the definition of program
participation that we use. In terms of the official list (beneficiary – columns 1 & 3),
increased number of children is associated with a greater likelihood of program
participation. In terms of individuals who actually took a loan (fspborrow - columns 2 &
4), program participation is associated with larger household size.

16.     One thing that is worth noting is that all of these results hold up for the most part
when kebele fixed effects are added (columns 3 and 4). That is, the factors that predict
participation across kebeles also seem to predict participation within kebeles.




9
  The relative wealth of female headed households has gotten worse over time – 5 years ago female headed households
livestock wealth was around 60% the value of male headed households.
10
   The question was: “Does the household head hold an official position in an organization in the kebele or woreda??


                                                        43
Who participates in PSNP?
17.     A number of the kebeles in this area also are implementing the PSNP program.
Given that some of the FSP beneficiaries are also participating in the PSNP, it is worth
understanding what predicts participation in the PSNP. These results can be found in
columns 5 and 6. PSNP participation is also associated with female headship and the
more direct measures of poverty (livestock value, relative wealth ranking), although the
results on relative wealth ranking are somewhat weaker than that for FSP. There is also
some indication that more educated people are less likely to participate in PSNP,
although this effect is small (education levels in these kebeles are quite low). Religion
also appears to play some role in predicting PSNP participation (the coefficients in the
table are relative to the omitted category of no religion). Using kebele fixed effects gives
slightly different results – within a kebele, the participation of a relative or close friend in
a kebele or woreda organization is associated with increased participation and having
more farm plots is associated with a reduced chance of participation.

Who participates in both?
18.   The following table, based on the sample in FSP kebeles, shows who participates
in PSNP and who participates in FSP (both variables being reported by the participants).

                                  FSP (ever borrowed)
                    PSNP            0             1            Total
                      0            864          1,006          1,870
                      1            479           640           1,119
                    Total          1,343         1,646         2,989


19.     This table shows a significant overlap between the two programs, but also
substantial populations that allow us to try to understand what differentiates participation
across the programs. The multinomial regression presented in Appendix 3 provides some
suggestive evidence. A multinomial regression allows for the examination of the
correlates of multiple possible outcomes – in this case the outcomes are participation in
neither program (none), FSP only, PSNP only, and both. The coefficients are presented
relative to an omitted outcome – so the first three columns in the table tell us what is
associated with none, PSNP, and participation in both – relative to FSP only participation.
The second set of columns are relative to PSNP only participation.

20.     By focusing on the third columns, we can see a number of characteristics that
separate households that receive both PSNP and FSP from those who only get FSP.
Households with both programs have fewer children, but more elderly members. They
have a lower number of household members who migrated into the kebele in the last
three years but they are more likely to have their first language be the same as the most
common language in the kebele. They are also more likely to have a relative or close
friend who holds a kebele or woreda official position (offpofr). Most of the wealth
variables do not matter, but those who participate in both programs have more plots (at
the present time). There are also effects of religion.


                                              44
21.     Note that this examination of program overlap is at the individual level. There are
clearly kebele level factors determining which kebeles get both versus only one of the
programs. Based on self-reported PSNP participation data, in one third of the FSP
kebeles (39) the households sampled only received FSP: there were no PSNP+FSP
beneficiaries. In 7 of our sample kebeles, all of the FSP households we sampled received
both programs. In the remaining kebeles, there was a mix of dual and single program
beneficiaries. There seems to be a regional dimension to this – 34 of the 39 FSP-only
kebeles were in SNNP and Oromiya, and none were in Tigray. We recently obtained
additional administrative data on the overlap of FSP and PSNP at the kebele level. The
table below presents the distribution of PSNP and FSP (treatment and comparison)
kebeles by region. Two important points emerge from this table: 1) there is a strong
degree of overlap – about 88 percent - between the PSNP kebeles and our 240 randomly-
sampled FSP survey kebeles (a fact that will have implications for our impact evaluation
discussion to follow) and 2) the coverage of PSNP in Oromia is relatively lower than that
found in the other FSP survey regions.

    REGION                                                                                  TOTAL #
                                     PSNP Kebeles in FSP Survey Sample                        OF
                          FSP                       Non-FSP                   ALL           KEBELES

                    #            %            #               %          #           %
 TIGRAY            30           100%          30          100%           60         100%      60
 AMHARA             28          93%           30          100%           58         97%       60
 OROMIA             23          74%           12           41%           35         58%       60
 SNNP               30          100%          28           93%           58         97%       60
 Total             111          92%          100           84%        211           88%       240

To what extent does FSP overlap with OFSP?
22.     We attempted to measure household participation in the Other Food Security
Program (OFSP), another program designed to help food insecure households graduate
into food security. The following table shows the distribution of households who said
that they participated in at least one component of OFSP, excluding extension service
support through the DA. These data indicate that there is considerable overlap in kebele-
level targeting between OFSP and FSP. Of the 1,084 households who report having
participated in OFSP, 94 percent live in an FSP kebele. Another striking feature is the
very low level of OFSP participation among households in comparison kebeles.

                                                   Reported OFSP Participation
                                                              0           1         Total
                  FSP kebele                            2,003       1,022           3,025
                  Non-FSP kebele                        2,913            62         2,975
                  Total                                 4,916       1,084           6,000

23.   It should be noted that, of the 6,000 households in the table, 1,992 observations
were missing entirely from the OFSP module. The large majority of these missing


                                                   45
observations (~85 percent) were from non-FSP kebeles and were imputed to be non-
OFSP when combined with the OFSP module data. This non-response issue in mostly
control kebeles, coupled with the high degree of complementary OFSP targeting in FSP
kebeles, poses a methodological challenge for the impact evaluation. The evidence in
the preceding table suggests that the FSP impact evaluation results presented later
in this document may actually be the combined effects of the FSP and the OFSP.
Further information and analysis are needed to gauge the extent to which this may
influence our results.

24.     The below table illustrates the OFSP patterns by both FSP and PSNP. More than
90 percent of the 1,022 OFSP households also live in a PSNP kebele. As noted earlier,
there is large degree of overlap between FSP and PSNP.

                                   Other Food Security Program (OFSP)
              Distribution of self-reported OFSP participant households, by FSP and PSNP

                                    Non-PSNP
(% of total sample)                                          PSNP                     ALL
FSP                                    95                     927                     1022
Non-FSP                                27                     35                       62
ALL                                    22                     962                     1084

25.    Next, we see the distribution of OFSP activities but food security program status.
One notes that the incidence of OFSP household participation is being driven largely by
reported access to OFSP credit services. This access seems evenly distributed across
beneficiary, borrower and PSNP households, with the proportion of FSP borrowers who
also have access to OFSP credit at nearly 44 percent.




                                               46
                              Distribution of OFSP participant households by FSP Component received
                                                                 Kebele level                                   HH Level
OFSP Component                     All Sample   OFSP=1      PSNP=1        FSP=1     beneficiary=1           fspborrow=1    everpsnp=1
                                    N=6000       N=4008     N=3376        N=2718           N=2020                N=1638     N=1092
Improved seed supply                  4.5%        6.8%       7.08%         8.8%             9.7%                  8.4%       14.1%
Non-improved seed supply              1.3%        2.0%       2.10%         2.8%             3.0%                  2.2%       3.9%
Farm implement supply                 1.8%        2.6%       2.87%         3.5%             3.8%                  2.3%       6.8%
Irrigation or water harvesting        2.2%        3.3%       3.55%         4.3%             4.8%                  4.5%       8.1%
Soil & Water Conservation             5.6%        8.4%       8.86%        11.3%            13.3%                  12.5%      17.6%
Grazing land improvments              2.6%        3.8%       4.06%         5.2%             6.2%                  5.4%       8.0%
Credit services                      13.5%        20.2%      21.65%       28.9%            36.8%                 43.4%       33.1%
Poultry supply                        2.1%        3.1%       3.41%         4.2%             4.4%                  3.5%       7.1%
Livestock supply                      2.0%        3.0%       3.35%         4.2%             4.5%                  3.6%       6.7%
Beehives supply                       2.0%        2.9%       3.26%         4.0%             4.2%                  2.7%       7.3%
All Components                       18.1%                   18.2%        33.8%            49.8%                  50.0%      49.8%

        What does being an FSP beneficiary mean?
        26.     The main benefit of FSP participation is access to credit. The following three
        tables provide some basic statistics (from our survey data) on the distribution and value
        of loans. The first of these tables shows the expansion of the program over time as new
        kebeles were added.

                                   Number of loans taken out by Region and Year
                                    Tigray       Amhara       Oromiya           SNNP               Total


                       1995               1           14              4                2                   21
                       1996               3           16             13                8                   40
                       1997              12           18             37            29                      96
                       1998              11           28            125            64                  228
                       1999              28           50             92            90                  260
                       2000              79           54             68            93                  294
                       2001              56           93             68            85                  302
                       2002              40           45             27            29                  141
                       2003              35                           3                2                   40


          # of loans                    265          318            437            402               1,422




                                                            47
The average loan size also increased over time as can be seen in the following table.

                        Average Loan Sizes (Birr) Over the Years (G.C.) by Region
                    Tigray          Amhara             Oromiya             SNNP           Total
      2002          1,500                979               1,138               500         988
      2003          1,433               1,344               988             1,500        1,266
      2004          1,890               1,478              1,330            1,114        1,362
      2005          1,409               1,431              1,414            1,446        1,425
      2006          1,682               1,709              1,413            1,470        1,519
      2007          1,604               1,842              1,525            1,375        1,557
      2008          2,141               1,843              1,696            1,617        1,802
      2009          1,798               2,023              1,890            1,436        1,813
      2010          2,011                                  2,500               800       1,988


     Total          1,811               1,727              1,490            1,440        1,589

The next table presents the distribution of reported FSP loans by year and range of loan
size. Most of the reported loans appear to be within the range of typical FSP loan values,
and the higher loan sizes are reported at later stages of the project.

 Distribution of reported FSP loans by size (Birr) and year of origin (G.C.)
  Year        < 750            750 - 1500              1500 - 2000             > 2000   Total
  2002          3                  18                                                    21
  2003                             39                      1                             40
  2004         13                  74                      4                     5       96
  2005          5                 195                      21                    7      228
  2006          6                 203                      34                   17      260
  2007         11                 228                      38                   17      294
  2008          5                 161                     102                   34      302
  2009          9                  67                      50                   15      141
  2010          1                  5                       30                    4       40
 Total         53                 990                     280                   99      1,422




                                                  48
27.       The following image captures those data graphically.




28.    The following table shows loan repayments over time. The last years should not
be taken as a decline in repayment rates as these loans mature over a number of years

                    Amount of loan repaid (Eth. Birr) by Region and Year (G.C.)
                     Tigray          Amhara            Oromia           SNNP        Total
      2002            1,500                267               713              408           424
      2003            1,400                687               758            1,413           896
      2004            1,389                908               393              726           693
      2005            1,070                641               905              836           861
      2006            1,393                643               749              573           722
      2007              906                372               280              336           460
      2008              930                295               284              191           362
      2009              468                116               262              452           295
      2010                -                                     -                            -
      Total             811                421               583              497           556




                                                 49
The following table shows the number of years associated with the repayment status.

                       Repayment period (years) by loan status and Region
                                            Region
Repstatus                Tigray         Amhara           Oromia             SNNP    Total


Fully paid                  2.0             2.7                2.5           2.6      2.4
Partially paid              1.7             1.7                2.3           3.0      2.0
Not yet paid                1.5             2.0                2.4           1.6      1.8


Average years               1.9             2.6                2.5           2.4      2.3

It is not surprising that those which are fully repaid have the longest duration. However,
overall repayment is not high as can be seen in the following table. Only 19 percent of
loans have been fully repaid, with an additional 39 percent of households having made
some payments on their loan. There seems to be a distinct regional variation in the rate
of loan repayment.

                                   Loan repayments by Region
                                                     Region
Repayment status          Tigray         Amhara          Oromia             SNNP    Total


Fully paid                 31%             12%                27%            8%        19%
Partially paid             28%             33%                22%           68%        39%
Not yet paid               40%             55%                51%           24%        42%


# of loans                  250             313               416            387      1,366

29.     In general, if funds allow, households are allowed to take out a second loan once
the first is repaid. The following table shows the average number of loans taken out by
households, by region. This table shows that 94 percent of all beneficiaries report only
haven taken one loan from the program. The region with the highest percentage of
second time borrowers is Tigray where 14.5 percent of households have taken a second
loan and 2.7 percent have taken a third.

                                    # of loans taken out by HHs
    # of loans           Tigray          Amhara         Oromia              SNNP      Total
             1            82.8%           92.5%          97.7%              98.2%     94.2%
             2            14.5%            7.1%           2.1%               1.8%       5.2%
             3             2.7%            0.3%           0.2%               0.0%       0.6%
    # of HHs                 221            295               426             396      1,338




                                             50
30.     One concern could be that because of how the survey was administered and/or
strategic behavior on the part of the respondents, individuals with multiple loans might
only be reporting only one of their loans. The first of the following graphs shows the
year of origination of the loans in our data. We can see that many of the loans we
observe appear to have been taken later in the program. This pattern is consistent with
the expansion of the program to new, additional kebeles over time but it could also be
indicative of respondents only reporting the most recent loan in the survey. The second
of the following graphs shows the cumulative distribution of FSP kebeles and loans
reported over the project period.


                                    FSP Loans by Year of Acquisition
             300
    # of Loans Reported
   100       0    200




                          2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009   2010




                                                      51
                                 Cumulative Distribution of FSP kebeles and Loans Over Project Years

                       00
                    15
   # of Kebeles / Loans
                       00
                    10
                             0
                          50
                           0




                                   2002            2004            2006              2008               2010
                                                                   Year

                                          Cumulative # of FSP participant kebles            Cumulative # of Loans




31.     Following on the previous discussion of overlapping participation in the PSNP
and FSP, the next table looks at the size of loans taken by PSNP+FSP beneficiaries
versus those who only participate in PSNP. What we can see from this table is that those
who also participated in PSNP, on average, took higher value loans than those who only
participated in the FSP – on average this difference was 400 birr, or around a quarter of
the value of the average loan. The difference between FSP only and FSP+PSNP
beneficiaries was statistically significant in every region except Tigray (where the
beneficiaries of both programs actually received less than FSP only households.

                                              Total FSP loan receipts per HH: by PSNP participation
                                                   Tigray        Amhara            Oromiya         SNNP             Total


Never participated in PSNP                           2309.84          1455.33        1493.13           1439.97         1519.03
                                           (s.d)     1245.67             360.26       584.51            443.42          612.57


Participated in PSNP                                 2110.31     ***2038.179       *1637.118        *1596.094       ***1927.48
                                           (s.d)     1172.51          1176.79         487.70            772.64         1047.56


Total                                                2156.56          1853.81        1530.39           1465.20         1685.47
                                           (s.d)     1189.96          1029.44         564.05            513.11          842.15




                                                                    52
32.     In terms of benefitting from the program, we can also look at the average number
of loans taken by PSNP participants versus those who only participate in FSP. This table
shows that PSNP participants have a significantly higher number of loans – and that this
difference is driven by the multiple loans in Tigray and Amahra.

          Mean number of FSP loans taken by HHs: by PSNP participation and across regions
                                   Tigray          Amhara      Oromiya        SNNP          Total
Never participated in PSNP             1.22           1.01        1.03          1.02            1.04
                       (s.d)           0.46           0.10        0.18          0.14            0.20


Participated in PSNP                   1.20           1.11        1.02          1.00    **1.104779
                       (s.d)           0.47           0.33        0.13          0.00            0.34


Total                                  1.20           1.08        1.03          1.02            1.06
                                       0.46           0.28        0.17          0.13            0.27

33.     This may be because the PSNP+FSP participants have a higher rate of repayment
as we can see from the following table. In every region except SNNP, PSNP+FSP
participants have paid back a higher share of their loan(s) than those participate only in
FSP.

                   % of loan repaid by HHs: by PSNP participation and across regions
                                       Tigray       Amhara     Oromiya        SNNP            Total


Never participated in PSNP                  47%         16%        38%           38%                36%
                           (s.d)            0.43        0.29        0.44         0.34               0.39


Participated in PSNP                        56%         32%        49%           25%           **42%
                           (s.d)            0.84        0.39        0.47          0.3               0.59


Total                                       54%         27%        41%           36%                38%
                                            0.77        0.37        0.45         0.34               0.48




                                                      53
34.    In terms of gender, male and female headed households received on average about the
same amount as the following table shows.

                            Total FSP loan reciepts per HH: by Gender of HH head
                                                           Region
                                     Tigray          Amhara          Oromia         SNNP              Total


 Male Headed Households              2180.795       1854.264        1524.428       1482.514     1691.423
                                     1197.527       1037.732        563.7309       542.0811     850.5895


 Female Headed Households               2096        1848.089        1547.049       1422.368     1669.679
                                     1169.401        1007.01        564.6256       432.4454     817.2523


 Total                               2155.855        1852.61        1530.322       1465.199     1685.426
                                     1187.302       1027.894         563.387       513.1143          841.28

35.     In addition to being more likely to participate in FSP, those with an official
position also seem to have benefitted more from their participation in some regions. The
following table shows the loan amounts for those with an official position versus those
household where the head does not have one. In both Tigray and Amhara, those with
official positions are receiving around 300 birr on average more in loans than those who
do not have an office. There is no significant difference for Oromia and SNNP.

                Total FSP loan reciepts per HH: by the role of HH head in kebele administration
                                   Tigray            Amhara            Oromiya                SNNP              Total


 HH Head has NO official
 position in kebele               2093.776          1793.605           1537.28           1461.683              1658.31
                                  1184.741          862.4138           547.722           489.5057              776.788


 HH head has official
 position in kebele               *2344.04         **2074.355          1508.505            1485.69            **1785.194
                                  1188.257          1483.345           612.2332          638.2408              1048.01


 Total                            2150.655          1852.61            1530.322          1465.199              1684.219
                                  1187.484          1027.894           563.387           513.1143              840.4339

36.      In addition to loan amounts, it is also worth examining the interest rate paid by
those with official position versus those without a position. The following table presents
the average interest rates for these two groups. Overall, and within kebele, there is no
statistically significant difference in the interest paid on FSP loans based on the status of
the borrower.


                                                    54
                                  Interest paid loan on FSP loan
                             Tigray          Amhara         Oromiya        SNNP           Total


HH Head has NO official
position in kebele              3.4%           5.5%           1.4%           5.5%              3.1%
                               0.073           0.225          0.039          0.119         0.105


HH head has official
position in kebele              3.8%           0.6%           3.3%           6.4%              3.3%
                               0.139           0.018          0.083          0.075         0.093


Total                           3.5%           4.4%           1.7%           5.6%              3.1%
                               0.089           0.199          0.050          0.115         0.102

37.     Another measure of official positions that we examined was whether or not the
head had a position with the kebele food security task force. This variable is not
correlated with program participation, but it does seem to be associated with the amount
that the household receives in some regions as can be seen in the following table. In this
table we can see that in both Tigray and Oromiya, those households with a head who has
a position in the kebele Food Security Task force receive statistically significant higher
loans.

             Total FSP loan receipts per HH: by the role of HH head in kebele FSP Task Force
                              Tigray           Amhara         Oromiya         SNNP              Total


HH Head has NO official
position in kebele Food
Security Task Force          2117.796         1852.23       1525.041        1464.754            1675.775
                             1117.518        1026.852       551.4646        515.1349            817.9214


HH head has official
position in kebele Food
Security Task Force           ***3800         1866.25       **2087.5            1500      ***2262.727
                             2636.285        1137.905       1367.708        353.5534            1677.311


Total                        2155.855         1852.61       1530.322        1465.199            1685.426
                             1187.302        1027.894        563.387        513.1143              841.28

What were the impacts of participating in FSP?
38.     Before turning to the estimates of program impact, it is worth explaining a bit
about the methodology. In the following estimates we use propensity score matching to
identify households who look like FSP participants, but who did not participate in the


                                              55
program to compare outcome variables of interest. To match these individuals, we use
the set of variables in the table above which examines FSP participation. This table is
comforting in the sense that it gives the sense that there were a set of clear characteristics
which were used to target the FSP and that, by using these characteristics, we can identify
comparison households who would have participated in FSP.

39.     There are two possible sources for these comparison households: (a) the non-FSP
kebeles in our sample; and (b) within FSP kebeles using our sample of non-beneficiaries.
The latter approach relies on the fact that the FSP gave a fixed amount of money to each
kebele and loans were distributed until the funds were exhausted. Imagine the program
were targeted solely on poverty levels. This fixed amount would allow us to develop a
comparison group by comparing the poorer households in a relatively wealthy keble
(since they would be beneficiaries) with the less poor households in a very poor kebele
(who are as poor as the poorer households in the wealthier kebele, but did not get the
program because the is only a limited amount for their kebele).

40.     Finally, four important caveats. First, to the extent that unobservable
characteristics (that is characteristics we do not observe in our data) were used to target
the FSP, our estimates will be biased. We endeavored to collect the full set of
characteristics that may have been used, but there is a real possibility we left something
out. Second, with respect to the comparison group in non-FSP kebeles, we are not sure
how much they may have participated in OFSP as our discussion above indicates. If the
data are correct, then there was little control group participation in OFSP, and there is no
issue. If the missing observations mask a high level of OFSP participation then it is
possible that what we are capturing here is FSP effects relative to OFSP program impacts.
Moreover, since OFSP significantly overlaps with FSP participation only in the FSP
kebeles, it is impossible to construct a separate control group for OFSP (as distinct from
FSP) and thus our results should be interpreted as the combined effects of OFSP and
FSP. We are somewhat better with PSNP. Because PSNP participation happened in
both the control and FSP kebeles, we can construct a control group. However, we have a
data problem. The CSA did not collect data on participation in the PSNP in the non-FSP
kebeles for reasons that are not clear. Thus, when we compare FSP kebele beneficiary
households with those in non-FSP kebeles, we cannot directly control for PSNP
participation. Third, to the extent that the PSNP impacts the outcomes of interest, this
will bias our results down. In the results that follow, we attempt to simulate PSNP
participation at the household level (using our results on targeting) and test the robustness
of our FSP/OFSP results to controlling for PSNP participation. predict the group of
likely Fourth, to the extent that FSP when combined with PSNP has greater impacts than
either program in isolation, our estimates will not deal with the additional impacts
brought on by the fact the programs are combined.

41.     In the tables that follow, we present a range of results. Each column contains
both the average treatment effect and, directly below it, the p-value for that treatment
effect. Significant results at the 5 percent level or better are highlighted in yellow, those
at the 10 percent level are in rose. We also present measures for our two different
measures of program participation – beneficiary (whether or not the household was listed
on the official kebele FSP list) and fspborrow (whether or not the household said that


                                             56
they had taken an FSP loan in their survey response). Finally, for robustness, we use two
different matching techniques – nearest neighbor matching and kernel density estimates.

42.    The table in Appendix 4 uses the pooled sample – that is the comparison between
beneficiaries in FSP kebeles and the pooled comparison group of FSP kebele non-
beneficiaries and those in non-FSP kebeles. These results suggest the following:
    a. FSP has resulted in an increase in food security on the order of 0.16 to 0.24 of a
       month (first set of rows discussing months food insecure). This holds true for a
       variety of measures, including those which measure food security over the past 1
       or 2 years. The program also seems to be associated with a reduction in the
       number of months that the household sourced food from its own resources which,
       coupled with the result on food security would imply increased purchases of food;
    b. The program seems to have caused a decline in the livestock holdings, including
       cattle, of participating households11. This may be because of household income
       diversification, as we will see below;
    c. FSP households were slightly less likely to have had at least one shock (a 3-5
       percent lower probability) in the last five years. Perhaps as a result, they were
       less likely to have used savings or a loan to buy food. Overall, they were more
       likely to have sold a productive asset for any reason (not just shocks);
    d. FSP seems to have caused an increase in off farm work. Whether measured by at
       least one household member working off farm (3 percent increase) or the number
       of household members working off farm (4 percent increase) this indicator has
       increased for program participants;
    e. FSP households are also receiving significantly less transfers from outside the
       household, at least when using the variable which measures program participation
       through reported borrowing;
    f. FSP program participants seem to be changing the type of financial institutions
       they use. While the combined variable of different institutions shows no
       significant difference, indicating no change in overall financial institutions use,
       there is clear movement when we look at the individual institutions. There are
       higher rates of use of formal bank accounts/rural savings cooperative and Equb.
       But FSP participants are less likely to use microfinance/banks;
    g. An examination of the effects of FSP was conducted for each region separately
       (results not shown). The analysis of these effects uncovered some differences in
       outcomes but none of these differences across regions were statistically
       significant. These insignificant findings could be linked to a lack of statistical
       power given the smaller within-region samples.




11
   Livestock changes are measured by taking the current median regional price for a given type of livestock and
multiplying it by current and (where applicable) past household livestock holdings. This allows us to combine a range
of different livestock into a single measure but it does not deal with differential inflation across livestock types. These
results are robust to simply using the number of cattle, however.




                                                            57
         43.     The pooled sample results above are based on the assumption that PSNP
         households are evenly distributed in FSP and non-FSP kebeles. Given the high degree of
         overlap between PSNP and FSP, this is a reasonable assumption. Nevertheless, we did
         test whether our key results were robust to the inclusion of PSNP participation as a match
         variable in the regression. Because we only have information on household level PSNP
         participation in FSP kebeles, we constructed a model of entry into PSNP based on a set of
         explanatory variables, and then assigned a propensity score (i.e., the probability that a
         given household would receive PSNP based on observable characteristics) for all FSP
         and non-FSP households. This then gives us the likely PSNP participants in the non-FSP
         kebeles where we know (from administrative data) that PSNP was implemented. We
         assumed that households living in non-PSNP kebeles would not be able to participate in
         PSNP. We then estimated the effects of FSP (using kernel density matching) along a
         range of possible PSNP participation assumptions. The table below presents these
         findings.


Range of effects of
FSP based PSNP
participation                            BENEFICIARY                                                  FSPBORROW
                                                                      100%                                                    100%
                        0 PSNP                                         (all      0 PSNP                                        (all
                        particip                top         top       PSNP      participa                                     PSNP
Var             mean      ants     top 25%     50%         75%       kebeles)      nts      top 25%     top 50%   top 75%    kebeles)
# of months
food secure
in the past
12              9.413   0.1754     0.2413     0.1751      0.0813     0.0657     0.19989     0.25461     0.16131   0.04860    0.05530
                         0.020      0.003      0.020       0.317      0.417      0.015       0.002       0.055     0.595      0.535
current hh
livestock      7333.6
value            7      -794.85    -1008.77   -661.09     -1430.18   -1205.72   -702.27     -626.17     -742.32   -1551.07   -1297.40
                         0.002      0.001      0.008       0.000      0.000      0.010       0.030       0.007     0.000      0.000
         *P-values listed below the kernel density ATT.

         44.     The above results indicate that, even for a very conservative assumption of 50
         percent PSNP participation in PSNP kebeles, the measured impact of FSP on two key
         outcomes (number of months food secure in the past 12 and the current value of
         household livestock) remains significant for both beneficiary and borrow. This gives us
         some degree of confidence that our assumption of even distribution of PSNP in treatment
         and control kebeles is valid and that what we are observing in the results above, while
         conflated with OFSP is not likely driven by PSNP impacts.

         45.     We further tested the robustness of our key results by bootstrapping the standard
         errors with 100 replications. The standard errors resulting from propensity score
         matching results can be influenced by the precision (or lack thereof) of our estimated
         propensity score. The bootstrapping results increased the precision of our estimates,
         further validating our results.




                                                               58
                        Matching results: pooled sample with bootstrapping
                                          100 replications
                                  FSP beneficiary                        FSP borrow
                                  Bootstrap                             Bootstrap
       variable          ATT       Std. Err.     Z    P>|z|    ATT      Std. Err.   z       P>|z|
# of months food
secure in the past 12   0.17540    0.0663      2.65   0.008   0.19989    0.07262    2.75    0.006
current hh livestock              Bootstrap                             Bootstrap
value                    ATT      Std. Err.     Z     P>|z|    ATT      Std. Err.    z      P>|z|
                        -794.85    166.582    -4.77     0     -702.27    196.18     -3.58    0


46.     The table presented in Appendix 5 uses the same sample (pooling both FSP and
non-FSP kebeles) to look at the effects on female headed households only. The overall
tenor of these results is that the female headed households show much larger coefficients
than the combined male and female headed household sample in the preceding table.
Further work will be done to determine which of these is statistically significantly
different from male headed households. In addition, since female headed households
represent a minority of all FSP beneficiaries (e.g., around 27 percent using the FSP
borrow definition), our ability to detect a significant effect is reduced. Hence, not as
many of the indicators are statistically significant in the female headed table.

47.     Finally, in order to provide an additional robustness check for these results we use
a different sample. In the table presented in Appendix 6, we draw the comparison group
from within FSP kebeles only. As noted above, this is made possible by the fact that
each kebele only received a fixed amount of money. However, one serious drawback of
this approach is that our sample is much thinner. While by using non-FSP kebeles we
have 25 potential comparison households per kebele, in this case we only have 8 (the
other 17 being the beneficiaries who were sampled.

48.      The results here are less robust than those from the pooled sample. While the
tenor of the results does not change from the discussion above, less of the results are
statistically significant. Moreover, some of the effects are less clear (for example, while
the change in months food secure in 2010 minus 2009 is significant, other measures are
not or show puzzling effects in the other direction). Possible issues here include the
confounding effects of PSNP (e.g., raising the question what are we comparing FSP to)
and the small sample size. Further work will be done to unpack this, as well as to try a
third approach which compares FSP participants only to households living in the
comparison kebeles (i.e., not including non-beneficiary households living in FSP kebeles).

What were the impacts of the Child Growth Promotion component of the FSP?
49.    The Child Growth Promotion (CGP) component of FSP, which offered child
growth monitoring and guidance to caregivers, was implemented in a sub-set of the FSP
kebeles. Participation in the program was open to all households in CGP kebeles with
children younger than two years of age.


                                               59
50.     A survey module was administered in the household questionnaire to measure the
effects of this component. The survey data include a sub-sample of 1,730 households in
239 kebeles who reported having a child between 0 and 24 months. We posed to the
primary caregiver a series of questions on child nutrition knowledge and behavior. One
limitation of the module is that it does not indicate whether a specific household
participated in any of CGP’s activities, as the potential for measurement error with such a
question would have been high. We are hence obliged to use a kebele-level, rather than
household level, treatment indicator variable.

                                                 CGP kebele sample: by CGP & FSP
                                                         treatment status
                                                                  non-CGP          CGP
                                              non-FSP                  119               0
                                              FSP                        34            87
                                              Total                     153            87

51.     Since the program was available to everyone in the kebele, the approach to
measuring CGP’s impact differs from that of FSP. For CGP, we divided the sub-sample
into two groups to estimate the effects of the program: those households with newborns
and infants residing in CGP kebeles and those with infants residing in FSP comparison
kebeles. Households from FSP kebeles that did not receive CGP were excluded from the
sample. We then performed a series of statistical tests and regressions to analyze the
program’s impact using a kebele level “intent-to-treat? estimator (with nearest neighbor
geographical controls). We did not match treatment and control households using
propensity score methods, given the lack of a household treatment variable and the
relatively small size of the sub-sample, rather we use the construction of the sample and
compare CGP kebeles with their nearest (geographical) non-FSP kebele.

52.    The below table presents the summary statistics for the key outcome variable by
treatment status. The table presented in Appendix 7 provides the regression results.

                    Summary statistics for child growth promotion outcome variables, by treatment category
                                                                           CGP                          Non-CGP*
                                                                 N      mean          sd       N       mean          Sd
Child's weight has been recorded in growth chart within past 6    215   0.269767   0.444875   320   0.26875        0.444004
months
Child is currently breast-fed                                     577   0.941075   0.23569    782   0.933504       0.249307

Child was breast-fed within 1 hour after birth                    568   0.411972   0.492624   774   0.406977       0.491588

Child was exclusively breast-fed during first 3 days of life      569   0.745167   0.436151   749   0.654206       0.475944
Caregiver reports 6-7 months as ideal for introducing
                                                                  580   0.815517   0.388212   783   0.735632       0.441278
complementary foods
*Note: Non-CGP kebeles in FSP were excluded from this analysis.

53.     Our analysis suggests that CGP did lead to changes in a sub-set of the indicators
(see results in Appendix 8). Although the program did not have a discernible effect on
the likelihood of a child’s weight being recorded, there does seem to be a positive effect
and significant effect on two indicators, one on behavior and one on knowledge. Based


                                                                 60
on these regression results, which attempt to control for a set of household and
geographic characteristics, women in CGP kebeles are 7 percentage points more likely to
exclusively breastfeed at least 1 child in the first 3 days of life and are 12 percentage
points more likely to identify correctly the recommended age to introduce
complementary foods. Both of these results are significant in magnitude when compared
to the average values (row above the estimates). As a robustness check, Appendix 8
provides probit estimates which show similar results.

54.    While our models attempt to control for a set of factors that can influence the
outcomes being measured, there may be other characteristics (either unmeasured or
unobservable) that have an effect on these outcomes. This caveat should be taken into
account when assessing the internal validity of our results.




                                           61
                      Appendix 1: Summary statistics by treatment category
                     TREATED,                      NON-TREATED,                 NON-TREATED,
                     WITHIN FSP KEBELES            FSP KEBELES                  CONTROL KEBELES

variable             N       mean       sd         N      mean       sd         N       mean       sd
# of months food     1,676   9.472      2.095      722    9.655      2.192      2,359   9.297      2.268
secure in the past
12
# of months with     1,460   9.221      2.004      603    9.245      2.150      2,068   8.989      2.151
no food shortage
(3/10-2/11)
# of months with     1,464   8.912      2.183      608    9.173      2.164      2,054   8.784      2.438
no food shortage
(3/09-2/10)
# of months with     1,451   8.744      2.275      608    9.000      2.320      2,030   8.448      2.831
no food shortage
(3/08-2/09)
# of months in       1,701   9.277      3.552      848    10.149     3.278      2,502   9.944      3.234
past 12 in which
hh sourced food
with own
resources
hh suffered a food   2,014   0.529      0.526      949    0.453      0.498      2,901   0.517      0.500
shortage during
the last rainy
season
# of months food     1,366   0.457      2.189      558    0.237      2.384      1,871   0.605      2.459
secure 2010 - # of
months 2008
# of months food     1,397   0.314      1.789      572    0.066      1.884      1,962   0.218      1.840
secure 2010 - # of
months 2009
sold any             2,059   0.552      0.497      965    0.523      0.500      2,972   0.551      0.497
asset/seed for
food
sold any             2,059   0.525      0.499      965    0.545      0.498      2,972   0.532      0.499
asset/seed for
cash
past 2 years sold    2,059   0.659      0.474      965    0.670      0.470      2,972   0.654      0.476
livestock for food

past 2 years sold    2,059   0.516      0.500      965    0.536      0.499      2,972   0.511      0.500
livestock for cash

current hh           2,059   5,929.96   6,504.74   966    7,832.79   7,504.62   2,975   8,143.12   11,149.36
livestock value
(median prices)
livestock value 1    2,059   6,321.88   7,471.35   966    8,435.71   8,994.33   2,975   8,494.47   10,861.24
year ago (median
prices)
1 year change in     2,059   -391.92    4,326.90   966    -602.92    5,005.27   2,975   -351.36    4,351.18
livestock value
livestock value 2    2,059   5,970.42   8,425.79   966    7,719.62   8,874.93   2,975   8,221.60   11,139.21
years ago (median
prices)
2 year change in     2,059   -40.45     6,005.42   966    113.17     5,529.74   2,975   -78.48     6,632.14
livestock value
livestock value 5    2,059   5,258.87   9,315.38   966    6,701.37   9,959.40   2,975   8,029.82   13,304.94
years ago (median
prices)
5 year change in     2,059   671.09     8,171.52   966    1,131.42   7,968.27   2,975   113.29     10,014.64
livestock value
current value of     2,059   4,679.66   5,352.46   966    6,056.48   5,708.94   2,975   6,311.56   7,712.41
cattle only
(median prices)




                                                         62
                      TREATED,                      NON-TREATED,                 NON-TREATED,
                      WITHIN FSP KEBELES            FSP KEBELES                  CONTROL KEBELES

variable              N       mean       sd         N      mean       sd         N       mean       sd
value of cattle 1     2,059   4,924.98   6,081.26   966    6,448.32   6,542.11   2,975   6,496.02   7,910.37
yr ago (median
prices)
cattle - 1 year       2,059   -245.32    3,757.15   966    -391.84    3,230.15   2,975   -184.47    3,336.74
change in value
(median price)
value of cattle 2     2,059   4,677.53   7,218.23   966    5,921.49   6,802.47   2,975   6,277.22   8,246.46
yrs ago (median
price)
cattle - 2 year       2,059   2.13       5,464.16   966    134.99     4,433.93   2,975   34.33      4,923.07
change in value
(median price)
value of cattle 5     2,059   4,105.39   7,320.39   966    5,290.83   8,115.16   2,975   6,218.14   10,287.49
years ago (median
prices)
cattle - 5 year       2,059   574.27     6,510.25   966    765.65     6,775.36   2,975   93.42      7,637.94
change in value
used savings/loan     2,011   0.204      0.403      942    0.211      0.408      2,962   0.266      0.442
to buy food
sell non-breed        2,002   0.174      0.379      935    0.163      0.369      2,958   0.210      0.407
livestock for food

sell breeding         2,002   0.250      0.433      937    0.244      0.430      2,961   0.268      0.443
livestock for food
last 2 years, sell    2,058   0.031      0.172      965    0.018      0.132      2,970   0.024      0.152
any productive
assets
animal lacked         2,048   0.374      0.484      960    0.380      0.486      2,952   0.370      0.483
drinking water
(last 12 mths)
animal had            2,047   0.232      0.422      960    0.233      0.423      2,948   0.215      0.411
sleeping sickness
(last 12 mths)
animal lacked         2,047   0.448      0.497      959    0.442      0.497      2,947   0.457      0.498
grazing land (last
12 mths)
other animal          2,035   0.277      0.448      954    0.255      0.436      2,942   0.250      0.433
diseases (last 12
mths)
current               2,059   519.87     2,215.35   966    829.31     4,955.24   2,975   558.29     2,192.65
implement value
hh had shock in       2,052   0.065      0.247      961    0.050      0.218      2,965   0.101      0.301
last 5 years
hh has had at least   2,057   0.737      0.441      965    0.687      0.464      2,972   0.802      0.398
1 shock in last 5
yrs
hh had shock          2,057   0.093      0.290      965    0.085      0.279      2,972   0.081      0.274
resulting in loss
of productive
assets
hh has at least 1     2,059   0.216      0.412      966    0.197      0.398      2,975   0.196      0.397
wage employee
hh had a member       2,058   0.155      0.362      966    0.134      0.340      2,975   0.141      0.348
in wage
employment 2
years ago
# of wage             2,059   0.274      0.592      966    0.244      0.578      2,975   0.241      0.536
workers with (at
least) 1 job in hh




                                                          63
                       TREATED,                    NON-TREATED,                 NON-TREATED,
                       WITHIN FSP KEBELES          FSP KEBELES                  CONTROL KEBELES

variable               N       mean     sd         N      mean       sd         N       mean     sd
hh has at least 1      2,059   0.283    0.450      966    0.280      0.449      2,975   0.229    0.420
person working
off-farm
hh had at least 1      2,059   0.238    0.426      966    0.223      0.416      2,975   0.190    0.392
person working
off-farm 2 yrs ago
hh's total off-farm    2,059   806.82   3,546.93   966    1,065.14   4,546.03   2,975   841.95   4,831.44
income (excl.
wage emp.)
# of hh members        2,059   0.352    0.647      966    0.341      0.615      2,975   0.289    0.601
with at least 1 off-
farm act. (last 12
months)
# of hh members        2,059   0.295    0.598      966    0.272      0.575      2,975   0.242    0.564
with at least 1 off-
farm act. (2 yrs
ago)
change in # of         2,059   0.057    0.332      966    0.068      0.369      2,975   0.047    0.292
off-farm workers
in hh (now-2 yrs
ago)
total value of IN-     2,059   122.33   493.61     966    200.31     1,008.67   2,975   159.79   732.95
transfers received
by hh in birr (last
12 months)

total value of         2,059   104.84   596.49     966    126.48     749.19     2,975   103.01   600.12
OUT-transfers
sent by hh in birr
(last 12 months)

hh has a bank          2,048   0.479    0.500      954    0.442      0.497      2,948   0.469    0.499
account, cash
savings, or equb,
idir or coop
member
hh has a formal        2,048   0.117    0.322      954    0.097      0.297      2,948   0.091    0.287
bank account or is
a rural savings
coop member
at least 1 hh          1,454   0.047    0.213      635    0.076      0.265      2,011   0.080    0.271
member has a
bank or
microfinance
saving account
at least 1 hh          1,453   0.149    0.357      633    0.109      0.312      2,009   0.093    0.291
member is
member of rural
credit & savings
coop
hh has savings in      1,453   0.106    0.308      633    0.107      0.310      2,010   0.131    0.338
cash
any hh member is       1,453   0.116    0.321      633    0.106      0.308      2,009   0.074    0.262
an Equb member

any HH member          1,453   0.607    0.489      633    0.596      0.491      2,009   0.628    0.484
is an Idir member

All values are in
Ethiopian birr
(US$1 ≈ 17 birr).




                                                         64
Appendix 2
                                                   FSP & PSNP Participation
                                        (1)            (2)            (3)            (4)            (5)           (6)
VARIABLES                           beneficiary     fspborrow     beneficiary     fspborrow      everpsnp      Everpsnp


female head =1                       0.136***       0.104***       0.151***       0.114***       0.0815**      0.0592**
                                      (0.0297)       (0.0349)       (0.0338)       (0.0346)      (0.0368)       (0.0261)
Headage                              0.00885*       0.0114***      0.00915*       0.0131***     -0.000745      0.000522
                                     (0.00460)      (0.00426)      (0.00502)      (0.00412)      (0.00101)     (0.000767)
Headagesq                            -7.85e-05*    -0.000123***    -8.06e-05     -0.000132***
                                     (4.65e-05)     (4.31e-05)     (5.15e-05)     (4.11e-05)
head married                          -0.00240       0.0772*        0.0147          0.0391        -0.0464       0.00525
                                      (0.0315)       (0.0411)       (0.0348)       (0.0367)      (0.0379)       (0.0299)
Headeduc                              0.00711        0.00921        0.0101         0.0160*      -0.00871**     -0.00553*
                                     (0.00881)      (0.00924)      (0.00979)      (0.00926)      (0.00384)     (0.00294)
Headeducsq                            -0.00125      -0.000645      -0.00132        -0.00137
                                     (0.000919)     (0.000890)     (0.000992)     (0.000931)
Hhsize                                0.00343       0.0736***       0.0236        0.0679***       -0.0115       0.0126
                                      (0.0183)       (0.0184)       (0.0203)       (0.0185)      (0.0167)       (0.0133)
Hhsizesq                             -0.000315     -0.00391***      -0.00117      -0.00363**     0.000887      -0.000650
                                     (0.00146)      (0.00144)      (0.00157)      (0.00143)      (0.00115)     (0.00103)
Hhkids                               0.0235***       0.00515        0.0188*       -0.000634      -0.00749      -0.00428
                                     (0.00857)      (0.00885)      (0.00951)      (0.00929)      (0.00987)     (0.00705)
Hhseniors                             -0.0106        -0.0248        -0.0138        -0.0217       0.0491*        -0.0154
                                      (0.0206)       (0.0273)       (0.0273)       (0.0251)      (0.0288)       (0.0195)
Migrin                                -0.0128        -0.0105        -0.0117        -0.0247      -0.0342**      -0.00757
                                      (0.0148)       (0.0167)       (0.0160)       (0.0151)      (0.0159)       (0.0119)
Nativelang                            0.0296         -0.0295        0.0188          0.0324       0.0810*        0.0412
                                      (0.0292)       (0.0429)       (0.0584)       (0.0596)      (0.0429)       (0.0390)
Bornv                                 -0.0167        -0.0442        -0.0207       -0.0552**       0.0151        -0.0177
                                      (0.0247)       (0.0343)       (0.0283)       (0.0269)      (0.0305)       (0.0192)
bornv2                                -0.0127        -0.00794       -0.0124        -0.0109      -0.000501       0.00366
                                      (0.0114)       (0.0146)       (0.0132)       (0.0124)      (0.0151)       (0.0111)
Offpofr                               0.0200        0.0750***       0.0287          0.0331        0.0308       0.0419**
                                      (0.0147)       (0.0249)       (0.0225)       (0.0209)      (0.0316)       (0.0195)
Offpo                                0.0928***      0.0961***      0.0988***      0.111***        0.0110        0.0372
                                      (0.0246)       (0.0273)       (0.0269)       (0.0261)      (0.0306)       (0.0226)
Offpofsp                              0.0585         0.00111        0.0629          0.0184        0.0965        0.0673
                                      (0.0541)       (0.0685)       (0.0568)       (0.0567)      (0.0746)       (0.0568)
Plots                                -0.00347        -0.00570     -0.0189***       -0.00765      0.00220      -0.0143***
                                     (0.00317)      (0.00596)      (0.00617)      (0.00739)      (0.00985)     (0.00539)
value of livestock 5 yrs ago        -5.80e-06***   -4.66e-06**    -6.78e-06***    -3.51e-06*    -5.10e-06**   -6.72e-06***
                                     (1.58e-06)     (1.91e-06)     (2.08e-06)     (1.92e-06)    (2.36e-06)     (1.85e-06)
( value of livestock 5 yrs ago)^2   5.35e-11***        0*         6.01e-11***        0*             0*        5.79e-11***
                                        (0)            (0)            (0)            (0)            (0)           (0)
richest in village                   -0.493***      -0.454***      -0.524***      -0.391***     -0.348***      -0.486***
                                      (0.0834)       (0.0704)       (0.0952)       (0.0949)      (0.0684)       (0.0835)
amongst the richest                   -0.0320        -0.135*        -0.0533        -0.00893       0.0317        -0.0486




                                                         65
                                        (0.0485)    (0.0701)   (0.0574)    (0.0544)    (0.0492)    (0.0460)
richer than most                        -0.0952**   -0.0226    -0.103**     -0.0416    -0.103***   -0.0671**
                                        (0.0388)    (0.0428)   (0.0453)    (0.0401)    (0.0372)    (0.0316)
little poorer than most                  0.0425     0.0332      0.0526*    0.0466*      0.0418      0.0152
                                        (0.0266)    (0.0318)   (0.0291)    (0.0273)    (0.0313)    (0.0247)
amongst the poorest                     0.0695***   0.0437     0.0965***   0.0721**    0.0585*     0.0551**
                                        (0.0223)    (0.0310)   (0.0277)    (0.0285)    (0.0318)    (0.0223)
Poorest                                 0.0938***   0.0812*    0.149***    0.113***     0.0396     0.0925***
                                        (0.0331)    (0.0478)   (0.0439)    (0.0431)    (0.0469)    (0.0327)
Orthodox Christian                                                                     0.471***     0.0374
                                                                                       (0.0527)    (0.0251)
Catholic                                                                                0.0365     0.0755**
                                                                                       (0.0683)    (0.0320)
Protestant                                                                              0.0408      0.0200
                                                                                       (0.0507)    (0.0204)
Other Christian                                                                          0.141      0.0245
                                                                                        (0.145)    (0.0430)
Muslim                                                                                 0.306***     0.0171
                                                                                       (0.0694)    (0.0493)
Traditional                                                                             0.0782      0.0469
                                                                                       (0.0969)    (0.0311)
Other religion                                                                          -0.0237     0.0435
                                                                                       (0.0586)    (0.0300)
Constant                                0.359***    0.00148     0.372**    -0.542***    0.0545     0.652***
                                         (0.130)    (0.131)     (0.147)     (0.126)     (0.100)    (0.0886)


Observations                              2,815      2,798       2,815       2,798       2,799       2,799
R-squared                                 0.063      0.081       0.080       0.261       0.188       0.506
kebele fixed effects                       No         No         Yes         Yes          No         Yes
Robust standard errors in parentheses
*** p<0.01, ** p<0.05, * p<0.1




                                                        66
Appendix 3
                     relative to FSP only borrowers                  relative to PSNP only participants
                          none             PSNP            both          None              FSP               both
Headfem                -0.642***           -0.100         0.137        -0.541**            0.100             0.237
                         (-3.87)           (-0.49)        (0.80)        (-2.67)           (0.49)            (1.17)
Headage                 -0.0428           -0.0649*        0.0165        0.0221            0.0649*          0.0814**
                         (-1.79)           (-2.12)        (0.58)         (0.77)           (2.12)            (2.60)
Headagesq               0.000335         0.000638*       -0.000330     -0.000303        -0.000638*        -0.000969**
                         (1.39)            (2.08)         (-1.13)       (-1.08)           (-2.08)           (-3.08)
Headmar                  -0.242           -0.569*         -0.157         0.327            0.569*             0.412
                         (-1.24)           (-2.49)        (-0.77)        (1.47)           (2.49)            (1.85)
Headeduc                -0.0639           -0.0610         -0.0471      -0.00291           0.0610            0.0139
                         (-1.47)           (-0.79)        (-0.82)       (-0.04)           (0.79)            (0.17)
Headeducsq              0.00513           -0.00382       -0.00278       0.00895           0.00382          0.00104
                         (1.26)            (-0.41)        (-0.42)        (0.96)           (0.41)            (0.10)
Hhsize                  -0.311**          -0.300*         -0.0572       -0.0107           0.300*             0.243
                         (-2.93)           (-2.15)        (-0.46)       (-0.08)           (2.15)            (1.77)
Hhsizesq                0.0220**           0.0142        0.00903        0.00772           -0.0142          -0.00522
                         (2.86)            (1.26)         (0.98)         (0.71)           (-1.26)           (-0.46)
Hhkids                  -0.123*           -0.0187        -0.186**       -0.104            0.0187            -0.167*
                         (-2.22)           (-0.24)        (-3.07)       (-1.36)           (0.24)            (-2.16)
Hhseniors               0.365**            0.414*        0.460***       -0.0493           -0.414*           0.0463
                         (2.82)            (2.44)         (3.32)        (-0.32)           (-2.44)           (0.29)
Migrin                  -0.0191            -0.119         -0.243*       0.0997             0.119            -0.124
                         (-0.23)           (-0.99)        (-2.48)        (0.83)           (0.99)            (-0.98)
Nativelang               0.169            0.742**         0.519*        -0.573*          -0.742**           -0.223
                         (0.97)            (2.62)         (2.45)        (-2.01)           (-2.62)           (-0.75)
Orthodox Christian       0.226           3.448***        3.217**       -3.222**          -3.448***          -0.232
                         (0.64)            (3.29)         (3.10)        (-3.09)           (-3.29)           (-0.16)
Catholic                -1.131*            0.397           0.351        -1.528            -0.397            -0.0459
                         (-2.51)           (0.34)         (0.30)        (-1.29)           (-0.34)           (-0.03)
Protestant               -0.617            -1.977          1.061         1.359             1.977             3.038
                         (-1.73)           (-1.56)        (1.01)         (1.08)           (1.56)            (1.90)
other Christian          -0.774            0.972           1.551        -1.746            -0.972             0.579
                         (-1.38)           (0.75)         (1.31)        (-1.33)           (-0.75)           (0.34)
Muslim                  -0.0939            1.472         2.878**        -1.566            -1.472             1.405
                         (-0.26)           (1.39)         (2.77)        (-1.49)           (-1.39)           (0.98)
Traditional              -1.881            -12.77          1.230         10.89             12.77             14.00
                         (-1.67)           (-0.01)        (0.82)         (0.01)           (0.01)            (0.01)
other                    -1.177            -12.63         -12.55         11.45             12.63            0.0760
                         (-1.32)           (-0.01)        (-0.01)        (0.01)           (0.01)            (0.00)




                                                    67
Bornv                                0.154        0.184          0.161       -0.0299      -0.184      -0.0233
                                    (1.05)       (0.98)          (1.00)      (-0.16)      (-0.98)     (-0.12)
bornv2                             -0.00201      0.0927         -0.0199      -0.0947     -0.0927       -0.113
                                    (-0.03)      (1.10)         (-0.26)      (-1.15)      (-1.10)     (-1.37)
Offpofr                             -0.107       -0.227         0.310**       0.120       0.227      0.538***
                                    (-1.03)      (-1.62)         (2.70)      (0.87)       (1.62)       (3.83)
Offpo                              -0.547***     -0.528*        -0.0750      -0.0188      0.528*      0.453*
                                    (-3.72)      (-2.46)        (-0.49)      (-0.09)      (2.46)       (2.08)
Offpofsp                            -0.102        0.517          0.459       -0.619       -0.517      -0.0578
                                    (-0.21)      (0.88)          (1.06)      (-0.98)      (-0.88)     (-0.10)
Plots                               0.0587*      -0.0553       0.0837**      0.114**      0.0553     0.139***
                                    (2.04)       (-1.42)         (2.78)      (3.11)       (1.42)       (3.73)
indexval5yrs                       0.0000161   -0.00000817     -0.0000188   0.0000243   0.00000817   -0.0000107
                                    (1.55)       (-0.63)        (-1.27)      (1.82)       (0.63)      (-0.64)
indexval5sq                        -2.24e-10    1.21e-10       -1.52e-10    -3.45e-10   -1.21e-10    -2.73e-10
                                    (-1.32)      (0.82)         (-0.40)      (-1.76)      (-0.82)     (-0.70)
richest in village                  2.099**      -0.296          -13.64      2.395*       0.296        -13.35
                                    (2.72)       (-0.23)        (-0.02)      (2.22)       (0.23)      (-0.02)
amongst the richest                  0.531       0.811*          0.309       -0.280      -0.811*       -0.502
                                    (1.72)       (2.22)          (0.85)      (-0.92)      (-2.22)     (-1.43)
richer than most                     0.144       -0.658*         -0.301      0.802**      0.658*       0.357
                                    (0.82)       (-2.32)        (-1.39)      (2.96)       (2.32)       (1.21)
little poorer than most             -0.207        0.257         0.0751       -0.464*      -0.257       -0.182
                                    (-1.35)      (1.24)          (0.45)      (-2.28)      (-1.24)     (-0.87)
amongst the poorest                 -0.306*       0.239          0.140      -0.545**      -0.239      -0.0984
                                    (-2.17)      (1.30)          (0.91)      (-3.03)      (-1.30)     (-0.54)
Poorest                            -0.565**      0.0351         0.00224      -0.600*     -0.0351      -0.0328
                                    (-2.90)      (0.14)          (0.01)      (-2.36)      (-0.14)     (-0.13)
_cons                              2.475***      -0.703         -3.337**     3.177*       0.703        -2.634
                                    (3.38)       (-0.52)        (-2.60)      (2.41)       (0.52)      (-1.57)
N                                    2783                                     2783
T statistics in parentheses
* p<0.05, ** p<0.01 *** p<0.001"




                                                          68
Appendix 4
Matching results: pooled sample
                                                                   NEAREST NEIGHBOR                   KERNEL
Variable                                               mean        BENE       BORROW         BENE          BORROW

Food security
# of months food secure in the past 12                 9.4129    0.1682813    0.2428535    0.1753998       0.1998937
                                                                   0.039        0.006        0.020             0.015
# of months of no food shortage 3/10-2/11              9.1084    0.3364392    0.3642519    0.2957435       0.3350559
                                                                   0.000        0.000        0.000             0.000
# of months of no food shortage3/09-2/10               8.8866    0.1181718    0.2072751    0.0837817       0.2208095
                                                                   0.196        0.039        0.322             0.019
# of months of no food shortage 3/08-2/09              8.6354    0.2310861    0.3985727    0.1954325       0.3712847
                                                                   0.026        0.001        0.041             0.000

# of months in past 12 in which hh sourced food from
own resources                                          9.7539    -0.5486746   -0.369003    -0.5793489      -0.4206891
                                                                   0.000        0.004        0.000             0.001

during the last rainy season hh suffered a food
shortage                                               0.5107    -0.0065662   -0.0320372   -0.0130181      -0.0199092
                                                                   0.697        0.083        0.402             0.247

# of months food secure 2010 minus # of months
2008                                                   0.4975    0.2286409    0.083207     0.1806602       0.0294906
                                                                   0.034        0.480        0.067             0.778

# of months food secure 2010 minus # of months
2009                                                   0.2302    0.235404     0.1669439    0.2859804       0.1767716
                                                                   0.003        0.045        0.000             0.025

Shocks and assets
sold any asset/seed for food in past 2 years           0.5469    0.0203282    0.040118     0.0087272       0.0411473
                                                                   0.207        0.021        0.554             0.011
sold any asset/seed for cash in past 2 years           0.5317    -0.0008808   0.0134008    -0.0007109      0.0152706
                                                                   0.956        0.442        0.962             0.345
sold livestock for food in past 2 years                0.6586    0.012677     0.0130215    0.0033448       0.0158448
                                                                   0.407        0.429        0.811             0.300
sold livestock for cash in past 2 years                0.5165    0.0092746    0.0245259    0.009184        0.0255226
                                                                   0.566        0.161        0.536             0.115
current hh livestock value (median prices)             7333.67    -759.51      -868.42      -794.85            -702.27
                                                                   0.005        0.004        0.002             0.010
livestock value 1 year ago (median prices)             7739.45    -457.35      -435.54      -515.17            -334.31
                                                                   0.104        0.163        0.051             0.248
1 year change in livestock value                       -405.78    -302.16      -432.88      -279.68            -367.96
                                                                   0.034        0.002        0.035             0.008
livestock value 2 years ago (median prices)            7368.25    -155.46       -79.22      -229.23             -6.72
                                                                   0.598        0.812        0.416             0.983



                                                         69
2 yr change in livestock index val (median price)   -34.57     -604.06      -789.20      -565.62      -695.55
                                                                0.002        0.000        0.002        0.001


5 yr change in livestock index val (median price)   468.63     -822.35      -779.36      -710.31      -700.52
                                                                0.004        0.007        0.007        0.012
current value of cattle only (median prices)        5710.48    -524.20      -591.40      -569.47      -468.58
                                                                0.008        0.007        0.002        0.020
value of cattle 1 yr ago (median prices)            5949.21    -273.94      -280.28      -327.36      -172.94
                                                                0.196        0.235        0.104        0.435
cattle - 1 year change in value (median price)      -238.74    -250.26      -311.11      -242.11      -295.64
                                                                0.026        0.007        0.024        0.007
value of cattle 2 yrs ago (median price)            5670.99     -20.62       63.91        -72.03       112.12
                                                                0.930        0.810        0.749        0.660
cattle - 2 year change in value (median price)       39.49     -503.58      -655.31      -497.44      -580.70
                                                                0.002        0.000        0.002        0.001
cattle - 5 year change in value                     366.66     -571.89      -535.18      -518.94      -505.62
                                                                0.008        0.023        0.012        0.025
used savings/loan to buy food                       0.2363    -0.0504593   -0.0578266   -0.0575388   -0.0598051
                                                                0.000        0.000        0.000        0.000
sell non-breed livestock for food                   0.1902    -0.0179446   0.0124811    -0.0261823   0.0092418
                                                                0.157        0.362        0.024        0.470
sell breeding livestock for food                    0.2581    0.0129393    0.0252538    -0.0041521   0.0230585
                                                                0.366        0.104        0.752        0.109
last 2 years, sell any productive assets            0.0250    0.0134785    0.0085967    0.0093558    0.0107902
                                                                0.009        0.157        0.052        0.054
animal lacked drinking water (last 13 mths)         0.3728    0.000295     -0.0188424   -0.0045911   -0.0156938
                                                                0.985        0.270        0.750        0.317
animal had sleeping sickness (last 13 mths)         0.2235    0.0185426    -0.0206274   0.0149756    -0.0090388
                                                                0.172        0.158        0.232        0.504
animal lacked grazing land (last 13 mths)           0.4519    -0.0001476   -0.0306489   -0.0106959   -0.0233339
                                                                0.993        0.083        0.471        0.150
other animal diseases (last 13 mths)                0.2602    0.0270299    -0.0025747   0.0302477    0.0050831
                                                                0.058        0.869        0.022        0.722
current implement value                             588.74    -15.31593     29.2314     14.02237     51.11016
                                                                0.873        0.760        0.862        0.572
hh had pest/disease shock to livestock              0.0805    -0.0254678   -0.0238427   -0.0184421   -0.0288595
                                                                0.003        0.014        0.020        0.001


hh has experienced at least 1 shock in last 5 yrs   0.7613    -0.0528527   -0.0438808   -0.052169    -0.0363105
                                                                0.000        0.002        0.000        0.008




                                                      70
hh had shock resulting in loss of productive assets        0.0859   0.0069502    0.0009089    0.0126109   0.0008959
                                                                      0.452        0.928        0.140       0.924

Off-farm income
hh currently has at least 1 wage employee                  0.2028   0.0192228    0.0062052    0.0127277   0.0045455
                                                                      0.139        0.661        0.289       0.728
hh had at least 1 wage employee 2 years ago                0.1444   0.0168913    -0.0007901   0.0106449   0.0001006
                                                                      0.141        0.950        0.313       0.993


# of wage workers with (at least 1 job) in household       0.2528   0.0317358    0.0029815    0.0210348   0.0031039
                                                                      0.088        0.885        0.220       0.869
hh has at least 1 person working off-farm                  0.2553   0.031019     0.0120944    0.037435    0.0262141
                                                                      0.029        0.442        0.004       0.071


hh had at least 1 person working off-farm 2 years ago      0.2118   0.0295682    0.017067     0.036052    0.0314485
                                                                      0.027        0.250        0.004       0.022
hh's total off-farm income (excl. wage emp.)               865.83   -146.5402    -26.71277    -51.77396   -116.3348
                                                                      0.250        0.859        0.639       0.327

# of hh members who worked in at least 1 off-farm
act. (last 12 months)                                      0.3192    0.04519     0.0198904    0.0473892   0.0366196
                                                                      0.027        0.386        0.012       0.080

# of hh members who worked in at least 1 off-farm
act. (2 yrs ago)                                           0.2652   0.0414594    0.0232196    0.0446239   0.0412731
                                                                      0.030        0.272        0.011       0.035

change in # of off-farm workers in hh (now minus 2
years ago)                                                 0.0540   0.0037306    -0.0033291   0.0027653   -0.0046535
                                                                      0.717        0.773        0.771       0.659

total value of IN-transfers received by hh in birr (last
12 months)                                                 153.46   -47.19647    -27.95616    -44.80285   -16.69175
                                                                      0.041        0.213        0.021       0.427

total value of OUT-transfers sent by hh in birr (last 12
months)                                                    107.42   10.06994     14.06784     16.17547    7.299889
                                                                      0.614        0.508        0.390       0.727

Savings

hh has a bank account, cash savings, or equb, idir or
coop member                                                0.4684   0.0005738    0.0231875    0.0100125   0.0252358
                                                                      0.972        0.188        0.502       0.119

hh has a formal bank account or is a rural savings
coop member                                                0.1008   0.0228482    0.0428028    0.0254154   0.041125
                                                                      0.021        0.000        0.006       0.000

at least 1 hh member has a bank or microfinance
saving account                                             0.0676   -0.0263138   -0.022492    -0.029047   -0.0183144




                                                            71
                                                                    0.006       0.025        0.001        0.050

at least 1 hh member is a member of a rural credit and
savings cooperative                                      0.1155   0.0390945   0.0418403    0.0402121    0.0471207
                                                                    0.003       0.003        0.001        0.000
hh has savings in cash                                   0.1187   -0.016827   -0.0258391   -0.0133557   -0.0208599
                                                                    0.198       0.066        0.267        0.109
any hh member is an Equb member                          0.0940   0.024377    0.0343605    0.0286639    0.0339805
                                                                    0.048       0.012        0.012        0.007
any HH member is an Idir member                          0.6154   -0.03094    -0.0095631   -0.0297958   -0.0176228
                                                                    0.108       0.637        0.097        0.350
Note: The first row lists the average treatment effect
on the treated; the second row lists the p-value in
italics.




                                                          72
Appendix 5
Matching results: female-headed households only
                                                                    NEAREST NEIGHBOR                     KERNEL
                    variable                      mean             BENE        BORROW         BENE                BORROW

Food security
# of months food secure in the past 12            9.0967         0.3114386     0.2266129    0.2137852             0.2529225
                                                                   0.127         0.277        0.267                 0.319
# of months of no food shortage 3/10-2/11         8.8784         0.2788676     0.4408304    0.322294              0.4430142
                                                                   0.158         0.033        0.090                 0.064
# of months of no food shortage3/09-2/10          8.6501         -0.0978898    0.0278736    -0.0712203            0.0978833
                                                                   0.645         0.909        0.768                 0.690
# of months of no food shortage 3/08-2/09         8.4695         0.1774914     0.4290493    0.2607259             0.4589484
                                                                   0.443         0.099        0.307                 0.106

# of months in past 12 in which hh sourced
food from own resources                           9.1304         -0.7942516    -0.8562436   -0.9474165            -0.8012428
                                                                   0.007         0.010        0.001                 0.046

during the last rainy season hh suffered a food
shortage                                          0.5672         0.0668981     0.0035965    0.0473256             -0.0084608
                                                                   0.062         0.930        0.173                 0.846

# of months food secure 2010 minus # of
months 2008                                       0.4303         0.2423398     0.1916999    0.2346729             0.1132686
                                                                   0.318         0.450        0.380                 0.694

# of months food secure 2010 minus # of
months 2009                                       0.2247         0.6290645     0.389072     0.586381              0.3659623
                                                                   0.001         0.044        0.004                 0.077

Shocks and assets
sold any asset/seed for food in past 2 years      0.5265         0.0787131     0.1200427    0.070296              0.1467105
                                                                   0.030         0.003        0.044                 0.001
sold any asset/seed for cash in past 2 years      0.5074         0.0276927     0.0335043    0.0353571             0.0779845
                                                                   0.446         0.408        0.311                 0.093
sold livestock for food in past 2 years           0.6254         0.0160147     0.0400855    0.0212049             0.093478
                                                                   0.649         0.306        0.530                 0.039
sold livestock for cash in past 2 years           0.4860         0.0474206     0.0572222    0.0536813             0.101099
                                                                   0.191         0.158        0.124                 0.029
current hh livestock value (median prices)        4298.98         -259.82        339.18      -224.02                419.98
                                                                   0.507         0.457        0.570                 0.418
livestock value 1 year ago (median prices)        4776.42          190.16        923.85       169.77                938.56
                                                                   0.682         0.075        0.742                 0.120
1 year change in livestock value                  -477.44         -449.98       -584.66      -393.79               -518.58
                                                                   0.057         0.036        0.202                 0.087
livestock value 2 years ago (median prices)       4605.39          295.69        768.79       232.33                771.03
                                                                   0.530         0.147        0.645                 0.219



                                                            73
2 yr change in livestock index val (median
price)                                              -306.41         -555.51      -429.61      -456.35      -351.05
                                                                     0.045        0.206        0.132        0.352
5 yr change in livestock index val (median
price)                                              -240.62         -747.19       -80.96      -549.19       -70.84
                                                                     0.163        0.879        0.297        0.904
current value of cattle only (median prices)        3379.47         -210.18       359.77      -147.39      386.27
                                                                     0.499        0.326        0.647        0.360
value of cattle 1 yr ago (median prices)            3616.43          88.44       641.23       129.74       607.12
                                                                     0.807        0.099        0.730        0.194
cattle - 1 year change in value (median price)      -236.96         -298.62      -281.46      -277.13      -220.86
                                                                     0.113        0.135        0.139        0.310
value of cattle 2 yrs ago (median price)            3467.03         114.98        479.80      120.01       443.56
                                                                     0.749        0.220        0.755        0.351
cattle - 2 year change in value (median price)      -87.56          -325.15      -120.03      -267.40       -57.29
                                                                     0.155        0.639        0.250        0.842
cattle - 5 year change in value                     -125.58         -512.95       238.81      -357.86      179.23
                                                                     0.260        0.573        0.414        0.702
used savings/loan to buy food                       0.2624         -0.0336538   -0.0926509   -0.0374904   -0.0496375
                                                                     0.303        0.013        0.245        0.249
sell non-breed livestock for food                   0.1640         -0.0074336   0.0017352    -0.0017364   0.0120857
                                                                     0.787        0.954        0.949        0.739
sell breeding livestock for food                    0.2197         0.0050442    0.050274     -0.001498    0.0156626
                                                                     0.871        0.143        0.961        0.702
last 2 years, sell any productive assets            0.0236         0.0162988    0.0228205    0.0186747    0.016181
                                                                     0.127        0.095        0.070        0.257
animal lacked drinking water (last 13 mths)         0.3854         -0.0139368   -0.0502131   -0.0221216   -0.0675675
                                                                     0.697        0.215        0.522        0.136
animal had sleeping sickness (last 13 mths)         0.2334         0.0034025     -0.07795    -0.0275411   -0.0629971
                                                                     0.914        0.022        0.362        0.108
animal lacked grazing land (last 13 mths)           0.4266         0.0027393    -0.0631076   -0.0247689   -0.0457794
                                                                     0.942        0.115        0.483        0.326
other animal diseases (last 13 mths)                0.2658         0.0575679    -0.009087    0.0532814    0.0176948
                                                                     0.081        0.804        0.090        0.668
current implement value                             246.71         17.67384     42.55775     19.19218     49.78555
                                                                     0.530        0.123        0.467        0.158
hh had pest/disease shock to livestock              0.0629         -0.0297266   -0.0411662   -0.0268858   -0.0460314
                                                                     0.106        0.056        0.136        0.056
hh has experienced at least 1 shock in last 5 yrs   0.7638         -0.0141509   -0.0263566   -0.0126437   0.0054007
                                                                     0.641        0.419        0.665        0.887
hh had shock resulting in loss of productive
assets                                              0.0790         0.0031732    0.0004307    -0.0059275   -0.0221757
                                                                     0.875        0.985        0.752        0.373

Off-farm income



                                                              74
hh currently has at least 1 wage employee         0.1916        0.0193594    -0.0002142   0.0056206    0.0296396
                                                                  0.497        0.995        0.835        0.405
hh had at least 1 wage employee 2 years ago       0.1327        0.0035431    -0.0337618   0.0002909    -0.0096951
                                                                  0.886        0.225        0.990        0.753
# of wage workers with (at least 1 job) in
household                                         0.2380        0.0326247    -0.0381748   0.0188328    0.0121908
                                                                  0.406        0.371        0.611        0.799
hh has at least 1 person working off-farm         0.2962        0.0746882    0.0716795    0.1002864    0.0249507
                                                                  0.023        0.060        0.001        0.556

hh had at least 1 person working off-farm 2
years ago                                         0.2491        0.0792234    0.0766067    0.0968994    0.0891298
                                                                  0.011        0.036        0.001        0.026
hh's total off-farm income (excl. wage emp.)      714.41        -96.53118    117.3249     71.66403      -120.084
                                                                  0.690        0.485        0.760        0.525

# of hh members who worked in at least 1 off-
farm act. (last 12 months)                        0.3670        0.0827664    0.0791345    0.1138006    0.0359466
                                                                  0.083        0.158        0.012        0.555

# of hh members who worked in at least 1 off-
farm act. (2 yrs ago)                             0.2999        0.0756803    0.0753213    0.0948626    0.0960816
                                                                  0.075        0.137        0.019        0.079

change in # of off-farm workers in hh (now
minus 2 years ago)                                0.0671        0.0070862    0.0038132    0.0189381    -0.060135
                                                                  0.773        0.894        0.410        0.063

total value of IN-transfers received by hh in
birr (last 12 months)                             172.53        -79.82109    -37.83733    -42.60682    -28.42473
                                                                  0.153        0.509        0.394        0.661

total value of OUT-transfers sent by hh in birr
(last 12 months)                                  84.00          -71.6944    -10.65763    -42.93929    -27.19374
                                                                  0.111        0.817        0.293        0.629

Savings

hh has a bank account, cash savings, or equb,
idir or coop member                               0.4484        0.0249138    0.0672996    0.0289941    0.0521123
                                                                  0.495        0.114        0.410        0.265

hh has a formal bank account or is a rural
savings coop member                               0.0957        0.0467241    0.0793671    0.0355746    0.0725162
                                                                  0.025        0.003        0.077        0.008

at least 1 hh member has a bank or
microfinance saving account                       0.0567        -0.0263258   0.0287449    -0.0272843   0.0208697
                                                                  0.243        0.232        0.245        0.427

at least 1 hh member is a member of a rural
credit and savings cooperative                    0.1179        0.0944919    0.1051701    0.0958323    0.1070612
                                                                  0.001        0.002        0.001        0.003
hh has savings in cash                            0.0857        -0.020133    0.0355782    -0.0002142   -0.0391183




                                                           75
                                                                               0.466       0.230       0.994       0.215
any hh member is an Equb member                         0.0890               0.0361823   0.0638095   0.0387761   0.0601644
                                                                               0.177       0.035       0.152       0.061
any HH member is an Idir member                         0.6207                0.01415    0.0381633   0.0506383   0.0080687
                                                                               0.756       0.419       0.291       0.884
Note: The first row lists the average treatment effect on the treated; the
second row lists the p-value in italics.




                                                                  76
Appendix 6
Matching results: FSP kebeles only
                                                             NEAREST NEIGHBOR                   KERNEL
variable                                          mean        BENE       BORROW        BENE              BORROW

Food security
# of months food secure in the past 12            9.5271    0.0219054    -0.107367   0.0297857           -0.088429
                                                              0.856        0.316       0.789               0.373
# of months of no food shortage 3/10-2/11         9.2283    0.2584003    0.0393939   0.1493094           -0.016458
                                                              0.040        0.719       0.205               0.873
# of months of no food shortage3/09-2/10          8.9884    -0.1121543   -0.216919   -0.0804295          -0.219863
                                                              0.390        0.065       0.503               0.044
# of months of no food shortage 3/08-2/09         8.8198    -0.1453914   -0.270493   -0.0938321          -0.18561
                                                              0.282        0.032       0.455               0.105

# of months in past 12 in which hh sourced food
from own resources                                9.5669    -0.8109789   -0.17149    -0.8812958          -0.110255
                                                              0.000        0.315       0.000               0.485

during the last rainy season hh suffered a food
shortage                                          0.5049    0.0309147    0.0096388   0.0314062           0.0053522
                                                              0.203        0.680       0.168               0.803

# of months food secure 2010 minus # of months
2008                                              0.3929    0.1755859    0.2168726   0.1694178           0.2050581
                                                              0.231        0.085       0.208               0.080

# of months food secure 2010 minus # of months
2009                                              0.2423    0.2457096    0.1886977   0.2301378           0.231598
                                                              0.034        0.065       0.029               0.014

Shocks and assets
sold any asset/seed for food in past 2 years      0.5427    0.0168217    0.0567304   0.0207719           0.0516701
                                                              0.482        0.011       0.351               0.012
sold any asset/seed for cash in past 2 years      0.5314    -0.0025065   0.0335775   0.007489            0.029305
                                                              0.916        0.131       0.736               0.157
sold livestock for food in past 2 years           0.6627    -0.0104221   0.0109023   -0.0034757          -0.000129
                                                              0.643        0.605       0.868               0.995
sold livestock for cash in past 2 years           0.5222    -0.0034367   0.0319214   0.0062131           0.0285991
                                                              0.886        0.152       0.780               0.168
current hh livestock value (median prices)        6537.61    -800.05      -356.09     -862.13             -539.98
                                                              0.019        0.260       0.006               0.064
livestock value 1 year ago (median prices)        6996.91    -880.28      -147.84     -879.53             -316.51
                                                              0.029        0.678       0.018               0.355
1 year change in livestock value                  -459.30     80.22       -208.25      17.40              -223.47
                                                              0.730        0.294       0.936               0.270
livestock value 2 years ago (median prices)       6529.00    -454.97      105.27      -499.43             -91.31
                                                              0.252        0.779       0.170               0.796



                                                      77
2 yr change in livestock index val (median price)    8.60      -345.08      -461.36     -362.71      -448.68
                                                                0.178        0.070       0.128        0.064


5 yr change in livestock index val (median price)   818.09     -818.35      -181.04     -763.81      -313.49
                                                                0.028        0.625       0.027        0.362


current value of cattle only (median prices)        5119.33    -635.42      -156.64     -610.31      -303.95
                                                                0.015        0.532       0.011        0.189
value of cattle 1 yr ago (median prices)            5411.44    -653.54      -14.17      -628.37      -138.11
                                                                0.026        0.960       0.020        0.596


cattle - 1 year change in value (median price)      -292.11     18.12       -142.47      18.06       -165.84
                                                                0.909        0.401       0.903        0.290
value of cattle 2 yrs ago (median price)            5074.77    -320.44      207.29      -319.60       57.43
                                                                0.297        0.496       0.256        0.842


cattle - 2 year change in value (median price)       44.56     -314.98      -363.92     -290.71      -361.38
                                                                0.139        0.104       0.142        0.087
cattle - 5 year change in value                     635.39     -577.43      -263.91     -468.91      -315.51
                                                                0.068        0.366       0.109        0.248
used savings/loan to buy food                       0.2062    -0.0230986   0.0241428   -0.0198806   0.0246866
                                                                0.249        0.178       0.283        0.141
sell non-breed livestock for food                   0.1706    0.0104909    0.0351307   0.0125365    0.0328918
                                                                0.567        0.034       0.459        0.034
sell breeding livestock for food                    0.2480    0.0240032    0.0202614   0.0183486    0.0165672
                                                                0.259        0.299       0.349        0.358
last 2 years, sell any productive assets            0.0265    0.0086867    0.0207006   0.0121139    0.0229349
                                                                0.190        0.001       0.053        0.000


animal lacked drinking water (last 13 mths)         0.3757    -0.026748    0.0010324   -0.0193673   -0.005939
                                                                0.249        0.962       0.372        0.768
animal had sleeping sickness (last 13 mths)         0.2321    -0.0178615   -0.023297   -0.0096213   -0.02432
                                                                0.378        0.228       0.612        0.174
animal lacked grazing land (last 13 mths)           0.4464    -0.0121732   -0.013485   -0.0066774   -0.020573
                                                                0.609        0.550       0.764        0.322
other animal diseases (last 13 mths)                0.2700    0.0099478    -0.013958   0.0119297    -0.011291
                                                                0.638        0.489       0.546        0.549
current implement value                             618.69    -232.5159    -404.4875   -269.0956    -302.9175
                                                                0.309        0.023       0.198        0.057


hh has experienced at least 1 shock in last 5 yrs   0.7207    0.0378945    0.105017    0.0400255    0.1050705




                                                        78
                                                                      0.082        0.000       0.049        0.000


hh had shock resulting in loss of productive assets        0.0903   0.0040093    -0.001105   0.0101843    -0.007755
                                                                      0.765        0.933       0.418        0.520

Off-farm income
hh currently has at least 1 wage employee                  0.2099   0.0116796    -0.040202   0.0136629    -0.030024
                                                                      0.544        0.028       0.446        0.077


hh had at least 1 wage employee 2 years ago                0.1478   0.0260427    -0.019512   0.0212243    -0.019707
                                                                      0.116        0.223       0.170        0.183


# of wage workers with (at least 1 job) in household       0.2648   0.0249612    -0.040902   0.0300762    -0.031493
                                                                      0.380        0.126       0.256        0.201
hh has at least 1 person working off-farm                  0.2817   -0.0042291   0.0105308   -0.0098327   0.0137703
                                                                      0.845        0.598       0.625        0.459

hh had at least 1 person working off-farm 2 years
ago                                                        0.2334   0.011068     0.0270276   0.0052773    0.0249782
                                                                      0.583        0.148       0.779        0.151


hh's total off-farm income (excl. wage emp.)               889.31   -127.2676    -239.3804   -123.6683    -212.2444
                                                                      0.556        0.192       0.536        0.207

# of hh members who worked in at least 1 off-farm
act. (last 12 months)                                      0.3484   0.0056934    0.0167728   -0.0041997   0.0228465
                                                                      0.851        0.548       0.882        0.376

# of hh members who worked in at least 1 off-farm
act. (2 yrs ago)                                           0.2879   0.0263652    0.0318684   0.0163103    0.0333501
                                                                      0.351        0.220       0.536        0.165

change in # of off-farm workers in hh (now minus 2
years ago)                                                 0.0605   -0.0206718   -0.015096   -0.0205101   -0.010504
                                                                      0.244        0.343       0.212        0.469

total value of IN-transfers received by hh in birr (last
12 months)                                                 147.23   -36.04739    -41.00275   -67.59039    -48.57718
                                                                      0.435        0.261       0.110        0.138

total value of OUT-transfers sent by hh in birr (last
12 months)                                                 111.75   8.473643     15.81448    6.408535     13.77999
                                                                      0.815        0.613       0.848        0.631

Savings

hh has a bank account, cash savings, or equb, idir or
coop member                                                0.4677   0.0295545    0.1121754   0.027029     0.1298781
                                                                      0.221        0.000       0.227        0.000

hh has a formal bank account or is a rural savings
coop member                                                0.1109   0.0144219    0.0361111   0.021699     0.0335596




                                                              79
                                                                                   0.315                 0.007          0.105        0.007

at least 1 hh member has a bank or microfinance
saving account                                                0.0560             -0.041716             -0.043892      -0.0363069   -0.043757
                                                                                   0.004                 0.001          0.008        0.000

at least 1 hh member is a member of a rural credit
and savings cooperative                                       0.1371             0.0290526            0.0519225       0.0344668    0.0478475
                                                                                   0.108                 0.002          0.042        0.003
hh has savings in cash                                        0.1064             -0.023242             -0.017953      -0.0140706   -0.014147
                                                                                   0.201                 0.282          0.409        0.363
any hh member is an Equb member                               0.1131             0.0077597            0.0383781       0.0048946    0.0386486
                                                                                   0.668                 0.018          0.773        0.012
any HH member is an Idir member                               0.6035            -0.0076857            0.1249349       -0.0042094   0.1253366
                                                                                   0.786                 0.000          0.874        0.000
Note: The first row lists the average treatment effect on the treated; the second row lists the p-value in italics.




                                                                   80
Appendix 7
CGP: OLS regressions with nearest neighbor controls

Standard errors are clustered at the kebele level.
                                            (1)                             (2)          (3)                (4)            (5)
                                                                                                            at least 1     carevigver says
                                                                            at least 1   at least 1 child   child excl.    6-7 mths ideal
                                            at least 1 child's weight was   child is     breastfed - 1 hr   breastfed -    for compl.
VARIABLES                                   recorded - past 6 mnths         breastfed    after birth        first 3 days   foods
MEAN                                        0.269                           0.937        0.409              0.693          0.770
CGP kebele                                  0.02                            0.01         0.03               0.07**         0.12***
                                            0.780                           0.420        0.270              0.050          0.000
female headed hh                            -0.03                           -0.02        -0.07              -0.01          0.02
                                            0.800                           0.580        0.230              0.800          0.690
yrs education of hh head                    -0.04**                         0.00         -0.00              -0.01          0.01
                                            0.02                            0.61         0.66               0.57           0.54
square of headeduc                          0.00**                          -0.00        0.00               0.00           -0.00
                                            0.02                            0.96         0.69               0.67           0.96
hh head is married                          -0.10                           -0.09**      -0.01              -0.09          0.02
                                            0.43                            0.02         0.87               0.17           0.71
age of hh head                              -0.00                           -0.00*       -0.00              0.00           0.00
                                            0.22                            0.06         0.72               0.62           0.50
speaks language native to zone              -0.05                           0.02         -0.01              0.00           -0.00
                                            0.73                            0.49         0.80               0.99           0.95
size of hh                                  0.03                            0.01         -0.01              -0.02          -0.02
                                            0.38                            0.61         0.46               0.16           0.13
# of children in hh                         -0.00                           0.02         -0.00              0.03*          0.03**
                                            0.89                            0.19         0.99               0.09           0.05
# of seniors in hh                          0.04                            -0.01        0.01               -0.00          0.03
                                            0.46                            0.66         0.85               0.90           0.22
head has any official position in an org    0.00                            -0.01        0.01               -0.03          0.05
                                            0.96                            0.74         0.87               0.61           0.26
official position in a food security task
force                                       -0.28                           0.05         0.06               0.19*          -0.18
                                            0.20                            0.19         0.67               0.08           0.17
official position in the kebele             0.07                            -0.02        -0.01              0.04           -0.05
                                            0.50                            0.52         0.91               0.44           0.39
head's parent was official in an org        0.04                            0.02         -0.06              -0.02          0.07
                                            0.69                            0.52         0.28               0.68           0.18
family or relative was an official in an
org                                         0.07                            -0.00        0.01               0.01           0.02
                                            0.20                            0.85         0.82               0.76           0.58
hh head born in this village                0.04                            0.00         -0.06              0.05           0.07*
                                            0.58                            0.91         0.20               0.18           0.09
head's spouse born in this village          -0.09**                         0.00         0.02               -0.01          0.02
                                            0.04                            0.88         0.39               0.67           0.37
hh livestock value 5yrs ago                 0.00                            0.00         0.00               -0.00          -0.00
                                            0.51                            0.85         0.44               0.47           0.26
The richest in the village                  0.13                            0.03         0.02               -0.03          0.27***
                                            0.45                            0.46         0.91               0.79           0.00
Amongst the richest in the village          -0.01                           -0.07        0.09               -0.08          0.01



                                                                  81
                                       0.88           0.13       0.22     0.18      0.87
Richer than most households            0.01           -0.06*     0.06     0.00      -0.03
                                       0.85           0.06       0.18     0.96      0.59
A little poorer than most households   0.02           -0.04      0.03     0.02      0.02
                                       0.83           0.22       0.52     0.52      0.59
Amongst the poorest in the village     -0.02          -0.01      0.08*    -0.02     -0.04
                                       0.82           0.60       0.06     0.58      0.28
The poorest in the village             0.05           0.02       0.08     0.02      0.05
                                       0.66           0.53       0.17     0.67      0.26
Orthodox Christian                     0.16           -0.10**    0.07     0.02      -0.17***
                                       0.32           0.01       0.56     0.84      0.01
Catholic                               0.09           -0.25***   -0.02    0.04      -0.19*
                                       0.66           0.01       0.88     0.72      0.06
Protestant                             -0.01          -0.08**    0.05     0.05      -0.13*
                                       0.91           0.01       0.64     0.57      0.07
Other Christian                        0.01           -0.09***   0.01     -0.00     -0.01
                                       0.96           0.01       0.96     0.99      0.93
Muslim                                 0.15           -0.21***   0.01     -0.06     -0.12
                                       0.56           0.00       0.93     0.62      0.22
Traditional                            -0.27          -0.05      0.07     0.17      -0.21
                                       0.19           0.33       0.61     0.10      0.13
Other religion                         0.87***        -0.02      0.19     -0.06     0.22***
                                       0.00           0.63       0.38     0.83      0.00
Constant                               0.24           1.07***    0.27     0.53***   0.90***
                                       0.33           0.00       0.11     0.00      0.00


Observations                           493            1,237      1,221    1,198     1,242
R-squared                              0.35           0.17       0.39     0.38      0.28
LL                                     -189.8         78.56      -568.6   -489.4    -492.8
DoF                                    155            201        199      200       201
*** p<0.01, ** p<0.05, * p<0.1




                                                 82
Appendix 8: CGP Probit results


CGP: marginal effects after a probit regression
                                                           (1)            (2)             (3)                (4)                  (5)


                                                         at least 1
                                                      child's weight   at least 1   at least 1 child    at least 1 child    carevigver says
                                                      was recorded -    child is    breastfed - 1 hr   excl. breastfed -   6-7 mths ideal for
VARIABLES                                              past 6 mnths    breastfed       after birth        first 3 days       compl. foods
MEAN                                                      0.269          0.937           0.409              0.693                0.770
CGP kebele                                               0.00551        0.0188          0.0434            0.0937**             0.188***
                                                         (0.935)        (0.368)         (0.306)           (0.0439)            (1.34e-05)
female headed hh                                         -0.0455        -0.0113         -0.101             -0.0405              0.0653
                                                         (0.770)        (0.825)         (0.189)            (0.667)              (0.363)
yrs education of hh head                                -0.0570**      0.00615         -0.00806            -0.0111             0.00489
                                                        (0.0138)        (0.451)         (0.570)            (0.444)              (0.718)
square of headeduc                                     0.00486**       -0.000163       0.000631           0.000690             0.000542
                                                        (0.0142)        (0.818)         (0.652)            (0.575)              (0.670)
hh head is married                                       -0.167        -0.0851**       -0.0214              -0.139              0.0985
                                                         (0.358)       (0.0126)         (0.831)            (0.112)              (0.314)
age of hh head                                          -0.00366       -0.00224*      -0.000963           0.000890             0.00166
                                                         (0.293)       (0.0948)         (0.622)            (0.697)              (0.436)
speaks language native to zone                           -0.0938        0.0387         -0.0271            -0.00768              -0.0121
                                                         (0.618)        (0.423)         (0.736)            (0.940)              (0.880)
size of hh                                               0.0286        0.00290         -0.0174             -0.0346             -0.0343*
                                                         (0.477)        (0.833)         (0.367)            (0.115)             (0.0849)
# of children in hh                                      0.0111        0.0274*         0.00211             0.0465*             0.0461**
                                                         (0.812)       (0.0905)         (0.925)           (0.0532)             (0.0384)
# of seniors in hh                                       0.0637        -0.00903         0.0117             0.00139              0.0401
                                                         (0.356)        (0.742)         (0.801)            (0.973)              (0.381)
head has any official position in an org                 -0.0118       -0.00617         0.0114             -0.0415              0.0608
                                                         (0.917)        (0.894)         (0.879)            (0.520)              (0.283)
official position in a food security task force          -0.269                         0.0934              0.234               -0.290*
                                                         (0.178)                        (0.574)            (0.141)             (0.0614)
official position in the kebele                           0.122         -0.0354        -0.00629            0.0748               -0.0729
                                                         (0.402)        (0.537)         (0.942)            (0.331)              (0.367)
head's parent was official in an org                     0.0922         0.0154          -0.0711            -0.0352              0.0842
                                                         (0.504)        (0.784)         (0.306)            (0.645)              (0.196)
family or relative was an official in an org              0.109         -0.0154         0.0201             0.0253               0.0380
                                                         (0.122)        (0.619)         (0.660)            (0.581)              (0.419)
hh head born in this village                             0.0774         0.0251         -0.0918             0.0819              0.120**
                                                         (0.407)        (0.503)         (0.147)            (0.149)             (0.0412)
head's spouse born in this village                      -0.149**       0.00568          0.0258             -0.0156              0.0333
                                                        (0.0177)        (0.807)         (0.438)            (0.631)              (0.272)
hh livestock value 5yrs ago (median regional price)     7.70e-07       -1.10e-07       1.40e-06           -1.14e-06            -1.99e-06
                                                         (0.748)        (0.838)         (0.378)            (0.373)              (0.124)
The richest in the village                                0.277                         0.0394             -0.0323
                                                         (0.467)                        (0.858)            (0.835)




                                                             83
Amongst the richest in the village     -0.0495    -0.189*     0.127      -0.116      0.0132
                                       (0.689)   (0.0987)    (0.212)     (0.169)     (0.859)
Richer than most households            0.0450    -0.115**     0.100     -0.000835    -0.0408
                                       (0.701)   (0.0466)    (0.129)     (0.990)     (0.522)
A little poorer than most households   0.0181     -0.0592    0.0516      0.0434      0.0184
                                       (0.872)    (0.190)    (0.400)     (0.431)     (0.707)
Amongst the poorest in the village     -0.0357   -0.00865    0.126**     -0.0275     -0.0553
                                       (0.723)    (0.823)    (0.0260)    (0.602)     (0.300)
The poorest in the village             0.130      0.0504      0.122      0.0325      0.0889
                                       (0.444)    (0.379)    (0.147)     (0.678)     (0.189)
Orthodox Christian                      0.270    -0.989***    0.136      0.0196     -0.418***
                                       (0.196)      (0)      (0.413)     (0.895)    (0.00785)
Catholic                                0.177    -0.941***   -0.0286     0.0668     -0.498**
                                       (0.478)      (0)      (0.888)     (0.725)    (0.0167)
Protestant                             0.0238    -0.995***    0.104      0.0873      -0.305*
                                       (0.877)      (0)      (0.515)     (0.490)    (0.0849)
Other Christian                        0.0155                0.0589      0.0201      -0.0758
                                       (0.963)               (0.813)     (0.928)     (0.695)
Muslim                                 0.281     -0.999***   0.0445      -0.104      -0.377*
                                       (0.458)      (0)      (0.807)     (0.555)    (0.0683)
Traditional                                                   0.275      0.272*      -0.467*
                                                             (0.268)    (0.0686)    (0.0530)
Other religion                                                0.257      -0.0772
                                                             (0.272)     (0.819)


Observations                            343        583         995        993         925
Robust p-value in parentheses.
*** p<0.01, ** p<0.05, * p<0.1




                                          84
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Not applicable.




                                     85
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Summary of Borrower’s ICR

1.      The GoE commissioned a consultant to carry out the Borrower’s Implementation
Completion Report (ICR). Drawing on the End-User Surveys conducted prior to project
closing, the ICR concluded that the project achieved significant impact with respect to its
main component, in terms of improving the welfare of food insecure households in
selected chronically food insecure kebeles, although these achievements are not
quantified in the report. Moreover, it found that results achieved have been cost-efficient,
based on separate assessments of returns to IGAs. The report concluded, however, that
much less has been achieved in complementary areas such as communication and public
information, child growth promotion and M&E. It finds implementation performance to
be reasonable because results have been achieved in a challenging environment and, in
many instances, the project has opened up new ground; e.g., there was very little or no
experience with community driven approaches and community based child growth
promotion activities. The ICR provides a mixed picture on implementation performance
highlighting weakness related to low disbursements of project funds, poorly operated
revolving funds as well as limited empowerment of beneficiary communities and use of
community driven approaches at the local level. Regarding risks to development
objectives, the ICR finds that unless further action is taken beyond the project (and it
recognizes that sufficient effort has been made to link FSP interventions to follow on
operations) it is unlikely that achievements will be sustained. The Borrower’s ICR rates
overall project performance over the life of the project as moderately satisfactory.

Borrower’s Comments on the Bank’s ICR
Not yet available.




                                            86
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Not available.




                                      87
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Berhane, Guush et al., 2010. Evaluation of Ethiopia’s Food Security Program:
   Documenting Progress in the Implementation of the Productive Safety Nets
   Programme and the Household Asset Building Program.

Berhane, Guush et al., 2010. The impact of Ethiopia’s Productive Safety Nets and
   Household Asset Building Programme: 2006-2010.

Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, 2000. Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy
   Paper 2000/01 – 2001/03.

Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
   Development, Food Security Coordination Bureau, 2006. Ethiopia Food Security
   Project – Report on Impact Assessment of Income Generation Activities.

Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
   Development, Disaster Risk Management and Food Security Sector, Food Security
   Coordination Directorate, 2006. Mid-Term Review Report of Food Security Project.

Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
   Development, Disaster Risk Management and Food Security Sector, Food Security
   Coordination Directorate, (various FY). Food Security Project Annual Performance
   Reports.

Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
   Development, Disaster Risk Management and Food Security Sector, Food Security
   Coordination Directorate, (various FY). End-User Evaluations.

Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural
   Development, Disaster Risk Management and Food Security Sector, Food Security
   Coordination Directorate, 2010. Food Security Project Implementation Completion
   Report.

IMF and IDA, 2001. Joint Staff Assessment of Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
  Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper.

World Bank, various dates. Ethiopia Food Security Project. Implementation Status
  Reports

World Bank, various dates.    Ethiopia Food Security Project.    Aide Memoires of
  Supervision Missions.

World Bank, 2002. Project Appraisal Document for Federal Democratic Republic of
  Ethiopia Food Security Project.




                                        88
World Bank, 2003. International Development Association Country Assistance Strategy
  for the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia.

World Bank, 2004. Project Appraisal Document for Federal Democratic Republic of
  Ethiopia Productive Safety Net Project.

World Bank, 2006. Quality Assurance Group, Quality of Supervision Assessment
  (QSA7) Ethiopia Food Security Project.

World Bank, 2006. International Development Association Interim Country Assistance
  Strategy for the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia.

World Bank, 2006. Project Appraisal Document for Federal Democratic Republic of
  Ethiopia Productive Safety Net APL II Project.

World Bank, 2007. Ethiopia: Accelerating Equitable Growth – Country Economic
  Memorandum, Part I: Overview and Part II: Thematic Chapters.

World Bank, 2008. International Development Association Country Assistance Strategy
  for the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia.

World Bank, 2008. Emergency Food Crisis Response Program Paper for Additional
  Financing for the Productive Safety Net APL II Project and Fertilizer Support Project.

World Bank, 2008. Ethiopia Agriculture and Rural Development Public Expenditure
  Review 1997/98 – 2005/06.

World Bank, 2009. Ethiopia: Diversifying the Rural Economy – An Assessment of the
  Investment Climate for Small and Informal Enterprises.

World Bank, 2009. Project Appraisal Document for Federal Democratic Republic of
  Ethiopia Productive Safety Net Project.

World Bank, 2010. Project Appraisal Document for Federal Democratic Republic of
  Ethiopia Agriculture Growth Project.

World Bank, 2010. International Development Association Country Assistance Strategy
  for the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia.




                                          89
               This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
               The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
               shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                     ERITREA                                                                                      ETHIOPIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    FOOD SECURITY PROJECT




                                                                                                                                                                                                   R
               Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any




                                                                                                                                                                                                     ed
               endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

                                                                                                                                          TIGRAY Eastern                                                                          REP. OF




                                                                                                                                                                                                        Se
                                                                                                                               North
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  YEMEN                       PROJECT WEREDAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                          a
                                                                                                                              Western
                                                                                                                              Tigray       Central      Tigray
                                                                                                       Western Tigray
                                                                                                                                           Tigray                                                                                                             NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                                                                           Mekele
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                     SUDAN                                                                                                                 Sp. Zone
                                                                                                                                                      Southern
                                                                                                                                                                              Zone 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              REGION BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                       Tigray
                                                                                                       North Gondar
                                                                                                                                        Waghemira                                                                                                             ZONE BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                                                     Zone 4
                                                                                                                 Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                A FA R
                                                                                                                 Tana

                                                                                                                        South Gondar
                                                                                                                                              North Wello                                                 DJIBOUTI
                                                                                                                                                                                       Zone 1                                                             n
                                                                                                         Bahir Dar                                                                                                                            Gulf of Ade
                                                                                                           Sp. Wer.       AMHARA
                                                                                                                 West                                     Argoba
                                                                                  Metekel              Awi                                    South       Sp. Wer.  Zone
                                                                                                                Gojjam
                                                                                                                                              Wello                   5
                                                                                                                            East
                                                          BENSHANGUL-                                                      Gojjam                              Oromiya                          Shinile
                                                             GUMUZ                                                                             North Shewa                 Zone 3                DIRE
                                                    Asossa
                                                                              Kemashi            East
                                                                                                              Horo
                                                                                                                                          North
                                                                                                                                                   (R3)                                         DAWA
                                                                                                             Gudru
                                                                       West                                  Wellega                    Shewa (R4)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Jijiga
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SOMALIA
                                                                      Wellega
                                                                                                 Wellega               West      ADDIS          ADDIS                                      HARARI
                                                          Kelem                                                       Shewa     ABABA           ABABA                                           East Hararge
                                                         Wellega                                                                                                               West
                                                                                                                         South West Shewa East Shewa                          Hararge
                                                                              Ilu Aba Bora
                            Nuwer                                                                                         Gurage                                                                                             Degehabur
                                      GAMBELA                                                      Jimma
                                                                                                             Yem Sp.
                                                                                                                                 Silti
                                                                                                                                                          Arsi
                                                                                                               Wer.                                                                                       Fik
                                               Agnewak              Sheka                                              Hadiya      Alaba
                                                               Mezhenger               Keffa
                                                                                                                      Kembata      Sp. Wer.                    OROMIA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Warder
                                                                                                 Konta Dawuro
                                                                                                                      Timbaro
                                                                                                                                              West Arsi                   Bale
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SOMALI
                                                                                                              Wolyita
                                                                                                Sp. Wer.
                                                                                                                                  Sidama
                                                                            Bench                 S . N . N . P.                                                                                                                     Korahe
                                                                             Maji           Basketo        Gamo Gofa             Gedeo
                            SOUTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Gode
                                                                                            Sp. Wer.                   Amaro
                                                                                                           Derashe Sp. Wer.
                            SUDAN                                                             South        Sp. Wer.      Burji                 Guji
                                                                                               Omo               Konso Sp. Wer.                                                                           Afder
                                                                                                                Sp. Wer.

                                                                                                                                                                         Liben
                                                                                                                               Borena


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SOMALIA                                INDIA N
                                                                                   K E N YA
OCTOBER 2011




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IBRD 38896
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  OCEA N
                   UGANDA
