                                       Document o f
                                    The World Bank


                                                              Report No: 24111-ET




                               PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                          ON A

                                    PROPOSED CREDIT

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR68.1 MILLION
                             (US$85.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                         TO THE

                    FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA

                                         FOR A

                                 FOOD SECURITY PROJECT


                                       MAY 6,2002




Rural Development Operations
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region
                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                                (Exchange Rate Effective 2002)
                               Currency Unit = EthiopianBirr
                                        8.41 = US$l.O
                                 US$0.1189 = 1.0 Birr

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                         July 8 -- July 7

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AIDS    Acquired Immuno-Deficiency                      IDA           International Development Association
        Syndrome                                        IEC           Information, Education and Communication
        Bureau o f Agriculture                          IGA           Income Generating Activity
BOA
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy                     ISS           Interim Support Strategy
CBCGP   Community Based Child Growth                    LAC1          Loan Administration Change Initiative
        Promotion                                       M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
                                                        MEDAC         Ministry o f Dev’t and Ec. Cooperation
CBIM    Community Based Impact Monitoring
                                                        MOFED         Ministry o f Finance and Economic Dev’t
CBO     Community Based Organization
                                                        M D
                                                          R           Ministry o f Rural Development
CFFA    Country Financial Accountability
        Assessment                                      NCB           National Competitive Bidding
CIDA    Canadian Intemational Dev’t Agency              NFSSC         National Food Security Steering Committee
                                                        NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
CPAR    Country Procurement Assessment Review
                                                        NRM           Natural Resource Management
CPPR    Country Portfolio Performance Review
CRS     Catholic Relief Services                         OIDA          Oromiya Irrigation Dev’t Agency
CSA     Central Statistics Authority                     OXFAM         Oxford Famine Relief
        Development Agent                                PA            Peasant Association
DA
DFID    UK Department for International Dev’t            PADETS        Participatory Demonstration & Extension
DPPC    Disaster Prevention and Preparedness                           Training System
        Commission                                      PEC            Providing Environmental Care
EA      Environmental Analysis                          PRSP           Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
EGTE    Ethiopian Grain Trade Enterprise                PSR            Project Supervision Review
EMP     Environmental Management Plan                   QCBS           Quality and Cost-Based Selection
ESRDP   Ethiopian Social Rehabilitation and Dev’t       RFSCO          Regional Food Security Coordination Office
        Project
                                                        SAERAR         Commission for Sustainable Agr. and Env.
ESRF    Ethiopian Social Rehabilitation Fund
        European Community N n i o n                                   Rehabilitation in Amhara Region
ECEU
        UN Food and Agric. Organization                 SCF (UK)       Save the Children Fund (UK)
FA0
        Food Security Department                        SIDA           Swedish Intemational Dev’t Agency
FSD
FSP     Food Security Project                           SIP            Sector Investment Program
GAA     German Agro Action                              SNNP           Southem Nations, Nationalities and Peoples
                                                        SNP            Safety Net Program
GOE     Government o f Ethiopia
                                                        SOE            Statement o f Expenditure
GPN     General Procurement Notice
                                                        TA             Technical Assistance
HIV     Human Immuno-Deficiency Virus
                                                        UK             United Kingdom
IAPSO   UN Interagency Procurement Services
                                                        UNDB           United Nations Development Business
        Office                                          UNDP           United Nations Development Program
IBRD    Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and        UNICEF         United Nations Children’s Fund
        Development (World Bank)                        USAID          U S Agency for Intemational Dev’t
ICB      Intemational Competitive Bidding               WFP            World Food Programme
ICR      Implementation Completion Review               WHO            World Health Organization



                               Vice President:       Callisto E. Madavo
                            Country Director:        Ishac Diwan
                             Sector Manager:         Karen Brooks
                           Task Team Leader:         Graeme Donovan
                                            ETHIOPIA
                                      FOOD SECURITY PROJECT


                                                CONTENTS




A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page

   1. Project development objective                                                      3
   2. Key performance indicators                                                         3

B. Strategic Context

   1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     4
   2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         4
   3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 6

C. Project Description Summary

   1.   Project components                                                                7
   2.   Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     9
   3.   Benefits and target population                                                    9
   4.   Institutional and implementation arrangements                                    10

D. Project Rationale

   1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          15
   2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         16
   3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                17
   4. Indications o f borrower commitment and ownership                                  21
   5. Value added o f Bank support in this project                                       21

E. Summary Project Analysis

   1. Economic                                                                           22
   2. Financial                                                                          22
   3. Technical                                                                          23
   4. Institutional                                                                      24
   5. Environmental                                                                      25
   6. Social                                                                             21
   7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 28
F. Sustainability and Risks

   1. Sustainability                                              29
   2. Critical risks                                              29
   3. Possible controversial aspects                              31


G. Main Credit Conditions

   1. Effectiveness Condition                                     31
   2. OtherAssurances Obtained                                    31

H. Readiness for Implementation                                   32

I Compliance with Bank Policies
 .                                                                32


Annexes

Annex 1:    Project Design Summary                                34
Annex 2:    Detailed Project Description                          40
Annex 3:    Estimated Project Costs                               64
Annex 4:    Income Generating Initiatives and Economic Analysis   65
Annex 5:    Financial Summary                                     67
Annex 6:    Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements             68
Annex 7:    Project Processing Schedule                           82
Annex 8:    Documents in the Project File                         83
Annex 9:    Statement o f Loans and Credits                       84
Annex 10:   Country at a Glance                                   86



MAP(S)
                                                       ETHIOPIA
                                                   Food Security Project

                                           Project Appraisal Document
                                                   Africa Regional Office
                                                          AFTR 1
    Date: May 6, 2002                                         Team Leader: W. Graeme Donovan
    Country Director: Ishac Diwan                             Sector Manager: Karen Mcconnell Brooks
    Project ID: PO50383                                       Sector@): AY - Other Agriculture, HN - Nutrition, MC -
                                                              Community Action Program
    Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Theme(s): Rural Development
                                                              Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
    Project Financing Data
_____

    [ ]Loan       [XI Credit        [ ] Grant      [ ]Guarantee        [ ] Other:
    For LoanslCreditslOthers:
    Amount (US$m): 85
     Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
     Grace period (years): 10                Years to maturity: 40
     Commitment fee: 0.5%                    Service charge: 0.75%
I
                                                         -
    Financing Plan (US$m):      Source                  Local                              Foreign
    BORROWER                                                8.16                               0.00            8.16
    IDA                                                    77.60                               7.40           85.00
    CANADA: CANADIAN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT              3 .OO                               0.00           3.00
    AGENCY (CIDA)
    LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                       7.00                                0.00           7.00
    UK, BRITISH DEPARTMENT FOR INTERNATIONAL                3 .OO                               0.00           3 .OO
    DEVELOPMENT (DFID)
    ITALY: DEV. COOP. DEPARTMENT (MOFA)                     4.00                                0.00           4.00
                                                                                                             110.16
    Borrower: FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
    Responsible agency: REGIONAL GOV'TS OF AMHARA, OROMIYA, SOUTHERN NATIONS, TIGRAY
    Ministry o f Rural Development
    Address: Box 1031 or 1268, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
    Contact Person: Adisu Legesse, Minister; Beyene Haile, Head, Food Security Department
    Tel: 251-1-564790; 555396                 Fax: 251-1-552030                 Email:
    Other Agency(ies):
    Ministry o f Agriculture
    Address: Box 62347, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
    Contact Person: Belay Ejigu, Vice Minister
    Tel: 25 1- 1-150110               Fax: 25 1- 1-5 12984                 Email: Moavm@telecom.net.et
Expected effectiveness date: 0813 112002   Expected closing date:   0613012009




                                                     -2-
A. Project Development Objective

1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objectives o f the Food Security Project are to build the resource base o f poorer
rural households, increase their employment and incomes, reduce their real costs o f food, and
improve nutrition levels for their children under five years o f age, and pregnant and lactating
mothers.

I t i s proposed that the funds for the project would be made available through 4 “windows”, each o f
which would have its own development objectives, as follows:

(a) Funds to CommunitiesKebeles - these would take up the majority o f project funds; the
development objectives would be to increase household and community assets and incomes by:
better management o f rainfed agriculture (crops and livestock); investment in small-scale irrigation;
better natural resource management through soil conservation and water harvesting techniques on
farms, and catchment level activities to conserve soil, reverse soil degradation, improve water
harvesting and use, and improve distribution o f labor; development o f off-farm enterprises; reduced
stunting in children under five years o f age and improving child and adult nutrition through a
community-based child growth promotion program; and investments in training and development.

(b) Capacity building grants to Woredas, Regions, and Federal Ministries for specific,
project-related activities; development objectives would be to increase Woreda, Region and Federal
level capacities in key agencies by investments in training and development.

(c) Investments undertaken at the federal and regional levels to study and launch initiatives and
policies to lower the costs o f food marketing and distribution; the development objectives would be
to increase real incomes and reduce isolation o f communities by reducing food prices and decreasing
their variability, through better management o f food aid, investments in information systems, and a
warehouse receipts and inventory credit system.

(d) Investments in communications, administration o f the flow o f funds, and impact evaluation; the
development objectives would be to ensure smooth implementation o f the project, and increase
capacities, especially at the Woreda level, by investments in training and development, and
equipping administration u n i t s adequately.

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The proposed Monitoring and Evaluation system follows closely the project’s focus on empowering
communities and supporting them in making their own development decisions. That objective extends also
to measuring progress on community projects. Communities themselves w i l l propose how they w i l l
measure progress on their projects, and participatory evaluations will be designed to elicit community
views on project success. To the maximum extent possible, monitoring o f performance will emphasize
outcome indicators rather than process indicators. That means assessing progress on raising people’s
incomes; increasing their savings, assets and wealth; and improving their nutrition, in line with the project’s
objectives. The methodology o f monitoring and evaluation i s described more fully in Annex 2, but the
precise indicators communities w i l l select are not known in advance. And although as high as possible a
degree o f quantification w i l l be sought in measuring progress, it i s also not possible to judge in advance
how quantifiable w i l l be the indicators communities select - whether or not, for example, it w i l l be possible



                                                       -3-
to estimate percentage increases in incomes, savings, and assets. For child growth promotion, whose
implementation involves making anthropometric measurements o f growth faltering, the task o f
quantification i s likely to be more straightforward.

The project w i l l monitor the following outcomes in the ways described:

(a) income and assets - end user evaluations will provide quantifiable information;
(b) wealth rankings - end user evaluations will provide quantifiable information;
(c) anthropometric measurements o f growth faltering will allow estimates to be made o f reductions in
malnourished children in communities;
(d) benefit cost analysis - end user evaluations will provide perceptions o f positive (or negative) rates o f
return, and community-based impact monitoring will allow ranking o f all the different activities in the
kebele in terms o f their impact on their lives;
(e) Woreda food security - a tracking system that includes nutrition data and two or more socio-economic
indicators w i l l allow assessment o f progress on improving food security at the Woreda level;
(0 capacity-building and institutional strengthening - institutional audits at the beginning and end o f the
project, and at the mid-term, w i l l allow judgements to be made about the impact o f capacity building;
(g) policy responsiveness-progress monitoring which tracks the entire process through which
communities submit proposals, get them approved and funded, implement them, and have their end-user
evaluations facilitated, w i l l assess the impact o f the project on improving "downward accountability," i.e.
the strengthened sensitivity and responsiveness o f public institutions to needs and desires o f end-users in the
communities.

B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 21 189-ET Date of latest CAS discussion: Interim Support Strategy (ISS): Board discussion
12/5/00
To make available to drought-prone, food-deficit communities that struggle to provision themselves,
exist largely beyond the reach o f the market and depend increasingly on food aid for their survival,
the means to better provision themselves, by raising both on-farm and off-farm incomes, and by
increasing human assets by reducing undernutrition. As indicated in the Interim Support Strategy,
this would be the first o f a series o f similar operations, designed to address food insecurity, an area
o f critical importance to the Government. The project also reflects key targets o f the Government's
Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (I-PRSP), among them reducing the size o f the food
insecure rural population, fiscal decentralization to the Woreda level, empowerment o f local
communities, and capacity building in the public and private sectors.

2. M a i n sector issues and Government strategy:
Food security may be defined as "access by all people at all times to sufficient food, in terms o f
quality, quantity, and diversity, for an active and healthy life without risk o f loss o f such access."
Chronic and transitory problems o f food insecurity are severe in Ethiopia, where half the population
lives below the poverty line. Chronic food insecurity i s brought about by lack o f assets, lack o f
purchasing power, low productivity, lack o f employment opportunities, inability to make effective
use o f food, a poor transport system and infrastructure, and lack o f appropriate storage facilities.
Transitory food insecurity arises from various "shocks" such as drought, warfare, depression in
economic activity, disruption o f food trade, displacement o f people, and variations in food prices.




                                                       -4-
The Government o f Ethiopia believes that the key to a food entitlement strategy i s to build the
resource base o f poorer rural households, to increase employment and incomes in both rural and
urban areas, and to provide targeted transfers to households that have special needs. A National
Food Security Strategy was developed and presented to the donor community in December 1996.
The first investment program under the strategy was presented to the donors for their consideration
in mid-1998. I t i s summarized in the document produced by the Ministry o f Economic
Development and Cooperation (MEDAC) entitled Food Security Programme: 1998-2000. The
latter i s a synthesis o f four regional state documents (from Amhara, Oromiya, Southern Nations,
and Tigray) which focus on their particular needs and outline local implementation strategies.

Subsequently, the Government published a revised Food Security Strategy (March 2002). The
update adds new emphasis to institutional strengthening and capacity building. It also highlights the
need to shift food assistance from in-kindto financial flows, and to shift procurement o f food for
relief distribution from imports to domestic supply. The revised strategy includes Government
support for voluntary resettlement. The revised strategy singles out the critical nature o f the gender
dimension o f food security in Ethiopia, the central importance o f soil and water conservation in
addressing food insecurity in drought prone areas, a renewed emphasis on small scale irrigation, and
the need for increasing the uptake by farmers of better food production technologies, which the
Government facilitates through i t s Technical Vocational Extension and Training system (TVET).

 The Food Security Project (FSP) directly addresses almost all o f these emphases o f the revised
Food Security Strategy. The FSP aims to reduce vulnerability and ensure self-provisioning in the
long term. I t focuses strongly on soil conservation and water harvesting, and lays out a series o f
steps for ensuring the participation of women in project activities and benefits. I t calls for new food
aid management policies that set targets for monetized food aid based on local procurement. The
project include substantial finds for capacity building and institutional strengthening. The
Government expects the country to close its food gap over time, but sees the need for food aid to
continue in the foreseeable future, to supplement the food supplies o f many households who will
remain unable to meet their own needs. At the end o f the first (six year) phase o f the FSP, the
Government expects the current size o f the vulnerable population in the target areas to be reduced,
after which subsequent phases can expand in the target areas and move to new focus areas.

The Government has also drafted a new Rural and Agricultural Development Strategy (March
2002), whose central focus i s development in the context o f a free market economy that would aim
for rapid economic growth . For the drought prone areas, the main focus o f the Rural Strategy will
be ensuring food security by reducing vulnerability to drought. The FSP i s fully in line with this
new strategy, and also shares i t s acknowledgement that both agricultural as well as off-farm income
generating possibilities should be emphasized in drought prone areas.

Since identification o f the FSP, there has been a positive shift o f Government policy in favor o f
decentralization, and a new commitment to channel block grants to the Woreda level o f government
as early as fiscal year 200212003. Accompanying these block grants would be a renewed emphasis
on capacity building, especially at the Woreda level. The FSP fits very well with these new
emphases.




                                                     -5-
3. Sector issues to b e addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The Interim Support Strategy recognizes that Ethiopia's immediate post-war recovery needs include
addressing "inadequate agricultural production in many o f the food-deficit areas o f the country."
The ISS proposes addressing immediate emergency needs as well as key medium-term issues,
among them food security. The pre-war acknowledgement (previous CAS) that "supporting
environmentally sustainable agricultural development and productivity growth i s central to
accelerating economic growth and reducing poverty" i s even more strongly true today in Ethiopia.
Work over the past five years (e.g. the green cover report entitled Ethiopia: Agricultural Growth)
has identified reforms that would ensure the sustainability o f agricultural growth, including
measures to increase agricultural yields, development o f the livestock sector, and increasing security
o f land tenure. The FSP w i l l aim at increasing agricultural production, but w i l l also address
complementary sectoral issues that bear upon household food security, and which were also
mentioned in the previous CAS -- natural resource management, nutrition, rural infrastructure,
marketing, and non-farm income.

The following interventions are seen as priorities. First, i t i s vital to find ways to increase
substantially the productivity o f f a r m s in drought prone areas if households with land are to achieve
food security based on their own production. Second, for many farms in the drought-prone Woredas
identified by the Government attempts to increase food production run the risk o f damaging soils
and vegetation, and adding to already serious environmental problems. In these cases, producing
alternative, high value, perhaps non-food crops or obtaining employment o f f the farm would be a
more sustainable strategy. Third, wherever it can be managed economically, some form o f irrigation
w i l l be important to achieve maximum results from improved crop varieties and fertilizer
application, while reducing variability o f crop production. Only small scale irrigation schemes
should be contemplated in a project o f this nature, however, since large scale schemes tend to
involve large investments and social re-organization, requiring close scrutiny o f the economic and
social implications. Fourth, while it i s clear that increasing off-farm employment i s a necessary
condition for improving food security in many areas, the opportunities to do so will be linked
closely with agricultural development, and will require improved enabling environments for
enterprises which are economically sustainable.

The FSP i s not conceived as a vehicle for obtaining major policy changes. But in the course o f
implementation, project activities are likely to put pressure on the following policy areas, where
reforms are likely to be needed for successful implementation:

(a) Food marketingpolicy: The Government should review the policy framework for food
marketing, with a view to reducing marketing costs and lowering the real costs o f food. The
following dated actions w i l l be undertaken in the project:

         agreement with the donor community on multi-annual targets for monetized food aid
(targets to be conveyed to IDA by June 30,2003);

         development o f a plan to ensure a competitive and efficient market in warehousing services
sufficient to support a warehouse receipts system (plan by December 3 1,2003; implementation by
June 30, 2004);

        development o f an information base on food markets and market prices, with high quality
analysis o f the information, and establishment o f a system for making the information and analysis



                                                       -6-
available to the public; this could build on existing price data collection by field staff o f the Central
Statistics Authority [CSA]), with analytical work and public information provided by the private
sector, supported by a publicly funded mechanism (study to be completed by June 30,2003; a
funding mechanism be in place by December 3 1,2003);

         development o f a legal framework for the establishment o f a warehouse receipt and
inventory credit system to allow food traders to access credit, and permit commercial banks to
return to the grain market with greater security (development o f a legal framework by December 3 1,
2003; establishment o f the relevant regulatory capacity by June 30,2004).

(b) Roles and operation o NGOs: The Government will prepare guidelines for N G O participation
                           f
in the project, including assistance to communities with planning and implementation o f income
generating activities (development o f guidelines for N G O participation by December 3 1,2002).

C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The central aim o f the Food Security Project i s to help vulnerable, food insecure communities to increase
their incomes and build their assets. I t would do this by providing funds and technical assistance to
communities to enable them to do things for themselves rather than having things done for them. The
project w i l l help to reverse the downward spiral in which vulnerable households in drought-prone areas find
themselves as a result o f under-nutrition and food insecurity that i s in the process o f stunting people for
life, reducing life expectancy, and degrading household and community assets and coping mechanisms.
Child growth i s a key goal o f the food security program, and child growth i s more than the availability o f
food, or even the availability o f income. One o f the objectives o f the Food Security Project i s to protect
and promote child growth and development, by enhancing household and community decision making and
action on infant and young child feeding and other caring practices.

I t i s proposed that the project would have 6 broad components:

(a) funds to communitiesiKebeles - the majority o f the project;
(b) community-based child growth promotion - community funds and capacity building;
(c) capacity building funds to Woredas, Regions, and Federal Ministries for specific, project-related
activities;
(d) investments undertaken at the federal and regional levels to study and launch initiatives and policies to
lower transaction costs in food marketing;
(e) investments in communications to ensure transparency; and
( f ) administration o f the flow o f funds, monitoring and evaluation.

Funds for communities would be at the heart o f the project. Communities would be eligible to apply for
the following kinds o f assistance:

(i)asset and income increasingfunds (approximately US$18,000 per Kebele in any one tranche:
subsequent tranches would be possible in subsequent years following demonstrated successful use o f each
preceding one) - this would be the primary and predominant type o f funding for Kebeles - to qualify, a
Kebele would need to have compiled a broad plan o f action, and to present to the Woreda Development
Committee an acceptable proposal for income and asset-building activities in the Kebele, which would be a



                                                        -7-
compilation o f proposals put forward by groups and communities within the Kebele. As an indication o f
ownership, to qualify, communities would need to demonstrate their commitment by agreeing to provide
additional funds o f their own, in cash or in kind, amounting to at least 10 percent o f the tranche o f public
funds. Eligible activities would be defined as any asset and income generating investments not on a
negative list (see below). Eligible activities would include almost any investments in income-raising
enterprises - on farm or off-farm, for a community-owned (common-use) resource, or for registered groups
o f 5-10 households, cooperatives, Community Based Organisations (CBOs) or other groups formed for the
purposes o f building the incomes, assets and savings o f their members. With their applications for asset
 and income increasing funds, communities would be strongly encouraged to make parallel applications
for entitlement funds to support a child growth promotion program covering the whole community.

  i)
( ichild growth promotion funds (approximately US$2,500 per Kebele in any one tranche) - this Kebele
grant would be designed to support a community based child growth promotion (CBCGP) initiative in each
Kebele.

W h i l e the funds to communities would be at the heart o f the project, a portion o f the project funds would be
used for food security related capacity building at Woreda, Region and Federal levels, and for initiatives
designed to increase the efficiency o f food marketing, and reduce real food prices.

The investments in studies to promote food marketing would (a) recommend changes needed in policies
and the incentive climate to encourage competition and efficiency, and lower transaction costs in food
trade; and (b) begin implementation o f measures that would reduce the costs o f marketing, trading,
transporting or processing food in Ethiopia while retaining necessary protections and safeguards. Among
other things, this would include recommendations to:

(i)improve management o f food aid to secure a stable price environment for domestic producers and
traders;
(ii)establish a food market information system that would provide the private sector food trade with quality
analysis o f market and price trends;
  i idevelop a warehouse receipt and inventory credit system for traders;
(i)
(iv) develop a competitive and efficient market in warehousing services sufficient to support a warehouse
receipts system.

The investments in communications and public education would address the need for publicity and
transparency with respect to the availability o f funds for communities, and the special needs o f increasing
the understanding o f child nutition and growth promotion. The funds application and award processes
would be made as transparent as possible, with widespread flows o f information throughout the system.
Among other things, lists o f applications received, and funds given, would be posted in many public places
in Woredas and Kebeles, made freely available in periodic meetings o f Kebele Administrations and Woreda
Councils, and broadcast through public media such as newspapers, radio and TV. The project would also
use campaigns and traditional theatre to spread messages regarding better health and nutition in children.




                                                       -8-
                                                                 Indicative                   Bank-    % of
              Component                          Sector             costs      %of         financing  Bank-
                                                                   (US$M)      Total         (US$M) financing
Funds to CommunitiesiKebeles                                         76.73       69.7          64.73    76.2
Capacity Building Grants to Woredas,                                 27.90       25.3          17.50    20.6
Regions, and Federal Ministries
Food MarketingInitiatives                                             0.59          0.5         0.53     0.6
Communications & Public Education                                     1.51          1.4         1.37     1.6




2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The FSP i s not conceived as a vehicle for obtaining major policy changes. But in the course o f
implementation, project activities are likely to put pressure on several policy areas, where reforms
are likely to be needed for successful implementation. These areas are food marketing, food aid,
and NGOs. The FSP, as a multi-sectoral program, will touch on many policy areas, including those
for education, environment, health, and roads, which are already addressed in other major
programs.

The specific key policy and institutional reforms sought under the FSP are listed above in B.3.

3. Benefits and target population:
The project would put purchasing power into the hands o f communities. Households will benefit
directly from the range o f asset-building and income increasing activities planned under the FSP,
including increased production and more profitable management o f crops and livestock, soil and
water conservation, off-farm employment and income opportunities. Children, and pregnant and
lactating mothers would benefit directly from improved nutrition. The general population w i l l also
benefit directly from reduced real food prices, improved rural support services, and provision o f
skills training.

The FSP i s targetted to the chronic food deficit Woredas o f the country, which do not produce
enough food to feed themselves, where food production i s highly variable, and where income i s
often insufficient to secure enough food through the market. The FSP would address all food
insecure groups living in a selection o f the target areas. From among the approximately 413
Woredas (Districts) in the four main regions o f Amhara, Oromiya, Southern Nations (SNNP) and
Tigray, the Government has identified 156 Woredas as drought-prone and suffering from "chronic
food deficit." The population o f the 156 Woredas totalled 17.4 million in 1994, or 38 percent o f the
total population in the four regions. Today the population o f the 156 Woredas i s over 20 million.
An estimated 30 percent o f the population o f the 156 Woredas, and 12 percent o f the population o f
the four regions, are said to be "frequently affected by food shortages." Households and
communities with these characteristics would be the project beneficiaries. The project would aim to
work in up to 60 o f the 156 drought prone Woredas.

Woredas w i l l be chosen from those already identifiedas food insecure. Since the project has
sufficient funds to ensure complete coverage o f communities in only a portion o f the Woredas



                                                     -9-
needing assistance, to maximize the chances o f success during this initial round o f public
investment, the actual Woredas for the project w i l l be selected to the extent possible to have the
following characteristics:

 High degree o f food insecurity.
. Presence o f a critical mass o f technical expertise.
. Located in a “cluster” with other selected woredas so that the efforts o f technical personnel will be
optimized.
  Having other programs to which this project can be complementary.
. Availability o f sufficient baseline data to allow assessment o f the impacts o f change.
  Sufficient access to banking services to allow the new financial systems the maximum chance to
work.

A total o f 12 woredas w i l l be selected for Project Year 1, with an additional 16 for Project Year 2.
By the end o f the project, 60 woredas will be included in the project. The number o f woredas per
region w i l l be determined by the relative vulnerability criteria set at the federal level.

4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Institutions

(a) Kebele Level: the Kebele Development Committee would help prepare and collate community
investment plans, receive and manage the disbursement o f grants, and account for their use. The
Committee would include the Chairman o f the Kebele Administration, the Development Agent (DA) Staff
from the Bureau o f Agriculture responsible for agricultural extension activities, representatives o f women
and youth associations, and community representatives from the Kebele and i t s constituent villages.
Safeguards would be in place to ensure that the Kebele Development Committee comprised at least a
majority o f non-civil service appointees.
(b) Woreda Level: the flows o f funds to Kebeles would be overseen by the Woreda Development
Committee, which includes officers o f relevant bureaus (agriculture, health, cooperatives and enterprise
development, labor and social affairs), and women and youth associations.


(c) Regional Level: a Food Security Steering Committee will be established in each region, and the existing
Food Security Coordination Office (RFSCO) in each region w i l l be strengthened with additional staff
dedicated to project coordination. In Amhara the RFSCO includes a project finance team, an economic and
social projects coordination team, and it i s anticipating establishment o f a monitoring and evaluation team.
The RFSCOs vary in staff numbers and capacity among the four regions, and w i l l need to be strengthened
under the project, especially in the Oromiya and Southern Nations Regions.
(d) At the federal level, the Food Security Department (FSD) in the Ministry o f Rural Development (MRD)
will be strengthened with additional specialized staff, dedicated to project coordination, among others a
Project Coordinator, Financial Officer, Financial Assistant, Procurement Officer, Monitoring and
Evaluation Officer, and a Communications Officer. The Food Security Department o f the Ministry o f
Rural Development i s accountable through i t s Head to the Deputy Prime Minister. The roles o f the project
coordination staff will be to release funds against agreed plans, disburse funds to all implementing levels,
and co-ordinate monitoring and evaluation o f the project as a whole. In particular their role w i l l be to
facilitate and assist Woredas in their receipt o f block grants from project funds. The FSD w i l l not be an
implementing agency. I t will not carry out procurement itself, but w i l l assist the Woredas with their
procurement where needed. I t s functions will be confined to facilitating and accounting for the flows o f



                                                       -10-
funds, and it w i l l not be responsible for judging the merits o f applications for funds or the uses to which
they were put.

(e) A National Food Security Steering Committee (NFSSC) will provide overall direction. I t s membership
will include high level representatives o f the Ministry o f Rural Development (Prime Minister's Office), the
Ministries o f Finance and Economic Development, Agriculture, Health, Water, Federal Affairs and
Women's Affairs, together with Heads o f the Food Security Coordination Offices o f the Regions o f
Amhara, Oromiya, SNNP, and Tigray. Food Security Steering Committees w i l l be established at Regional
levels, and the project w i l l be implemented, at Woreda, and Kebele levels, through Woreda and Kebele
Development Committees. Recently-established Food Security Coordination Offices in each o f the four
regions w i l l be strengthened. Among other roles, the NFSSC will address especially the following:

           Ensuring the balanced allocation o f food security funds (those not subject to budget off-set) among
regions.
           Providing a focal point for discussions on food security.
           Ensuring that an enabling environment exists for operation o f the project.
The Government has already appointed a high level Food Security Steering Committee, whose membership
differs from that proposed above by not including the Ministry o f Women's Affairs, but including the
Ministry o f Federal Affairs, the Disaster Prevention and Preparedness Commission (DPPC), and three
donor representatives. The Government has agreed to add representation from the Ministry o f Women's
Affairs to the project Steering Committee.
Implementation of Community Funds - Purposes
The purpose of the Woreda block grants i s to provide a fixed s u m o f money that w i l l be available to each
participating Woreda for passing on to Communities when the latter apply for funds. The funds w i l l be
transferred to the Woreda in advance of the planning o f activities. Activities can therefore be planned at
community level in a Woreda with the assurance o f funds being available, provided the community
proposals meet the eligibility criteria.

A sum o f approximately Birr 1.5 million w i l l be allocated to each participating Woreda in each alternate
year after they are phased in to the project, representing an estimated increase o f no more than 50 percent
in an average Woreda's current budget.

Providing grants to kebeles and communities i s a relatively new departure for development finance in
Ethiopia. While some Woredas have benefited from donor and N G O funds that follow this model [for
example, projects funded by UNICEF, Irish Aid, SIDA, and the Netherlands], the majority o f Woredas
have only limited experience.

The funds from these block grants, flowing to kebele and communities, are intended for two main activities:

(a) Any activity that increases assets and incomes.

I t i s recognized that options within the food insecure Woredas are limited. I t i s also recognized that there i s
an urgent need for off-farm income generating activities. Communities (and the government departments
supporting these activities) will require assistance in identifying viable options. I t i s recommended that
support i s provided for this (see section on technical assistance).




                                                       - 11 -
    This will be the primary and predominant fund. I t w i l l b e used for any activity that leads to an increase in
    incomes or assets o f the community.

    Not all components o f development programs w i l l be eligible for funding through this grant. Those that w i l l
    not be eligible are set out below:


    Interventions that will not be eligible under the project

I Salaries: other than for direct suuuort staff identified in the uroiect document                           I
    Grants to micro-finance institutions
    Agricultural inputs under the PADET program
    Road construction with a greater specification than RR10.
    Interventions covered by other sector programs such as education and health, or ESRDF
    (schools, kindergartens, clinics)
    Political or trade union contributions
    Resettlement
    Investments that could increase pollution, deforestation or environmental problems as assessed
    in the EAs for the individual mouosals
I   Investments with any ethnic or religious conditions                                                      I

    The funds w i l l be available for activities that benefit the Kebele as a whole, as well as activities that benefit
    specific groups within the Kebele. A minimum ten percent contribution (in kind or in cash) will be part o f
    the proposal. The project envisages that proposals w i l l be prepared and submitted by a variety o f groups,
    including:

             groups o f 5 or more people who come together to achieve a common aim
             a co-operative
             a community based organization
             the Kebele Sub-committee on Food Security: for those activities that benefit the Kebele as a whole

    In this way i t i s expected that funds w i l l be used for activities associated with both the public and the
    private sector. The project will be able to stimulate private sector involvement in areas that have
    traditionally been the preserve o f the public sector

    (b) Child growth promotion

    A major focus o f the Food Security Project i s to provide funds to communities and community groups for
    activities that create assets and generate income. The increased income can contribute to improved
    nutrition, but this i s more likely to happen if focused attention i s given to improving decision making and
    action at the household and community level, to protect and promote the growth o f young children. To
    maximize the positive impact on the nutritional status of vulnerable children, the project will therefore also
    support communities with a focused set o f activities to address child growth. Up to US$2,500 may be
    approved at any one time for a single kebele for this purpose. While every kebele applying for income and
    asset increasing funds will be strongly encouraged to take up child growth promotion, it i s anticipated that
    this activity i s likely to be slower to take off. The project therefore provides for child growth promotion
    funds in about two thirds o f the Woredas expected to take part in the project.


                                                            - 12-
The focus o f this subcomponent o f the project i s on a package o f community based activities that promotes
adequate child growth to prevent malnutrition. Starting at birth, child growth promotion animators,
working with mothers, will monitor the growth o f infants on a monthly basis until the age o f 24 months.
The weighing w i l l serve as an entry point for discussions between the mother and the animator on
conditions contributing to the child’s health and growth. During the monthly weighing and counseling
session, the animator, together with the mother, will record the weight on a growth chart, to jointly evaluate
the child’s weight gain, by making a comparison with previous weights and the growth curve o f the
reference population. The content o f the counseling i s determined by the adequacy o f the child’s growth,
age, and health status, the season, and the mother’s readiness and capacity to try different feeding and
caring practices. The counseling w i l l involve a negotiation process because it requires arriving at a
mutually agreed solution between the mother and the animator on feasible action to ensure adequate child
growth. The essence o f growth promotion i s thus to help mothers play a full and informed role in decision
making for action to improve child feeding practices. Children who are not brought to a scheduled growth
promotion session, and those children whose growth falters, w i l l be visited at home, for weighing,
additional counseling and to review home conditions.

Collated growth data for all children in a community w i l l also be the basis for community-level discussions
about factors beyond the control o f households and animators, that affect child growth. These discussions
will inform community decisions about food security project activities that can address such underlying
causes. The information on child growth will also be used to monitor the impact o f the Food security
project activities on the welfare o f vulnerable groups in the community.

                                         -
Implementation of Community Funds Guidelines for planning and use

While the funds would empower communities, and generate demand for improved technologies, and income
generating investments o f various kinds, without assisting communities to find the technologies and
opportunities they want, they would be confined to existing levels o f knowledge, which are often inadequate
and characterized by stagnant productivity. In other words, vulnerable communities are short o f technical
opportunities, and not just short o f capital. They would be assisted in gaining access to new ideas by the
Development Agents (DAs), by representatives o f various Regional Bureaus (of Agriculture, Health, Trade
& Industry, and so on), by NGOs, and by consultants o f various kinds. Communities would be able to use
their grant funds for training themselves, as well as for facilitating access to change agents in both the
public and private sectors. But the capacity in all o f these outside agencies i s also weak, and would be
strengthened under the project, by the allocation o f substantial funds for capacity building.

The project i s built on the concept that the only way to strengthen people i s to give them the means to make
themselves strong, and help them to take responsibility for helping themselves. There have been too many
initiatives to do things for people, and this project focuses on helping people do things for themselves by
putting purchasing power in the hands o f communities.

I doing so the project also provides an opportunity for off-farm income generating activities for
 n
communities, and for strengthening the role
in addressing food insecurity o f the private sector enterprises in which community members are involved.

To maximize success in the early years o f the project, grants at the Kebele level would therefore adhere to
the principles of:

        simple regulation: procedures must be simple and easy to understand and implement;


                                                    - 13-
         modest ambition: in the initial 2-3 years it will be essential to establish a small number o f success
stories that will allow logical expansion o f the project concept.

Since this i s a somewhat new approach for development funding, the Project Implementation Manual
contains detailed guidelines to assist Woredas and kebeles in using the block grants. The guidelines include
a number o f steps that can usefully be followed to promote the project, assist communities to prepare
proposals, and demonstrate how finance can flow from the Woreda to the kebele level. These guidelines
will also form a useful tool in monitoring and evaluation.

Flexible Procurement Arrangements: Funds for communities will be at the heart o f the project. Most o f
the procurement in the project w i l l be in the form o f very small transactions carried out by communities and
kebeles, and w i l l take place locally at the Woreda level. Each participating kebele will receive in any one
tranche funds amounting to no more than US$lS,OOO, which it will typically spend over a two year period,
before applying for a second fund tranche, again up to US$18,000 in size. Special attention has been given
to providing procurement arrangements and procedures commensurate with the experimental and learning
nature o f the project, as well as with the central focus on community funds. The need has been recognized
for simple mechanisms to ease purchase o f materials and resources by households and communities in
dispersed locations. The arrangements w i l l be aimed at efficient procurement that underpins quick
disbursement and distribution o f goods and money, mixing procurement on the local market in the
drought-affected areas with procurement and distribution from regional, national and intemational levels.
Where they fit with the needs expressed by communities, simplifiedprocurement, disbursement, accounting
and auditing procedures would be used for communities (Africa Region 's Guidelines for Simplijed
Procurement and Disbursement, March 1998; see also Bank Procurement Guidelines, Jan. 1999, Section
3.15 Community Participation in Procurement), Local shopping, single-source selection, obtaining
quotations, and direct contracting would all be allowed under specified procedures. Random audits would
be undertaken to review the use o f funds. A manual o f Procurement Procedures under the FSP i s being
prepared by the Borrower with assistance from the Bank. Bank procurement guidelines and policies will be
followed.

In most rural areas, infrastructure and markets are not well developed. Accessing resources does not
guarantee that communities will be able to access the materials they require. There i s no single solution to
this, and each Woreda may devise i t s own solution. The following are proposals regarding the options that
may be available; in all cases the communities retain control over the financial resources for purchase o f
materials:

         open market: where the market i s strong, or where Woreda are located near to towns, communities
should be able to access resources;
         service co-operatives: on a commercial basis these could stock commodities that the community
requires;
         community groups come together to buy similar commodities from more distant markets;
         communities contract local merchants to provide materials and supplies.

Monitoring and Evaluation: The M&E system proposed for the project would provide information both
for directly assessing the outcomes and impacts o f the project, and also for refining working methodologies
and procedures. The M&E component w i l l at the same time help to guide the execution o f the project. The
system also would be used by Government to contribute to the development and strengthening o f i t s wider
Food Security Strategies. Details o f the M&E system are given in Annex 2.

The design o f the M&E system i s based on the principle that to be effective, interventions should respond


                                                      -14-
to the needs o f the intended end-users. and their realities on the ground. The greater the level o f informed
control that a community has over an intervention, the greater the chance for it to be successful. Therefore
the M&E system in the project would be highly participatory, in line with the participatory nature o f all
aspects o f the project.

Given the current lack o f baseline poverty data in some regions, and in other regions the lack o f systematic
compilation and sharing o f existing data, it w i l l be important that the project have a strong monitoring and
evaluation component, which w i l l both draw upon existing data and generate new data where needed.
Monitoring would be based to the maximum extent possible on impact measures, such as increased
incomes, increased savings in local savings institutions, and proportion o f children growing adequately. In
other words, less emphasis would be placed on “process” measures such as numbers o f grants disbursed, or
numbers o f farmers visited by a Development Agent, and more on the resulting increases in people’s
livelihoods.

D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Three main alternative strategies were considered for addressing the problems o f food insecurity in
Ethiopia: (a) carrying out food security actions throughout the four selected regions, rather than confining
those actions to drought-prone sections and vulnerable households in selected parts o f these regions; (b)
enlarging the food security program to embrace other regions o f the country, such as Afar, Beneshangule,
Gambela, Somali and others; and (c) seeking solutions to food security in the selected vulnerable areas
from outside those areas, by encouraging migration o f vulnerable households to higher potential areas
where they might find employment or engage in farming with greater potential than in their present
location.

(a) The argument for taking food security actions throughout the four regions (and not just in the
most vulnerable Woredas) i s that severe stunting in children i s widespread throughout the country, even in
the higher potential agricultural areas, and that food insecurity associated with poverty i s ubiquitous, and
requires equally ubiquitous action. The counter-argument i s that both past and ongoing investments o f the
government have been largely implemented in the higher potential areas with more reliable rainfall and
better soils. I t i s these higher potential areas that are the main focus o f the government’s current
agricultural development strategy. While i t i s acknowledged that this concentration o f effort will not be
sufficient to bring about food security in the higher potential regions, it will have some impact. The areas
selected for the FSP have been neglected with respect to productive investments in the past, their population
densities appear to be the equal o f those in the higher potential areas, and there i s evidence from elsewhere
in the world that investments in the lower potential regions can have high rates o f return, in some
circumstances higher than those currently undertaken in higher potential regions that have received much
attention in the past. Furthermore, the areas selected for focus in the FSP were those receiving consistently
a net inflow o f food aid, which the government wishes to reduce. Given the limited resources available
(both financial and human), it was accepted that it would be reasonable to confine attention in this project
to the areas selected by the government. I t was agreed that one exception to this would be an initiative to
increase the efficiency o f national food markets, in order that people in the lower potential areas may take
advantage o f lower real food prices from more efficient inter-regional marketing o f food, thereby increasing
their real incomes.

(b) The argument for including other regions i s that their populations are for the most part at least as
deeply deprived and food insecure as those o f the selected regions and sub-regions. The decision to include



                                                     -15-
the four selected regions (which together contain more than 90 percent o f the national population) was
based on two considerations: their capacity to formulate and implement project proposals; and the fact that
two o f the regions not included are dominated by pastoralist communities, whose problems w i l l be
addressed under a separate project.

(c) The arguments for seeking remedies other than substantial investments in the lower potential areas
are that because o f their difficult and degraded natural resource situation, it will be hard for these areas to
become self-sufficient in food, and that because there i s lower potential for agriculture, off-farm
employment opportunities w i l l also be harder to develop because agnculture i s s t i l l both the main engine o f
growth and the main source o f growth linkages that are the best way to stimulate off-farm employment and
income generation opportunities. The counter arguments are that resettlement in areas currently almost
completely undeveloped would require massive investments in all the basic infrastructure and would have
associated problems such as prevalence o f human and livestock diseases in these undeveloped areas. I t was
also acknowledged that the vulnerable populations o f the selected areas would be in a better position to take
advantage o f migration in the future if their human capital assets (nutrition, health, and education in
particular) were first increased, and their incomes raised, and that the FSP as proposed had a reasonable
chance o f achieving that. It was therefore agreed that the FSP should proceed as proposed, and that special
attention would be paid to opening up the linkages between lower and higher potential agricultural regions,
in order that people in the lower potential regions may take advantage o f migration where opportunities
present themselves, and o f economic opportunities opened up by comparative advantage and the beginnings
o f specialization that may accompany well-distributed economic growth.

2. M a j o r related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,


                                                                                       Latest Si ervision
               Sector Issue                               Project                        W R ) atings
                                                                                  (Bank-finance ~rojects
                                                                                                       only)
                                                                                  Implementation    Development
                                                                                   Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Agriculture                                  Ag. Research and Training                  S                HS
Agriculture                                  National Fertilizer Project                S                 S
Agriculture                                  National Seeds Project                     S                 S
Education                                    Education SIP                              U                 S
Health                                       Health SIP                                 U                 S
Transport                                    Road SIP                                   S                 S
Transport                                    Road Rehab.                                S                 S
Water Supply                                 Water Supply Dev & Rehab                   S                 S
Energy                                       Energy I1                                  S                 S
Social Funds                                 ESRFl                                      S                 S
Women                                        Women's Dev't Initiatives                  S                 S
HIV/AIDS                                     Multisectoral HIV/AIDS                     U                 S
Natural Resources                            Medicinal Plants                           S                 S
Global Learning                              Global Distance Leaming                    S                 S
Emergency                                    Emergency Recov.&Rehab.                    S                 S
Emergency                                    Demob.&Reintegration                       S                 S
Other development agencies
CIDA                                         Food for work



                                                       - 16-
Ireland                                     NRM
GAA                                         Food Aid & Food for Work
UNDP                                        Agricultural Development
Germany                                     Food Aid, Food for Work, Ag.
                                            Dev., Water Supply, Roads
Netherlands                                 Ag. Dev., Ag. Research
                                            &Education, Soil Conserv.
USAID                                       Ag. Dev.
United Kingdom                              Ag. Dev., NRM, Emergency
                                            capacity
Italy                                       Ag. Dev., Fertilizer, Irrigation,
                                            Rural Roads
FA0                                         Ag. Dev., Irrigation
CFD                                         Small-scale irrigation
EC                                          Food aid, Ag. Dev., Soil
                                            conservation, irrigation,
                                            capacity-building
Agr. Service                                Ag. Dev., Irrigation, Soil
                                            conservation
COMPFORM                                    Water supply and sanitation
CONCERN                                     Community development
CRS                                         Ag. Dev., NRM, Health, Credit
                                            Safety Nets
ECS                                         Infrastructure
EOC-DICAC                                   Ag. Dev., NRM, Health
FHI                                         Ag Dev., Irrigation, Soil
                                            Conservation, water supply
SCF                                         Ag Dev, Livestock, Water
                                            supply, early warning
NCA                                         Ag. Dev., Irrigation, Soil
                                            Conservation, Water supply,
                                             Health
OXFAM                                        Rural Dev, Emerg. Relief
SOS SAHEL                                    Ag. & Livestock Dev.
                                             Employment Generation
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), t   (Highly Unsati



In 1988, the World Bank launched a Food Security Initiative in the Africa Region and established a Food
Security Unit in the Africa Technical Department. During i t s 5-6 year lifetime the Food Security Unit
supported preparation by the Operations Divisions o f the Africa Region o f 12 country food security
reports, six stand-alone food security projects (Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Madagascar,
Mozambique, and Rwanda), and 2 major studies - on food aid, and on food security in the context o f
disasters such as droughts. Lessons learned from this experience, noted by Thieny Brun and Keiko
Kokubun, "The Food Security Initiative in the Africa Region: Status Report, June 1998" include the
following:

(a) the Poverty Task Force concluded that reducing chronic food insecurity and poverty are virtually the


                                                        - 17-
same task;

(b) the food security initiative did not intervene sufficiently comprehensively in food systems (the ways in
which food i s grown, imported, transported, stored, marketed, processed, distributed among consumers,
prepared, and consumed), which are generally inefficient, with high marketing margins, and uneven product
quality;

(c) many o f the studies and sector work pieces did not achieve a deep understanding o f the complex causes
o f food insecurity in specific country settings; their general recommendations were not sufficiently derived
from the country's circumstances;

(d) stand-alone projects demonstrated that reducing chronic malnutrition requires a combined approach of
production, income generation, and education o f childcare-providers;

(e) stand-alone projects demonstrated the capacity o f rural communities to use additional resources in a
cost-effective way for poverty reduction, but were not enough, by themselves, to increase food security at
the national level;

( f ) substantial work i s needed to develop good indicators o f household food insecurity, and the indicators
should be used in the context o f participatory, community-level self-monitoring and evaluation, which leads
to program modification in the event that not enough progress i s being made;

(g) transitory food insecurity (arising from droughts, pest attacks, civil unrest, and other human-made
disruptions o f food production and consumption) i s dealt with by food aid, foodcash-for-work schemes,
and strategic storage schemes, with a reasonable degree o f success.

These lessons have been incorporated into the current project by including components aimed at increasing
the efficiency o f national food markets, and directly attacking child undernutrition through
community-based child growth promotion efforts; using a financing mechanism designed to put funds
directly into the hands o f communities to be used for raising production, incomes, and savings;
acknowledging that improving food security requires a complex set o f actions including reducing the risks
faced by destitute people; proposing indicators that measure directly increases in incomes and savings, and
reduction in under-nutrition in children, and that make communities responsible for reporting progress;
linking interventions to address chronic food insecurity (the focus o f this project) with others that address
transitory food insecurity (largely supported by other projects), acknowledging that the transitory problems
can turn into chronic ones without action.

A significant part o f the report o f the multi-donor team that reviewed the FSP considered past food security
initiatives. This section summarizes this critique o f food aid, nutrition initiatives, emergency and relief
operations, safety nets, food for work programs, women's programs, NRM, agricultural development, and
rural development.

Food Aid.        Despite large amounts o f food aid, this has had very little impact on under-nutrition in the
country, mainly because it has been insufficient and poorly distributed across regions and within
households. In the past decade, there have been few initiatives addressing directly the manifest problems o f
under-nutrition in the country. The Government has reduced substantially the size o f the Ethiopia Nutrition
Research Institute, which used to be a strong body, and has absorbed it into wider organisations dealing
primarily with health. UNICEF has been supporting small programs in Vitamin A distribution, in
combination with immunization, and limited nutrition surveillance. The World Food Programme supports


                                                     - 18-
supplementary feeding programs in urban areas, reaching a small number o f women and children with
FAMIX, a locally produced and rather expensive blended food. The impact o f this program i s good among
those with whom it i s working, and a lesson from the program i s that supplementary feeding does best when
combined with health care, and health and nutrition education. A school feeding program implemented by
WFP, that started in 1994, now reaches more than 200,000 students. The positive lesson from programs o f
this nature i s that alleviating short-term hunger i s important for mental function and educational outcomes.
On the other hand, these programs do little to address the underlying causes o f malnutrition, and the food
they provide i s often offset by reductions in provision to vulnerable persons arising from the mistaken belief
that the supplements are a substitution for food regularly provided. Furthermore, they do not reach children
at the critical weaning age. The FSP therefore proposes to attack directly the underlyingcauses o f
malnutrition, which includes access to food and dietary practices.

Vulnerability Assessments.            Measurements o f vulnerability, such as those conducted by the Emergency
Food Security Reserve Administration and the Disaster Prevention and Preparedness Commission, need to
be improved, although there has been considerable progress through the work o f the Famine Early Warning
System, the Vulnerability Assessment Mapping Unit, and the Save the Children Fund (US). There i s little
doubt that improving this assessment w i l l help planners and researchers to target relief and resources and
strengthen coping mechanisms o f food insecure households. The concept o f cycles o f asset buildup and
depletion that i s at the heart o f coping strategies i s a particularly useful one for planning food security
programs, and i s used as a guiding and justifying principle for this project. The project aims to replenish
and develop the assets o f vulnerable communities, households and individuals, increasing the resistance o f
such communities to future shocks, building up and strengthening their own coping ability. Among other
provisions o f the Monitoring and Evaluation program, the project would introduce initiatives that would
help communities develop their own self monitoring capacities.

Ethiopia's Safety Net Programme (SNP).            This program combined successfully relief and
development to offset the adverse effects on target groups o f a major reform initiative in 1993-94. The SNP
was short-lived, but demonstrated many important lessons, such as the capacity o f sub-regional bodies to
develop and implement a complex program at low cost. I t also showed that simple small loans to destitute
groups can help increase sustainable incomes. The findings from the SNP are built into the FSP by
including risk management activities among those funded by the community grants.

Food For Work Programs.                The WFP's food-for-work program has been operating since 1980 and i s
the largest o f i t s kind in Africa. Since in the initial years monitoring was limited, it has not been easy to
judge i t s success, but there have been from time to time note taken o f delays in food payments,
inappropriate design, poor technical planning, and lack o f follow-up and maintenance. Among other things,
 experience with this and other food-for-work and employment schemes shows that there have been cases
where structures have deliberately been allowed to degrade, sometimes because the structures were not
 designed properly, sometimes because communities did not understandthe principles o f their design, and
 sometimes because o f an assumption that future employment generation and food-for-work schemes would
take place to rehabilitate andor maintain the structures. There have been instances o f disconnects between
 soil conservation measures and farmers perceived needs, and WFP acknowledges that it was a mistake to
provide food in return for maintenance activities. Because o f the long period o f implementation, s t i l l
 ongoing, there have been opportunities to redress mistakes and change direction. The current phase o f the
project i s using a strong community participation approach (called Local Level Participatory Planning) to
 enhance local ownership o f assets, combined with extensive training o f field staff (in such subjects as
biological measures o f soil conservation, aerial photograph interpretation, land classification methods, and
 integrated soil and water conservation packages) to improve the appropriateness o f technical solutions.
There i s an increasing emphasis on small-scale schemes at community levels (such as village ponds, small


                                                     -19-
irrigation, water harvesting, and spring development, all integrated with vegetative soil conservation
measures, and close attention to improving soil management). The WFP program has also improved
monitoring by designing more sharply focused and relevant indicators, and trying to have monitoring done
more at community level. Since the FSP will link i t s focus on chronic food insecurity with other focuses on
transitory food insecurity, which often involve food-for-work programs, the lessons from WFP's experience
must be kept under close and continuous review.

Women's Programs.          There has been an almost total lack o f study in Ethiopia o f the participation o f
rural women in labor intensive public works such as those that are central to most relief and development
activities involving food security assistance. In the absence o f knowledge about the impact o f these
programs on women, there remains a crucial gap between perceptions that women have already an
enormous labor burden (fetching water and fuel wood, grinding cereals by hand, caring for children,
managing food provision in the household, and sustaining a considerable load o f agricultural work
especially weeding), and the expectation that they will be able to participate in significant numbers in
public works programs. In fact, although women do take part in public works schemes, the paradox o f
relief from labor through labor remains unresolved in the planning o f almost all such schemes. The FSP
incorporates into i t s monitoring components indicators o f the project's impact by gender, and the effects o f
gender in causing shortfalls in achievement. I t also incorporates gender impact proposals into the criteria
communities would have to meet in successfully submitting proposals for receiving grant finding.

Agricultural and Rural Development Projects. Many o f these projects undertaken in Ethiopia in the past
have been implemented in the higher potential regions with more reliable rainfall and better soils. These
regions were chosen because it was expected that the gains in production and incomes would be greater
than those anywhere else in the country. Because the FSP i s now planning to move into regions o f less
reliable rainfall, where the risks o f agricultural production are greater, experience in past projects may not
be a useful guide to how to proceed. Nevertheless, the main elements o f agricultural development
initiatives are similar, and some lessons can be drawn:

(a) One important lesson i s that an unfavorable policy environment - especially for grain marketing -
constrained significantly the achievements o f some o f the rural development projects that were otherwise
reasonably successfbl on the technical side.

(b) Uptake o f improved agricultural technology w i l l be the key in the more drought-prone regions as well,
but the natural conditions in these deficit regions are less inviting for this model o f development, with
farmers less able to take the risk o f adopting packages o f inputs involving cash expenditures when the
likelihood o f these expenditures being lost because o f adverse climatic events i s much greater. This points
to the need for a strong focus in the FSP on risk management.

(c) The more drought-prone regions need more comprehensive packages o f interventions than do the better
endowed regions, packages in which good management i s needed o f a number o f techniques, all working
together. Such packages include soil and water management, plant nutrient generation and recycling, more
drought tolerant and pest resistant varieties o f crops, improved post harvest management, and in some
areas a move away from traditional food crops to specialized oilseeds, fruits and vegetables, and livestock
activities suitable to specific areas, whose outputs can be sold for cash, and even in some cases exported
from the lower potential zone for cash returns. The focus in such systems i s more on management than on
inputs, which puts a premium on the skills o f farmers, and an emphasis on thorough understanding o f the
farming systems, and thorough training programs. While this may initially suggest a more comprehensive
and well-trained extension service, the reality i s that such an intervention i s also less affordable and
sustainable in the lower potential agricultural areas. Just as every ounce o f gain must be squeezed from


                                                      - 20 -
scarce agricultural inputs in such circumstances, so much more economical extension systems must be
found, such as those using the “farmer to farmer” approach successfully tried in Tigray under the Shire
Integrated Food Security Programme. Some promising experience being gained with woreda based poultry
rearing and dairy goat development may point the way to small livestock activities that can provide
valuable cash andnutrition supplements to food insecure households.

(d) Just as agricultural development in the lower rainfall regions requires a more comprehensive package
o f initiatives, the lower potential for agriculture implies that off-farm employment opportunities and
deliberate development o f these, loom larger in the development strategy. Such activities are, however, also
harder to develop in the lower potential regions, because agriculture even there i s frequently both the main
engine o f growth, as well as the main source of the growth linkages that are the best way to stimulate
off-farm employment and income generation opportunities. Furthermore, the capital needed to develop
off-farm enterprises i s usually at lower levels in these poorer regions. Therefore, at a minimum, the l i n k s
between the lower potential and the higher potential agricultural regions should be developed to the
maximum extent possible, with increased investments in roads, health and education, so that people in the
lower potential regions may take advantage o f lower real food prices from more efficient inter-regional
marketing o f food, o f migration where opportunities present themselves, and o f economic opportunities
opened up by comparative advantage and the beginnings o f specialization which may accompany
well-distributed economic growth. Although the FSP w i l l not be large enough itself to encompass all the
necessary investments, the project would try to ensure that funds from large national programs - especially
the multi-donor roads, education and health programs - would be focused on the selected Woredas to the
extent needed to further enhance the growth o f the local economies and link them to the national economy,


4. Indications o f borrower commitment and ownership:
The FSP i s a result o f the borrower’s initiative, and has emerged from the borrower’s own food security
strategy. A good indication o f ownership and commitment i s the production o f four separate reports by the
states o f Amhara, Oromiya, Southern Nations, and Tigray as background documents for the Government’s
original, large food security program proposal. Each report i s highly detailed and demonstrates significant
strategic thinking, substantial preparation effort, and commitment to tackling the problems o f food
insecurity. The Regions also report that their plans were prepared in a highly participatory way, with
extensive consultation between communities and experts o f the Regional and Woreda governments.

5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank i s working in close consultation with all the major food aid donors to Ethiopia, assisting with
consensus and agreement on food security initiatives. This work was initially a response to the borrower’s
request that the Bank lead and coordinate donor work on the proposed FSP. The Bank has carried out
analytical work on food security since the 198Os, and played a coordinating and leadership role during
preparation o f the food security strategy in 1996, o f which this program i s one o f the early investment
outcomes. The Bank i s able to draw comprehensively on existing knowledge, research, and practical
experience with poverty reduction projects across the world, including other large sectoral programs in
Ethiopia, such as the road, health, education and energy SIPS.The Bank i s also able, in close consultation
with the other donors, to assist the Government to take a careful look at the needed policy reforms, and
embed the FSP in the ongoing PRSP activities. The Bank has advised introducing the Community-based
Child Growth and Nutrition Program and the initiative to lower transactions costs in food marketing, which
are key elements o f the FSP. Bilateral donors w i l l be joining the Bank in this project, and the project should
lay the foundations for further donor funds being made availability for food security in the future.




                                                      -21 -
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
0 Cost benefit       NPV=US$ million; ERR =         % (see Annex 4)
0 Cost effectiveness
0 Other (specify)
Because the majority o f the project i s community implemented activities whose composition i s not
known in advance, it i s not possible to cany out conventional economic analysis o f them.

Because food security i s a wide-ranging and comprehensive concept, it i s not easy to measure
progress in attaining it. It i s proposed to explore setting up a Food Security Tracking Facility to
help decision makers assess how well policies, strategies, and interventions are working to improve
food security in different parts o f the country. Such a system would provide information at
appropriate intervals ( e g every 1 or 2 years) over a prolonged (10 year) period. The facility
would use indicators from among the many existing data collection programs operating in Ethiopia.

Such a facility would be developed under the project, and a feasibility study for it i s included in the
project costs. Decisions need to be made about an optimum institutional home, i t s financial and
human feasibility, l i n k s to monitoring systems to be introduced under the PRSP (and the future
roles o f the Welfare Monitoring Unit), and the food security indicators to be used, drawn from
among those already collected by the Central Statistics Authority (CSA), the Ministry o f Finance
and Economic Development (MOFED), the Disaster Prevention and Preparedness bodies (DPPC
and SERA), sectoral line ministries, MSF, and donors and NGOs (such as WFP, SC-UK, USAID,
World Vision and others). A wide range o f base-line data are also available from many parts o f the
country.

In addition to socio-economic data, it i s recommended that objective anthropometric indicators w i l l
be required. Recognizing that such nutritional surveillance represents the largest existing “gap” in
on-going monitoring systems, the design, sampling technique and frequency o f anthropometric data
collection i s likely to be the single biggest determinant o f feasibility.

Among other possible indicators, it will be worthwhile to explore the usefulness o f three simple
measures o f the economic status o f a household: adults wearing shoes, women using plastic
containers (instead o f traditional clay pots) for water collection and the use o f prefabricated
materials (such as galvanized iron) in house construction. All three require expenditures that
appear to be contingent upon a degree o f security about disposable incomes.

A feasibility study for such a food security tracking facility should be conducted with full
participation o f all the likely stakeholders (among them the Welfare Monitoring Unit and those
involved in the PRSP monitoring process). If such a facility i s to work, it will need all the relevant
government organizations and NGOs to join in using it.

2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Because the majority o f the project i s community implemented activities whose composition i s not
known in advance, i t i s not possible to cany out conventional financial analysis o f them. The
assessment o f financial management systems in the project i s contained in Annex 6.

The Government regards food security as a federal responsibility, and while communities, Woredas,



                                                      - 22 -
    zones, and regions would themselves implement food security measures, all funds flowing from the
    federal government to lower levels for food security would be an addition to their existing budget
    flows, thereby constituting net injections o f financial capital into local economies, and providing
    incentives to use them well. In other words, funds flowing to the Regions and below under the
    proposed project would not offset allocations already in the regional budgets.

    Fiscal Impact:
    Since the bulk o f project funds would be allocated to communities to assist them to become
    self-provisioning, the sustainability o f initiatives undertaken by the communities would also rest with them,
    and would be among the criteria used to appraise and approve community proposals for grant funding.
    There would therefore be minimal ongoing fiscal obligations for the Government arising from these grants,
    and in fact, fiscal obligations should be reduced by reducing the need for communities to receive food aid
    and other emergency assistance over time, as well as the eventual possibilities for raising local public
    revenues from better o f f communities. The Government would incur increased fiscal obligations in the
    form o f structures and institutions created under the project, which could be continued in subsequent phases
    if they prove to be valuable. For the most part, however, the project would work through existing
    institutions, which would be strengthened under the project, so keeping the additional fiscal burden as low
    as possible.

    3. Technical:
    There are two sets o f technical issues in the project: (a) human technical capacity at all levels, in
    communities, government agencies, and non-governmental organizations; and (b) technical
    problems in developing the drought prone regions in which the project w i l l be implemented.

    Technical capacity has been identified as a potential major constraint on programme implementation
    at all levels. The FSP would have as one o f i t s central goals the increase o f this capacity. The FSP
    therefore contains funding for workshops, short courses, on-the-job training, use o f mass media for
    extension and distance learning, and support for facilitating capable people in training others. The
    needs for such capacity building are great, but what can be done i s obviously constrained by the
    inherent clash between absence o f individuals for training, and the needs for program
    implementation. This puts a premium on short training courses, as much on-the-job as possible. I t
    will also be important that capacity built up in the public sector institutions should be only that
    which i s needed and sustainable beyond the period o f program implementation. One way o f helping
    with sustainability w i l l be for training to be planned and executed by private agencies under
    contract, whenever required, and for local communities to be supported in contracting out the
-   technical assistance they need to implement program components.

    One strategy for increasing food security i s to attempt to increase agricultural productivity as much
    as possible. However, a major difficulty associated with increasing agricultural production in
    dryland areas o f Ethiopia i s the highly degraded resource base, especially soils that are coarse,
    sandy, low in fertility, organic matter, and water holding capacity, and susceptible to wind and
    water erosion. As a result crops can suffer from moisture stress and drought even during normal
    rainfall seasons. Under such circumstances one approach i s to diversify into drought-resistant crops
    o f higher value than traditional foods. I t i s not necessary for households to be self-sufficient for
    food if they can do other things to earn income to buy food. Another obvious option i s to find
    off-farm employment opportunities so that households are not wholly dependent on their farms for
    food security. In practice, solutions will be a combination o f on-farm and off-farm income earning
    opportunities. Increased fertilizer use i s an option, although the combination o f serious water



                                                          - 23 -
stress, high temperatures, and generally shallow, degraded soils can make fertilizer uneconomic,
since water i s the limiting nutrient, and low organic matter in degraded soils l i m i t s crop response to
fertilizer, as well as reducing soil water holding capacity. Studies have shown that, under these
conditions, a combination o f measures to increase moisture conservation and use o f fertilizer gave
the highest yields. This implies that, where it i s attainable economically, some form o f irrigation for
crops w i l l be important in order to achieve the maximum results from the application o f fertilizers.

4. Institutional:
As mentioned above, administrative and fiscal decentralization are at the heart o f the proposed FSP. This
transfer o f authority and resources w i l l improve immensely the empowerment o f communities, and the
enhancement o f their capacities to do their own planning and implement their own projects. The project
design leaves as little room as possible for blockage in the flow o f funds at intermediate levels. The project
w i l l also provide for establishing the legal status o f local groups through registration, so that they can
receive public funds, and make their own decisions about their own development.

Such transfer o f funds can take place only within a framework that provides a clear definition o f the intent
and nature o f the investments; clear guidelines about the array o f investments deemed eligible within the
definition; well-articulated statements about the sharing o f funding and other responsibilities o f local
communities receiving the funds; transparent mechanisms for both approval o f expenditures and sanctions
in case o f misallocations; simple procedures for disbursement o f funds; provisions for protecting the
program from diversion for political ends; well-understood and consistently enforced arrangements for
reporting, accounting, and audit; provisions for needed technical capacity; and guidelines for deciding when
investments have been completed as planned and for measuring their impact. These are spelled out in the
Implementation Manual. The grants application and award processes would be as transparent as possible,
with widespread flows o f information throughout the system. Among other things, lists o f applications
received, and grants given, would be posted in many public places in Woredas and Kebeles, made freely
available in periodic meetings o f Kebele and Woreda Councils, and broadcast through public media such as
newspapers, radio and TV.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The main executing agencies, whose roles are described in Section C above, and in Annex 2, would be
above all the communities themselves; and would also include the Kebele Development Committees; the
Woreda Development Committees; the Woreda, Zonal and Regional Finance Offices; the Regional Sector
Bureaus o f Agriculture, Health and Womens's Affairs; the Regional Food Security Coordination Offices
(RFSCOs); and the Food Security Department o f the Ministry o f Rural Development, whose role would be
to assist and facilitate flows o f funds to decentralized agencies, especially Woredas.
4.2 Project management:
While communities would drive and manage implementation o f the project, overall direction would be in
the hands o f the National Food Security Steering Committee (NFSSC), with inputs from the Regional Food
Security Steering Committees in each o f the four main regions.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Because o f i t s focus on communities, the project w i l l use predominantly community based procurement
methods as outlined in Bank guidelines. I t w i l l be a challenge to maintain the flexibility needed to
accommodate communities as their proposals for methods o f procurement are elicited and reviewed during
implementation. There are likely to be some trade-offs, especially in initial years o f the project, between
following the guidelines, attaining the desirable level o f flexibility and achieving quick disbursement and
distribution o f goods and money.


                                                       - 24 -
4.4 Financial management issues:
The provision o f grants to communities in Ethiopia i s not totally new, having been piloted for several years
in the Ethiopian Social Rehabilitation and Development Project (ESRDP), and proposed more recently in
the HIV/AIDS and Emergency Recovery Programs. The Food Security Project proposes mechanisms that
are similar in many respects to those proposed for the two latter programs, but whereas those programs are
short t e r m in nature, it i s planned that food security investments will be within existing structures o f
govemment, will expand in the future, and that this initial program w i l l be trying out mechanisms that it i s
hoped may become a permanent feature o f the fiscal decentralization process in the future. Since such
financial mechanisms are new as part o f a formal local government structure, the project would proceed
deliberately and carefully, with monitoring o f success at every level a more than usual concern. The
proposed financial management systems are set out in Annex 6.
5. Environmental:                         Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
As environmental factors are perceived to play a key role in the current level o f chronic food insecurity in
the program target areas, they have long been considered central to any policy or strategy development, or
proposed programs aiming to increase agricultural production and household food security. Environmental
rehabilitation therefore i s a key component within the food security project with a view to building up and
sustaining the natural resource base. Through soil and water conservation, reforestation, and controlled
grazing measures, the target areas w i l l be ecologically stabilized. The farmers, supported by extension
services and by provision o f inputs, will increase land productivity. Livestock production with improved
feed management w i l l have a positive effect on the effort being made to rehabilitate and stabilize the natural
grazing land in particular and the resource base in general.
5.2 What are the main features o f the EMP and are they adequate?
An Environmental Analysis (EA) o f the FSP was completed and sent to the Infoshop in December 2001,
with a summary sent to the Board at the same time. Among other things, it examined what environmental
and legal instruments support food security in Ethiopia, especially the Constitution, the Conservation
Strategy o f 1989, the Environmental Policy adopted April 1997, and the Conventions that Ethiopia i s
signatory to - Biological Diversity (signed 10 June 1992), Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety to the
Convention on Biodiversity (signed 24 May 2000), the Convention to Combat Desertification (signed 15
October 1994 and ratified June 1997), and the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (ratified
June 1997).

The general findings o f the EA were that:

e   Food Security Project intervention benefits outweigh any identified adverse impacts, provided
    environmental protection measures are integrated into planning, design and implementation.
a   No serious negative impacts are anticipated, and those described can be reduced to an acceptable level
    through appropriate preventative and mitigation measures.

The EA proposed a number o f preventative and mitigation measures o f a project process nature, namely:
giving priority to maintenance and rehabilitation o f existing irrigation schemes; integrating environmental
and social measures into design and implementation; cooperation among stakeholders; establishing and
ensuring adequate resources for Monitoring and Evaluation; doing participatory planning; building
capacity in communities; and strengthening extension to do more in communities.




                                                      - 25 -
The EA proposed a Community Based Development and Management System for Providing Environmental
Care (PEC). Details are in Annex 2.

Mitigation

The EA emphasized that the most effective approach to adverse environmental impacts i s to avoid them in
the first place, thus saving the rehabilitation costs needed after adverse effects occur. In order to try to
head o f f adverse effects, and to deal with those that may occur, the EA proposed a series o f prevention and
mitigation measures, whose details are given in Annex 2.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status o f EA:
                  Date o f receipt o f final draft: 12/14/2001

5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage o f (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
o f consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The Environmental Analysis included review o f available documents, collection and collation o f primary
and secondary quantitative and qualitative data. Rapid field assessments were carried out and focus group
discussions held with the target communities. In each sample Woreda, two farmers associations (FAsPAs)
were chosen to conduct the focus group discussions. In each Farmers AssociatiodPeasant Association two
focus group discussions were held.

Selection o Sample Woredas
           f

Two sample Woredas from each o f the four Regions were selected based on the criteria that would be used
in the project. Based on these criteria, Bati and Tenta Woredas from Amhara Region; Chiro and Goro
Gutu from Oromiya Region; Bolsso, Sore and Damot Gale from SNNP Region, and Wokro and Tanqua
Abergelle Woredas from Tigray Region were selected. From each Woreda two representative Farmer
AssociationsPeasant Associations were selected for focus group discussions with the communities.

Rapid Field Assessment
Checklistdquestionnaires were prepared to collect data from the project sites. The questionnaires were
designed to cover the three food security components (availability, access and utilization). The
questionnaires also reviewed physical, economic, and social dimensions o f sustainable development
endeavors for each o f the project interventions being considered for environmental analysis (small-scale
irrigation, off-farm enterprises, construction o f roads and market places).

Participatory Rural Appraisal
Group discussions were held with project beneficiaries and other concerned institutions that have a stake in
the food security project especially in small-scale irrigation development, off-farm enterprises, construction
o f roads and market places, and provision o f fertilizers. Two focus groups o f project beneficiaries were
consulted comprising male and female groups in each sample Woreda. The number o f participants in each
group ranged from 15 to 20.

Checklists were prepared to initiate discussions o f the main components o f food security and project
interventions that would be envisaged.

5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact o f the project on the
environment? D o the indicators reflect the objectives and results o f the EMP?


                                                     - 26 -
The EA proposed an Environmental Monitoring Plan and Monitoring Indicators appropriate for the
objectives of the project, specified the composition o f proposed monitoring teams for irrigation, roads,
agricultural inputs, off-farm activities, soil and water conservation and social services, and described their
costs. The EA also proposed monitoring indicators that would measure a mix o f project progress and
environmental impact, and policy actions and other steps for the government to take. Details are in Annex
2.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project’s social
development outcomes.
The community approach adopted for this project i s expected to improve community responsibility for the
environment and the perception o f consequences resulting from resource-abusing agricultural practices.
Also innovative forms o f action against environmental degradation are expected to develop among
individual and the larger communities. The project should also facilitate farming communities’ participation
in planning and development. Opportunities for increasing agricultural production and land productivity
are expected to have social impacts that provide incentives for community solutions to problems. Improved
farm management and higher farm outputs are expected to make a positive social impact through reducing
unemployment, famine and migration due to drought and related factors. Self-reliant development i s also
expected to have a positive psychological impact among the communities.

The role o f women in food production and household food management i s central, yet rural women lack
access to the fruits o f education and better farming technology, and are discriminated against in the
customary practices, cultural taboos, and the customary law in rural areas. T o address the risk that these
circumstances pose for success o f the FSP, the project proposes special attention to gender matters during
project implementation. The FSP will establish gender sensitive project planning and implementation
procedures and to highlight issues o f importance to women. I t will mobilize women as active project
partners and stakeholders. I t w i l l make women and their multiple roles clearly visible, and identify and
address constraints regarding women’s access to and control over resources. I t w i l l keep in mind
differences within the household where food i s often distributed very unevenly between family members, to
the disadvantage o f women and children. I t w i l l be aware that in view o f women’s large work burden in
many communities, female under-nutrition i s likely to be a significant factor reducing their productive
potential. I t will acknowledge that most vulnerability assessment studies identify female-headed
households, women in low income groups, social outcasts and migrant women, pregnant and lactating
mothers and displaced and refugee women as the most food insecure.

The Food Security Project will take the following steps to reflect women’s interests in project planning and
implementation:

0   Project planning and implementation procedures will highlight issues o f importance to women.
0   Women w i l l be mobilized as active partners and stakeholders at all project levels (national, federal,
    zonal, woreda and kebele).
0   The project w i l l identify constraints on women’s access to and control over resources inside and outside
    the home early in project implementation.
    The project will develop strategies, adopt mechanisms, and make special efforts to reach women
    directly.
    Project training and IEC materials w i l l address gender relations
    Project monitoring and evaluation indicators will be gender sensitive.




                                                     - 27 -
Details o f these proposals are given in Annex 2, the detailed description o f project implementation.

6.2 Participatory Approach: H o w are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Community participation and ownership i s the corner stone o f the FSP. The beneficiaries w i l l be
empowered by receiving community funds with which to build human and capital assets. All proposed
community development activities will be decided by the communities themselves. This approach will
ensure a sense o f ownership as well as responsibility for management o f the project outputs and promote
project sustainability.
6.3 H o w does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
NGOs will have an important role in project implementation and success. The Woredas in which initial
project actions would be taken have been selected in part based on prior activities in them o f good
development-oriented NGOs, whose presence would be important for providing technical assistance and
income-generation ideas for communities to take up. The modalities o f collaboration with NGOs w i l l be
reviewed during the project, with the aim o f ensuring that all locally based organizations able to contribute
to project success can do so. As with other aspects o f the project, decisions regarding this would be in the
hands o f the communities.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
See details o f proposals for gender participation in Annex 2.
6.5 How w i l l the project monitor performance in terms o f social development outcomes?
See details o f proposals for gender participation, and monitoring and evaluation in Annex 2.

7. Safeguard Policies:




7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
See discussion o f the Environmental Assessment above.




                                                     - 28 -
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The main issue o f sustainability i s whether the program o f investments that are undertaken with grants to
communities w i l l result in consistent, effective gains in production, incomes, and savings in the target
communities, to the degree required to make such communities self-provisioning, and economically
self-sustaining over time. With food aid programs in Ethiopia, there has been in some cases a development
of dependency on the food handouts, to the extent that the same communities and households receive them
year after year. This project will put funds directly into the hands o f communities, and encourage them to
seek good technical assistance, with the aim o f maximizing the incentives for the communities to use them
for the most productive investments. Applications by communities for funds will be judged in part by
whether or not they include a plan for maintaining the assets established with project funds. By using this
criterion for approval, as well as by monitoring community perceptions o f increases in production,
incomes, and savings, i t i s envisaged that the communities will move on to a sustained path o f economic
growth. By these means, it should be possible to promote self-reliance, and reduce extemal assistance over
time. Sustainability beyond the implementation phase will also to a degree depend on whether the roles o f
the public sector can be re-defined successfully to allow room for the private sector to develop at the local
level. Rural financial markets must also be developed to permit investment in productive activities that
provide small entrepreneurs with means to grow competitively.

A second issue i s the speed at which funds will be able to flow to the communities, in other words the speed
o f disbursement o f the IDA Credit. In view o f slow movement on the latest SIPS in the social sectors, and
slow establishment o f financing and accounting mechanisms, there i s concem about the shape o f the
financing instrument, and i t s implications for speed o f both processing and implementation. By making
application and screening procedures as simple as possible, by providing that repeat grants will be lmked to
demonstrated progress on a few key indicators, by designing the grants system to be transparent and open,
by agreeing with the Govemment that there would be no offset against regular budgetary provisions to the
Regions, and by providing ample funds for capacity building at all levels, it i s envisaged that the funds w i l l
flow as rapidly as the accounting systems can be established.

2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure o f critical assumptions found in the fourth column o f Annex 1):
                       Risk                       Risk Rating                   Risk Mitigation Measure
    +om Outputs to Objective
    Iisruption o f program activities by                S           Targetting o f drought-prone areas means that
    lroughts, pests, or livestock diseases                          this risk i s substantial. However, the FSP w i l l
                                                                    strengthen early warning systems, mitigate
                                                                    drought through better natural resource
                                                                    management, afforestation, and, promotion o f
                                                                    drought resistant crop varieties, and increase the
                                                                    livelihoods o f beneficiaries, so that they have t e
                                                                                                                       h
                                                                    means to protect assets already accumulated.
                                                                    The FSP will promote crop protection and
                                                                    livestock vaccinations to mitigate against pests
                                                                    and diseases.
Aesearch results may not work under                     N           The agriculture components o f the FSP include
normal farm conditions                                              on-farm testing and farmer participation.

I
Women may not be able to take up
empowerment activities despite a i already
                                                        M
                                                                    Constraints will be reduced by provision o f



                                                      - 29 -
over-heavy work load                                                      nore accessible water, increasing women's
                                                                          iutrition status, and developing food processing
                                                                          acilities in local areas; and developments will
                                                                          )e monitored closely so that problems can be
                                                                          lealt with quickly.
Community members are not able to work                       N            The FSP i s designed to maximize stakeholder
together to manage communal resources,                                    md community participation, and to ensure that
irrigation schemes, and applications for                                  :apacity-building support i s available to
credit                                                                    ;elf-help groups. Needs assessments and clearly
                                                                          dentified benefits are required.
Farmers are not able to exploit perceived                    N            mproved road l i n k s from other projects and
market opportunities                                                      ncreased consumer demand from rising
                                                                          :ommunity incomes will encourage food
                                                                          narketing.
Mothers do not perceive the benefit o f                      N            The program must clearly identify and
dietary guidelines nor have the means to                                  lemonstrate the potential benefits and use
follow them.                                                              'converts'' in the outreach program.
From Components to Outputs
Qualified TA not available                                   N            The FSP will ensure that TA from Ethiopia i s
                                                                          mlisted. If this does not exist, the program may
                                                                          ieed to recruit specialists from elsewhere. The
                                                                          iroject also includes capacity building
Qualified trainees not available                             N            3ialogue with communities, with special
                                                                          ittention to women, w i l l ensure that the most
                                                                          ippropriate trainees are selected.
                                                             N            Procurement w i l l take place locally, if possible,
                                                                          :o ensure timely delivery from sources
                                                                          iccountable locally.
Funds may not flow                                           N            4n implementation schedule and funding
                                                                          3greements w i l l be secured between donors and
                                                                          the central, regional and local governments
!Less than full community participation i s                  N            Siven that the program i s planned with the
                                                                          Zommunities, and implemented by them, thereb)
                                                                          h l l y reflecting their priorities and needs, and
                                                                          given that they negotiate and agree in advance
                                                                          3n the nature and scale o f their participation,
                                                                          there i s no reason to anticipate any shift in the
                                                                          willingness or quality o f the community's
                                                                          involvement.




Overall Risk Rating                                          M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Ri:   I,   M (Modest Risk), I Negligible or Low Risk)



                                                            - 30 -
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None

G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
Conditions o f Effectiveness were agreed during negotiations, as follows:

(a) The Government w i l l have established the project accounting and financial management system
satisfactory to IDA.

(b) The Government will have opened the Project Account in a commercial bank and deposited therein the
initial deposit o f Birr 7.5 million.

(c) The Government w i l l have adopted the Project Implementation Manual in form and substance
satisfactory to IDA.

(d) The Government w i l l have completed the work program, including the budget and procurement plan for
the first year o f project implementation, satisfactory in form and substance to IDA.

(e) The Government will have staffed the Food Security Department o f the Ministry o f Rural
Development, and all Regional Food Security Coordination Offices, with personnel having experience and
qualifications satisfactory to IDA, including, for the FSD, a Project Coordinator, a Financial Officer, a
Procurement Officer, and a Monitoring and Evaluation Officer.

2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]

(a)     preparation and fumishing to IDA by June 30,2003, or such later date as IDA and the
Government shall agree, multi-annual targets for monetized food aid as identified;
(b)     based upon the recommendations o f a study, preparation and furnishing to IDA not later than
December 3 1,2003 a plan to ensure a competitive and efficient market in warehousing services sufficient
to support a warehouse receipt system, and thereafter not later than June 30,2004 implementation o f this
plan;
(c)      carrying out, not later than June 30,2003, a study for the establishment o f an information system
to provide the private sector food trade with quality analysis o f market and price trends, and not later than
December 3 1,2003, establishing a funding mechanism for this system;
(d)     developing, not later than December 3 1,2003, a legal framework for the establishment o f a
warehouse receipt and inventory credit system; and thereafter establishing, not later than June 30,2004, the
relevant regulatory capacity;
(e)     preparation and fumishing to IDA, not later than December 3 1,2002, guidelines for N G O
participation in the project, including assistance to communities with planning and implementation o f
income generation activities;

O t h e r assurances obtained at negotiations.

The following additional actions were agreed during negotiations:




                                                    - 31 -
    Preparation and fumishing to IDA annual progress reports o f procurement activities under the
    Project, commencing one calendar year after the Effective Date.
    The Government will (i)      maintain the Project Implementation Manual and all i t s schedules for
                                                              i)
    the implementation o f all components o f the Project; ( itake all measures necessary to ensure
    that the Project i s carried out in conformity with the Project Implementation Manual; and ( i )ii
    not amend or waive any provision thereof which in the opinion o f IDA may materially and
    adversely affect the implementation o f the Project.
    The Government w i l l maintain FSD and RFSCOs at all times during Project implementation :
    (i) be responsible for the coordination of Project activities at federal and regional levels,
       to
    including financial management; ( iwith staff having qualifications, experience and under
                                           i)
    terms o f reference satisfactory to IDA, including, inter alia, a Project Coordinator , a Financial
    Officer and an Assistant Financial Officer, a Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist, a
    Communication and Information Specialist and a Procurement Specialist;
    The Government will maintain FSD under the administrative authority o f the Ministry o f Rural
    Development.
    The Government will maintain the National Food Security Steering Committee for overall
    leadership and guidance at all times during Project implementation. NFSSC will include
    representatives o f (i) Ministries o f Finance and Economic Development, Rural
                            the
    Development, Agriculture, Health, Water Resource Development, Federal Affairs, and
    Women's Affairs, (ii) heads o f RFSCOs for the Amhara, Oromiya, SNNP and Tigray
                              the
    Regions.

Mid-Term Review

(a)      The Govemment will prepare and fumish to IDA by December 3 1,2004, a report integrating the
results o f the monitoring and evaluation activities on project progress, including procurement, and setting
out measures recommended to ensure efficient implementation o f the project and achievement o f its
objectives during the remaining project period.

(b)   The Govemment w i l l review this report with IDA by June 30,2005, and carry out the measures
recommended to complete the project and achieve i t s objectives.

H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
        o f project implementation.
Ixi 1. b) Not applicable.
0 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start o f
      project implementation.
Ixi 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and o f satisfactory
      quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):


1. Compliance with Bank Policies
   1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.



                                                     - 32 -
0 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval.   The project complies with
      all other applicable Bank policies.




 . L -
A= ? &
W. Graeme Donovan                           Karen Mcconnell Brooks
Team Leader                                 Sector Manager




                                                     -33-
                                   Annex 1: Project Design Summary



r
                                    ETHIOPIA: Food Security Project
                                   Key Performance            Data Collection Strategy
 Hierarchy of Objectives                                                                   Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:        iector Indicators:            ectorl country reports:    from Goal to Bank Mission)
Reduce poverty and              Average agricultural          Poverty surveys;            0 Economic and political

malnutrition by a pattern o f   incomes increase in           National statistics;          stability for the life o f the
growth that provides direct     participating areas           Bank documents                program;
and immediate benefits to the   Average non- agricultural                                   Ethiopia continues i t s
poor.                           incomes increase in                                         transformation into a
                                participating areas                                         market-oriented and
                                Reduced chronic                                             decentralized economy
                                malnutrition among children                                 including political,
                                under five in participating                                 institutional, and
                                areas                                                       regulatory reforms;
                                                                                          0 No major economic
                                                                                            shocks




                                                        - 34 -
I    Hierarchy of Objectives                 Indicators                                                       Critical Assumptions
 Project Development                 utcome I Impact                  'roject reports:                    from Objective to Goal)
 0 bjective:                         idicators:
 A. Economic well-being.               0 Incomes in targeted               0   PSRs,ICR.                      0   N o local slumps in
 Increase access to food for             communities increase.             0   Project M&E reports &              prices from increased
 poorer, food insecure rural           0 Savings held in local                 enduser evaluations.               production.
,households and communities.             savings associations              0   Field visits                   0   N o local slumps in
                                         increase.                                                                wages as employment
                                                                                                                  increases.
                                                                                                              0    Non-farm income i s
                                                                                                                  used to buy food and/or
                                                                                                                  medical services.

    B. Food markets &prices.          0   Direction o f food price         0   PSRs,ICR                       0   Lower marketing
    Increase and stabilize real           movements more                   0   Project M&E reports                margins translate into
    incomes by reducing food              coordinated.                     0   Annual market surveys              both lower consumer
    price volatility                  0   Coefficient o f variance         0   Field visits                       prices and higher
                                          o f food prices declines.                                               producer prices.
                                      0   Food price spreads                                                  0   Farmers take advantage
                                          between regions and                                                     o f better roads and
                                          Woredas decline.                                                        market information.
                                                                                                              0   Food marketing within
                                                                                                                  project areas expands
                                                                                                                  efficiently and reliably.
    C. Nutrition. Improve             0   Stunting (height for age         0   PSRs,ICR                       0   Improved dietary
    nourishment for children              <2 s.d.) among children          0   Project M&E reports                guidelines effectively
    under five years old.                 under two reduced in             0   Annual sample surveys              translate into better
                                          project areas.                       with anthropometric                child nutrition.
                                                                               measurements.                  0   Cultural constraints to
                                                                                                                  understanding and
                                                                                                                  implementing better
                                                                                                                  nutrition yield to
                                                                                                                  training and education.
    D. Coping with shocks.            0   Proportion o f populatior        0   PSRs,ICR                       0   Progress made o n
    Strengthen vulnerable                 receiving food aid               0   Project M&E reports -              reducing incidence o f
    households and communities            declines in each                     enduser evaluations,               new HIV infections.
    so that they can provision for        "normal" year (Le. not a             food security tracking         0   N o extraordinary humar
    themselves, and cope with             year o f a major                     system, and community              disease outbreaks.
    shocks arising from drought,          drought). Observed                   based impact                   0   National economic
    pest and disease attacks, and         reduction in coping                  monitoring system.                 growth and integration
    marked price rises for food.          activities that are              0   Annual food aid needs              i s not set back or
                                          inimical to sustained                assessments.                       interrupted.
                                          development, such as             0   Field visits
                                          sales o f draft animals
                                          and other critical
                                          requisites.
    E. Off-farm income.              Incomes from non-farm            1   PSRs, ICR                       B   Agricultural growth yields
    Increase economic well-being     activities increases.            1   Project M&E reports -               i t s expected growth
    in local communities, and        Women start businesses on 2          enduser evaluations, food           linkages to off-farm
    improve their links with the     wider scale.                         security tracking system, anc       incomes.
    wider regional and national      Savings increase in                  community based impact          B   Growth in national
    economy.                         community saving and credi           monitoring system.                  economy increases



                                                                 - 35 -
                                        associations.                     Annual surveys                 opportunities for exports
                                        Off-farm income                   Household surveys              from project areas.
                                        diversification activities        Field visits                1 Women are able to take up
I
                                        increase.                                                        empowerment activities
                                                                                                         despite an already
                                                                                                         over-heavy work load, and
                                                                                                         cultural barriers.
                                                                                                        Non-farm income is used to
                                                                                                       buy food andor medical
                                                                                                       services.
                                                                                                       N e w businesses are
                                                                                                       sustainable and credit i s
                                                                                                       repaid
    F . Financing mechanisms.            0    Grant flows from                0   PSRs,ICR               0 Woreda, regional and

    Establish financing                       Woredas to kebeles              a Project M&E reports         federal Governments
    mechanisms that allow funds               increases rapidly and                                         facilitate financial flows
    t o flow to Woredas, and to               steadily.                                                     and do not constrain
    vulnerable communities and            0   Other Government                                              them.
    households, in such a way that            programs use financing                                      0 Capacity can be built

    they are empowered to invest              mechanisms.                                                   rapidly enough at
    in their o w n priorities, secure     0   Donorfunds                                                    Woreda, regional and
    the technical assistance,                 increasingly flow                                             federal levels to
    services, and infrastructure              through financing                                             accelerate and sustain
    they need to achieve economic             mechanisms.                                                   financial flows.
    growth, emerge from poverty,                                                                          0 Strong institutional

     and secure their food needs                                                                            relationships and
                                                                                                            communication exist
                                                                                                            between regional PMUs
I
                                                                                                             and central coordination




                                                                     - 36 -
                                                                   Data Collection Strategy
 Hierarchy of Objectives                                                                              Critical Assumptions
Output from each                  Iutput Indicators:               Voject reports:                   'rom Outputs to Objective)
Component:
A. Funds to                        0    Widespread uptake o f         0   DA's feedback reports       0    Kebeles share grant
CommunitiedKebeles                      income and asset              0   Woreda assessment                funds equitably, and
                                        increasing activities in          reports                          communities choose
                                        participating                 0   Project M&E reports -            productive investments,
                                        communities.                      enduser evaluations,             both on-farm and off.
                                   0    Average levels o f                food security tracking      0    Farmers adopt new
                                        savings in community              system, and community            technologies.
                                        savings and credit                based impact                0    Research results work
                                        associations increase.            monitoring system.               under normal farm
                                   0    90% o f under 2 children      0   Reports from                     conditions.
                                        in participating kebeles          Community Based Child       0    Inputs available on time.
                                        are regularly monitored           Growth Monitoring                N o major disruption o f
                                        and their caretakers          0   Participatory                    program activities by
                                        counseled.                        Community Evaluations            droughts.
                                    0   CBCGP program tested                                          0    N o extraordinary animal
                                        and established                                                    disease outbreaks.
                                                                                                      0    Farmers are able to
                                                                                                           access markets.
                                                                                                      0    Mothers perceive the
                                                                                                           benefit o f dietary
                                                                                                           guidelines and have the
                                                                                                           means to follow them.
B. Capacity-Building Grants         0   Numbers o f persons           0   M&E reports from                 N o disruption to flows 0 :
to Woredas, Regions, and                trained increases                 various agencies                 project funds.
Federal Government                  0   Quality o f public            0   M&E institutional           0     High quality trainers
                                        services for project              audits in key project             found in country or
                                        implementation                    milestone years                   recruited from outside.
                                        improves                      0   Reports o f training        0     Adequate technical
                                    0   Project i s implemented           coordinators                      assistance available.
                                        in timely fashion                                             0     National training
                                                                                                            programs graduate
                                                                                                            steady numbers o f new
                                                                                                            trainees.
                                                                                                            Targetted and basic
                                                                                                            training translates into
                                                                                                            expanded employment
                                                                                                            possibilities.
                                                                                                      0     Ethnic basis o f regions
                                                                                                            provides no constraint tc
                                                                                                            posting o f qualified
                                                                                                            persons to the field.
C. Studies to recommend             0   Changes needed in                 Market surveys                    Competition in food
ways to increase efficiency o f         policies and the                  compared with baseline            marketing i s effectively
food marketing                          incentive climate to          0   M&E reports and food              increased.
                                        encourage competition             security tracking system     0    Reductions in real price
                                        and efficiency, and           0   Needs assessments and             volatility not disrupted
                                        lower transaction costs           other reports on                  by droughts.
                                        in food trade are                 vulnerability produced            Inflation under control.
                                        recommended                       by food aid agencies



                                                             - 37 -
                         0   An inventory credit            0   Rural Road Authority
                             (warehouse receipts)               reports
                             system i s established
                         0   A food market
                             information system is
                             established, with
                             information on, and
                             analysis o f market prices
                             and quantities widely
                             disseminated to
                             communities o n a
                             monthly basis, as well as
                             to the private sector food
                             trade
                         0   Management o f food aid
                             i s improved to provide a
                             more stable price
                             environment for
                             domestic producers and
                             traders
                         0   Number o f farms with
                              improved access to
                             roads increases
                         0
D. General progress on   0   All project institutions       0   PSR, I C R             0   Political understanding
Project                      established and                0   Project M&E reports        and will at federal level
                             facilitated                    0   Mid-Term Review            facilitates policy change




                                                   - 38 -
                              Key Performance                 Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          indicators                                                    Critical Assumptions
Jroject Components I      Inputs: (budget for each        Jroject reports:                   (from Components to
Sub-components:           Zomponent)                                                         Outputs)




                                                                                         I


                                                                                         I




                                                     - 39 -
                                Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
                                   ETHIOPIA: Food Security Project
By Component:

                      -
Project Component 1 US$76.73 million
Funds to CommunitiesKebeles (IDA US$64.73m):

A. Selection of Woredas

Woredas w i l l be chosen from those already identified as food insecure. Since the project has sufficient
funds to ensure complete coverage o f communities in only a’portion o f the Woredas needing assistance, to
maximize the chances o f success during this initial round o f public investment, the actual Woredas for the
project w i l l be selected to the extent possible to have the following characteristics:

  High degree o f food insecurity.
* Presence o f a critical mass o f technical expertise.
* Located in a “cluster” with other selected woredas so that the efforts o f technical personnel w i l l be

optimized.
  Having other programs to which this project can be complementary.
  Availability o f sufficient baseline data to allow assessment o f the impacts o f change.
* Sufficient access to banking services to allow the new financial systems the maximum chance to work.




A total o f 12 Woredas will be selected for Project Year 1, with an additional 16 for Project Year 2. By the
end o f the project, 60 Woredas will be included in the project. The number o f Woredas per region will be
determined by the relative vulnerability criteria set at the federal level.

B. Block Grants to Woredas for Passing on to Communities

The purpose o f the Woreda block grants i s to provide a fixed s u m o f money that will be available to each
participating Woreda for passing on to Communities when the latter apply for funds. The funds w i l l be
transfened to the Woreda in advance o f the planning o f activities. Activities can therefore be planned at
community level in a Woreda with the assurance o f funds being available, provided the community
proposals meet the eligibility criteria.

A s u m o f approximately Birr 1.5 million w i l l be allocated to each participating Woreda in each year,
representing an estimated increase o f no more than about 50 percent in an average Woreda’s current
budget.

Providing grants to kebeles and communities i s a relatively new departure for development finance in
Ethiopia. While some Woredas have benefited from donor and N G O funds that follow this model [for
example, projects funded by UNICEF, Irish Aid, SIDA, and the Netherlands], the majority o f Woredas
have only limited experience.

The funds from these block grants, flowing to kebele and communities, are for two main activities:

(a) Any activity that increases assets and incomes.

It i s recognized that options within the food insecure Woredas are limited. I t i s also recognized that there i s



                                                       - 40 -
an urgent need for both on-farm and off-farm income generating activities. Communities (and the
government departments supporting these activities) will require assistance in identifying viable options.
The project supports such technical assistance.

This will be the primary and predominant fund. I t will be used for any activity that leads to an increase in
incomes or assets o f the community. Up to US$18,000 may be approved at any one time for a single
kebele. As an indication o f ownership, to qualify, communities would need to demonstrate their
commitment by agreeing to provide additional funds o f their own, in cash or in kind, amounting to at least
10 percent o f the tranche o f public funds.

Not all components o f development programs will be eligible for funding through this grant. Those that w i l l
not be eligible are set out below:

Interventions that will not be eligible under the project

        Salaries: other than for direct support staff identified in the project document
        Grants to micro-finance institutions
        Agricultural inputs under the PADET program
        Road construction with a greater specification than RR10.
        Interventions covered by other sector programs such as education and health, or ESRDF (schools,
kindergartens, clinics)
        Political or trade union contributions
        Resettlement
        Investments that could increase pollution, deforestation or environmental problems as assessed in
the EAs for the individual proposals
        Investments with any ethnic or religious conditions

The funds will be available for activities that benefit the Kebele as a whole, as well as activities that benefit
specific groups within the Kebele. The project provides for proposals to be prepared and submitted by a
variety o f groups, including:

        groups o f 5 or more people who come together to achieve a common aim
        a co-operative
        a community based organization
        the Kebele Sub-committee on Food Security: for those activities that benefit the Kebele as a whole


In this way it i s expected that funds will be used for activities associated with both the public and the
private sector. The project will be able to stimulate private sector involvement in areas that have
traditionally been the preserve o f the public sector.

(b) Child growth promotion

A major focus o f the Food Security Project i s to provide funds to communities and community groups for
activities that create assets and generate income. The increased income can contribute to improved
nutrition, but this i s more likely to happen if focused attention i s given to improving decision making and
action at the household and community level, to protect and promote the growth o f young children. To
maximize the positive impact on the nutritional status o f vulnerable children, the project will therefore also
support communities with a focused set o f activities to address child growth. Up to US$2,500 may be


                                                      -41 -
approved at any one time for a single kebele for this purpose. While every kebele applying for income and
asset increasing funds w i l l be strongly encouraged to take up child growth promotion, it i s anticipated that
this activity i s likely to be slower to take off. The project therefore provides for child growth promotion
funds in about two thirds o f the Woredas expected to take part in the project.

The focus o f this subcomponent o f the project i s on a package o f community based activities that promotes
adequate child growth to prevent malnutrition. Starting at birth, child growth promotion animators,
working with mothers, w i l l monitor the growth o f infants on a monthly basis until the age o f 24 months.
The weighing w i l l serve as an entry point for discussions between the mother and the animator on
conditions contributing to the child’s health and growth. During the monthly weighing and counseling
session, the animator, together with the mother, w i l l record the weight on a growth chart, to jointly evaluate
the child’s weight gain, by making a comparison with previous weights and the growth curve o f the
reference population. The content o f the counseling i s determined by the adequacy o f the child’s growth,
age, and health status, the season, and the mother’s readiness and capacity to try different feeding and
caring practices. The counseling involves a negotiation process because it requires arriving at a mutually
agreed solution between the mother and the animator on feasible action to ensure adequate child growth.
The essence o f growth promotion i s thus to help mothers play a full and informed role in decision making
for action to improve child feeding practices. Children who are not brought to a scheduled growth
promotion session, and those children whose growth falters, will be visited at home, for weighing,
additional counseling and to review home conditions.

Collated growth data for all children in a community will also be the basis for community-level discussions
about factors beyond the control of households and animators, that affect child growth. These discussions
will inform community decisions about food security project activities that can address such underlying
causes. The information on child growth will also be used to monitor the impact o f the Food security
project activities on the welfare o f vulnerable groups in the community.

C. Principles underlying the provision of community funds for income and asset generation and child
growth promotion

The project i s built on the concept that the only way to strengthen people i s to give them the means to make
themselves strong, and help them to take responsibility for helping themselves. There have been too many
initiatives to do things for people, and this project focuses on helping people do things for themselves by
putting purchasing power in the hands o f communities.

In doing so the project also provides an opportunity for off-farm income generating activities for
communities, and for strengthening the role
in addressing food insecurity o f the private sector enterprises in which community members are involved.

To maximize success in the early years o f the project, grants at the Kebele level would therefore adhere to
the principles o f

          simple regulation: procedures must be simple and easy to understand and implement;
         modest ambition: in the initial 2-3 years it will be essential to establish a small number o f success
stories that w i l l allow logical expansion o f the project concept.

The Project Implementation Manual contains detailed guidelines to assist Woredas and kebeles in using the
block grants. The guidelines include a number o f steps for promoting the project, assisting communities to
prepare proposals, and demonstrating how finance can flow from the Woreda to the kebele level. These


                                                      - 42 -
guidelines will also form a useful tool in monitoring and evaluation. General guidelines for promoting the
project and designing asset and income generating activities are summarized in the next section. Specific
arrangements for the child growth promotion activities are in the subsequent section.

D. General guidelines for promoting the project and designing asset and income generating activities

Stage 1: Promotion of the project, analysis of food security problems, and steps in the design of food
security projects.

Step 1: Woreda level workshop to promote and plan the food security and child growth promotion
interventions (1-2 days)

Facilitated by regional staff and the zonal support team, this workshop would include all department heads,
experts, administrators, religious leaders, N G O representatives, and zonal representatives in an exercise to
help participants become familiar with project concepts and develop a shared vision. Expected outputs are
a shared vision and commitment at the Woreda level, an understanding o f the impact o f malnutrition and
other impacts o f food insecurity in communities, identification o f key people to facilitate the food security
work (especially a Woreda coordinator), and identification o f any constraints or bottlenecks to
implementation. The workshop w i l l also serve to bring together an alliance o f institutions that can assist in
delivering resources and services. This first step would lead to a signed contractual agreement between the
regional food security unit and the Woreda development committee.

Step 2: Training o Woreda Development Committee (3 days)
                  f

Facilitated by regional staff and the zonal support team, as well as others with special skills, this workshop
would aim to equip a Woreda team with skills in participatory research analysis (PRA) to undertake
fieldwork and workshops at kebele level. Expected outputs would include identification o f kebeles and
preparation o f tools and animation materials for kebele workshops.

Step 3: Promotion o the Project at the Kebele Level
                   f

Rather than having a single meeting at the kebele level, a series o f meetings i s proposed. These will allow:

       assimilation o f the concepts and mechanisms o f the project;
       selection o f animators for both general food security actions and child growth promotion, a
bookkeeper, and a food security committee;
       assistance to communities in identifying innovative opportunities for use o f the project funds.

Afirst kebele meeting/workshop would be facilitated by members o f the Woreda development committee,
and involve kebele administrators, religious leaders, village and CBO representatives, Development Agents,
Teachers, Health workers. Care will be needed to ensure that female participants are included and are able
to actively participate in these meetings. It would promote the concepts o f the project, make community and
kebele leaders aware that funds are available for a range o f activities, including income and asset increasing
investments and child growth promotion, and explain the steps required to access the funds. Activities may
take the form o f open village meetings, comprising short explanations, local drama performances, and
individual testimonies, and participation in local meetings o f associations and interest groups by project
supervisors, facilitators and influential community members. The meetings would agree selection criteria
for the book-keeper and community animators, and set up schedules for follow up meetings.



                                                      - 43 -
A second kebele meeting/workshop would assist communities to identify opportunities for using the
community funds, with an emphasis on asset and income generation and child growth promotion, and
procedures for applying for funds. Expected outputs would include identification o f food security issues,
and o f options for dealing with them, both on-farm and off-farm. Among other things this would include
arriving at a common understanding o f the impact o f malnutrition on the community and the scope o f
community action to avert growth faltering in their children. Developing this overall understanding o f food
security issues may involve undertaking activities such as transect walks and wealth-ranking.

The project places great importance on this step. I t w i l l be best undertaken during the agricultural slack
season. It presents the key chance for promotion o f community driven development. The quality o f
proposals received w i l l reflect the quality o f the fieldwork with communities.

This step w i l l absorb considerable time during the first year that a Woreda receives a block grant. The first
year w i l l reveal what works and what does not work at the community level. If the work at the community
level i s rushed (in the anticipation of a quicker disbursement o f funds), the quality o f proposals w i l l be
compromised. I t will be better to spend time getting the methodology right, with the opportunity to scale up
in subsequent years.

Afinal meeting would then be held in the kebele. Expected outputs would include agreements on TORS
for the animators and for the Kebele Food Security Committee, an agreed kebele action plan, financial
procedures, and selection o f a book-keeper and animators. After this the project will begin with practical
training for the animators and the book-keeper.

Stage 2: Processing and approval of community proposals

Step 1: Funds for preparation ofproposals transferred to Kebele of$ce

Birr 5,000 per annm will be given in advance to each participating Kebele. This will be used to:

  purchase stationery and other materials required by the kebele administration and participating
community groups in the preparation o f proposals;
* provide a small incentive (to be decided by each Kebele) to the community animators and book-keeper,

whose job w i l l be to assist communities to prepare grant applications;
  provide infrastructure for the Kebele Development Committee.

Step 2: Communities prepare simple proposals

Communities w i l l prepare simple proposals in the format demonstrated during the previous meetings (see
above). The applicants keep one copy, and the other i s submitted to the Kebele food security development
committee.

Step 3: Kebele Food Security Committee collects and compilesproposals

The Kebele Food Security Committee appraises the proposals against set criteria, and the kebele
book-keeper keeps records o f dates o f submission o f proposal, the type o f project and number o f
beneficiaries.

Step 4: Proposals are submittedfrom the Kebele to the Woreda every 3 months




                                                      - 44 -
A member o f the kebele food security committee should bring proposals to the Woreda development
committee as frequently as practical. Once the system i s in place this could be as frequently as every
month.

Step 5: Processing and approval o communityproposals at Woreda level
                                 f

The Woreda development committee will assess projects against set criteria:

        level o f community contribution
        costhenefit: the amount o f money compared to the number o f beneficiaries
        gender sensitivity: whadhow practical and strategic gender needs are met
        appropriateness (environmentally, socially and economically) o f the project
        availability o f appropriate service delivery agency in the Woreda or elsewhere
        implementation period

A decision on the proposal i s then made. This decision may be:

        Approval for immediate implementation.
        Pending until further information i s made available (for instance further technical information).
        Rejection

Once a decision i s taken it should be communicated immediately to the kebele, who in turn w i l l inform the
group that submitted the proposal. Groups that have had proposals rejected should be informed o f the
reasons for rejection.

For some projects the Woreda Development Committee will also need to identify an appropriate
implementing partner. If this partner i s a govemment service delivering agency, the project should be
included in their working plans.

Stage 3: Accessing funds and implementation

This i s a critical stage in implementation. I t requires a mixture o f trust and rigorous procedures in giving
kebeles and communities access to funds. This i s particularly true where groups are not legally registered
(e.g. community based organizations, groups o f individuals). Experience from other projects has shown
that communities can implement projects as long as they are provided with sufficient technical and financial
resources.

Provision o technical support
           f

The Woreda development committee has the responsibility to ensure that communities get the necessary
technical support. If there i s a relevant govemmenthon-govemment service delivery agency, the project
should be included in their workplans. Where there i s no appropriate agency within the Woreda, the WDC
will need to look to the zone or region.

Community access to materials

In most rural areas, infrastructure and markets are not well developed. Accessing resources does not
guarantee that communities will be able to access the materials they require. There i s no single solution to
this, and each Woreda may devise i t s own solution. The following are proposals regarding the options that


                                                     -45-
may be available; in all cases the communities retain control over the financial resources for purchase o f
materials:

         open market: where the market i s strong, or where Woreda are located near to towns, communities
should be able to access resources;
         service co-operatives: on a commercial basis these could stock commodities that the community
requires;
         community groups come together to buy similar commodities from more distant markets;
         communities contract local merchants to provide materials and supplies.

Contractual agreement between the region and Woredas

This contractual agreement should be signed between a food secuity Woreda and the region at the initial
stage. I t will be a binding agreement that the Region and the Woreda accept the procedures and concepts o f
the food security project. It will include the project period (duration), project components and total
indicative budget; a clear statement on what the project can (or cannot) support, how the project should be
implemented, the roles and responsibilities o f both the region and the Woreda; the financial management
and procedure etc. This contractual agreement would enforce implementation o f the FSP according to
agreed procedures and principles, and also minimizes the risk o f misunderstandingand misappropriation.

Contractual agreement between the Woreda and kebele

The kebele development committee w i l l s i g n a contractual agreement with the Woreda Office o f Finance
and the Woreda food security coordinator. This contract will state the s u m o f money to be given to the
kebele, and the roles and responsibilities o f concerned individuals. The kebele food security committee will
be responsible for collecting money from the Woreda. A kebele safe should be purchased (or made
locally). Funds however should not be kept for any length o f time at the kebele office, but distributed to the
community group(s) as soon as possible.

E. Arrangements for implementingcommunity based child growth promotion using the Woreda
block grant

Kebeles which choose to participate in the child growth promotion activities will receive assistance to
prepare a grant application, which w i l l be scrutinized and awarded using the same mechanisms as those
outlined above. Grants w i l l cover limited facility upgrading, the purchase o f weighing scales, growth charts
and other stationery, and incentives for the Child Growth Promotion Animators.

Child growth promotion - how it will work

Child growth promotion animators w i l l provide information and counseling services to mothers, other
household members and communities. During monthly weighing and counseling sessions, the animator,
together with the mother, records the child’s weight on a growth chart, and jointly evaluate the weight gain,
by making a comparison with previous weights and the growth curve o f the reference population. The
content o f the counseling will be determined by the adequacy o f the child’s growth, age, and health status,
the season, and the mother’s readiness and capacity to try different feeding and caring practices. Animators
will also make home-visits, discuss child growth trends with community leaders and community members
at regular meetings, and prepare reports for monitoring, evaluation and supervision purposes. One animator
will be responsible for 100-150 households, based on clustering worked out by the Kebele Development
Committee.


                                                     - 46 -
Community members w i l l select the animators, using criteria to include being a mother (an advantage, but
not essential), literacy (minimum education o f grade four), and traits such as high motivation, flexibility,
patience, honesty and organizing skills.

Based on an estimated 8 percent o f the population being children 0-24 months, 2.2 percent o f the
population being pregnant women, a community size o f 650 people, and each animator working about 30
hours per month, with an average Woreda having 145,000 people, there would be 11,600 children less than
24 months old and 3,190 pregnant women in an average Woreda. This would need an average o f 223
animators per Woreda.

Materials. The development o f counseling messages and materials i s discussed in the IEC section below.
During year one, two types o f scales w i l l be tied out and a decision w i l l be made for the type o f scales to
be used in child growth promotion activities. The two types are suspended spring dial scales (the most
common now), and direct recording spring scales, which have been tested and used in a number o f projects
and given satisfactory results. The selection o f an appropriate growth chart to be used in the project w i l l
also be made during year one o f the project, in consultation with the Ministry o f Health.

Links with asset-building and income-generation scheme. In the Food Security Project, the growth
promotion activities will complement activities aimed at increasing assets and income. Progress o f child
growth promotion will be monitored and discussed at monthly meetings o f the Kebele Development
Committee and other community meetings, based on activity results presented by child growth promotion
animators. These discussions should pay particular attention to issues that are beyond the control o f
animators, for example, systematic problems with participation, disease outbreaks, and community
demands for safe water, child-care centers or other community assets or services. Certain problems and
demands can form the basis for grant application, thereby linking up growth promotion with the
asset-building and income-generating schemes. Conversely, child growth will be used as an indicator to
monitor the impact o f food security enhancing interventions on the welfare o f vulnerable groups in the
community.

Partnership with community health workers. Once the child growth promotion activities are well
established, and in areas where community health agents and birth attendants are operating, active
collaboration among workers will be encouraged. For example, community health agents can facilitate
participative education sessions at regular intervals, whereas trained birth attendants can assist with
antenatal and postpartum home visits. Building on experience with distribution o f anti-malarial drugs by
community health agents, the latter could also provide other simple drugs and micronutrient supplements at
timely intervals as part o f the child growth promotion activities. Regional Health Officers in all four
Regions support community-based distribution o f simple drugs and micronutrients as long as adequate
supervision i s provided, and government norms are applied. In addition to the above basic services, growth
promotion animators would monitor vaccination status of children and frequency o f antenatal care visits by
pregnant women.

Supervision

Good supervision i s critical for success in the Child Growth Promotion activities. In addition to guiding
community animators in their job, supervisors w i l l be expected to facilitate monthly community meetings
by making sure that results from growth promotion are properly discussed and where needed, action i s
taken. Supervisors w i l l be involved from the beginning, that is, in Kebele-level awareness creation,
community mobilization and selection and training o f child growth promotion animators. During


                                                       -47-
implementation, supervisors will make frequent (bimonthly) supervisory visits to each child growth
promotion animator; assist in monthly community meetings, and process, discuss and act on monthly
monitoring results. One supervisor w i l l work with 10-1 5 animators.

Supervision i s a professional job which goes beyond the scope o f communities and animators. Hence,
supervisors will be identified from the existing structure o f paid workers, which include Home Agents o f
the bureau o f agriculture, and front line health workers at Woreda and Kebele level. The job o f supervisors
will require, in addition to up-to-date nutritional knowledge, highly motivated individuals with willingness
to walk or travel long distances on bike or mule into communities, positive and supportive attitude, and
ability to meaningfully participate in community meetings. Therefore, in addition to careful selection on
motivational and attitudinal criteria, adequate training, guidance and appropriate incentives, including
transport and daily allowances will be needed to enable existing professionals to carry out the additional
supervisory tasks effectively.

Start-up facilitation

 Supervision o f community-based child growth promotion i s a completely new and additional task to
people’s normal jobs. A one-time training w i l l not suffice in preparing them adequately for the supervisory
job, hence the need for on-the-job guidance. Accordingly, start-up facilitators will be recruited as
temporary project staff who w i l l be full-time engaged in starting up child growth promotion activities. They
will be recruited early on in the process to ensure maximum exposure by having them participate in many
o f the initial activities including regional-level orientation and training workshops, training o f trainers,
 training o f supervisors and community mobilization.

Once growth promotion starts, facilitators will be full-time engaged in facilitating the work o f growth
promotion animators and supervisors alike. After approximately six months, facilitators will gradually
reduce their input and focus more on the weaker supervisors and growth promotion animators and the more
problematic communities. After nine months, facilitators would start shifting some o f their attention to a
new batch o f kebeles that will join the project, by training supervisors and mobilizing communities.
Accordingly, 12 months after the project launch, facilitators will be guiding a new group o f supervisors .and
growth promotion animators in their jobs, while keeping an eye on the initial areas. I t i s expected that one
start-up facilitator can effectively support a maximum o f 40 growth promotion animators and three
supervisors. Start up facilitators should have qualifications on a par with or above that o f supervisors.
Generally, t h i s means 12th grade plus 6-12 months professional training.

Coordination

Coordination o f Child Growth Promotion will be at Woreda level. Most Regional Food Security Program
Coordination Offices, except for SNNP Region, have a structure which allows for a Woreda Coordinator.
In the SNNP Region, the Food Security Program Coordination Office works through focal points in line
bureaus. In most Woredas, one coordinator would be sufficient to oversee the activities o f all supervisors.
The coordinator’s job will consist o f enhancing project implementation by mobilizing adequate expertise,
services and resources where needed, helping out with problematic situations, monitor progress, and
facilitating frequent exchange o f experiences.

                        -
Project Component 2 US$27.90 million
Capacity Building Grants to Woredas, Regions, and Federal Ministries (IDA US$17.5m):

While the main emphasis o f the project i s on helping communities take action for themselves, the


                                                     - 48 -
Government acknowledges that the capacities o f the communities for helping themselves are very weak, as
are the capacities o f those who would otherwise provide them with technical assistance, in all the
government bureaus, especially at the Woreda level. Capacities are weak in every way, with grave
shortages o f trained persons at every level, as well as shortages o f transportation to get them into the field,
and equipment and supplies to help them in their administrative, decision making, and advisory capacities,
and in their service delivery. In spite o f the acknowledged weak capacity, the Government has announced
i t s plans to proceed with increasing the flow o f funds through block grants to Woredas. The levels o f such
increased flows in the food security project have been estimated so that the build up o f funds would be
manageable while capacity building could proceed, also financed by the project. The need for capacity
building at Woreda levels i s far beyond the reach o f the food security project to provide. The project will
provide funds, especially at the Woreda level, for equipping government offices, engagement and training
o f personnel, and above all, for workshops, which are a key element of any highly participatory project,
and also a widely needed tool for training people at all levels.

The capacity building supported under the project i s directly related to the two funding windows to
communities - income and asset increasing funds, and funds for the child growth promotion initiative. The
capacity building provisions are not, however, in proportion to the overall levels o f funds flowing to
communities for the two purposes. While around 95 percent o f the community funds will be for income
and asset increasing activities, and 5 percent for child growth promotion, the capacity building fhds w i l l
be split more evenly between the two purposes, with a larger sum actually allocated to capacity building
associated with child growth promotion. The reason for this i s that for the income increasing activities,
there are already structures on the ground throughout the country - especially in the form o f bureaus o f
agriculture, cooperatives and enterprise development at Woreda level, and the development agents (DAs)
associated with these. There are DAs at the level o f kebeles in most o f the country. By contrast, there i s
virtually no infrastructure for child growth promotion, which by i t s nature i s a service delivery activity akin
to education. In other words, although the key actions that are taken in child growth promotion take place
at the community level, they do not cost much at that level - small weighing scales, growth charts, and
community animators being the main ingredients. To work well, however, they have to be supervised and
coordinated well, which, with the low starting base in Ethiopia, implies most o f the expenditures on child
growth promotion being incurred upstream o f the community.

A. Capacity Building for Income-Generation Activities

While the grants would empower communities, and generate demand for improved technologies, and
income generating investments o f various kinds, without assisting communities to find the technologies and
opportunities they want, they would be confined to existing levels o f knowledge, which are often inadequate
and characterized by stagnant productivity. In other words, vulnerable communities are short o f ideas, and
not just short o f capital. They would be assisted in gaining access to new ideas by the Development Agents
(DAs), by representatives o f various Regional Bureaus (of Agriculture, Health, Trade & Industry, and so
on), by NGOs, and by consultants o f various kinds. Communities would be able to use their grant funds
for training themselves, as well as for facilitating access to change agents in both the public and private
sectors. But the capacity in all o f these outside agencies i s also weak, and would be strengthened under the
project, using funds allocated for capacity building.

Funds are provided under the project for modest additions to office and transportation equipment in each o f
the 60 participating Woredas, as well as for training courses, study tours, and workshops at kebele and
Woreda level, and for the running costs o f additional transport equipment.




                                                      - 49 -
B. Capacity Building for Child Growth Promotion

A training-needs assessment and situation analysis based on task descriptions and agreed work routines o f
coordinators, supervisors and growth promotion animators w i l l form the basis for developing a training
plan, basic modules and materials. This and the training o f trainers in each o f the four Regions requires
adequate training expertise as well as close collaboration with those in charge o f developing the
communication strategy.

Basic training modules will be adapted in each Region to reflect local conditions and practices during an
orientation workshop with regional, zonal and Woreda experts. This w i l l coincide with or be followed by
training o f trainers, including start-up facilitators, at regional, zonal and Woreda level. Each Region w i l l
train approximately 15 trainers. They in turn w i l l train supervisors first, so they can be involved in
community mobilization including selection o f growth promotion animators. Thereafter, supervisors will
serve as resource people along with one (or two) trainers in training child growth promotion animators. In
this way, multiple groups o f child growth promotion animators can be trained simultaneously.

The start-up training for supervisors and child growth promotion animators w i l l be approximately 10 days
and for the initial batch o f project Woredas take place in the first year o f project implementation. In
addition, the project envisages regular in-service training o f growth promotion animators and supervisors,
for which a modular training format i s most suitable, as well as a system o f continuous training o f new
workers to replace those who leave as well as those who go to new project Woredas.

Moreover, there w i l l be various community health agents, trained birth attendants, front line health workers
and Home Agents, who are not directly involved in child growth promotion activities, but who are working
in the same Woreda. They w i l l need refresher training on at least the content issues to ensure that
consistent messages about childcare are given to families.

There i s a need for broadening the exposure o f central staff and regional coordinators to community-based
nutrition projects and creating a small cadre o f technicians with minimum nutrition expertise. Various
sub-Saharan countries have obtained valuable experience with community-based nutrition and some o f
these projects are worth a visit by selected individuals from Ethiopia. Furthermore, a few key individuals
with interest in nutrition would be encouraged and allowed to participate in short courses on applied
nutrition, possibly at institutions or universities on the continent, to enhance the establishment o f basic
technical expertise in the area o f nutrition.

Funds are provided under the project for modest additions to office and transportation equipment in each of
the 40 participating Woredas, as well as for training courses, study tours, and workshops at kebele and
Woreda level, and for the running costs o f additional transport equipment.

                       -
Project Component 3 US$ 0.59 million
Food Marketing Initiatives (IDA US$0.53m): The investmentsin studies to promote food marketing
would (a) recommend changes needed in policies afid the incentive climate to encourage competition and
efficiency, and lower transaction costs in food trade; and (b) begin implementation o f measures that would
reduce the costs o f marketing, trading, transporting or processing food in Ethiopia while retaining
necessary protections and safeguards. Among other things, this would include recommendations to:

(i)improve management o f food aid to secure a stable price environment for domestic producers and
traders;
  i)
( iestablish a food market information system that would provide the private sector food trade with quality


                                                      - 50 -
analysis o f market and price trends;
  i idevelop a warehouse receipt and inventory credit system for traders;
(i)
(iv) develop a competitive and efficient market in warehousing services sufficient to support a warehouse
receipts system.

                      -
Project Component 4 US$1.51 million
Communications and Public Education (IDA US$1.37m): The aims o f the Information, Education and
Communication (IEC) elements o f the project w i l l be to: (a) build awareness and political and social
commitment to the goals o f local food security and community based child growth promotion; (b) ensure
transparency in the funding process; (c) assist with achieving behavioral changes within the project
communities (especially with respect to child nutrition); and (d) document and disseminate lessons leamed
and good practices with regard to the sub-projects. The latter will help build a dynamic and evolving
knowledge base to improve the quality o f the sub-projects and to recognize publicly (through the media )
the work done by communities, NGOs, the private sector and the government.

A. IEC strategy

Experience shows that the free and consistent flow o f information i s a p o w e f i l development tool that helps
to move societies from an information-poor environment to an information-rich one. Also, targeted and
iterative messages have served both to raise awareness and modify behavior in healthhutition-related
practices. With regard to community funds in the project, IEC w i l l document and disseminate information,
at all levels and to a wide audience, about funding principles, methodology, procedures and processes, and
the roles and responsibilities o f the various sets o f stakeholders. This information w i l l be repeated in a
second round in order to correct and clarify any distortions arising among interested stakeholders. This
pattem w i l l also be repeated every year as new Woredas join the project. The first task will be to defme
and agree the basic information that it i s desirable to disseminate about the project. Once agreement i s
reached, it will be important that all pronouncements by those representing the project remain consistent
with the agreed information. The main challenge will be to manage expectations raised by the presence and
availability o f relatively large sums o f money - clear, consistent, unambiguous and iterative messages w i l l
help considerably in this regard.

Central, regional and Woreda level workshops will be held, involving key decision makers, administrators,
and experts. These workshops w i l l also serve to clarify the role o f central and regional level institutions in
supporting Woreda and community level action. Information k i t s and promotional material w i l l be
prepared for these sessions. In order to empower communities, and to draw attention to the combined
community-based child growth promotion and income generating activities, their achievements and
contributions to the development process and poverty reduction will be recognized and publicized. Annual
events o f celebration would be organized to coincide with other public activities at central, regional and
kebele level during the same period. Activities will vary from kebele to central level and would include
drama, individual testimonies, songs, radio broadcasts, speeches, performance-related awards to individuals
andor whole communities, and art competitions. The national celebration day or week could coincide with
worldwide events such as the World Breastfeeding Week held between 1-7 August which uses distinctive
themes for discussion and information each year. The IEC initiatives w i l l also seek to enhance partnerships
between government officials and communities by reporting on examples o f successful collaboration,
thereby helping to build strategic alliances among the various levels o f activity in the project - kebele,
Woreda, zone, region and the federal levels.

For the Community Based Child Growth Promotion component o f the project, the most important IEC
activity i s the planned counseling o f mothers in the Communities whose children are part o f the weighing


                                                      -51 -
and other activities in the program. Wider IEC activities w i l l complement this basic counseling, and i t i s
very important for i t s messages to be consistent with those o f the basic counseling. The IEC strategy will
also be closely linked to the M&E component so that it can identify areas where further communication
inputs are needed, as well as tailoring i t s messages to address issues that arise as the project i s
implemented.

The project w i l l seek to empower communities, by recognizing and publicizing their achievements and
contributions to the development process and poverty reduction. The IEC initiatives will also seek to
enhance partnerships between government officials and communities by reporting on examples o f
successful collaboration, thereby helping to build strategic alliances among the various levels o f activity in
the project - kebele, woreda, zone, region and the federal levels.

The IEC to be undertaken in the project will also endeavor to be consistent with ongoing IEC initiatives in
other projects, for example IMCI, the US AID-supported Primary and Preventive Health Care Services
Improvement project, and the UNICEF-supported Woreda Integrated Basic Services Program. I M C I has
identified 16 key household and family practices that involve child health, assigned broadly under 4 major
areas : promotion o f growth and development, disease prevention, cas-e-seeking, and homecare, upon which
W H O and UNICEF have agreed.

To help achieve such consistency, and to facilitate collaboration with other agencies, the project will
support early in the first year a 7-day Messages and Materials Development workshop for approximately
30 persons representing the kebele, Woreda, Zonal and Federal levels o f government, as well as bilateral
and multilateral donors, NGOs and private sector bodies (such as the Educational Media Agency, the
Health Education Center, Selma Communications, and AKPAC). The main output w i l l be the validation o f
the project’s communications strategy, with subsidiary outputs to include sample messages and
recommendations on appropriate channels. Terms o f Reference for the workshop will be worked out by the
IEC/Training Officer.

The project w i l l provide for an IEUTraining Officer in the national project coordination unit, and w i l l
support training in communication for the identified communication agents.

Specific persons would be identified within the Regional Food Security Coordination Offices, zonal offices,
the Woreda Development Committees, the Kebele Development Committee and the Kebele Food Security
Sub-committee to monitor communication and training activities. Ideally, the person so designated at the
different levels would also be assisting with the M&E activities.

While designated government staff in the Woreda Development Committee and the Regional Food Security
Coordination Offices will clear the content o f the communications materials, their production would be
contracted to the private sector. This could be done separately for the various materials - brochures,
posters, radio programs, etc.- or by tendering and contracting out on a yearly or 2-yearly basis the entire
communication package. In the latter case, the umbrella or principal contractor could sub-contract
elements for which specialized skills were needed.

The Food Security Department o f the Ministry o f Rural Development would oversee the entire
dissemination process, but would engage appropriate project participants at various levels as agents in the
dissemination e.g. community animators, and designated staff at Woreda, zonal and regional levels.

The communication strategy would be assessed and revised during the project mid-term review, and there
would also be an end-of-project evaluation o f IEC activities.


                                                      - 52 -
B. Proposed Multi-Media IEC activities

Even though Amharic i s the language spoken in both the Amhara and SNNP regions, differences in culture
w i l l make it necessary to produce different sets o f materials with region-specific content for posters, radio
programs, audiocassettes, and videos. Among other things, materials and activities w i l l include:

(a) Core brochure : This brochure (6 pp.) to be produced in Amharic, Orominiya, Tigriniya, and English
will clearly state in simple text the project’s objectives, its design and how communities may access project
funds;

(b) Logo and signature jingle: The project would create i t s own project logo ( to be used in all related
documentation) and a signature jingle embodying the project’s central development message ( in the 3
languages ) -the jingle would precede and end all the project’s radio messages.

(c) Radio programs : In Ethiopia, the radio i s a critical instrument for sensitization and the dissemination
o f development messages. The project will support weekly radio programs in the languages mentioned
earlier. The programs will be aired on Ethiopia Radio ( for all 4 regions ) and the local radio stations for 2
regions ( Amhara and Tigray ).

(d) Folk dramas : This local communication vehicle will be used to pass on finding and
healthhutsition-related messages. The project w i l l support regular folk drama shows in all the 4 regions.

(e) Educational videos on selected nutritional themes : The project w i l l support the production o f 1 video
per year per region on a nutritional theme identifiedby the GOE. The project w i l l also support about 12
copies per region o f such videos.

(9 Educational audiocassettes on selected nutrition themes :    The project would support preparation o f 1
audiocassette per year on selected nutritional themes for each region for use by already-existing listening
groups.

(8) Posters : The project will produce posters every year, which w i l l carry core messages about project
funding arrangements, as well as nutrition.

(h) Newspaper Supplements : The project w i l l also support the insertion o f 1-page supplements on project
activities twice yearly in 3 language newspaperslweeklies plus an English newspaper. The newspapers
proposed are the Ethiopia Herald ( English ), Addis Zemen ( Amharic ), Berissa ( Orominya ), and Weyne (
Tigrinya ).

                       -
Project Component 5 US$3.43 million
Administration and Impact Evaluation (IDA US%0.87m):

 A. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements:

(a) Kebele Level: the Kebele Development Committee would help prepare and collate community
investment plans, receive and manage the disbursement o f grants, and account for their use. The
Committee would include the Chairman o f the Kebele Administration, the Development Agent (DA) Staff
from the Bureau o f Agriculture responsible for agricultural extension activities, representatives o f women
and youth associations, and community representatives from the Kebele and i t s constituent villages.


                                                      - 53 -
Safeguards would be in place to ensure that the Kebele Development Committee comprised at least a
majority o f non-civil service appointees.
(b) Woreda Level: the flows o f funds to Kebeles would be overseen by the Woreda Development
Committee, which includes officers o f relevant bureaus (agriculture, health, cooperatives and enterprise
development, labor and social affairs), and women and youth associations.


(c) Regional Level: a Food Security Steering Committee will be established in each region, and the existing
Food Security Coordination Office (RFSCO) in each region will be strengthened with additional staff
dedicated to project coordination. In Amhara the RFSCO includes a project finance team, an economic and
social projects coordination team, and it i s anticipating establishment o f a monitoring and evaluation team.
The RFSCOs vary in staff numbers and capacity among the four regions, and w i l l need to be strengthened
under the project, especially in the Oromiya and Southem Nations Regions.
(d) At the federal level, the Food Security Department (FSD) in the Ministry o f Rural Development (MRD)
will be strengthened with additional specialized staff, dedicated to project coordination, among others a
Project Coordinator, Financial Officer, Financial Assistant, Procurement Officer, Monitoring and
Evaluation Officer, and a Communications Officer. The Food Security Department o f the Ministry o f
Rural Development i s accountable through i t s Head to the Deputy Prime Minister. The roles o f the project
coordination s t a f f will be to release funds against agreed plans, disburse funds to all implementing levels,
and co-ordinate monitoring and evaluation o f the project as a whole. In particular their role w i l l be to
facilitate and assist Woredas in their receipt o f block grants from project funds. The FSD w i l l not be an
implementing agency. I t will not carry out procurement itself, but will assist the Woredas with their
procurement where needed. I t s functions will be confined to facilitating and accounting for the flows o f
funds, and it w i l l not be responsible for judging the merits o f applications for funds or the uses to which
they were put.

(e) A National Food Security Steering Committee (NFSSC) w i l l provide overall direction. I t s membership
w i l l include high level representatives o f the Ministry o f Rural Development (Prime Minister's Office), the
Ministries o f Finance and Economic Development, Agriculture, Health, Water, Federal Affairs and
Women's Affairs, together with Heads o f the Food Security Coordination Offices o f the Regions o f
Amhara, Oromiya, SNNP, and Tigray. Food Security Steering Committees w i l l be established at Regional
levels, and the project will be implemented, at Woreda, and Kebele levels, through Woreda and Kebele
Development Committees. Recently-established Food Security Coordination Offices in each o f the four
regions w i l l be strengthened. Among other roles, the NFSSC w i l l address especially the following:

           Ensuring the balanced allocation o f food security funds (those not subject to budget off-set) among
regions.
           Providing a focal point for discussions on food security.
           Ensuring that an enabling environment exists for operation o f the project.


 B. Monitoring and Evaluation

 The M&E system proposed for the project would provide information both for directly assessing the
 outcomes and impacts o f the project, and also for refining working methodologies and procedures. The
 system also would be used by Government to contribute to the development and strengthening o f i t s wider
 Food Security Strategies.



                                                       - 54 -
The design o f the M&E system i s based on the principle that to be effective, interventions should respond
to the needs o f the intended end-users. and their realities on the ground. The greater the level o f informed
control that a community has over an intervention, the greater the chance for it to be successful.

The design framework identifies three main types o f stake-holder groups or organizations:

The People - Communities o f rural citizens who are trying to meet their fundamental needs, access basic
services, secure their rights and fulfill their responsibilities as active members o f an accountable and
self-reliant society.
Governing Agencies - that regulate policies, strategies and means o f engagement and that represent the
people and their needs
Service Delivery Agencies (e.g. implementing line-ministries, public services, NGOs and private sector) -
that provide services o f various kinds to people within the society;

There are transactions in both directions between all o f these three groups. This i s represented in the
following diagram (see explanation o f the numbers below):

                                       (3) Governing
                                          agencies




     (5) Service d e l i v e b
           agencies                4
                                            (6)
   (line-ministries, NGOs,
        private sector)


               <---
The People [l] [2] ---> Governing Agencies [3]
Governing Agencies [3] <--- [4] ---> Service Delivery Agencies [5]
Service Delivery Agencies [5] <--- [6] ---> The People [l]

Based on this analytical framework, the M&E system should help & food security interventions become
more effective over time. An underlying assumption i s that this greater effectiveness will result from the
heightened sensitivity and responsiveness o f the whole institution to end-user realities (i.e. downward
accountability). This requires improving the flow o f information from end-users, as well as developing the
capacities o f the different stake-holders to act on information received. To do this, the M& E system w i l l
have, among other things, the following functions:

a) directly building the capacities of community groups (1) to analyze the effects o f different interventions
on their lives, assess the strengths and weaknesses o f those interventions (6), and establish the means (2)
for such information to reach the relevant decision makers in the governing structures, as rapidly as
possible;
b) directly building the capacities of governing agencies (3) to compile lessons learnt and use them to
make appropriate changes to the policies and strategies that guide food security interventions (4), as
rapidly as possible;



                                                    - 55 -
c) identifying the constraints on the abilities o f service delivery agencies (5) to improve methodologies and
operational effectiveness in order to better meet end-users’ requirements and sustain their work within the
levels o f financial and technical support realistically available.

Developing systems and capacities alone will not be sufficient to ensure greater institutional
responsiveness and effectiveness. There will also be a need to promote a “learning culture” among the
organizations involved, both government and non-government. This w i l l require encouragement o f both
greater internal transparency and external sharing o f information and lessons learnt (i.e. among GOs,
NGOs and donors).

The M&E system will also need to monitor trends in food security. This would be based on an agreed set
o f indicators (economic and nutritional) that would serve as benchmarks against which change could be
measured from time to time. Where possible, full use o f existing base-lines, monitoring and surveillance
systems will be made, with support for coordinating and integrating them better, and also to fill any gaps
or short falls in on-going information collection. Only where information i s not available w i l l collection o f
primary baseline information be considered.

The M&E system will include regular ongoing monitoring, as well as a series o f external reviews, at
specified intervals. The proposed scope, content and timing o f external reviews are outlined in the
following table:

Schedule of external reviews

Purpose of review            Focus
Process monitoring         What capacity has been built for implementation? Has training been sufficient and effective?
WI                          Has communication of the project been effective?
                            How many block grants to Woredas have been given, and community projects being approved?
                           What constraints are in the system? And how can these be overcome?
Process monitoring         As for PY1. The expectation would be of a number of community projects being funded.
PY21                       How wide a range of projects are being undertaken?
                           What constraints are in the system? And how can these be overcome?
Mid-term review            Analysis of the range of community projects,assessingoff-farm activity and private sector
Outputs and outcomes       initiatives.
~ ~ 3 1                    Are projects achieving their stated aims?
                           How well is the system for M&E functioning?
                           Are communities benefiting from their own projects?
                           What constraints are in the system? And how can these be overcome?
                           Are adaptations to the project required? If so how can these best be achieved?
Annual                     To what extent is the project expected to achieve its financial and operational objectives?
                           What changes are needed to maximize outputs and impacts? How can these best be
                           achieved?
Completion Review          How have communities benefited from implementationof their own projects?
Evaluation of Outcomes and What changes can be shown in food security at the various levels of government?
Impact                     What lessons can be derived in respect of the food security program?
~ ~ 5 1                    Is the funding mechanism appropriate to tackle food security?
                           What lessons can be learned for future interventions?
                           What can be learned of the enabling environment and of policy responsiveness?
 Ex-Post Impact Evaluation  Has the funding mechanism continued beyond the presence of the project?
 1~~71                      What lessons can be learned from the above?
                            What can be learned of the enabling environment and of policy responsiveness?



                                                       - 56 -
Community Funds - Monitoring

Because o f the community-led nature o f the FSP community funds, something more w i l l be needed than
the customary , already ongoing government procedures that record the level o f actual achievement
against plans, and actual expenditure against budgets, on a quarterly basis. The community funds cannot
be predefined in annual plans. But it i s nevertheless important to have timely identification o f operational
problems and bottle-necks. This will allow appropriate solutions to be developed on a regular basis, along
with improvements in local decision making.

I t i s proposed to use a simple format to track progress o f animation; community submission o f
proposals; approval o f proposals; funding o f proposals; implementation o f projects and final facilitation
of end-user evaluation o f all community proposals being funded by FSP. The tVpes o f proposals being
submitted, the number o f households participating and the location w i l l also be tracked.

In addition, some budget and expenditure information will be collected, not as part o f the financial
accounting but as part o f the implementation monitoring (since disbursement o f grants i s one o f the
activities being tested by FSP). This will develop a better understanding o f problems associated with fund
flows that affect the overall performance o f the community grant mechanisms.

The data will be recorded quarterly, annually and cumulatively using simple prepared formats at Woreda,
Regional level and Federal level (and where relevant, at Zone as well). The same basic formats can be
used at all stages, allowing data to be aggregated up simply from kebele to national level.

It i s essential that the information collected i s used in practice as a management tool, especially at Woreda
level, for improving on-going FSP implementation on a continuous basis. To this end, an “Analysis o f
Progress Monitoring” format will be used to prompt and guide decision making by the Food Security
Committees (at all levels) on a quarterly basis. This w i l l allow the information to be easily extracted from
the “Progress Monitoring” formats to help the FSCs answer key questions and decide on appropriate and
prompt action.

Community Funds - End-User Evaluations

A separate participatory evaluation will be undertaken by the end-users (Le. the direct participants) o f
each and every project supported by the FSP community fund mechanism. These “end-user” evaluations
will try to determine impact on the lives o f participants o f each intervention in terms o f quantifiable
changes at household level. They will be facilitated by multi-sectoral teams drawn from Woreda and/or
Zonal experts and collaborating N G O staff. Among other things, the evaluations will check both positive
and negative impacts on people’s lives o f the project interventions, and which kinds o f interventions were
more successful than others. A representative sample o f mini-projects w i l l be revisited 2 to 3 years after
the first standard end-user evaluations to assess sustainability o f outcomes and impacts.

Child Growth Promotion

Progress and impact monitoring o f Child Growth Promotion will include regular reports from Kebeles and
Woredas, which examine, among other things, whether the interventions are reaching sufficient numbers
o f kebeles; whether there are enough animators, whether children are participating and gaining weight, the
quality o f supervision, and the numbers and quality o f review meetings at various levels. Information from


                                                    - 57 -
nutritional surveys will also form an integral part o f the M&E o f the child-growth component. The
surveys w i l l be designed during the first year o f implementation.

Capacity Building

Progress and impact monitoring o f Capacity Building will include a number o f reports from the Woreda
level, answering questions about the balance o f expenditures among various levels o f local government,
and what lessons can be learned to improve project implementation.

A key goal o f the project i s to promote and support the institutional development required not only to
allow effective implementation (and regular refinement) o f the FSP, but also to feed into the ongoing
Regional Food Security Strategy and PRSP process. This institutional development focuses primarily on
improving institutional responsiveness (of policy and strategy development, o f intervention identification
and design, o f methodologies and implementation procedures) and on strengthening downward
accountability.

The FSP will contribute directly to this by mainstreaming within Government Departments:

*
       funding mechanisms through Woredas directly to community groups and kebeles with viable plans
to implement their own projects
.      community-based impact monitoring as a part o f routine, annual Government monitoring systems
*      initiatives to change organizational culture and attitudes related to transparency and lesson-learning
       capacity building support to allow decentralization o f decision making on budget use down to
Woreda and kebele levels

An appropriate regular “Institutional Audit” i s needed to monitor changes in institutional responsiveness,
effectiveness and downward accountability in responding to food security needs (i.e. the strengthened
sensitivity and responsiveness o f public institutions to needs and desires o f end-users in the communities).
This w i l l be designed in the first year o f the project.

Monitoring food marketing initiatives

Detailed design and implementation o f food marketing interventions will take place during the course o f
the project, at which time the appropriate M&E system should be refined.

The following are proposed as indicators for progress and impact monitoring o f Food Marketing:

*      Reduction in the volatility o f food prices
*      Reduction in spatial price differences between food surplus and food deficit areas.
       E x post evaluation: Fall in real food prices

The M&E activities needed to measure these include baseline and ex post price surveys, analysis o f
market concentration by survey o f key actors in the market, and an assessment o f the impact o f reforms in
local procurement o f food aid and movement towards monetization o f food aid.

Monitoring contributions of the FSP to food security

Existing food security monitoring systems in Ethiopia provide early waming data for guiding emergency
responses to acute needs. There i s no reliable system for tracking changes over time in chronic food


                                                    - 58 -
insecurity at the level o f Woreda or kebele. I t i s not possible to see with any reasonable degree o f
confidence whether the food security status or vulnerability o f a Woreda population i s improving, staying
the same or deteriorating over time.

The “End-user Evaluations” proposed above w i l l measure changes in the lives o f direct FSP participants,
but they will not say anything about the condition o f the wider community. The proposed C B I M system
(described in the next section) will measure the relative performance o f different interventions (as
perceived by target communities) but it w i l l not say anything about overall changes in the status o f
vulnerable populations. Without an additional system operating at a different level, it will therefore be
impossible to determine whether the World Bank Credit has made any contribution to reversing the forces
driving food insecurity.

I t i s therefore proposed to explore setting up a Food Security Tracking Facility to help decision makers
assess how well policies, strategies, and interventions are working to improve food security in different
parts o f the country. Such a system would provide information at appropriate intervals (e.g. every 1 or 2
years) over a prolonged (10 year) period. The facility would use indicators from among the many
existing data collection programs operating in Ethiopia.

Community based impact monitoring (CBIM)

One further impact monitoring tool i s proposed. Called “Community Based Impact Monitoring” (CBIM),
it would comprise an annual comparative assessment o f all interventions (whether from GOs and NGOs;
basic services or projects) by different social groups facing chronic food insecurity. This will help
decision makers to better understand how communities compare the relevance and effectiveness o f &     l
                                                                                                      the
different interventions to which they are exposed on a yearly basis.

This would be a completely different exercise to the End User Evaluations (described above), which
examine only the direct impact o f FSP projects on the lives o f the direct participants. C B I M will allow
the relative impacts o f all interventions (including FSP community grants and child growth promotion) to
be compared with each other, to assess their relative importance to food insecure communities.

The primary aim o f C B I M would be to improve the flow o f relevant and timely information from food
insecure communities direct to decision makers at different levels (both in GOs and donor/NGOs), in
order to continually strengthen policy responsiveness and generate best practice. I t i s not intended to
replace existing systems being used, but to complement them. C B I M would identify the comparative
contributions o f different interventions to people’s lives and generate recommendations for strengthening
on-going programming decisions.

C. Gender Concerns in the FSP

The FSP will establish gender sensitive project planning and implementation procedures and highlight
issues o f importance to women. I t w i l l mobilize women as active project partners and stakeholders. I t
will make women and their multiple roles clearly visible, and identify and address constraints regarding
women’s access to and control over resources. I t will keep in mind differences within the household where
food i s oRen distributed very unevenly between family members, to the disadvantage o f women and
children. I t will be aware that in view o f women’s large work burden in many communities, female
under-nutrition i s likely to be a significant factor reducing their productive potential. I t will acknowledge
that most vulnerability assessment studies identify female-headed households, women in low income
groups, social outcasts and migrant women, pregnant and lactating mothers and displaced and refugee


                                                    - 59 -
women as the most food insecure.

To enhance women’s contribution to food security two approaches need to be pursued:

       women’s productive skills must be developed
       women’s work burdens must be lightened and their labor be made more effective

Both areas are challenging. Still, because women’s productivity i s generally low, even minor
improvements may have considerable impact, whether they concem increased knowledge, more
decision-making clout, better tools or more secure rights to assets.

To include women, women’s control over resources and assets must be a focus, beneficiaries and targets
must be gender specific, plans and interventions must be gender differentiated, budgets must be gender
focused and gender relations must be addressed whenever relevant. To reach women, gender must not only
be emphasized. Definite gender targets must be set and approaches to reach and empower women must be
defined. To turn plans for the Food Security Project into “achievements that include women in view o     f
the difJicult environment for women in rural areas ”, women’s roles in food security at community and
family levels must be given high visibility and the visibility must be followed up with concrete actions and
monitoring indicators designed to monitor progress in including women in every aspect o f the project.

The Food Security Project w i l l take the following steps to reflect women’s interests in project planning and
implementation:

(a) Project planning and implementation procedures w i l l highlight issues o f importance to women.
(b) Women will be mobilized as active partners and stakeholders at all project levels (national, federal,
zonal, woreda and kebele).
(c) The project will identify constraints on women’s access to and control over resources inside and
outside the home early in project implementation.
(d) The project will develop strategies, adopt mechanisms, and make special efforts to reach women
directly.
(e) Project training and IEC materials w i l l address gender relations
(9 Project monitoring and evaluation indicators will be gender sensitive.
(a) Project planninghmplementation procedures will address issues important to women

The project will:

(i)include gender expertise among the project’s leadership cadre, particularly at the regional and Woreda
levels. This means having the Department o f Women’s Affairs represented on the National Food Security
Steering Committee, the Regional Food Security Steering Committee, and, to the extent possible, all the
Woreda Development Councils. I t also means ensuring that there are women in leadership roles in the
Regional Food Security Coordination Offices, and among the Woreda staff providing technical assistance
to kebeles and communities.

(ii) gender neutral terms with care, and qualify them according to whether they are meant to include
   use
women or men or both.

 i iset
( i ) quotas for the community funds; Woreda Councils w i l l be instructed to ensure that 50 percent o f
participants or beneficiaries in community funds shall be women, by including this among the criteria for


                                                    - 60 -
awarding both initial and follow-up community grants,

(iv) use earmarking o community funds - at least 30 percent o f the community funds would flow to
                     f
women’s groups, and be used for support o f women-headed households.

(b) Mobilization of women as active partners and stakeholders at all levels

In the steps that precede applications by communities for funds, actions would be taken to ensure that
women are well represented at all awareness raising and planning meetings and workshops. Specifically,
women would be invited to all the meetings, and the meetings would not proceed unless sufficient numbers
o f women are present to be given a voice.

In the lead up to preparation o f community funding proposals, focus group discussions with both men and
women would be used to mobilize women to active participation. To enable group-organizers to ensure
that women’s views are adequately represented, group discussions would be preceded by gender-sensitive
participatory rural appraisals. The Ethiopian Women’s Association , which i s active in all four o f the
main regions and has 340.000 members, would be requested to name committee members at Woreda level,
if other women do not come forward.

(c) Identification of the constraints women face regarding access to and control over resources

Since gender differences may vary from one community (kebele) to another, Rapid Participatory
Assessments and group focus discussions would always precede the acceptance o f FSP proposals for
funding. Among other things, these assessments would address women’s access to and control over land,
livestock, capital, labor, technology, food resources and know how, as well as the customs and practices
that prevent women from participating in decision-making at household and community levels.

Proposals for funding which do not address issues relevant to women would not be considered for award
o f funds, or altematively would be followed with parallel proposals explicitly benefiting women.

(d) Develop strategies and adopt mechanisms and special efforts to reach women directly

In order to address the excessive workload o f women, to enhance food security and improve child-care,
Kebele proposals for funding would include communal activities (grain mills, wood lots, rain water
collection, tool kits, child-care facilities etc.) that may reduce women’s work burden. The project would
promote simple manuals on labour saving technologies.

Channelling funds to child-care facilities may be particularly important to women-headed households,
which often suffer from permanent labor deficiency. Child-care centers will also provide women with local
employment opportunities and develop child-care skills. In order to move beyond continuing with “gender
neutral” development initiatives which do not benefit women and children, the project would seek out,
research and promote new activities that would be especially pertinent to women’s capabilities and
situations. In particular, the micro-finance and small enterprise development bureaus in the Woredas
would seek to gain knowledge about such promising and profitable enterprises for women, and would
extend the knowledge they gain as technical assistance to communities preparing funding proposals.

(e) Include a gender dimension in all training and IEC material

In developing training materials at all levels o f the project, and throughout the communications program,


                                                   -61 -
technical specialists in all the bureaus, and those designing workshops and training programs would make
a consciousness o f gender roles, tasks and challenges an integral part o f their work. The project would
endeavor to move beyond “gender neutral” approaches or curricula. This would be the case whether the
training addresses IGA, health issues, community development, agricultural practices or other things. The
FSP would also include as part o f its training simple materials in pamphlet form about women’s rights,
drawing on the services o f the Ethiopian Women ’s Lawyers ’ Association, which beside i t s trained lawyers
also has a cadre o f women and men at regional level who provide paralegal services.

( f ) Include gender as an integral part of monitoring and evaluation

The monitoring indicators proposed for the FSP would be to the point, limited in number, easy to use,
adapted to participation by stakeholders in all monitoring activities, reflecting the conditions under which
men and women live and work and how the FSP affects these conditions

Indicators o f gender related progress would be drawn from the following list:

        Women and men’s access to basic infrastructure (water, child-care, housing);
        Women and men’s access to resources (landlaborkapital) and technology (tools and know how);
        Women and men’s control over resources and assets;
        Women and men’s access to education and skills training;
        Women and men’s income opportunities;
        Women and men’s opportunity to organize;
        Constraints preventingwomen and men fi-om benefiting from the project;
        Women and men’s active participating in project planning and implementation.

D. Environmental Analysis and Measures Proposed

 An Environmental Analysis (EA) o f the FSP was completed, and a summary sent to the Board on
 December 14,2001. Among other things, it examined what environmental and legal instruments support
 food security in Ethiopia, especially the Constitution, the Conservation Strategy o f 1989, the
 Environmental Policy adopted April 1997, and the Conventions that Ethiopia i s signatory to - Biological
 Diversity (signed 10 June 1992), Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety to the Convention on Biodiversity
 (signed 24 M a y 2000), the Convention to Combat Desertification (signed 15 October 1994 and ratified
 June 1997), and the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (ratified June 1997).

 The generalflndings o the EA were that:
                      f

         Food Security Project intervention benefits outweigh any identified adverse impacts, provided
environmental protection measures are integrated into planning, design and implementation.
         N o serious negative impacts are anticipated, and those described can be reduced to an acceptable
level through appropriate preventative and mitigation measures.

 The EA proposed a number o f preventative and mitigation measures o f a project process nature, namely:
 giving priority to maintenance and rehabilitation o f existing irrigation schemes; integrating environmental
 and social measures into design and implementation; cooperation among stakeholders; establishing and
 ensuring adequate resources for Monitoring and Evaluation; doing participatory planning; building
 capacity in communities; and strengthening extension to do more in communities.

 The EA proposed a Community Based Development and Management System for Providing


                                                    - 62 -
Environmental Care (PEC). This would include, for irrigation activities, Water User Associations that
interact with regional sector institutions such as the Commission for Sustainable Agricultural and
Environmental Rehabilitation in Amhara Region (SAERAR), and the Oromiya Irrigation Development
Agency (OIDA); as well as with the Bureaus o f Agriculture (BOA) for extension, irrigation operation,
production and marketing. Also proposed were specialized community committees to prevent particular
environmental problems from arising with project activities in roads, agriculture, off-farm activities, soil
and water conservation, and women’s development.

Mitigation

The EA emphasized that the most effective approach to adverse environmental impacts i s to avoid them in
the first place, thus saving the rehabilitation costs needed after adverse effects occur. In order to try to
head o f f adverse effects, and to deal with those that may occur, the EA proposed the prevention and
mitigation measures whose details are set out in the Project Implementation Manual. They address
potential problems with irrigation schemes at the design stage, possible problems arising from water
distribution and administration; possible problems with water leakage during operation; and any problems
arising in the course o f irrigated farming. The guidelines also outline how to avoid or deal with possible
problems with roads at the design stage; water in quarry sites; how to head o f f possible erosion and other
problems with water from road surfaces, and problems with rural crossing structures; how to avoid
problems during road maintenance; and how to minimize problems with traffic safety. The guidelines also
address agriculture, and any problems that might arise from use o f fertilizers, or o f plant protection
chemicals.




                                                    - 63 -
                                                Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
                                               ETHIOPIA: Food Security Project

                                                                                                      Local
~~
                 Project Cost By Component
                  ~~
                                                                                                    US $million
 Funds to CommunitiesKebeles                                                                          76.73                                             76.73
 Capacity Building Grants to Woredas, Regions, and Federal                                            17.69                       5.85                  23.54
 Ministries
 Food Marketing Initiatives                                                                              0.17                     0.35                   0.52
 Communications                                                                                          1.26                     0.05                   1.31
 Administration and Impact Evaluation                                                                    2.19                     0.82                   3.01
 Total Baseline Cost                                                                                    98.04                     7.07                 105.1 1
     Physical Contingencies                                                                              1.37                     0.10                   1.47
     Price Contingencies                                                                                 3.35                     0.23                   3.58
                                                                            1
                                           Total Project Costs                                         102.76                     7.40                 110.16
                                     Total Financing Required                                          102.76                     7.40                 110.16
      I
       Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, i s 110.16 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 77.16% o f
      total project cost net o f taxes.




                                                                           - 64 -
                Annex 4 Income Generating Initiatives and Economic Analysis
                                 ETHIOPIA: Food Security Project

The Grants to Communities/Kebeles which w i l l take up the majority o f project funds are designed to
increase household and community assets and incomes by: better management o f rainfed agriculture (crops
and livestock); investment in small-scale irrigation; better natural resource management through "zero
tillage" techniques on farms, and catchment level activities to conserve soil, reverse soil degradation,
improve water harvesting and use, and improve distribution o f labor; development o f off-farm enterprises;
reduced stunting in children under five years o f age and improving child and adult nutrition through a
community-based child growth promotion program; and investments in training and development.

The semi arid regions o f Ethiopia account for more than two-third o f the total land mass o f the country and
are characterized by low vegetation cover, high evapo-transpiration rates, depleted soil and water
resources, and severe soil erosion. Hence, agriculture i s risky, with farmers operating in an environment o f
many uncertainties. Cereal (sorghum, maize, millet, teff, wheat and barley) based mono-cropping systems
are predominant. Teff features in the mid-altitudes while the higher altitudes are dominated by wheat and
barley (with some teff). Livestock (both for production and draft) are important in the farming systems.
Different kinds o f legumes are also common in these areas depending on altitude and amount o f rainfall.
The average landholding i s less that one hectare in size and soils are often degraded in quality and poor in
fertility. The overwhelmingly most important problem in these areas i s water, both total quantity available,
and i t s distribution pattern. Thirty six zones (out o f 53) are categorized as drought affected.

The following four groups o f interventions are seen as priorities. First, i t i s vital to find ways to increase
substantially the productivity o f farms in drought prone areas if households with land are to achieve food
security based on their own production. However, a major difficulty associated with increasing agricultural
production in dryland areas o f Ethiopia i s the highly degraded resource base, especially soils that are
coarse, sandy, low in fertility, organic matter, and water holding capacity, and susceptible to wind and
water erosion. As a result crops can suffer from moisture stress and drought even during normal rainfall
seasons, and the uncertain weather increases the risk o f using cash inputs, such as fertilizer. Under such
circumstances a second approach i s to diversify into drought-resistant crops o f higher value than traditional
foods. These may be both food and non-food crops. Third, wherever it can be managed economically,
some form o f irrigation will be important to achieve maximum results from improved crop varieties and
fertilizer application, while reducing variability o f crop production. Only small scale irrigation schemes
should be contemplated in a project o f this nature, however, since large scale schemes tend to involve large
investments and social re-organization, requiring close scrutiny o f the economic and social implications.
The govemment agricultural research strategy to improve food production and to protect the natural
resource base in these areas includes early and drought tolerant crop species and varieties, irrigation, water
conservation techniques to supplement rain-fed crop production at critical stages o f crop growth, and
suitable implements for crust breaking (in sorghum growing areas), planting, inter row weeders, and
harvesting equipment. The strategy includes looking for altemative sources o f power like donkeys and
camels (as the population o f these two animals i s substantial in the dryland zone) along with matching
implements. Fourth, while it i s clear that increasing off-farm employment i s a necessary condition for
improving food security in many areas, the opportunities to do so w i l l be linked closely with agricultural
development, and will require improved enabling environments for enterprises which are economically
sustainable. In practice, solutions will be a combination o f on-farm and off-farm income earning
opportunities.

The income generating activities which will feature in community proposals for grants cannot be predicted



                                                     - 65 -
in advance. Communities will select them from among a wide range o f possible alternatives, agricultural,
non-agricultural, and initiatives in natural resource management. Studies have been carried out to
investigate the feasibility o f some o f these options, especially in rainfed agriculture, livestock, and
small-scale irrigation. These studies also investigated the institutional mechanisms for making them
available to communities that will be receiving funds under the project. The studies are part o f the Project
File.




                                                    - 66 -
                                       Annex 5: Financial Summary
                                 ETHIOPIA: Food Security Project
                                              Years Ending



                           I   Year1     1   Year2     1   Year3       1   Year4     1   Year5      1   Year6     1   Year 7
Total Financing
Required
 Project Costs
 Investment Costs                 6.3            8.7            15.3          20.5          20.8           21.7           0.0
 Recurrent Costs                  1.2            1.9             2.6           3.5           3.8            3.9           0.0
Total Project Costs               7.5           10.6            17.9          24.0          24.6           25.6           0.0
Total Financing                   7.5           10.6            17.9          24.0          24.6           25.6           0.0   I
  IBRDllDA                         3.0           6.3            12.4          20.2          21.1          22.0            0.0
  Government                       1.2           0.5             1.3           1.6           1.8           1.8            0.0
       Central                     0.0           0.0             0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0            0.0
       Provincial                  0.0           0.0             0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0            0.0
  Co-financiers                    3.1           3.2             3.1           0.6           0 .o          0.0            0.0
Jser FeeslBeneficiaries            0.2           0.6             1.1           1.6           1.7            1.8           0.0
Other                              0.0           0.0             0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0            0.0
 Total Project Financing           7.5          10.6            17.9          24.0          24.6          25.6            0.0
Other                             0.0           0.0             0.0           0.0            0.0           0.0            0.0
Main assumptions:




                                                       - 67 -
                      Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
                                 ETHIOPIA: Food Security Project

Procurement

General. A Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) was carried out in August 1998. The
findings o f this review are valid for this Project. Public procurement in Ethiopia i s regulated by Financial
Administration Proclamation No. 57/1996 and Council o f Ministers Financial Regulations No. 17/1997.
In general, Ethiopia's laws and regulations do not conflict with IDA Guidelines and the procurement
regulations apply only to activities for which funds come directly from the Ministry o f Finance.

Funds for communities will be at the heart o f the project. Most o f the procurement in the project w i l l be
in the form o f very small transactions carried out by communities and kebeles, and will take place locally at
the Woreda level. Each participating kebele will receive in any one tranche funds amounting to no more
than US$18,000, which it w i l l typically spend over a two year period, before applying for a second fund
tranche, again up to US$18,000 in size.

Flexible Procurement Arrangements: Special attention has been given to providing procurement
arrangements and procedures commensurate with the experimental and learning nature o f the project, as
well as with the central focus on community funds. The need has been recognized for simple mechanisms
to ease purchase o f materials and resources by households and communities in dispersed locations. The
arrangements w i l l be aimed at efficient procurement that underpins quick disbursement and distribution o f
goods and money, mixing procurement on the local market in the drought-affected areas with procurement
and distribution from regional, national and international levels. Where they fit with the needs expressed
by communities, simplified procurement, disbursement, accounting and auditing procedures would be used
for communities (Africa Region 's Guidelinesfor Simpl@ed Procurement and Disbursement, March 1998;
see also Bank Procurement Guidelines, Jan. 1999, Section 3.15 Community Participation in Procurement
). Local shopping, single-source selection, obtaining quotations, and direct contracting would all be
allowed under specified procedures. Random audits would be undertaken to review the use o f funds. A
manual o f Procurement Procedures under the FSP i s being prepared by the Borrower with assistance from
the Bank. Bank procurement guidelines and policies w i l l be followed.

In most rural areas, infrastructure and markets are not well developed. Accessing resources does not
guarantee that communities w i l l be able to access the materials they require. There i s no single solution to
this, and each Woreda may devise i t s own solution. The following are proposals regarding the options that
may be available; in all cases the communities retain control over the financial resources for purchase o f
materials:

        open market: where the market i s strong, or where Woreda are located near to towns, communities
should be able to access resources;
        service co-operatives: on a commercial basis these could stock commodities that the community
requires;
            community groups come together to buy similar commodities from more distant markets;
            communities contract local merchants to provide materials and supplies.

The program elements by disbursement category and procurement methods are summarized in Table A
below. Consultant selection methods and thresholds for procurement methods are summarized in Table B
below.



                                                      - 68 -
Funds for Income Generating Sub-projects (US$76.73 million, including beneficiary contribution).
The project provides funds for beneficiary executed projects at the Kebele level. Financing will depend on
applications received from communities and the types o f activities to be financed and their procurement
details will depend on the needs identified by the communities. In addition, beneficiaries contribute part o f
the cost o f the sub-project in cash or in kind. Therefore, it i s not possible to determine ex-ante the m i x o f
goods, small works, and services to be procured under these activities due to their demand-driven nature
and financing mix.

Procurement o f items for the implementation o f sub-projects would be carried out in accordance with
simplified procurement procedures referred to in Section 3.15 o f the Guidelines and in accordance with the
Project Implementation Manual. The manual w i l l contain a special chapter describing the procedures and
tools in accordance with those found in the Bank’s Guidelinesfor SimpliJed Procurement and
Disbursementfor Community-Based Investments (February 1998). The FSD w i l l be responsible for
ensuring compliance with these guidelines. Ex-post reviews o f random sub-projects will be conducted
periodically by the Bank and through independent technical audits (about 20 percent o f all subprojects over
the life o f the project) carried out by independent consultants.

Goods (US$3.92 million, including contingencies). The credit w i l l finance the procurement o f vehicles,
motorcycles, office equipment (including computers), and field equipment. To the extent practicable, goods
will be lumped into lots estimated to cost US$lOO,OOO or more and will be procured under ICB procedures.
Goods that cannot be easily lumped into lots o f US$lOO,OOO or more for a variety o f reasons (timing,
specificity, etc.), but are expected to cost no less than US$30,000 and are available locally can be procured
using N C B procedures up to an aggregate amount o f US$700,000. Procurement for readily available
off-the-shelf goods and/or standard commodities that cannot be grouped in lots o f sufficient size, and not
exceeding an aggregate amount o f US$300,000 over the life o f the Project, w i l l be procured through
prudent local shopping, on the basis o f a comparison o f quotations from at least three reputable suppliers.
In the rare event that these goods would not be available in the country, international shopping procedures
will be followed. Goods may also be procured from UN agencies (UNIPAC or IAPSO) provided each
contract does not exceed US$lOO,OOO and the aggregate amount does not exceed U S $ l . O million over the
l i f e o f the Project.

Consultant Services, Training and Audits (US$12.72 million, including contingencies). Consulting
services financed by IDA will be for: (i)  studies, preparation o f bidding documents, financial management
support, financial and technical audits; and (ii)technical matters (monitoring and evaluation, environmental
impact, technical assistance to communities, etc.) and training (skills gap analysis, slulls development and
training o f staff and local communities).

Consultant services will normally be procured through the selection o f short-listed f i r m s on the basis o f
Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS), except where noted below. All consultant assignments
estimated to cost the equivalent o f US$lOO,OOO or more will seek an expression o f interest through an
advertisement in at least one national newspaper with wide circulation, in Development Business (UNDB),
and/or in an international newspaper or technical magazine. In addition, all such consulting assignments
will be listed in the annual GPN.

The following other methods will also apply. For audits (financial and technical) and other services o f a
standard nature, the Least Cost Selection (LCS) method w i l l be used up to an aggregate amount o f US$ 2.0
million. The firm with the lowest price will be selected, provided i t s technical proposal will receive at least
the minimum qualifying score.


                                                       - 69 -
Consulting services for preparation o f bidding documents and training (estimated to cost less than
US$50,000 per contract and up to an aggregate amount o f US$2.0 million) w i l l be based on the
consultant's qualifications (QBS), i.e. based on work experience and competence relevant to the
assignment. Services for seminars and small studies, which can be delivered by individuals and do not need
teamwork or back-up support services, w i l l be selected through comparison o f qualifications among
individual consultants expressing interest in the assignment or approached directly.

Single Source Selection (SSS) w i l l be used only under exceptional circumstances for the selection o f
services for simple tasks not expected to cost more than USS5,OOO or for local community support services,
such as technical assistance and training, provided the aggregate amount o f such services do not exceed the
equivalent o f US$250,000 over the life o f the Project.

Services for tasks, such as the organization o f seminars and small studies, that are generally o f low-cost
(generally less than US$20,000) and do not require the use o f support systems shall be procured under
contracts awarded to individual consultants.

Short-lists o f consultants for contracts estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO each may comprise entirely
national consultants provided at least three qualified firms are locally available at competitive costs.
However, if foreign f i r m s have expressed an interest for those contracts, they w i l l not be excluded from
consideration.

The training program i s geared towards the strengthening o f the managerial and technical capacities o f the
Government agencies assisting communities with their implementation. The Project's training program will
be reviewed annually and w i l l be subject to IDA'Sprior review and approval, as w i l l be all participation in
workshops and seminars.

To establish a roster o f consultants for carrying out studies, provide technical assistance to communities,
preparation o f bidding documents and construction supervision, the FSD, whose main h c t i o n in this
regard will be to assist Woreda and Regional agencies with their procurement, w i l l publicize each year
procurement notices in the local press to get expressions o f interest from consultants. Based on the criteria
detailed in the Project Implementation Manual, the FSD will maintain and update the roster o f consultants,
which will be used to establish short-lists or select f i r m s with the required qualifications. The FSD will also
maintain a l i s t o f qualified construction companies and engineers, with agreed upon rates that can be
accessed by Project beneficiaries. Updates to this database will also be made annually, at which time
interested qualified construction companies and consultants in different fields o f expertise can be added and
poorly performing ones removed. Performance will be rated based on feedback from the beneficiaries and
the results o f the technical audits.

All IDA financed contracts for Works and Goods will be procured in accordance with the World Bank
guidelines on procurement o f goods, works and services: "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans
and IDA Credits, January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999,"
hereafter called the Goods and Works Guidelines, for goods and works, and "Guidelines for the Selection
and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997 and revised September 1997,
and January 1999," hereafter called the Consultant Guidelines. A domestic preference will apply to the
procurement o f goods under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures, in accordance with the
provisions o f Annex 2 o f the Guidelines.

National Competitive Bidding (NCB) will be carried out in accordance with Ethiopia's procurement laws


                                                      - 70 -
and regulations provided that: (i) bidder i s given sufficient time to submit bids (at least 30 days); (ii)
                                   any
bid evaluation and bidder qualifications are clearly specified in the bidding documents; ( i ) preference
                                                                                          i ino
margin i s granted to domestic manufacturers; (iv) eligible f i r m s are not precluded from participation; (v)
award w i l l be made to the lowest evaluated bidder in accordance with predetermined and transparent
methods described in the bidding documents; (vi) bid evaluation reports will clearly state the reasons for
rejecting any non-responsive bid; and (vii) prior to issuing the first call for bids, draft standard bidding
documents will be submitted to IDA and found acceptable.

The Bank’s standard bid documents w i l l be used for the procurement o f all goods and works, except for
those used for the execution o f the village and inter-village sub-projects. In the latter case, the Bank’s
standard documents have been simplified and are included in the Project Implementation Manual. For all
consulting assignments, the Bank’s standard Request for Proposals w i l l be used for the recruitment o f
consulting firms. Simplified contracts will be used for short-term time-based or simple assignments not
exceeding six months and carried out by individual consultants or firms.

A General Procurement Notice (GPN) w i l l be published in the UnitedNations Development Business and
in a national newspaper as provided for under the guidelines. The GPN w i l l be updated each year in
December and show all expected I C B tenders for works, goods and international consulting contracts for
the following years. In addition, a Specific Procurement Notice i s required for all I C B and for all
consulting services in excess o f US$ 100,000, prior to the preparation o f the shortlist. Project procurement
staff have been briefed on the revised consultant’s guidelines during the appraisal mission.

Prior Review. All goods and works contracts estimated to cost US$lOO,OOO or more w i l l be subject to
IDA’Sprior review o f bidding documents, including draft contracts and technical specifications prior to
inviting bids and bid evaluation prior to contract award.

Prior Bank review w i l l also be required for contracts for consulting services valued at US$lOO,OOO or more
for f i r m s and US$30,000 or more for individuals. In these cases, the draft Request for Proposals and the
shortlist o f consultants must be cleared with IDA prior to inviting proposals from the short-listed
consultants. In addition, the evaluation o f the technical proposals must be cleared with IDA before the
financial proposals o f the qualifying f m s are opened. For contracts with consulting f i r m s valued at more
than US$50,000 but less than US$lOO,OOO, the results o f the technical evaluation together with the
technical scores will be notified to IDA. With respect to each contract for the employment o f individual
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent o f US$30,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms o f
reference and terms o f employment o f the consultants shall be fumished to the Association for i t s prior
review and approval. The terms o f reference for consulting assignments and training, single source
recruitment, and assignments o f a critical nature as determined by IDA, as well as amendments to contracts
raising them above the above mentioned prior review thresholds, w i l l be subject to IDA prior review
regardless o f contract amount. All the procedures in Appendix 1 o f the Consultant Guidelines w i l l apply.

Post Review. All contracts not subject to the thresholds listed in the preceding paragraph will be subject to
an ex-post review. Once a year, procurement accredited staff will accompany a supervision mission and
conduct a post review o f a sample o f contracts not subject to prior review. The Borrower will maintain all
documents related to procurement below the prior review threshold for such an ex-post review and for a
review by project auditors for up to one year after project completion. The Project will hire engineers to
perform technical audits o f a random sample o f sub-projects. The technical audit will focus on quality o f
execution and adequacy o f procurement procedures followed. The results o f the technical audit will be
included in the annual reports.




                                                       - 71 -
Frequency o procurement supervision. One supervision mission every twelve months will include a
            f
procurement accredited staff to carry out post-reviews o f procurement. This mission w i l l also review the
technical audit reports prepared by independent consultants. Those reports have to be issued within six
months after the close o f the fiscal year.

Modification or waiver o the scope and conditions o contracts. Before agreeing to any material
                         f                              f
extension, or any modification or waiver o f the conditions o f contracts that will increase the aggregate cost
by more than 15 percent o f the original price, the FSD w i l l need to specify the reasons thereof and seek
IDA’s prior no-objection for the proposed modification.

Capacity Assessment and Proposed Procurement Arrangements. In the procurement arena, the main
role o f the project coordination staff in the FSD will be to assist Woredas and Regions to carry out any
procurement done at those levels. The FSD w i l l be strengthened with additional specialized staff dedicated
to the project as a condition o f Effectiveness. I t s procurement staff w i l l have prior experience in executing
IDA financed procurement and w i l l receive additional training as needed. The situation w i l l be closely
monitored during project implementation. An action plan has been developed to ensure that procurement
will be in compliance with L A C I requirements within 18 month from effectiveness. The main procurement
that will take place at the Regional and Woreda level i s directly related to operation and maintenance
(office supplies, gasoline, transportation material maintenance and repair).

Procurement for beneficiary executed sub-projects w i l l be executed using procedures described above and
detailed in the Project Implementation Manual. As capacity to execute these types o f sub-projects will be
weak initially, substantial efforts will be made to train beneficiaries before the start-up o f the investment
program. The procedures take into account the lessons learned from similar projects in other countries.
Beneficiaries need training in the selection o f service providers. I t i s also important to avoid trying to
overload beneficiaries -- the investment program will proceed at a pace consistent with the implementation
capacity o f the beneficiaries.

Monitoring and Filing. The project staff in FSD will set up monitoring and filing procedures to prepare
the Project to be cleared for participation in the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI). In order to
achieve compliance, procurement planning and monitoring (procurement progress, unit costs, etc.) will
become an integral part o f the annual work program and reporting cycle. The annual work programs and
progress reports w i l l include the updated procurement plan, an overview o f all procurement to date and by
procurement method, and an evaluation o f procurement problems encountered during the year under
review.

Manuals. A Project Implementation Manual has been prepared. I t consists o f a main manual with
reference to manuals for specific procedures (e.g., Administrative and Financial Procedures, Local
Investment Fund Procedures, Monitoring and Evaluation). These manuals w i l l be finalized as a condition
                                                        eligibility criteria; ( iprocedures for calling for bids,
o f credit effectiveness. The manuals clearly detail: (i)                      i)
                                                                                  i isupervision procedures;
selection o f contractors, service providers and vendors, and contract award; ( i )
and (iv) financial management and disbursement procedures.

Assurances obtained at negotiations. The following assurances were obtained during negotiations: (a)
the use o f IDA’s standard bid documents and standard evaluation reports; (b) application o f the
procurement procedures as outlined above and detailed in the Project Implementation Manual; (c)
adherence to a target processing schedule as outlined in the table below; (d) annual review o f the
procurement plan and procurement arrangements as part o f the annual reports; (e) the procurement plan
will be updated quarterly and submitted to IDA; and (9 procurement information will be collected as



                                                       - 72 -
follows: (i)prompt recording of contract information by the Borrower; and (ii)annual and semi-annual
progress reports to IDA by the Borrower showing revised cost estimates for individual contracts and the
program as a whole, updated procurement time table, compliance with aggregate limits on specified
methods o f procurement, and review o f procurement issues during the preceding year with proposals on
how to address these.


Procurement Phase                                              Time Delay (weeks)
Preparation o f bidding documents                              4 (6 weeks for large contracts)
Preparation o f bids by bidders                                4 (6-10 for ICB)
Bid evaluation                                                 2 (3 for large contracts)
Eignature o f contracts                                        2
Payment                                                        3




The following will be conditions o f effectiveness: the Government has: (i)
                                                                          adopted the Project
Implementation Manual in form and substance satisfactory to the Association; and (ii) completed the work
program, and associated budget and procurement plan for the first Project Year.

 Procurement methods (Table A)


                             Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
                                            (US$ million equivalent)


                                                                 Procurement Method’
    Expenditure Category                         ICB                NCB         Othe:                   N.B.F.       Total Cost
1. Works                                         0.00                 0.00              0.00             0.00           0.00
                                                (0.00)               (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                                         1.70                 1.62              0.60             0.00           3.92
                                                (1.53)               (1.46)            (0.54)           (0.00)         (3.53)
3. Services                                      0.00                 0.00              12.72            0.00           12.72
                                                (0.00)               (0.00)           (12.08)           (0.00)        (12.08)
4. Funds for Sub-projects                        0.00                 0.00             76.73             0.00          76.73
                                                (0.00)               (0.00)           (64.73)           (0.00)        (64.73)
5. Operating Costs                               0.00                 0.00              16.79            0.00           16.79
                                                (0.00)               (0.00)            (4.66)           (0.00)         (4.66)
      Total                                      1.70                 1.62             106.84            0.00          110.16
                                                (1.53)               (1.46)           (82.01)           (0.00)        (85.00)


 21   Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services o f
      contracted staff o f the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
      operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lendingproject funds to local government
      units.
      Numbers are rounded.




                                                           - 73 -
Prior review thresholds (Table B)

                  Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review '


                                    Contract Value                                             Contracts Subject to
                                      Threshold                     Procurement                   Prior Review
  Expenditure Category              (US$ thousands)                   Method                      (US$ millions)
1. Works

2. Goods                         100 and above                          ICB                       Prior Review 1.7
                             Above 30 and below 100                     NCB                         Post Review
                                   Below 30                              NS                         Post Review
3. Services                                                                                   All TORSor sole source
                                                                                              contracts subject to I D A
                                                                                                    Prior Review
3a. Individuals                        Above 30                 Individual Consultants
                                       Below 30                 Individual Consultants         Prior Review of all: 0.8
                                                                                                     Post Review
3b. Firms
                                    Above 100                           QCBS
                                    Below 100                                                  Prior review o f all: 2.2
                                                                        QBS
                              Audits and Services o f a                  LCS                         Post Review
                                 Standard Nature                                               Prior Review o f all: 0.3
4. Miscellaneous                                                Conform to procedures         None; 20% on a random
(Funds for                                                     detailed in Implementation       sampling basis will be
Sub-Projects)                                                            Manual               subject to ex post reviews
                                                                                                  (US$14.0 million)
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous

                           Total value of contracts subject to prior review:                US$5.0 million

                                Overall Procurement Risk Assessment

                                                      High

Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)

'Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
 Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.




                                                      - 74 -
Disbursement

Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Financial Management Systems


Disbursement Arrangements

 The closing date o f the proposed credit will be December 3 1,2008. The proposed IDA credit would be
 disbursed against the categories shown in Table C.

 Disbursements will be made in accordance with procedures and policies outlined in the Bank's
 Disbursement Handbook.
                                 Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds

        Expenditure Category               1   Amount in US$million    I         Financing Percentage
Goods                                                  3 .OO               100% o f foreign expenditures and 90%
                                                                                    o f local expenditures
Consultant services, audits and training              10.00                100% o f foreign expenditures and 85%
                                                                                    o f local ewenditures
Grants                                                64.73                   100 % o f the amounts disbursed
Incremental Operating Costs                            3.27                                   70%
Unallocated                                           4.00
Total Project Costs                                   85.00
Total                                                 85.00




Since not all the project implementing agencies at all levels have yet been established, it was not possible to
assess their capacities and the traditional disbursement procedures w i l l be used by the project. If the
borrower i s interested in following the second method, it i s possible to switch to a report-method o f
disbursement after a full assessment has been made by the Bank.


Uses of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs)

Disbursements made on the basis o f SOEs will be as follows: (a) for goods, grants and consulting f i r m s on
all contracts less than US$ 100,000; (b) for individual consultants on all contracts less than U S $ 50,000;
and (c) for training and workshops, and operating costs on all contracts regardless o f the amount. The
borrower will retain all the Supporting documentation for SOEs, including completion reports and
certificates. The supporting documents will be made available to IDA during project supervision and will
be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Association. Disbursements for expenditures
above these thresholds will be made against presentation o f full documentation relating to those
expenditures. During the project launch workshop, there will be a session on proper preparation o f
withdrawal applications, including the preparation and submission o f required supporting documents.



                                                     - 75 -
Special Account

To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures under the Credit, the Food Security Department o f
the Ministry o f Rural Development ( FSD) will establish a Special Account (SA) in the National Bank o f
Ethiopia. The authorized allocation for the Special Account will be US$ 6,000,000. Upon effectiveness,
IDA will deposit an initial deposit up to US$2,000,000 into the Special Account. Once the total
disbursements from the Credit account, including commitments, have reached an aggregate amount o f SDR
5,000,000, the initial allocation may be increased up to the authorized allocation. The FSD w i l l submit
replenishment applications at least once a month. The Special Account will be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA.
Counterpart fund

The Government o f Ethiopia w i l l open a local currency account in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA
and will deposit Birr 7,500,000 (US$900,000 equivalent) for the first project year and subsequent deposits
at the beginning o f each project year based on the annual budget o f the project. This represents about 12
percent o f the estimated project costs for the first year.


Country Issues

A Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFFA) has not yet been performed for Ethiopia. The
CFFA process w i l l be conducted during the fiscal year 2002. There have been, however, other assessments
o f the financial management systems o f the country, including audits and controls.

The first assessment made was the Country Profile o f Financial Accountability (CPFA) conducted by the
Bank in June 1998. The conclusion o f the assessment was that (a) financial management i s in general very
weak, systems are little developed and expertise to carry out tasks and management skills are spread very
thinly; and (b) there i s a high degree o f budgetary discipline in the country and there i s no problem o f
unauthorized expenditures and government arrears.

The second assessment was on the control capacities o f the country conducted by consultants sponsored by
the EU. The assessment revealed that the controls over financing are strong, and found no evidence o f
overspending o f the budget. However, the controls that do exist do not always comply with those
prescribed by the relevant proclamations and directives. The report mentioned that most o f the problems
related to the shortage o f trained manpower at all levels, and made 23 recommendations for consideration
by the government.

The third assessment was the Country Portfolio Performance Review (CPPR) conducted by the Bank
during FY2001. The CPPR’s conclusion was that the financial management systems o f most o f the Project
Implementation Units are weak and late submission o f audit reports i s a chronic problem o f the country.

Looking at the above assessments, it i s clearly noted that there are weak financial management systems at
the country level mainly due to lack o f trained manpower, but the control environment i s good and there i s
no evidence o f accountability issues.




                                                    - 76 -
  Strengths and Weaknesses

  The country’s discipline in executing budget and compliance with the existing government regulations i s the
  major strength in implementing this project. The Woreda Finance Offices w i l l be involved in processing
  most o f the project financial transactions in which the Woredas are strictly following-up the budgetary
  discipline and regular government reporting mechanism.


Significant Weaknesses                                      Resolutions
Lack o f trained manpower in the area o f financial          Increase the pay scale and develop a career plan for
management and high turnover o f staff                       civil servants
The project i s implemented by various agencies             Strengthen the monitoring capacity at the federal and
                                                            regional level and regular supervision by the Bank
Auditing the project financial statements may take time to Agree with the selected auditors on the time table to
complete as the PIUs are various and dispersed all over the complete the audit well in advance; and the FPMU
country                                                     should close the accounts immediately after the end o f
                                                            the fiscal year.
Regular financial reports may not be received on time        Design a good system o f monitoring; and transfer funds
 from Kebeles. Woredas and regions                           based on the receiDt o f regular financial reDorts



   Implementing entities

     To coordinate the project at the federal level, the FSD will be strengthened by the addition o f specialized
   staff dedicated to the project. The FSD w i l l have an Project Coordinator, Financial Officer and Assistant,
   and a Monitoring and Evaluation expert. The FSD i s located in the Ministry o f Rural Development in the
   Office o f the Prime Minister. I t s roles would be to release funds against agreed plans, disburse funds to all
   implementing levels, and co-ordinate monitoring and evaluation o f the project as a whole. I t would not be
   an implementing agency. I t s functions would be confined to facilitating and accounting for the flows o f
   funds, and i t w i l l not be responsible for judging the merits o f applications for funds or the uses to which
   they were put.


    In each region the Regional Food Security Coordination Office (RFSCO) will be strengthened by the
   addition o f specialized staff dedicated to the project. The FSCOs vary in staff numbers and capacity
   among the four regions, and will need to be strengthened under the project, especially in the Oromiya and
   Southern Nations Regions.
   The flows o f funds to Kebeles will be overseen by the Woreda Development Committee, which includes
   officers o f relevant bureaus (agriculture, health, labor and social affairs), and women and youth
   associations. The Woreda Finance Office will be responsible for handling the financial transactions o f the
   project at the Woreda and Kebele levels. An additional finance officer may be required for a Woreda.
   The Kebele Development Committee will help to prepare and collate community investment plans, receive
   and manage the disbursement o f grants, and account for their use. The Committee will include the
   Chairman o f the Kebele Council, the Development Agent (DA) Staff from the Bureau o f Agriculture
   responsible for agricultural extension activities, representatives o f women and youth associations, and
   community representatives from the Kebele and its constituent villages.



                                                        - 77 -
Flow of funds

IDA, from the Credit Account, will transfer money to the Special Account maintained by the FSD in the
National Bank o f Ethiopia. The government w i l l transfer the counterpart portion to the local currency
account maintained by the FSD.

The FSD w i l l transfer money to Woreda Development Committees (WDCs), Regional Food Security
Coordination Offices and federal line ministries to cover eligible project expenditures. The transfer w i l l be
on the basis o f annual project budget.

The WDC through the Woreda Finance Offices w i l l transfer money to the Kebele/Community Committees
based on approved proposal for sub-projects.
Staffing

The FSD, FSCOs, and Woreda Finance Offices should be staffed with adequate and trained people, who
are capable o f handling and managing the project financial resources (how many, was even a partial
assessment done?). The staffing o f all agencies with staff, both quantitatively and qualitatitively
satisfactory to IDA, will be effectiveness conditions.


Accounting policies and procedures

The accounting policies and procedures to be designed should be able to produce reliable, relevant and
timely information for informed decision making and monitoring.


Internal Controls

Internal control comprises the entire systems o f control, financial or otherwise, established by management
in order to (a) carry out the project activities in an orderly and efficient manner; (b) ensure adherence to
policies and procedures; and (c) safeguard the assets o f the project and secure as far as possible the
completeness and accuracy o f the financial and other records.

The project i s expected to design and install internal control systems, which will help the management o f
the project in achieving the project objectives in orderly and efficient manner. Since the project will not
have an internal audit section, the control systems to be designed should compensate for the nonexistence
o f the internal audit. Thus, the main focus o f the internal control i s placed on the following:

        -Segregation o f duties
        -Physical control o f assets
        -Authorization and approval
        -Clear channels o f command
        -Arithmetic and accounting accuracy
        -Integrity and performance o f staff at all levels
        -Supervision




                                                      - 78 -
External Audit

The consolidated annual project financial statements o f the project, the movement in the special accounts
(SA) and Statements o f Expenditures (SOEs) w i l l be audited by an external auditor acceptable to IDA.
The annual audited financial statements, along with the management letter, will be submitted to IDA not
later than six months after the end o f the fiscal year.

Since the Federal Auditor General i s responsible for auditing all government funds, it w i l l conduct the audit
or assign other external auditor to the project. The terms o f reference for the external auditors will be
developed immediately after effectiveness.


 To ensure proper accountability o f funds managed by beneficiaries, technical and financial audits w i l l be
 carried out on a sample basis. These audits w i l l focus on the technical execution o f the works (technical
 quality and progress), systems in place to ensure appropriate maintenance, and that basic information i s
 available to track the use o f the funds (receipts, contracts, comparison o f priceshids, etc.). Where funds
 are inappropriately used, the Project w i l l cease supporting activities until all funds have been accounted
 for. In cases where fraud i s suspected, local authorities will be notified.


Reporting and monitoring

The FSD will establish adequate accounting and reporting systems, which will produce accurate and
reliable information regarding project resources and expenditures. The systems should provide reliable
records and reports on all assets and liabilities and financial transactions o f the project, and sufficient
financial information for managing and monitoring activities. The accounting and reporting systems will,
among other things, include the preparation o f a financial management manual, design o f good internal
control systems, and appointment o f qualified personnel at each level o f project implementing agencies.

The manual will, inter alia, include:

        -Flow o f funds
        -Accounting policies to be followed
        -Accounting systems
        -Chart o f accounts
        -Reporting mechanism
        -Budgeting process
        -Auditing arrangements
        -Staffing requirements

The manual should specifically mention how documents at RFSCO, WDC and Kebelekommunity
committee would be maintained and consolidated with the FSD. The flow o f funds and flow o f reporting
should be mentioned in simple, but clear language. The manual should contain the formats to be used by
each implementing agency and the frequency o f reporting.

The FSD will be responsible for preparing consolidated quarterly and annual reports. The RFSCOs,
WDCs and other implementing agencies w i l l keep records o f all financial transactions o f their respective
units. Regular financial reports should be sent to the FSD, including the sources and uses o f funds and
statements o f expenditures. All the documents at the RFSCOs and WDCs (by the Woreda Finance Office)



                                                      - 79 -
    w i l l be kept in their respective units and available to the Bank staff during supervision missions and to the
    external auditors during their annual audits.

    Each Kebele/community committee w i l l maintain a simple accounting book, which shows the amount o f
    money received and the expenditures made. All the supporting documents from the Kebele/community
    should be submitted to the Woreda Finance Office along with regular financial reports. The financial
    -managementmanual w i l l describe all the systems o f recording, filing and recording all project related
    financial transactions.

    The following reports should be produced quarterly and annually:
            -Sources and uses o f funds
            -Uses o f funds by activity
            -Statements o f expenditure by category


     N o later than November 30 o f each year, the FSD w i l l submit to the Project Steering Committee, with a
     copy to IDA, the proposed Annual Work Programs and Financial Report. The report format will detail
     activities, associated unit costs and an implementation timetable. It will also include monitorable progress
     indicators for each proposed activity.
     In addition, the FSD w i l l submit semi-annual progress reports to i t s Board showing budgeted and actual
     expenditures, source o f funds used, statements o f progress achieved on the basis o f the agreed upon
     indicators and the (revised) objectives and financial reports for the forthcoming six months.


    Impact of procurement arrangements

    Community based procurement method will be used widely; this implies that local currency i s used, and
    that SOEs will be the basis for replenishment o f the Special Account on a regular basis.



    Action Plan


                                                                                         Responsible
               Action to be taken                    Expected completion date            body
1              Preparation o f a financial
               management manual describing
               the flow o f funds, accounting,
               reporting and auditing                Before effectiveness                Borrower
               arrangements
2         Appointment o f a financial officer at
          the FSD                                 Before effectiveness                 Borrower
3         Appointment o f finance officers in all
          the regions implementing the project
                                                  Before effectiveness                 Borrower
4              Opening o f bank accounts at the
               national and regional levels          Before effectiveness                Borrower




                                                          - 80 -
Conditions

The establishment o f satisfactory financial management systems, including a financial management
manual, would be one o f the conditions o f effectiveness. The appointment o f a finance officers at the FSP
would also be a condition o f effectiveness.


Financial Covenants

The borrower shall maintain a financial management system and prepare project financial statements in
accordance with International Accounting Standards. The borrower shall submit audited project financial
statements no later than six months after the close o f each fiscal year. The borrower w i l l also submit
additional financial reports as required by the Bank.


Supervision plan

Considering the nature o f the project, the Bank’s supervision mission should be as regular as possible.
Each year, there should be at least two main supervision missions and another two interim supervision
missions by the country office staff and FSD. These should explain the FMS supervision needs based on
the risk analysis. There would be two missions by the FMS in the first year and one a year subsequently.




                                                    -81 -
                               Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
                                  ETHIOPIA: Food Security Project

                                                                                                    I

Time taken to prepare the project (months)                   14                       18
First Bank mission (identification)                          1010111999               09/27/2000
/Appraisal mission departure                    I            06/08/200 1       I      12110l2001    I
I Negotiations                                  I            04/22/2002        I      04/22/2002    I
I Planned Date of Effectiveness                 I            0813 112002       I                    I
Prepared by:
MEDAC, and the Food Security Offices, Regions o f Amhara, Oromiya, SNNP, and Tigray, with
consultants in various specialized areas.

Preparation assistance:
Italian Cooperation Grant (TF024724)

Bank staff who worked on the project included:
                                                                                              ~~~




          Name                                            Snecialitv
W. Graeme Donovan                         Principal Economist, Task Team Leader
 Berhane Manna                            Senior Agricultural Specialist
 Assaye Legesse                           Agricultural Economist
 Surjit Singh                             Lead Operations Officer
IMilla McLachlan                          Nutrition Adviser
 Prasad C. Mohan                          Senior Communications Specialist
IEshetu Yimer                             Financial Management Specialist
 Samuel Haile Selassie                    Procurement Analyst
 Eyerusalem Fasika                        Research Analyst
 Francesco Samo                           Lead Procurement Specialist
 Brighton Musungwa                        Senior Financial Management Specialist
 Solange Alliali                          Senior Counsel
 Jaime Biderman                           Operations Adviser
 Almaz Teklesenbet                        Task Team Assistant
 Christine Cornelius                      Senior Operations Officer ,




                                                    - 82 -
                              Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
                                ETHIOPIA: Food Security Project


A. Project ImplementationPlan


B. Bank Staff Assessments


C. Other
List of Reports in the Project File


1. Child Growth Promotion: Implementation Guidelines - prepared by Menno Mulder-Sibanda, December
2001, 19 pp. plus Annexes.

2. Communications - prepared by Beatrice Spadacini and P.C. Mohan, 23 pp. plus Annexes.

3. Food Marketing Study - prepared by Emerging Market Economics Ltd., September 200 1, 80 pp. plus
Annexes..

4. Environmental and Social Analysis - prepared by Metaferia Consulting Engineers, November 2001, 170
pp. plus Annexes.

5. Livestock - prepared by Makkonen Fantaw, 34 pp.

6. Small-Scale Irrigation - prepared by Chris Annen, 156 pages plus Annexes

7. Practical Actions to Strengthen Women’s Roles in Food Production and Food Availability - prepared
by Else Skjsnsberg , January, 2002, 19 pp plus Annexes.

8. Project Implementation Manual - prepared by Thomas Hockley and NEK International Consultants,
March 2002, pp. plus Annexes.

9. Draft IEC Strategy Guidelines - prepared by Tsehay Belayneh, February 2002,28 pp plus Annexes.

10. Assessment o f Financial Management Systems - prepared by Eshetu Yimer, November 2001,9 pp.


*Including electronic files




                                                 - 83 -
                                            Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                                                    ETHIOPIA: Food Security Project
                                                                      02-Apr-2002
                                                                                                                                       Difference between expected
                                                                                                                                                 and actual
                                                                          Original Amount in US$ Millions                                     disbursements'
 Project10    FY    Purpose                                            IBRD         IDA                 GEF          Cancel.    Undisb.       Orig Frm Rev'd
PO69083      2001 GLOBAL DISTANCE LEARNING                               0.00         4.90                    0.00       0.00       4.86       1.07      0.00
PO67084      2001 EMERGENCY RECOVERY AND REHAB. PROJECT                  0.00      230.00                     0.00       0.00     181.66     106.03      0.00
PO69886      2001 ETHIOPIA MULTISECTORAL HlViAlDS PROJECT                0.00        59.70                    0.00       0.00      46.65       3.73       0.00
PO73196      2001 Demobilization and Reintegration Project               0.00       170.60                    0.00       0.00      69.36      -1.41       0.00
PO50342      2001 WOMEN'S DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVESPROJECT                 0.00         5.00                    0.00       0.00       4.40       0.59       0.00
PO52315      2001 CONSERVATION OF MEDICINALPLANTS                        0.00         2.60                    0.00       0.00       2.41      -0.12       0.00
PO35147      2001 CONSERV.8 SUSTAIN, USE OF MEDIC. PLANTS                0.00         0.00                    1.80       0.00       1.65       0.10       0.00
PO00756      1999 HEALTH SECTOR                                           0.00      100.00                    0.00       0.00      56.63      47.48       0.00
PO00755      1998 ROAD SEC. DEV. PROG.                                    0.00      309.20                    0.00       0.00     165.59     170.58      63.59
PO00736      1998 ET ENERGY II                                            0.00      200.00                    0.00       0.00      88.11      57.24       0.00
PO00733      1998 AG. RESEARC 8 TRAIN                                     0.00       60.00                    0.00       0.00      36.88      24.47       0.00
PO00732      1998 EDUCATIONSECTOR INVESTMENT                              0.00      100.00                    0.00       0.00      33.10      26.17       0.00
PO00764      1996 WATER SUPPLY DEV8REH                                    0.00       35.70                    0.00       0.00       8.52      13.04       0.00
PO00771      1996 Social Rehab (ESRDF I)                                  0.00      120.00                    0.00      11.48      19.37      45.01      10.60
PO00752      1995 NATIONAL SEEDS PROJECT                                  0.00       22.00                    0.00       4.19       3.92      10.11       0.00
PO00753      1995 NAT, FERTILIZER PROJ                                    0.00      120.00                    0.00       0.08      23.77      -12.29      0.00
PO00734      1993 ROAD REHABILITATION                                     0.00       96.00                    0.00       0.00      14.29      20.78      12.91

                                                             Total:      0.00      1635.70                  1.80        15.75      761.14    512.58      87.11




                                                                          - a4 -
                                         ETHIOPIA
                                  STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                 Held and Disbursed Portfolio
                                         Jan - 2002
                                       In Millions U S Dollars

                                                            Committed                                      Disbursed
                                                         IFC                                              IFC
FY Approval   Company                            Loan      Equity      Quasi        Partic        Loan     Equity      Quasi   Partic

                    Total Portfolio:             0.00       0.00           0.00       0.00         0.00         0.00    0.00     0.00


                                                     Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval   Company                               Loan       Equity             Quasi      Partic

                                                                                              ~




              Total Pending Commitment:             0.00            0.00           0.00       0.00




                                                - a5 -
                                                    Annex I O : Country at a Glance
                                             ETHIOPIA: Food Security Project
                                                                              Sub-

                                                                                                                                                                    1
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                         Saharan       Low-
                                                               Ethiopia      Africa    income         Development diamond'
2000
Population, mid-year (mlionsl                                      64.3        659      2,459                                Life expectan
GNi per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                  100        480        420

                                                                                                                                       T
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                                    6.7        313      1,030
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                                      2.6         2.6       1.9
                                                                    2.3         2.6       2.4         GNi
Labor force (%)
                                                                                                      per
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                                                 capita                                           enrollment
Poverty I%of population below national Dovertv line)
Urban Dopulation (% of total po~ulationl                            18          34         32
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                    43          47         59
infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                           107          92         77
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                                                                          Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source I%ofpopulation)                               55        76
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 75+)                                 62           38        38
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)               43           78        96                        -Ethiopia
     Male                                                           55           85       102                                  Low-income group
     Female                                                         31           71        86

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS


GDP (US$ billions1
                                                       1980       1990
                                                                    8.6
                                                                              I999
                                                                                6.5
                                                                                         2000
                                                                                           6.4
                                                                                                  1    Economic ratios'

Gross domestic investment/GDP                                      11.8        16.0       14.3
                                                                                                                                      Trade
Exports of ooods and services/GDP                                   7.8        14.1       15.4
Gross domestic savinas/GDP                                          7.2         1.2       -1.0
Gross national savinas/GDP                                          9.0         8.0        8.9                                          T
Current account balance/GDP                                        -2.8        -8.1       -5.4        Domestic
interest DavmentslGDP                                               0.6         1.3        1.3                                                         investment
                                                                                                      savings
Total debt/GDP                                                    100.4        85.7       85.9
Total debt service/exDorts                              7.6        34.9        61.9       54.0
Present value of debVGDP                                                                  37.5
                                                                                                                                        1
Present value of debt/exDorts                                                            239.3
                                                                                                                               Indebtedness
                                      1980-90       1990-00        1999        2000    2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                           1.1       4.7          6.5        5.3        6.8
GDP Der caDita                               -1.9       2.4          4.0        2.8        4.5
Exports of goods and services                 2.4       9.5         -2.6       23.6        6.5


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                       1980
(% of GDP)                                                                                             2o
Aqricuiture                                                        49.3        52.3       52.3
                                                                   12.7        11.1       11.1         '0
industry
  Manufacturina                                                     7.8         7.0        7.0              o
Services                                                           38.0        38.5       36.5        .,o              95        96        97

Private consumption
General government consumption
imports of goods and services
                                                                   74.3
                                                                   18.5
                                                                   12.4
                                                                               80.1
                                                                               18.7
                                                                               29.0
                                                                                          16.7
                                                                                          24.4
                                                                                          30.7
                                                                                                      -20       1
                                                                                                                            -GDI                *GDP
                                                                                                                                                                    I
(average annual growth)
                                                     1980-90    1990-00                  2ooo     1 Growth of exports and Imports (%)                               1
                                                                                                      40
Aoriculture                                              0.2         2.1         3.8       1.9
lndustrv                                                 0.4         6.1        12.9       3.0
                                                                                                      2o
  Manufacturina                                         -0.9         6.5        17.7       4.2
Services                                                 3.1         7.1         7.8       9.5
Private consumption                                      0.2         2.9         3.1      -2.0
General aovernment consumotion                           4.5         9.2        37.3      33.2        -2Q1
Gross domestic investment                                2.1         9.4        13.4      -6.2                         ----Exports              -imporis
imports of aoods and services                            1.5         6.4        18.4       6.3

Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
' The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (In bold) Compared with its income-proup averaae, if data are missina. the diamond will
  be incomulete.




                                                                           - 86 -
                                                                                                                                   Ethiopia

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                         1980    1990       1999     2000    1 Inflation (“h)                                                      1
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                           4.5      5.2        3.9     4.2
Implicit GDP deflator                              3.5        1.5     1.4
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                   17.7       17.8     18.3
Current budget balance                             -3.9      -3.0     -8.2   1              -GDP           deflator    -CPI                        I
Overall surolus/deficit                          -12.0      -12.1    -14.8

TRADE

(US$ millions)
                                         1980    1990        1999    2000    1 Export and import levels (US8 mill.)                                c
Total exports (fob)                      459      366        484      486    /2.000
  Coffee                                          196        281      262
  Leather and leather products                     64         32       35        1,500

  Manufactures
                                                                                 1,000
Total imports (cif)                      692      881       1,558    1,611
  Food                                             73         100      116        500
  Fuel and energy                                 109         111     213



                                                                                                                                                   I
  Capital goods                                   340         643     755           0
                                                                                         94     95       96       97    98             99
Export price index (1995=100)                       77         78      64
Import price index (1995=100)                       91         92      97                            54 Exports         m Imports             O0
Terms of trade (1995=100)                           85         84      66

BALANCE of PAYMENTS

                                                                                                                                                   I
                                         1980    1990        1999    2000
                                                                                  Currant account balance to GDP ( O h )
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services             569      672        915      984
Imports of goods and services             782    1,069      1,878    1,962
Resource balance                         -213     -397       -963     -978
Net income                                  7     -67         -52     -60
Net current transfers                      80     220         494     691
Current account balance                  -126    -244        -521    -346
Financing items (net)                      86      196        500
Changes in net reserves                    40       48         21
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)    262       55        434     348
Conversion rate (DEC, loca//US$J           2.1     2.1         7.5    8.1

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                         1980    1990        1999    2000
(US$ millions)                                                                    Composition of 2000 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      824    8,630      5,544    5,481
  IBRD                                     56       27          0        0                           F 1 1 7 G:77
  IDA                                     249      824      1,739    1,779
Total debt service                         45     236         585     540
  IBRD                                     10       9           0       0
  IDA                                       2      10          31      34
Compositionof net resource flows
  Official grants                         124     604
  Official creditors                       67     279        -274     -277
  Private creditors                        26     -57          -7      -10
  Foreign direct investment                 0      12
  Portfolio equity                          0       0                                                             D: 1,324
World Bank program
 Commitments                                0       79        160       0           -
                                                                                  A IBRD                                      E Bilateral
                                                                                    -         D - Other multilateral          F - Private
                                                                                                                               ~




 Disbursements                             28       74        148     137         B IDA
 Principal repayments                       4       11         19      21         C - IMF                                          -
                                                                                                                              G Short-term
 Net flows                                 24       63        129     116
 Interest payments                          8        8         12      13
 Net transfers                             16       55        117     103

Development Economics                                                                                                                       9/18/01

                                                          - 87 -
- 88 -
MAP SECTION
