Report No. PID6155
Project Name                     Argentina-Coastal Contamination Prevention (@)
and Marine Management
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Environment
Project ID                       ARGE49012
GEF Grant Recipient              Republic of Argentina (GOA)
Implementing Agency              Secretariat for Sustainable Development and
Environmental Policy (SDSyPA)
San Martin 459
(1004) Capital Federal, Argentina
contact: Dr. Mariano Joger
Environment Category             C
Date this PID was prepared       April 11, 2001
Project Appraisal Date           March, 2001
Project Board Date               June, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background.    Within the South Atlantic Large Marine
Ecosystem (LME) lies the Patagonia Shelf LME, a biologically productive area
supporting a wide variety of marine life. Recent priority setting analysis
has specified distinct ecoregions within this LME according to patterns of
ocean circulation, coastal morphology, and distribution of major faunal
populations. The North-Patagonian Gulf Ecoregion and the Patagonian Shelf
Ecoregion stretch along the coastal waters of the four Argentinean provinces
of Chubut, Rio Negro, Santa Cruz, and Tierra del Fuego. These ecoregions, for
simplicity referred to here as the Patagonia marine ecosystem, cover
approximately 600,000 kms2 of ocean and host a large number of marine species
ranging from the endemic Magellan's penguin, the Southern Elephant Seal to the
Southern Right Whale.
The highly productive and diverse Patagonia marine ecosystem is an
important region for Argentina's economy. Commercial fishing, oil
exploration, tourism, and a past national policy promoting industrial
development (mining and manufacturing) have shaped the process of human
settlement along the coast. The impact of these human activities on the
overall health of the marine ecosystem is not fully known, as monitoring and
research is insufficient to draw firm conclusions; however, continued growth
and risks involved in oil exploration and transportation may threaten
ecological sustainability. In particular, overfishing, pollution from oil
storage and shipping, and land-based pollution are the main issues affecting,
not only marine ecosystems, but also local and national interests.
- Overfishing. As in many other countries, Argentina's rich marine resources
are being exploited at a rate that significantly exceeds the biological
capacity of the resource to reproduce itself. Captures of hake, the most
important commercial species, were estimated at over 800,000 metric tons in
1997, compared to the recommended total allowable catch of 395,000 metric
tons. The impact of overfishing has become widely evident as fishing
effort per unit catch has increased and the average size of fish caught has



dropped dramatically. Government efforts to control fishing have been
largely ineffective due to political concerns regarding short-term
employment loss, legal challenges and the lack of training, financing and
accountability of the national fisheries management agency.
- Oil Spills and Ship-based Pollution. Oil spills from tankers and cargo
ships pose the largest threat due to the potential severity of the coastal
impacts. The first GEF Coastal Management Project for Patagonia estimated
the number of penguins killed by oil pollution at 40,000 per year.
- Land-Based Pollution. Human population along the Patagonia coast is
relatively low, although tourism doubles the number of people during the
high season (December to February). The urban infrastructure in most
Patagonian coastal cities and towns lacks, for the most part, facilities
for sewage treatment and solid waste disposal.     In some cases, waste from
industries located along the coast, particularly from the petroleum,
aluminum, and fish processing plants cause localized impacts.
- Insufficient Knowledge for Management Decisions.    A number of research
institutions have had a central role in developing the marine resources
knowledge base; however, three problems reduce their contribution to
management decisions: (a) the information is not sufficient nor properly
integrated;
(b) the institutions tend to minimize knowledge sharing because of
competition for research funding and prestige; and (c) these institutions
have limited dialogue with policy makers and have few applied marine
research programs.
2. Project Objectives. The objective of the proposed GEF Project is to
strengthen Argentina's efforts to reduce pollution of the Patagonia marine
environment and improve sustainable management of marine biodiversity by:
(a) improving oil spill prevention and response capacity and preventing ship-
based pollution;
(b) improving the knowledge base about the Patagonia marine environment and
its biodiversity; and
(c) building capacity and promoting regional knowledge sharing for sustainable
management of marine resources.
3. Project Components.
The main project components and the specific activities under each component
include:
A. Maritime Pollution Prevention. This component aims to mitigate some of
the threats and impacts affecting the Patagonian marine environment
originating from ship-based pollution and oil spills. It would improve
preparedness and response to oil spills, strengthening the capacity of
Prefectura Naval Argentina (PNA) to prevent maritime pollution generated by
ships and offshore oil exploration, by: (a) improving organization and
analysis of contingency plans, (b) providing extensive training for effective
oil spills response, (c) supporting oil spill trajectory modeling, and (d)
improving enforcement of MARPOL regulations on waste discharges. It would
also reduce navigational risks through the introduction of a marine electronic
infrastructure program, allowing for a greater understanding of the
hydrographic conditions surrounding navigated zones and the positioning of oil
and cargo ships, by: (a) enhancing the vessel tracking system and (b)
supporting hydrographic mapping of critical zones and improving the electronic
charts system.
-2-



B. Marine Biodiversity Protection. This component aims to improve the
knowledge base on the Patagonia marine ecosystem and complete identification
of ecologically sensitive areas, generating a more systematic and
internationally compatible set of oceanographic and biological data, through:
(a) targeted programs for understanding the dynamics of ocean circulation,
production and environmental degradation of key areas in the Pataognia
ecosystem, (b) transboundary analysis of Patagonian ecosystems and sensitivity
atlas to improve knowledge base on the Patagonia marine ecosystem and complete
identification of ecologically sensitive areas, and (c) inter-calibration of
key marine laboratories. The component would develop marine protection tools
based on impact evaluations, focusing on (a) priority setting of areas for
marine biodiversity and analysis of regulatory and technical aspects for
piloting marine reserves and (b) evaluation of the incidental catch of birds
and mammals and development of an action program based on the severity of
impacts. This component would also promote capacity building and regional
knowledge sharing on marine biodiversity protection; this subcomponent would
be implemented as a Matching Grant Program to support local pilot projects for
innovations in resource use technologies and applied research.
C. Local Capacity Building, Monitoring and Evaluation, and Project
Management. This component will enhance the role of the national
environmental agency as well as strengthen marine resources management
capacity of provincial and municipal governments. The component will also
provide for a Project communication strategy.
4. Project Financing. The overall project cost of the GEF-financed project
is approximately US$18.76 million, of which the GEF would finance US$8.35
million, the Government of Argentina approximately US$4.35 million, and
private participants approximately US$6.06 million.
5.  Project Implementation.       The Sustainable Development and Environmental
Policy Secretariat (SDSyPA), as the national environmental authority, will
have overall responsibility for project implementation. SDSyPA will be
assisted by a Project Executing Unit (PEU) that will manage and oversee the
project's execution. As for the technical oversight of the Project, the PEU
will share responsibilities with the Argentine Coast Guard (PNA) and the Naval
Hydrographic Service (SHN). PNA and SHN would each appoint a Technical
Manager, who will oversee the technical aspects of their respective tasks.
6. Project Sustainability. The GOA has demonstrated its support to the broad
objectives of pollution prevention and protection of the coastal environment
in Patagonia by co-financing the World Bank's Sustainable Fisheries Management
and Pollution Management Projects and the IDB's Port Modernization Loan.
Stakeholders that have participated in preparation workshops (i.e., research
institutions, NGOs, the oil industry, coastal municipalities, and provincial
authorities) have high expectations for the Project and are likely to exert
pressure on the implementing agencies for results. The matching grant program
under Component B is intended to pilot a mechanism for promoting stakeholder
commitment by requiring co-financing from subproject proponents.
7.  Lessons Learned from Previous Projects.    Environmental projects in
Argentina have offered two important lessons: (a) the need for local
ownership and expanded use of local or regional specialists; and (b) project
success largely depends on the implementation capacity of the executing
agency. The Project has incorporated an extensive process of consultation and
the use of national experts and its matching cost program will continue to
-3 -



support local participation during implementation.
8. Poverty Category. Not applicable.
9. Environmental Aspects. The project is classified under Category C, as
it would have a positive environmental impact by protecting the Patagonia
marine ecosystem.
10. Program Objective Category. Environmentally sustainable development
(EN).
Contact Points:
Task Manager:
Laura Tlaiye
Tel. (202) 473-1841
Email: LTlaiye@Worldbank.org
InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Tel.: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending April 20, 2001.
- 4 -



