Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER 028385
Global Environment Facility
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Coastal Contamination Prevention and Marine Management  Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
Dated June 18, 2002
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER 028385
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 18, 2002, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Recipient) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) 
Page  2
acting as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant 
funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of the 
GEF.
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the global 
environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable economic 
development;
(B)
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in place on 
the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank which, inter alia, established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed the Bank as trustee of the 
GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2);
(C)
the second replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved on the basis set 
forth in Resolution No. 98-2 of July 14, 1998, of the Executive Directors of the Bank (Resolution 
No. 98-2);
(D)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested assistance from 
the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding the Project, and said request having been 
approved in accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for the Establishment of the 
Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under Resolution 94-2, and to be funded 
from contributions to the GEF Trust Fund under Resolution No. 98-2, which may include funds 
carried over from the first replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund under Resolution No. 94-2; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend a 
grant (the GEF Trust Fund Grant) to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement (the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the “General Conditions Applicable to 
Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans”, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the 
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (14), (15), (16), (18), and 
Page  3
(21), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and 4.06;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (e), (f), (g), (h), (i), (l), (m), (n), (o), and (p), 
6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.01, 12.02, 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read as 
follows: “the term “Special Drawing Rights” and the symbol “SDR” 
mean special drawing rights as valued by the International Monetary 
Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement”;
(ii)
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other than in 
Sections 2.01 (6) and 5.01 (a) and 6.02 (f)  thereof and the last use of 
such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting as an 
implementing agency of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, the term 
“Bank” shall also include the Bank acting in its own capacity;
(iii)
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Recipient;
(iv)
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means this Agreement;
(v)
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
Page  4
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant;
(vi)
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; and
(vii)
a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (p) in Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions, as follows: “an extraordinary situation shall 
have arisen in which any further disbursement under the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant would exceed the resources available for disbursement from the 
GEF.”
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, 
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have 
the respective meanings therein set forth; and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Administrative Arrangements” means the PNA Administrative Arrangement 
and the SHN Administrative Arrangement (as hereinafter defined);
(b)
“Beneficiary” means an individual, or a public or private entity with legal 
personality, including non-governmental organizations, which meets the eligibility criteria set 
forth in the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined) for executing the Subprojects under Part 
B.3 of the Project;
(c)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3), and (4) set forth in the table 
in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(d)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, services, (including 
those financed through Matching Grants (as hereinafter defined)), and incremental operating 
costs referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(e)
“GEF Trust Fund Account” means the account opened by the Bank on its books 
in the name of the Recipient to which the amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant is credited;
(f)
“Matching Grant” means any matching grant to be provided for Subprojects (as 
hereinafter defined) under Part B.3 of the Project;
(g)
“Matching Grant Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
3.07 (a) of this Agreement;
(h)
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.06 of this 
Agreement;
(i)
“
Patagonia 
Marine Environment” means the marine ecosystem present off the 
Page  5
Recipient’s coast from latitude 41· south to 55· south, running along the coast of the Recipient’s 
Provinces of 
Chubut
,
Rio Negro, Santa Cruz 
and 
Tierra del Fuego
,
extending up to a distance of 
100 miles from said coast into the Atlantic Ocean;
(j)
“Performance Indicators” means the Project performance indicators set forth in 
the letter from the Recipient to the Bank of even date herewith;
(k)
“PNA” means the Recipient’s Coast Guard (
Prefectura Naval de Argentina
), 
created pursuant to Law No. 3445 of October 29, 1896; 
(l)
“PNA Administrative Arrangement” means the arrangement to be entered into 
between the Recipient and PNA pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement, as the same 
may be amended from time to time, subject to the provisions of Section 3.01 (c) of this 
Agreement;
(m)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(n)
“SDSyPA” means the Recipient’s Sustainable Development and Environmental 
Policy Secretariat (
Secretaría de Desarrollo Sustentable y Política Ambiental
);
(o)
“SHN” means the Recipient’s Naval Hydrographic Service (
Servicio de 
Hidrografía Naval
), organized by Law No. 19.922 of November 8, 1972; 
(p)
“SHN Administrative Arrangement” means the arrangement to be entered into 
between the Recipient and SHN pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, as the same 
may be amended from time to time, subject to the provisions of Section 3.01 (c) of this 
Agreement;
(q)
“Subproject” means any of the subprojects approved in accordance with the 
criteria and procedures set forth in the Operational Manual, and referred to in Part B.3 of the 
Project; 
(r)
“UEP” means the Project executing unit (
Unidad Ejecutora del Proyecto
)
referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
(s)
“UNDP” means the United Nations Development Program, an agency of the 
United Nations; and
(t)
“UNDP Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 3.03 of this 
Agreement.
Page  6
ARTICLE II
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to six million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
6,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of: (a) amounts 
disbursed by the Recipient under a Matching Grant Agreement; and (b) the reasonable cost of 
goods, services and incremental operating costs required for carrying out the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out:
(i)
through SDSyPA, Parts B.2, B.3, C.1, C.2 and C.3 of the Project; 
(ii)
through PNA, pursuant to the PNA Administrative Arrangement, Parts 
A.1 and A.2 (a) of the Project; and
(iii)
through SHN, pursuant to the SHN Administrative Arrangement, Parts 
A.2 (b) and B.1 of the Project;
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate managerial, 
administrative and financial practices and with due regard to ecological and environmental 
factors, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall enter into an arrangement, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, with:
(i)
PNA (the PNA Administrative Arrangement) setting forth 
Page  7
responsibilities for the implementation of Parts A.1 and A.2 (a) of the 
Project; and
(ii)
SHN, (the SHN Administrative Arrangement) setting forth 
responsibilities for the implementation of Parts A.2 (b) and B.1 of the 
Project.
(c)
The Recipient shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations under the 
Administrative Arrangements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the 
Bank, and to accomplish the purposes of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, and, except as the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce 
the Administrative Arrangements, or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and 
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03.  (a) The Recipient shall enter into an agreement with UNDP, under terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank (the UNDP Agreement), whereby: (i) the Recipient will 
authorize UNDP to undertake, on behalf of the Recipient, the procurement of goods and services 
under the Project in accordance with the procedures set forth or referred to in this GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Agreement, and the bidding documents and requests for proposals prepared by the 
Recipient; (ii) UNDP will undertake to keep separate records and accounts in respect of such 
goods and services, and to assist the Recipient in all other aspects of the carrying out of the 
Project and in complying with the Recipient's obligations under this GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement; and (iii) the Recipient will undertake to transfer to UNDP the proceeds of the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant and the counterpart funds as required for UNDP to effect the payments for 
goods and services under the Project.
(b)
The Recipient shall exercise its rights, and comply with its obligations under the 
UNDP Agreement in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Project, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce such agreement or any 
provision thereof.
Section 3.04. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall maintain, at all times until completion of the Project, a unit (the 
UEP), within SDSyPA, with functions and staffing satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)
The Recipient shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the discharge of the functions and responsibilities of the UEP. 
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
Page  8
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Recipient 
on said plan.
Section 3.06. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, 
and except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with an operational manual satisfactory to the Bank (the Operational 
Manual), setting the rules and procedures for implementation of the Project. Said manual may be 
amended from time to time, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, to facilitate continued Project 
implementation. 
(b)
In case of any conflict between the terms of said manual and those of this 
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.
Section 3.07. For the purposes of carrying out Part B.3 of the Project, the  Recipient 
shall:
(a)
after the approval by the Recipient of any Subproject, transfer, on a grant basis, a 
portion of the GEF Trus
t
Fund Grant
 
proceeds to the corresponding Beneficiary pursuant to an 
agreement (the Matching Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Recipient and said 
Beneficiary, in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the Operational Manual; 
and
(b)
exercise its rights and comply with its obligation under any Matching Grant 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Grant, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any Matching Grant 
Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.08. Throughout the course of Project implementation, and without limitation 
upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the Recipient shall:
(a)
maintain procedures adequate to enable monitoring and evaluation on an 
ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, of the carrying out of the Project 
and of the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
furnish to the Bank, no later than each June during Project implementation: (i) 
annual progress reports on Project implementation, in a format satisfactory to the Bank, which 
reports shall be based on the Performance Indicators; and (ii) as part of each such report, an 
annual work plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for project implementation during the immediately 
Page  9
subsequent calendar year; and
(c)
review with the Bank, no later than during the first two weeks of each month of 
July during Project implementation, the annual reports, referred to in paragraph (b) above, for the 
immediately preceding twelve months and, as a consequence of each such annual review: (i) 
cause each annual work plan included in said reports to be carried out in accordance with such 
plan’s terms; and (ii) in general take all measures required to ensure the efficient continuation of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Conditions
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect 
of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the 
Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure or Project Management 
Reports, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
Page  10
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports or the statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for the 
strengthening of its financial management system for the Project in order to enable the Borrower 
not later than six months after the Effective Date, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to 
prepare quarterly Project management reports, acceptable to the Bank each of which:
(i)
(A)
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report; and
(B)
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant during the period covered by said report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant during the six-month period following the period covered 
by said report;
(ii)
(A)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and
(B)
explains variances between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Grant, as at the end 
of the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Recipient shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, a Project Management 
Report for that period.
Page  11
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that UNDP shall have failed to perform any of its 
obligations under the UNDP Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the effectiveness of the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
the Administrative Arrangements have been signed on behalf of the parties 
thereto; 
(b)
the UNDP Agreement has become effective;
(c)
the Operational Manual has been issued and adopted by the Recipient; and
(d)
the UEP has been established and is functional; 
Section 6.02. The date September 16, 2002 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their obligations 
hereunder.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 7.01. The 
Director Nacional de Proyectos con Organismos Internacionales de 
Crédito
 of  the Ministry of Economy is designated as representative of the Recipient for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
Page  12
the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministerio de Economía
Dirección Nacional de Proyectos con 
Organismos Internacionales de Crédito
Hipólito Irigoyen 250, 8vo piso, oficina 828
1310 Buenos Aires,
Argentina
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
MINISTERIO DE ECONOMIA
121950AR      (5411) 43496216
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex: 
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Buenos 
Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Gerardo Marcelo Hita
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility
By /s/ Myrna Alexander
Acting Regional Vice President
Page  13
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust Fund Grant to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
GEF Trust Fund Grant Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent 
)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
1,580,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 
85% of local 
expenditures for
other items 
procured locally.
(2)
Consultants’ Services
2,170,000
100%
and Workshops
(3)
Matching Grants
1,940,000
100% of amounts
disbursed by the
Recipient for goods
and services 
financed by 
Matching Grants.
(4)
Incremental Operating Costs
810,000
100%
________
TOTAL
6,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Recipient; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Page  14
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; and
(c)
the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means reasonable expenditures incurred 
by the Recipient for travel and 
per diem
 costs, training course fees and other costs related to the 
execution of the Project (which expenditures would not have been incurred absent the Project). 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 650,000 SDRs, may be 
made on account of payments made for expenditures within twelve months before that date but in 
no case before February 28, 2001.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods and services that are not 
subject to prior review by the Bank pursuant to Part D.2 of Section I and Part D.2 of Section II of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Recipient.
5.
Once the action plan referred to in Section 4.02 (a) of this Agreement has been 
completed in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, the Recipient will have the option to request 
withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Account on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
such withdrawals to be made under terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Recipient.
6.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank for 
deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so used or the 
portion thereof as specified by the Bank.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to support the Recipient’s efforts to reduce pollution 
affecting the 
Patagonia
 Marine Environment and to protect its biodiversity through: (i) the 
improvement of oil spill prevention and response capacity; (ii) the improvement of the 
knowledge base about the 
Patagonia
 Marine Environment and its biodiversity; and (iii) the 
promotion of a sustainable management of marine biodiversity.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives.
Page  15
Part A
: Maritime Pollution Prevention
1.
Improvement of the Recipient’s mitigation measures to prevent vessel-based pollution 
and oil spills affecting the 
Patagonia
 Marine Environment, through: (a) the provision of 
technical assistance for the preparation and analysis of contingency plans, including the 
provision of training on the specific techniques of contingency planning; (b) the preparation of a 
geographically referenced database for the prevention of oil spills; (c) the provision of 
specialized training to PNA staff with respect to effective oil spills response; (d) the 
establishment, support and operation of a training facility for public and private sector personnel 
involved in oil spill response situations; (e) the design and implementation of an oil spill 
trajectory model for the Patagonian coast; (f) the identification of PNA’s training needs on waste 
discharges control, including the provision of specialized training for PNA senior staff; (g) the 
design and implementation of a vessel data recording tabulation mechanism for Patagonian ports; 
and (h) the design of waste reception facilities in Patagonian ports.
2.
Improvement of the reduction of risks involved in maritime navigation, through the 
provision of technical assistance for: (a) the evaluation of different alternatives for the adoption 
of a satellite transmitter tracking system, including the installation of the selected alternative; and 
(b) the preparation of a comparative study of commercially available multi-beam scanners for the 
detection of rocky peaks and other bottom features, acquisition of the selected equipment and the 
development of hydrographic data for cartographic purposes.
Part B
: Marine Biodiversity Protection
1.
Improvement of the systematization and compatibility of the Recipient’s oceanographic 
and biological data, through: (a) the development and implementation of a pilot ocean 
monitoring system using oceanographic buoys; (b) the improvement of conventional ocean 
monitoring systems using vessels; (c) the completion of a sensitivity atlas of the 
Patagonia
 
Marine Environment, containing specific information on the marine and coastal resources; and 
(d) the provision of technical assistance for the inter-calibration of key marine laboratories.
2.
Development and implementation of marine protection tools, through the provision of 
technical assistance for: (a) the preparation of a list of prioritized areas for marine protection; (b) 
the analysis of regulatory and technical aspects for the establishment of pilot marine reserves; 
and (c) the evaluation of the impact of incidental catch of birds and mammals to prioritize such 
threats and potential protective actions in response thereto.
3.
Promotion of capacity building and regional knowledge on marine biodiversity 
protection, through the development and implementation of a matching grants program to support 
local pilot Subprojects for innovation in resource use technologies and applied research.
Part C
: Capacity Building, Monitoring and Evaluation, and Project Management.
1.
Strengthening of the technical capacity of the Recipient’s local, provincial and municipal 
governments with respect to natural resources management, through: (a) the provision of 
specialized training in marine pollution prevention, marine resources management, and marine 
Page  16
conservation programs; and (b) the development and implementation of an environmental 
information system for the 
Patagonia
 Marine Environment.
2.
Establishment and implementation of a monitoring and evaluation system for the Project.
3.
Strengthening of Project administration capacity, through the provision of operational 
support to the UEP. 
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2006.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
Part A
: General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B:
(a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
to cost $350,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
Page  17
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Recipient.
Part C
: Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, but more than 
$100,000 equivalent, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines.
2.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for contracts, 
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement 
plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods procured pursuant to Part B.1 hereof and 
the first two contracts for goods procured pursuant to Part C.1 hereof, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts for goods procured pursuant to Part C.2 
hereof,  the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier or contractor under shopping 
procedures, the Recipient shall provide to the Bank a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Recipient shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
Page  18
specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph:  The short list 
of consultants for services to be prepared pursuant to paragraph 1 above and estimated to cost 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for consulting firms for the Project, estimated to cost $350,000 equivalent or 
less, but more than $100,000, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Page  19
2.
Selection Based on Consultant’s Qualifications
Services for consulting firms for the Project estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent but more than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultants 
Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services for consulting firms for the Project estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less 
may, with the Bank’s prior permission, be procured under  contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms regardless 
of the price, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been 
given.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent, the terms of reference and terms of employment 
Page  20
of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract 
shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
