Document of                 fl
The World Bank                   E.
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-21 71 -JM
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED PROGRAM LOAN
TO
JAMAICA
November 21, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit = Jamaican Dollar (J$)
Basic Rate-/                               Special Rate
US$.Ol    = J$.0091                        US$.01    = J$.0128
US$1.00   = J$.910                         US$1.00   = J$1.28
J$.01     = US$.0ll                        J$.01     = US$.0078
J$1.00    = US$1.100                       J$1.00    = US$.78
1/ The Basic Rate is applicable to the import of all essential goods,
all Government transactions and all transactions of the bauxite
industry.
Government of Jamaica Fiscal Year - April 1 to March 31
Abbreviations
CIDA              =  Canadian International Development Agency
EPP               =  Emergency Production Plan
IDB               =  Inter-American Development Bank
ODM               =  Overseas Development Ministry
USAID             =  United States Agency for International
Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
JAMAICA - PROGRAM LOAN
LOAN SUMMARY
Borrower:                  Jamaica.
Amount:                    US$30 million.
Terms:                     Payable in 17 years, including four years of grace
at 7.9% per annum.
Project Description:       To provide the foreign exchange required by private
and public sector entities for the importation into
Jamaica of raw materials, intermediate goods and
capital equipment. The loan is intended to help
Jamaica finance a minimum level of imports required
to maintain a reasonable level of production in
industry and agriculture, and to support the
Government's investment program. The Jamaican
dollar equivalent of imports financed under the
loan would be credited to a special Loan Fund
Account held by the Ministry of Finance and used
to help finance capital expenditures of development
projects which are supported by loans from external
agencies.
Estimated Disbursements:   The entire amount of the loan is expected to be
disbursed by June 30, 1978.
Appraisal Report:          None.
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discloed without World Bank authorization.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
PROGRAM LOAN TO JAMAICA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
program loan to Jamaica for the equivalent of US$30.0 million. The loan
would have a term of 17 years, including four years of grace, with interest
at 7.9% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
2.        An Economic Report entitled "Current Economic Situation and Prospects
of Jamaica" was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 22, 1976.
Updating missions visited Jamaica in August 1976, January 1977, March 1977,
August 1977, .and October 1977. At the end of June 1977, the Government made a
request to the Bank for a program loan. Subsequently, a Bank Mission visited
Jamaica in August to assess the need for such a loan, to review the short-term
economic program and to examine the country's longer-term development program,
policies and prospects. This report incorporates the work of the economic
updating missions and the findings of the August evaluation mission. The
Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex 1 and a Statistical Appendix is
attached as Annex IV.
Background
3.        Many of the long-term structural problems of the Jamaican economy
today have their origin in the pattern of growth of the 1960s. During the
decade following independence in 1962, Jamaica experienced rapid economic
growth, averaging about 6% per annum in real terms. Growth was spurred by
major developments in tourism and in bauxite and alumina production. Tourist
visitors increased from 200,000 in 1962 to 500,000 in 1972, while over the
same period bauxite production expanded from 8 million tons to 13 million tons,
and the output of alumina rose from 650,000 tons to 2 million tons. Large
private capital inflows from abroad underpinned investments in these sectors,
and these same capital inflows enabled Jamaica to finance increasing deficits
on the current account of the balance of payments. The decade of the sixties
was, therefore, a period of high investment and rising incomes. However, the
growth of other sectors was less buoyant. To begin with, investment during
this period bypassed the agricultural sector, the traditional source of
Jamaica's income and employment opportunities. Agricultural production
stagnated and there was increasing migration to urban areas. Moreover,
import-substituting manufacturing, mainly of consumer goods, continued to grow
under high levels of effective protection. This, in combination with liberal
tax incentives and a high industrial wage structure led to the development of



- 2 -
a sector which was excessively capital intensive, provided relatively little
employment and was heavily dependent on the import of intermediate goods. The
failure to foment agricultural and manufacturing production for exports made
bauxite and alumina exports, which already accounted for over one-half of
total exports in 1966, rise to about 70% by 1972. Finally, the pattern of
development of the economy failed to narrow the extreme inequality of Jamaica's
income distribution. Thus, by the early 1970s, Jamaica was suffering from
serious unemployment and social tensions.
4.        The Government which came to power in 1972 was committed to reducing
the inequality in the distribution of income, alleviating unemployment and
reducing the country's external dependence. It embarked upon a development
program emphasizing greatly increased government ownership of and control over
the country's productive resources and promised expanded popular participation
in decision making. Economic diversification, employment and redistribution
of income were set forth as priority goals, with economic growth considered a
subsidiary, albeit important, goal. This strategy created an atmosphere of
uncertainty with immediate result of reduced investment activity by the
private sector.
5.        The implementation of the structural changes sought by the Govern-
ment was further complicated by unforeseen external factors. The completion
of a major investment cycle in tourism and mining in Jamaica resulted in a
sharp drop in foreign capital inflows beginning in 1972. This was followed
by the increase in petroleum and other commodity prices in late. 1973 which
resulted in severe deterioration in the country's terms of trade. Moreover,
the world recession of 1974-75 had serious repercussions on Jamaica's tourism
and mining sector receipts. The Government was able to counteract the effects
of these unfavorable developments by the introduction of a bauxite levy, which
yielded an additional US$150 million in foreign exchange receipts. This,
together with the near doubling of international sugar prices and the unpre-
cedented level of external medium- and long-term borrowing by the public
sector in 1975 rescued Jamaica from a serious balance of payments crisis. While
the bauxite levy and the temporary upsurge in sugar prices did not resolve
the underlying weaknesses in the economy, they did provide a temporary respite.
Thus, despite a loss of foreign exchange reserves of US$82 million in 1975,
the economic situation did not become critical until 1976.
The Economic Crisis of 1976
6.        The balance of payments situation deteriorated sharply in 1976.
Serious labor problems in the mining sector together with soft world demand
for aluminum reduced total bauxite and alumina export receipts by about 14%.
Receipts from sugar exports in 1976 were only 40% of the 1975 level, owing
to much lower international prices for sugar. Moreover, as internal security
became more precarious, Jamaica did not benefit from the recovery of tourism
evident in the rest of the Caribbean during the year. Thus, despite strict
controls which resulted in a 19% drop in merchandise imports, the current
account balance deteriorated further in 1976, with the deficit reaching
US$295 million. (See Annex I for details).



- 3 -
7.        Adverse development on capital account made the balance of payments
situation even more difficult. Foreign commercial bank lending to Jamaica
practically ceased, and capital flight accelerated owing to the prevalence of
political and economic uncertainty. There was a net outflow of direct private
investment funds for the third consecutive year. A large part of the credits
received by the public sector were government-to-government loans from Jamaica's
CARICOM partners (Trinidad and Tobago, Barbados and Guyana), Venezuela and
Canada. The IMF extended a total of US$65 million in credits to Jamaica under
its oil and compensatory facilities. Despite these credits, the country
suffered a net reserve loss in 1976 of US$268 million. By December 21, 1976,
the gross official reserves had fallen to US$41 million, equivalent to two
weeks of imports, and the authorities were forced to close the foreign exchange
markets for a period of two weeks.
8.        The balance of payments difficulties have been accompanied by, and
in part reflect, problems of budgetary management. Growth in current expen-
ditures over the past few years has consistently outstripped that of current
revenues as the Government introduced social welfare schemes to ameliorate
the effects of high unemployment. At the same time, Government investment
expenditure rose rapidly as the Government tried to carry out its ambitious
program.   Thus, Government expenditure in 1976/77 1/ increased by 20% over
1975/76 (see Table 1), the bulk of the increase being transfers to public
entities, as well as new grants and loans to industry, construction and
tourism, in an effort to stimulate the lagging economy. Concomitantly,
current revenues were 5% below the 1975 level, because of shortfalls in
customs duty and consumption tax receipts resulting from the import cutbacks.
As a consequence, the overall deficit of the Central Government increased to
the equivalent of 18.6% of GDP, compared to a figure of under 11% in 1975/76.
Since this coincided with a modest reduction in foreign financing, there was
unprecedented reliance on financing from the banking system equivalent to
11.6% of GDP.
1/   Fiscal year runs from April 1 to March 31.



-4 -
Table 1: CENTRAL GOVERNMENT OPERATIONS
(J$ million)
Provisional
1973/74    1974/75     1975/76     1976/77
Current Revenues                    346.9      513.5      639.4         605.1
Current Expenditures                340.2      493.2      614.1         758.0
Current Account Surplus               6.7       20.3       25.3        -152.9
Capital Revenue                       0.8        4.0        1.3           1.6
Capital Expenditures                102.9      211.4      304.8         359.2
Extrabudgetary Operations            -4.0       +0.5      -14.8         -13.6
Overall Deficit                     -99.4     -186.6     -293.0        -524.1
Financing                            99.4      186.6      293.0         524.1
External Borrowing (net)             53.9       55.2        99.4         83.2
Domestic Banking System              18.1       43.2       114.9        325.9
Other                                27.4       88.2        78.7        115.0
Overall Deficit as x GDP              5.6        8.3        10.8         18.6
Source: Ministry of Finance
9.        As a consequence of the decline in bauxite production, poor tourism
performance and the adverse effect of import restrictions on industrial
imports, real GDP fell by almost 7% in 1976. This followed three successive
years of negative real growth rate. The only major sectors which exhibited
positive growth were agriculture and government services. Unemployment, a
chronic problem in Jamaica, increased to about 24% from about 21% in 1975.
An impression of the deteriorating macroeconomic situation can be gained from
Table 2 below.



-5 -
Table 2: KEY MACROECONOMIC INDICATORS, 1972-76
(Percentages)
1972    1973    1974     1975    1976
Real GDP Growth Rate                       8.5    -2.6    -2.1     -1.0    -6.9
Population Increase                        1.9     1.9      1.7     1.7     1.2 /a
Real Per Capita GDP Increase               6.5    -4.5    -3.7     -2.9    -7.8
Consumption/GDP                           77.5    75.7     77.6    80.6    89.5
Investment/GDP                            27.9    31.6    26.6     26.3    17.1
Gross Domestic Savings/GDP                22.5    24.3     22.4    19.4    10.5
Central Government Savings/GDP /b          1.7     0.4    11.0     10.0    -5.4
Unemployment Rate                         23.2    22.5    21.5     21.0    24.0
Inflation Rate                             5.4    17.6    27.2     17.4     9.8
/a   The lower figure for population increase reflects the higher level of
net emigration in 1976.
/b   Fiscal years.
Source: Department of Statistics; Ministry of Finance
The Government's Response to the Crisis
10.       In January of 1977, after having been re-elected, the Government,
began to take measures to alleviate the country's severe economic problems.
It introduced new revenue measures expected to yield J$80 million annually.
New wage guidelines were instituted under which wage and salary increases in
the private sector and in government-owned enterprises that are run as commer-
cial establishments would be granted (as contracts fall due) only for those
employees whose real wages were below the June 1973 level. This applied to
only a small part of the labor force. Even in these cases, wage increases
would not be permitted to exceed a flat J$10 per week for the 12-month period
that began July 1, 1977. Moreover, the wage freeze for employees of the
Central Government and Statutory Boards, which was due to expire in March
1977, was extended until March 31, 1978. On the external side, there was a
sharp reduction in the ceiling for the issuance of import licenses and tighten-
ing of restrictions on payments for certain invisibles. In addition, a dual
exchange rate system was instituted in April. Under this system, a new
"special" exchange rate of US$1.00=J$1.25 was established for all transactions
except essential imports and transactions of the Government and bauxite
sector, which remained at the old ("basic") exchange rate of US$1.00=J$0.909.
This implied a weighted average devaluation of about 24%. 1/ Concurrently,
the Government unveiled an Emergency Production Plan (see paras. 28 and 29),
1/   On October 21, there was a further depreciation of the "special" rate to
US$1.00=J$1.28, implying a weighted average devaluation of about 26%.



setting out targets and strategies for increasing production. Finally, in
May, a fiscal budget for 1977/78 was adopted which called for a sharp
reduction in the deficit, primarily through restraints in expenditures.
11.       In July 1977, the Government adopted a comprehensive program
covering a period of almost two years. This program was the basis for
reaching agreement with the IMF on a Stand-by arrangement, which was approved
by the Fund's Executive Directors in August. Full adherence to the program
would make Jamaica eligible to draw a total of SDR 64 million (US$74 million)
over this period, or into the fourth credit tranche. The key elements of the
program are:
(a) ceilings have been established on net credit to the public
sector from the banking system;
(b) limits have been established on the net domestic assets
of the Bank of Jamaica to ensure that the monetary and
credit program of the Government is compatible with the
planned improvement in the balance of payments;
(c) limits have been established on the authorization of new
foreign indebtedness of the public sector to ensure that
the terms of foreign borrowing are appropriately related
to the country's debt servicing capability;
(d) quarterly targets have been established for increases in
net international reserves during 1977 and 1978;
(e) provisions for orderly management of payments arrears; and
(f) revisions in the flexible exchange rate system and avoid-
ance of any further intensification of import restrictions.
12.       Under the IMF Stand-by arrangement, Jamaica has already drawn the
first tranche of SDR 19.2 million (US$22 million). The first review of the
progress on the quarterly targets took place in October/November 1977, when
a Bank staff member accompanied the Fund mission to Jamaica. On the basis
of this review, it was concluded that Jamaica had fulfilled all the quarterly
criteria of the program and appeared likely to remain in compliance with the
credit ceilings, which are being monitored by the Fund on a weekly basis, on
the date of the request for the second drawdown of funds. The request for
this drawdown, amounting to SDR 9.6 million (US$10.5 million) may only take
place after December 1, 1977. The second quarterly review of performance is
scheduled for February, 1978 as prelude to the third drawdown. Eligibility
for this drawing may only be established and funds drawn after March 1, 1978.
13.       The Government's economic program reflects its decision to adopt the
measures required to cope with the serious economic situation, in spite of the
political difficulties associated with such a course of action. The program is
most comprehensive including not only monetary, fiscal and balance of payments



- 7 -
aspects, but also incomes policy and incentives for increasing production.
Some of the key measures have already been adopted, and the fiscal budget is
consistent with the program. It is likely that the Government will be able
to achieve its goals and thus establish its eligibility for the second draw-
down under the IMF arrangement. We will closely monitor progress under
the Government's economic program in cooperation with the Fund.
14.       The program targets established for third drawing in March 1978
require the Government to maintain a tight stabilization program. Between
December 1976 and May 1977, the consumer price index increased by 4.7%,
whereas over the two-month period of June and July alone the increase has
been 3.5%. In view of these price increases, the Government has agreed to
union demands for the abolition of J$10 a week maximum guideline, and has
also relaxed somewhat other restraints related to inter-industry wage
comparability and to the functioning of the wage tribunals. These concessions
are manageable since increases in real wages may not exceed the 1973 level.
However, further relaxation of the Government's incomes policy could jeo-
pardize the achievement of the main objectives of the economic program.
On the fiscal side, the wage concessions have been limited to public sector
employees earning under J$4,500 a year. This is intended to be an exception
to the public sector wage freeze which which is expected to continue until
March 31, 1978. Nevertheless, it will add an estimated J$10-12 million to
expenditures in 1977/78 and a further J$40-50 million in 1978/79. This,
together with an external financing shortfall which was unexpected by the
Government and the IMF (see para. 16), will make the full achievement of the
program objectives rather difficult. Nevertheless, the Government has
repeatedly stated its firm commitment to carry out the program and to take
whatever measures necessary to ensure full compliance with this program.
15.       While Fund negotiations were under way, the Government started nego-
tiations with bilateral and multilateral sources as well as with foreign
commercial banks for a package of extraordinary external financing for 1977
and 1978 (see Table 3). The financing plan was based on a detailed analysis
of the size of the external resource gap and was premised on the Government's
ability to restrict the current account deficit to US$120 million in 1977,
to reduce it to US$77 million in 1978 and to nearly eliminate it by 1980.
16.       A loan of US$49 million had been expected from Trinidad and
Tobago. It is not clear, at present, whether this will be obtained.
external financing is, therefore, more likely to be about US$107 million
during 1977 instead of US$156 million anticipated earlier. This will imply
a further reduction in imports by an estimated US$10 million. In addition,
no increase in reserves can now be expected, compared to the earlier pro-
jected increase of US$30 million. Prepayment of the bauxite levy by the
bauxite companies should provide the remaining resources necessary to limit
the new reduction in imports to US$10 million. This reduction of imports
will clearly imply somewhat lower production and higher unemployment, but
the situation should still be manageable.



-8-
Table 3: EXTERNAL RESOURCE GAP AND ITS FINANCING
(US$ million)
As projected in June 1977          As projected now
1977          1978              1977       1978
Current Account Deficit                                 -120.0            -77.0            -110.0       -62.0
Amortization Payments                                    -80.8           -107.0              -80.8     -107.0
a!
Increase in Reserves (-increase)                         -30.0            -30.0                -         30.0
Total Financing Requirements                            -230.8           -214.0            -190.8.     -199.0
Financing                                                230.8            214.0              190.8      199.0
Direct Foreign Investment (net)                           -8.0            -10.0               -8.0      -10.0
Disbursements from Prior Commitments                       70.0            80.0               70.0       70.0
b/
IMF Drawings                                              32.5             45.0               32.5       45.0
Extraordinary Financing                                   156.0            75.0              107.0       75.0
(USA)                                              (30.0)           (30.0)            (30.0)      (30.0)
(Venezuela)                                        (27.0)            (-)              (27.0)       (-)
(Trinidad and Tobago)                              (49.0)            (-)               (-)         (-)
(Commercial Banks)                                 (40.0)           (25.0)            (40.0)      (25.0)
(Proposed IBRD Program Loan)-/                     (10.0)           (20.0)            (10.0)      (20.0)
d/                                                                    e/
Capital Transactions h.e.i.                               -19.7            29.0              -10.7       19.0
a/  This projected increase in reserves was premised on the availability of a US$49 million
loan from Trinidad and Tobago. This financing has not yet materialized. The resulting
gap will be covered partly by a further cut in imports and partly by repayment of
bauxite levy. No change in reserves is now expected in 1977 compared to US$30 million
projected earlier.
b/  Includes US$29 million under the current Stand-by Arrangement and US$16 million under
supplementary financing. The latter is, however, highly tentative at the moment.
c/  The ability ofthe Government to receive US$10 million of disbursements from the
proposed loan during CY77 will depend on when the loan is signed, when it will become
effective and how rapidly requests for reimbursement are submitted to the Bank.
d/  Includes errors and omissions.
eI/ Includes prepayment of bauxite levy of approximately US$10 million.
Source: Ministry of Finance and Bank of Jamaica.



- 9 -
17.       This underscores the importance of the proposed Bank program loan.
As can be seen from Table 3, the proposed loan is an integral part of the
financing package. The impact of the loan would be significant. Owing to
the foreign exchange constraints of the last few years, the level of capital
and intermediate goods imports of agriculture and industry (excluding the
bauxite/alumina sector) have been reduced to only US$370 million, compared
to US$450 million in 1976 and US$590 million in 1975. In real terms, this
implies that such imports have been nearly halved. The proposed program loan,
representing about 8% of these required imports at current projected levels,
would play an important role in helping to maintain employment and production
at tolerable levels.
Impact of Government's Policies on the Economic Situation During 1977
18.       Jamaica's balance of payments and fiscal situations have generally
improved during 1977, reflecting both improved international demand for
bauxite/alumina and the effects of the policy measures which were introduced
to deal with the crisis.
19.       There has been a dramatic improvement in the balance of payments
during the first half of 1977. Over this period, the country's trade
balance deficit was reduced to only US$4 million, compared to US$164 million
for the corresponding period in 1976. Merchandise exports totalled US$376.6
million, compared with US$288.6 million during the first six months of 1977,
an increase of about 30%. The gains have been mainly due to the recovery
(in terms of both prices and production levels) in the bauxite/alumina
sector. At the same time, the import restrictions have produced a decline
of about 16% in merchandise imports during the first half of the year,
compared to the corresponding period in 1976.
Table 4: ACTUAL TRADE FIGURES FOR JANUARY-JUNE, 1977
US$ million
Jan-June 1976       Jan-June 1977    % Increase
Exports (fob)                      288.6               376.6            30.5
Imports (cif)                      452.4               380.5           -15.9
Trade Balance                     -163.8                -3.9
Source: Bank of Jamaica.
20.       For the year as a whole, it is estimated that the trade deficit will
amount to about US$55 million as import payments are typically higher for the
second half of the year in Jamaica. With respect to the rest of the current
account, tourism is estimated to gross US$70 million. These earnings, how-
ever, are more than offset by interest payments and other factor and non-
factor service payments. On balance, the current account deficit for 1977



- 10 -
is estimated at US$110 million. This compares with the corresponding figure
for 1976 of US$295 million. This would imply no loss of international re-
serves during 1977, in sharp contrast to the loss in reserves of US$268
million during 1976.
21.       The situation has also improved on the fiscal side.    The actual
expenditures during the first half of the fiscal year have been in line with
the budget. To ensure that expenditures remain within targeted amounts,
the Government has adopted strict controls. All major outlays are being
audited at the Ministry of Finance, and monthly expenditure limits have been
assigned to various government ministries and departments. However, revenue
collections are projected to be slightly lower than earlier expectations,
primarily because of a projected revenue shortfall of J$50 million from the
Exchange Stabilization Fund. This, together with the apparent nonavailability,
for the time being at least, of the anticipated US$49 million loan from
Trinidad and Tobago, will require further fiscal adjustments in the future.
On the whole, however, the Government's fiscal policies have been accomplish-
ing the objective of reducing the disequilibrium in public finances. It is
projected that the overall deficit of the Central Government will decrease
from 18.5% of GDP in the last fiscal year to about 9% in 1977/78.
22.       These accomplishments in the fiscal and balance of payments areas
have, however, been at a heavy cost in terms of output and employment. The
drastic reduction of imports has led to shortages of raw materials and inter-
mediate goods which have, in turn, led to the closure or reduced activity of
many distributing and manufacturing firms. There is a massive underutiliza-
tion of capacity in the productive sectors, in part because of external condi-
tions and in part because of the restriction on imports and domestic demand.
The bauxite/alumina sector is currently operating at about 75% capacity. In
the manufacturing sector, capacity utilization, based on 1.5 shifts per day,
is about 33%. Unemployment is expected to rise to about 30% by the end of
1977, from the already high level of 24% at the end of last year. Real GDP
is projected to decline by no less than 10%. Moreover, the impact of devalua-
tion on domestic prices has started to be felt. Whereas consumer prices
increased by about 10% during 1976 (and maintained the same rate during the
first five months of 1977), they are projected to increase by about 15% for
1977 as a whole.
Growth and Balance of Payments Prospects Beyond 1977
23.       It is projected that the current account deficit can be reduced to
only US$6 million by 1980, from a projected level of US$110 million for 1977.
However, this will imply a further decline in GDP per capita in 1978 and only
modest recovery in the next two years. The main source of better performance
on the exports side is expected to be the bauxite/alumina sector where a
return to the more normal level of capacity utilization and good price
prospects are projected to result in export receipts from the sector of about
US$915 million, compared to about US$590 million in 1977, a nominal increase
of about 55%. Sugar receipts are expected to increase by about US$17 million
between 1977 and 1980, 80% of this increase being due to production increases.



- 11 -
In addition, the devaluation of the Jamaican dollar is expected to have
a significant effect on the country's other merchandise exports and
tourism. Growth in tourism will also depend on the maintenance of favorable
economic conditions in the North American countries and Jamaica's ability
to improve its image of security for the international tourist. On the
whole, the export of goods and nonfactor services are projected to increase
from US$1,036 in 1977 to US$1,703 in 1980, a nominal increase of about
64%. This projected improvement in the export receipts should increase
the country's import capacity, and these imports are projected to increase
by about 50% in nominal terms over the corresponding period.
24.       Over the three-year period 1978-80, the average annual current
account deficit is projected to be about US$40 million. Direct foreign
investment (net) is expected to continue to be negative, the net outflow
averaging US$10 million annually. In addition, amortization payments on
existing and new debt to be contracted are expected to average US$107 million
annually over 1978-80. Thus, gross annual external capital requirements
are estimated to average about US$160 million. Moreover, the present low
level of gross foreign exchange reserves--about 15 days days of imports--
is unsafe and needs to be increased. An increase in net reserves averaging
about US$50 million annually would, because of the need to reduce the Bank
of Jamaica's foreign liabilities, probably not increase gross reserves to
more than a single month's imports.
25.       The above external financing requirements of about US$210 million
annually could be met by gross disbursements on public and publicly guaranteed
loans and credits averaging about US$190 million annually, supplemented by
IMF financing averaging about US$20 million annually.
26.       Jamaica's ability to generate external capital inflows of the
magnitude indicated above will be largely predicated on an improved capacity
to implement projects and to mobilize sufficient public sector savings as
domestic counterpart for project financing. In this manner, public sector
investment financing would rely on medium- to long-term loans and credits with
an average maturity in excess of 10 years. (At the end of 1976, over 40% of
the debt outstanding and disbursed had an average maturity of under 10 years.)
As a result, debt service would not present an unmanageable problem. The
estimated total debt outstanding and disbursed at the end of August 1977
amounted to approximately US$1.35 billion. Of this amount, about US$450
millionlwas direct public debt, US$400 million was government-guaranteed and
the rem!aining US$500 million was private nonguaranteed debt. The public debt
service' ratio, which is currently estimated at 13.5%, is projected to increase
further to about 14% by 1978. Thereafter, however, it is expected to decline
steadily to a level of about 10% by 1980. Nonguaranteed private debt is not
expected to change significantly over the next several years.
27.       Jamaica has the resources to enable it to both sustain positive
rates of real growth of per capita income and achieve a wider distribution
of the benefits of growth once the domestic economy has been stabilized and
the country's international competitiveness has been restored. Details on
the main sectoral prospects over the next few years are provided in Part II.
Notwithstanding these favorable developments, however, growth in real GDP
during 1978 is projected to be negligible primarily because of the conti-
nuing constraint on the capacity to import projected for the year. Only
beyond 1978 can a real growth rate of about 5% be sustained and some ameliora-
tion of the critical unemployment problem be expected.



- 12 -
PART II - DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY AND SECTORAL POLICIES AND PROGRAMS
28.       Although the Government has engaged in development planning for
individual sectors and subsectors, it has not, owing mainly to the openness
of the Jamaican economy and the predominant role of the private sector, felt
the need to prepare plans for all sectors, nor to prepare comprehensive
multi-year development plans. However, under the present circumstances, the
Government believes it necessary to begin preparation of a comprehensive
development plan covering all the major sectors of the economy. Immediately
after the December 1976 elections, the Government gave top priority to for-
mulating an Emergency Production Plan (EPP). The EPP, issued in March 1977,
is viewed by the Government as a prelude to the Five-Year Development Plan
which is now in preparation and expected to be issued in early 1978. A
three-year public sector investment program, beginning with the Government's
budget year commencing April 1, 1978, is in an advanced state of preparation
and is likely to be approved by the Cabinet in mid-January 1978.
29.       The EPP was primarily formulated to deal with Jamaica's most
immediate and pressing problem, the severe shortage of foreign exchange.
After establishing minimum import levels for basic food and fuel needs, and
for supplies and equipment to maintain production levels in the bauxite/
alumina industry, the Government found itself during the year with a greatly
reduced pool of foreign exchange available to purchase the raw materials and
intermediate capital goods from abroad for Jamaica's highly import-dependent
manufacturing and construction sectors. Accordingly, the EPP emphasized
production of import substitution items, particularly in agriculture, and
production of less import-intensive items possessing a high foreign exchange
earning potential. The EPP attempted to evaluate existing productive capacity,
to establish production targets over the shorter term and to estimate the
capital and human resources required to meet production goals. Although the
EPP orientation is toward meeting short-term production goals, it contains
the basic outline of the Government's development policy and strategy which
is being elaborated upon in the preparation of the Five-Year Plan. (The Plan
is being prepared by the same National Planning Agency team that prepared
the EPP.) It is clear that despite the Government's interest in increasing
production, its desire to achieve such increases is tempered by the priority
it has given to the following major social and political objectives:
(i) meeting the basic food, shelter and health needs of the
people;
(ii) achieving a more equitable distribution of income and
property; and
(iii) making the Jamaican economy more self-reliant and less
import dependent.
30.       The Government has stated that it intends to meet its objectives
within the context of a mixed economy, in which public sector ownership



- 13 -
will be restricted to public utilities, mining, banking, tourism and certain
large basic industries such as steel and cement. The private sector would
dominate agriculture, fishing, most manufacturing activities, construction,
distribution and other services. Adherence by the Government to its guide-
lines on the ownership of means of production would lend credibility to the
policies that have been established, and would reduce the uncertainty felt
by the private sector as a result of the rapid pace of social, political and
economic change experienced by Jamaica in recent years.
31.       Although the Five-Year Development Plan's targets and allocations
have not yet been firmly established, the Bank has reviewed the work that
has been done thus far and held discussions with the Government on its
strategy and policy in the key sectors of agriculture, manufacturing, tourism
and bauxite/alumina. The picture that emerges from this review follows.
A. Agriculture
32.       The overall performance of the Jamaican agricultural sector has not
been commensurate with its physical potential. Over the last decade, produc-
tion has remained stagnant, resulting in a decline in agricultural output
and food production per capita. This has been particularly evident for export
crops, production of which has been decreasing at an annual rate of 5%.
Although food-crop production has incrased in the last few years, it has not
kept pace with domestic demand. As a result, food imports have increased at
an annual rate of 5% in real terms to reach US$130 million in 1975. More
recently, restrictions imposed by Government in 1976 reduced food imports to
US$90 million.
33.       Nevertheless, agriculture is still a major source of income and
employment in Jamaica. In spite of continuous migration from the rural to
the urban areas in recent years, about 60% (1.2 million) of the population
still lives outside the urban centers. Hence, agriculture, especially sugar-
cane cultivation, has considerable impact on the economic and social develop-
ment of Jamaica. It currently contributes approximately 7% to GNP, over 30%
to national employment and about 13% to export earnings.
34.       Jamaican agriculture has traditionally consisted of two sectors,
namely: (a) the export-oriented, large-scale plantation sector engaged in
the production of cash crops and beef cattle and (b) small-scale farmers,
producing food crops and livestock, largely for domestic consumption. In
recent years, economic, social and political factors have changed this pat-
tern into a more diversified structure. Thus, the importance of the
plantation sector has declined, while at the same time, a small- to medium-
sized, more capital-intensive commercial farm sector has emerged.
35.   ,   The skewed distribution of land, with the considerable underutili-
zation of resources that has resulted, has been a major impediment to the
development of agriculture and the prosperity of rural areas. Agricultural
land is very unevenly distributed among 192,000 holdings. Over 40% of
such land is owned by 630 large farms, two-thirds of which are owned by
Government, the bauxite companies, and (since 1976) the sugarcane-growing



- 14 -
cooperatives. In recent years Government has, however, distributed sizeable
tracts of land to about 20,000 smallholders and landless laborers under its
Project Land Lease. Similar land distribution schemes, including those under
the Bank-financed First Rural Development Project (Loan 1464-JM), are expected
in the future.
36.       There is considerable poverty, underemployment, and unemployment
in the rural areas. About 80% of the rural population have incomes less than a
third of the national average (relative poverty) and at least a third of the
rural population earns less than the income considered necessary to provide
minimum calorific requirements (absolute poverty).
37.       The Government is well aware of the problems in the sector and, with
Bank assistance, undertook an in-depth agricultural sector study in 1973.
This resulted in a Cabinet-approved policy for improving agricultural pro-
duction, rural infrastructure and enhancing rural living conditions. Based
on the recommendations of this study, Government has initiated an agricultural
development program which has the following objectives: intensification of
land utilization by introducing a progressive land tax and by requiring owners
of idle or underutilized holdings to intensify land use or to make the
property available via Government to landless people or smallholders on a
lease basis (Project Land Lease); increasing credit availability; intro-
duction of improved farm inputs and practices through subsidies for better
planting materials, fertilizers, and soil conservation; encouragement of
production of sugar, bananas, and citrus by subsidized marketing services
through the Agricultural Marketing Corporation and guaranteed minimum prices;
expansion of food crop and livestock production through special development
projects and through the Government-owned Agricultural Development Corporation;
improvement in the effectiveness of the Ministry of Agriculture by centraliz-
ing its policy functions and decentralizing its program implementation and
service functions; and improvement of rural infrastructure.
38.       The EPP calls for a substantial increase in the output of food in
order to replace food imports and for an increase in food consumption some-
what above 1976 levels. A principal objective of the EPP is to bring 50,000
acres of presently unutilized land into production. This would be accomplished
by providing an additional J$18 million credit to smallholders (5 acres or
less) who are now unable to farm their entire plots because of capital short-
ages, and making available to small farmers 25,000 unutilized acres belong-
ing to the Government and the bauxite companies through Project Land Lease.
The goals of the EPP are consistent with those being established for the
sector in the new Five-Year Development Plan.
39.       The success of the Government's strategy will depend on the ability
of the public sector to: implement the proposed schemes effectively; provide
a timely supply of agricultural inputs and adequate technical services, es-
pecially for the development of the small-farm sector; and maintain a favor-
able investment climate to facilitate expansion of the medium-sized commercial
farm sector.



- 15 -
B.   Manufacturing
40.       For a developing country of about two million inhabitants, Jamaica
has a relatively broad-based and sophisticated industrial sector which produces
a wide variety of manufactured products. The initial impetus for industrial
production derived from the demands of the sugar and bauxite/alumina sectors.
Subsequently, industrial production was stimulated by the protection afforded
Jamaica within the Caribbean community and by Jamaican policy of protection
against manufactured goods of non-Caribbean origin. The manufacturing sector
experienced real growth in output until 1974, when it declined by 4%. It
increased by 6% in real terms in 1975, but again declined 6.7% in real terms
in 1976, as a result of shortages in raw materials, the general country eco-
nomic decline and political uncertainties. Sector employment peaked at 98,000
workers in 1974 and has since declined to about 90,000 workers. The sector
currently contributes approximately 18% to GDP, 15% to national employment
and about 16% to total export earnings.
41.       Jamaican industry is highly import dependent.   The Government
estimates that the ratio of imported raw materials to the gross value of
output in its leading manufacturing industries is about 40%. The annual cost
of imported materials per employee for these industries is estimated to be
about J$3,500. As a result of its high import dependence, Jamaican industry
has been particularly hard hit by the current restrictions on imports.
Inability to import intermediate goods for industry in the current Jamaican
context results in additional unemployment. Capacity utilization in the
sector, based on 1.5 shifts per day, is presently about 33%. With unemploy-
ment levels aproaching 30%, the Government perceives its top priority in the
sector as maintaining at least current levels of production and employment.
For the longer run, the Government's development strategy has the following
major objectives: a reduction in import dependence; generation of additional
export earnings; and promotion of small enterprise and crafts industries as
a means of spreading income and employment more widely.
42.       The Government is keenly aware that a major cause of the high
import dependence of the manufacturing sector has been its incentive and trade
policies which have been directed at establishing and protecting domestic
industry. The current incentive system permits the Jamaican manufacturer to
import capital and intermediate goods without duty and further encourages
the use of foreign capital goods through generous tax write-offs. The manu-
facturer is protected under existing incentive laws from foreign competition
and is unlikely to have domestic competition in selling his product in the
small Jamaican market. The system has encouraged the development of many
so-called "screw-driver" industries, performing final assembly or processing
operations with very low domestic value added. Paradoxically, what has
happened:is that the policy of import substitution through the encouragement
and protection of domestic industry, has resulted in the creation of a highly
import dependent manufacturing sector that is exacerbating, rather than
helping Jamaica's balance of payments problem. In addition, the highly
capital intensive industrial structure that has been established largely as
a result of the incentives system, is inconsistent with the Government's
desire to stimulate employment and the need to expand nontraditional exports.



- 16 -
43.       The current economic program contains two measures that should do
much to assist the manufacturing sector: a realistic exchange rate policy
and a restrictive wages policy (see para. 10). The April 1977 devaluation
had the effect of reducing the cost of Jamaican manufactured products in
world markets by 37%. At the same time, those imported products brought
in under the new special exchange rate immediately increased in price by
37%. The wages policy, which bars wage increases in excess of the real 1973
levels, will help keep the cost of Jamaican products down. In the past,
Jamaica has had a high wage structure, brought about by the generous wage
settlements awarded the unions in the growing and profitable mining sector
during the 1960s and early 1970s, which set the standard for wage awards in
other industries.
44.       The Government intends to overhaul in the near future its indus-
trial incentives system so that there will be greater reliance on domestic
sources of supply and on the substitution of labor for imported capital
goods. It plans to place particular emphasis on the modification of the
relative prices of capital and labor and in the promotion of industries
such as agroindustries, which would process mostly local raw materials.
The Government is also aware, however, of the limits to the desired change
in the industrial structure imposed by Jamaica's small size and resource
base. The measures now being considered for these purposes include the
establishment of import duties on capital goods, the reduction of depre-
ciation allowances, and the granting of tax credits and other incentives to
employers hiring additional workers. Such measures, coupled with the recent
modification in wage and exchange rate policies referred to in the previous
paragraph, should exert a positive influence in the future development of
Jamaica's industrial sector.
45.       The Government is particularly committed to the development of
small-scale enterprise as a means of increasing production and employment.
The Bank has been working closely with the Government in this area and a
project has been identified which would provide credit and technical assist-
ance to the small businessman. A part of the program would operate through
the newly created Small Enterprise Development Company, which provides assist-
ance to the emerging small businessman. A second part of the program deals
with channeling assistance to the more established small businessman through
the commercial banking system, so that he may establish a reputation with
those institutions and in the future avail himself of their services and
credit resources.
46.       The Government has stated that it is committed to policies shifting
away from inefficient, capital-intensive and excessively import-dependent
industries to those favoring export promotion. Accordingly, the Government
has taken or is about to undertake the following actions: establishment
of an export trading company; an increase in official assistance for marketing
research and other export related services; encouragement of international
specialization arrangements for the manufacture of parts; and identification
of viable investment opportunities in the export field.



- 17 -
47.       The success of the Government's programs and policies in the manu-
facturing sector will very much depend on establishing a favorable climate
in those areas where it is relying on private investment, and on creating
efficient public entities in areas reserved for the public sector.
C.   Tourism
48.       The tourism industry in Jamaica has been an important source of
foreign exchange earnings and employment. Gross foreign exchange earnings
peaked at about US$130 million in 1974 and direct and indirect employment
totalled about 11,000. The industry experienced a building boom in the
60s and early 70s under government-sponsored incentive programs, which
provided tax holidays and generous loans. As a result, hotel room capacity
was expanded to almost 16,000 with over 6,000 of these rooms being suitable
for the first class international tourist trade. During the last three
years, however, the tourist industry has experienced a severe decline in
demand, resulting in low occupancy rates and the financial collapse and
closing of some hotels. In 1975, there was a decline in stopover visitors
of about 8%, followed by a further decline of about 14% in 1976. As a result,
foreign exchange earnings from the industry dropped over 20% between 1974
and 1976.
49.       The drop in tourism in Jamaica has been caused by several factors:
the past over-valuation of the currency, the economic recession in the metro-
politan countries, Jamaica's image of political turbulence and crime,and the
failure of the industry to respond to the shift in international tourist
preference from individual travel to group charters.
50.       The financial difficulties of the hotel industry have resulted in
foreclosures and Government takeover of many properties. The Government now
has control of over 60% of total hotel capacity and about 90% of first class
room capacity. The hotels are controlled and operated by National Hotels,
a subsidiary of the Government Urban Development Corporation. National
Hotels has been aggressively and successfully pursuing group charter business
and has advanced bookings for the coming winter season of about 85% of room
capacity. The actual number of tourist stopovers for the season will depend
on the continuance of domestic stability and the creation of a nonviolent
and crime-free society. Expansion of foreign exchange earnings and employment
in the tourist industry can be accomplished in the short- to medium-term
without significant additional capital investment. Additional room capacity
could, however, be required in the longer term. With its proximity to the
lucrative North American market and the natural physical attractions of the
island, the sector can make a significant contribution to Jamaica's develop-
ment effort, if the North American economies maintain their health and the
country continues to improve its image of security for the international
tourist.
D.   Bauxite/Alumina
51.       Jamaica is the world's third largest producer of bauxite.    Bauxite/
alumina operations accounted for over 40% of Jamaica's foreign exchange earn-
ings during the period 1970-76. During the same period the sector's contri-
bution to GDP averaged 9.8%.   Between 1970 and 1974 bauxite and alumina



- 18 -
production rose significantly by 27.6% and 58.6% respectively. The demand
for aluminum, particularly in the automobile and construction industries,
was adversely affected by the world recession in 1975. As a result, 1975
bauxite production was reduced by 24.4% and alumina output by 15.3%. Further
production declines of 11% for bauxite and 36% for alumina occurred in 1976.
In addition to weakened demand for aluminum in 1976, alumina exports in 1976
were adversely affected by labor disputes and production difficulties in
the industry.
52.       The bauxite/alumina industry is currently operating at 75% of
capacity. Prospects for the industry's increasing its contribution to
Jamaica's foreign exchange earnings are good, since the world economic
recovery, the attractiveness of aluminum as a lightweight metal in the
energy conscious automobile industry and technical innovation are likely
to increase worldwide demand. Increased production can be achieved with-
out significant new capital investment, since the industry would be moving
unutilized capacity into operation as demand increases. Expanded production
and improved price prospects could bring net foreign exchange earnings to
US$590 million for 1977 (a nominal increase of about 30% over 1976) and US$700
million for 1978.
53.       Jamaica is estimated to have 1,500 million long tons of economically
mineable bauxite reserves, equivalent to 100 years of supply at present
rates of extraction. Although no decisions have been taken on expansion
of capacity, additional investment capital for expansion would be likely to
come from external sources. Discussions for a possible joint project with
Mexico and Venezuela for an alumina refinery and aluminum smelter have been
held, but no investment decisions have as yet been made.
54.       During 1976 and 1977 Jamaica acquired, through purchase agreements,
majority interest in the mining assets of three of the major foreign companies
operating in the sector. The Government instituted in 1974 a system of pro-
duction levies, based upon a percentage of the price of aluminum ingot, to
replace the corporate income tax on company income. The proceeds of the
levy have been used to finance the capital cost of development projects. The
Government has sought to develop a policy which would maintain a favorable
return to the country from the industry, while retaining adequate incentives
for direct foreign investment in new capacity and plant.
PART III - THE PROGRAM LOAN
55.       The proposed program loan is intended to help Jamaica finance a
minimum level of imports required to maintain a tolerable level of production
in industry and agriculture, and to support the Government's investment pro-
gram. It would support the economic program that the IMF Stand-by arrangement
is based upon. The success of that program is essential to the Government's
achieving its longer term development objectives. There is, therefore, a close



- 19 -
link between the Stand-by arrangement and the proposed loan. It was agreed
with the Government that disbursements under the proposed loan would be tied
to its eligibility for drawings under the Stand-by arrangement. The Govern-
ment would be eligible to receive disbursements for US$10 million of the funds
available under the Bank loan only after meeting the eligibility requirements
for the second (after December 1, 1977) drawing under the Stand-by arrangement
(Schedule 1, para. 2b of the draft Loan Agreement). The disbursement of the
remaining US$20 million under the proposed loan would be conditioned, in part,
on meeting the eligibility requirements for the third (after March 1, 1978)
drawing under the Stand-by arrangement (Schedule 1, para. 2c of the draft
Loan Agreement).
56.       The Government has, as was indicated in Parts I and II above,
formulated a set of economic policies to restore stability to the Jamaican
economy and create the framework for future economic growth. Although the
Government's strategies and policies have been clearly stated, the preparation
of a detailed multi-year public sector investment and financing program has
not been completed. The Government agrees with the importance of completing
such a program, and eligibility for the disbursement of the remaining US$20
million of funds available under the loan would (in addition to the condition
described in the preceding paragraph) be conditioned on the adoption by the
Government of a satisfactory three-year public sector investment and financing
program, commencing with the Jamaican fiscal year beginning April 1, 1978.
As noted in para. 28 above, the preparation of a three-year public sector
investment program is in an advanced stage.
Categories of Imported Goods to be Financed
57.       The loan would be disbursed on the basis of the receipt of satis-
factory evidence of purchase of and payment for raw materials, chemicals,
intermediate goods, machinery, transport equipment and spare parts (see
Schedule I of the draft Loan Agreement). Major emphasis would be on the
importation of raw materials and intermediate goods. Such imports should
permit greater utilization of idle or unutilized capacity and thus reduce
unemployment. The categories selected contain goods that are available from
a wide variety of sources and for which purchases are normally paid in cash.
Imports of goods in these categories totalled about US$91 million in 1976.
(See Annex V for a breakdown of 1976 imports.) The list appears to be broad
and large enough and the unsatisfied demand of potential importers strong
enough to ensure rapid disbursement of the proposed loan. The list of goods
excludes manufactured fertilizers, consumer goods, luxury items and fuel.
58.       All importation of goods into Jamaica must be licensed by a Trade
Administrator who operates within the Ministry of Trade. Applications for
licenses are judged on a series of criteria which include: the level of
imports by the enterprise in previous years, the number of employees of the
enterprise requesting the license, the likely employment effect, the poten-
tial of the enterprise for either earning or saving foreign exchange and the
developmental priority of the enterprise. These criteria were taken into
account in preparing the categories of goods to be financed by the proposed
loan.



- 20 -
Procurement and Disbursement
59.       Goods purchased by private firms and public sector entities from
Bank member countries (and Switzerland) on the basis of normal commercial
practice would be eligible for reimbursement from the proposed loan. Imports
for which financing is provided from other external sources would not be
eligible, nor would the Bank reimburse for payments made before the loan
is signed. The Government would pay for imports from its own foreign exchange
resources. Reimbursement would then be made by the Bank to the Government on
the basis of import documents and evidence of payment. The Bank of Jamaica,
the country's central bank, would be responsible for the coordination and
collection of relevant documentation and preparing withdrawal applications
under the loan. It is expected that disbursement of the first US$10 million
of Bank loan funds would begin immediately after loan effectiveness and be
completed shortly thereafter and that the balance of the loan would be fully
disbursed by June 30, 1978.
Use of Counterpart Funds
60.       The Jamaican dollar equivalent of imports financed under the loan
would be credited to a Special Loan Fund Account held by the Ministry of
Finance and used to help finance capital expenditures of development projects
which are supported by loans from external agencies. In the fiscal year
beginning April 1, 1977 and the following two fiscal years, the Government
has made projections (see Annex VI) of the disbursements to be made by
external agencies and the Government for ongoing projects receiving external
agency financing assistance, new projects which external agencies have agreed
to finance, new projects which are under negotiation with external agencies
and projects which are to be submitted in the near future to external agencies
for financing. In the first two categories, which represent those projects
where external financing has been firmly secured, total expenditures over the
three-year period will be US$175.1 million equivalent, of which US$94.7
million equivalent will be financed by external agencies and US$80.2 million
equivalent with counterpart funds from the Government. The successful imple-
mentation of the development projects financed by external agencies over the
next several years will require timely inputs of local currency counterpart
funds by the Government. Use of the local currency counterpart funds gener-
ated by the proposed loan in the Special Loan Fund Account will assist the
Government in meeting its obligations.
PART IV - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN JAMAICA
61.       To date the Bank has made 15 loans in Jamaica totalling $152.4
million after cancellations. Of this amount about $81.5 million (53%) has
been for infrastructure investments in transportation, electric power, water
supply and sewerage; the remainder has gone into agriculture (16%),
education (15%), sites and services (10%), and population and nutrition (6%).
There have so far been two IFC investments in Jamaica; a loan in 1961 to a
pre-mix concrete company and an equity/loan investment in 1968 in a hotel



- 21 -
project. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC
investments as of September 30, 1977 and notes on the execution of projects
in Jamaica.
62.       Bank lending in Jamaica has been principally aimed at providing
transfers of long-term external capital to help finance the foreign exchange
component of high priority public sector investment projects. The Bank
program has been developed taking into account the role of other external
lending agencies--IDB, CIDA, ODM, USAID and the Caribbean Development Bank
(CDB)--and the Government's development strategy. Jamaica's program lending
needs have been assessed in close coordination with IMF and after determining
the availability of other sources of external capital. Bank lending supports
Government programs designed to increase production and employment, to achieve
a wider distribution of the benefits of economic growth, and to improve the
country's economic infrastructure where inadequate facilities are presently
constraining development. It is also an important objective of Bank lending
to strengthen the public sector institutions associated with Bank-financed
projects by supporting policies designed to improve the quality of management,
their operating procedures and finances.
63.       After a lull in Bank lending in 1972/73--resulting largely from
institutional constraints and slow project preparation--the pace of Bank
operations picked up in FY74 and FY75, with an increased emphasis on projects
in the social sectors. Slow project preparation and, later in the period,
unsettled economic conditions reduced Bank lending to one loan each in FY76
and FY77. The current year lending program includes an $18 million loan for a
proposed Sugar Factory Rehabilitation project and a proposed $20 million
Second Power project for electric power transmission and distribution. These
loans are to be presented to the Executive Directors at about the same time
as the proposed loan.
64.       In the last several months, there has been some project implementa-
tion difficulties with several of the Bank-financed projects (see Annex II).
They have been caused by the deterioration in general economic conditions
(there has been a particular problem in maintaining subloan repayments in
intermediate credit operations), the limitations of counterpart availability
of local currency funds required for project expenditure arising from fiscal
restraints and the general preoccupation of Jamaica's economic managers
with the economic crisis. However, the Government is aware of these problems
and is adopting measures directed toward solving them.
65.       The most recent Bank loan, for a rural development project (Loan No.
1464),, was approved by the Executive Directors on June 23, 1977. The Bank's
share of external public debt outstanding and disbursed was about 8% in 1976
and its share of external public debt service was about 6% in that year. It
is estimated that these percentages will not vary significantly during 1977.
66.       In line with the Government's priorities and development strategy,
Bank project lending will place increasing emphasis on projects to promote
exports, stimulate import substitution, increase employment and raise the
living standards for those in the lower economic strata. The Sugar Factory



- 22 -
Rehabilitation project in this year's lending programs addresses some of the
key problems in Jamaica's second largest export-earning industry. The
proposed loan for Small Scale Enterprise is in an advanced state of preparation
and will assist the emerging entrepreneur and small businessman. The project
will have significant employment and social benefits. In the coming years,
the Bank hopes to support the Government's efforts in the agricultural sector
with the possible financing of projects for agricultural credit, irrigation,
forestry and rural development. Identification and preparation work has begun
on all of these projects.
67.       In the social sectors, the Bank has been active in financing two
education projects, two population projects (the second of which contains
an important nutrition element) and a sites and services project. The Bank
expects to continue to support programs to improve social and physical
infrastructure in Kingston and other urban areas. Looking further ahead, it
is expected that a third education project will be prepared for possible
Bank financing. The possible scope and content of the project, however, has
not yet been defined.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Loan Agreement between Jamaica and the Bank, the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles
of Agreement and the text of a draft resolution approving the proposed loan
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions
of the project are listed in Annex III, Section III. Conditions of
disbursement are: (a) that the first US$10 million of the loan may only be
disbursed if the Government has met the eligibility requirements for the
second (after December 1, 1977) drawing under the Stand-by arrangement; and
(b) that the balance of the loan may only be disbursed if the Government has
met the eligibility requirements for the third (after March 1, 1978) drawing
under the Stand-by arrangement and adopted a three-year public sector invest-
ment and financing program satisfactory to the Bank.
69.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
70.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
November 21, 1977



- 23 -
NUEX I
TABLE 30
JAMAICA            - SOCIAL INI)ICATORS DATA 'iXEET
LAND AREA THOU KM2)-                                                       
JAMAICA                            REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL       IT 0                                    MOST RECENT         TR INI DAf
AGRIC.       4.8                     1960      1970   ESTIMATE         Q. ToBAG'o     CYPRUS        ISRAEL
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 370.0     670.0 * 107().0 */         1260.0 *    990.0 *    2270.0
POPULATION AND VIrAL SlATISTICS
POPU.ATION  MID-YR. MIILLION)         1.6       1.9       2 .1 /2            1.0        0.6        3.0
POPU- AT ION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                    147.0     170.0    I189.0/a            200.0       69.0      143.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     330.0     384.0     4       T,         708.0      120.0      230.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (i/THOU, AV)      37.0      38.5      32.2               32.5       24.2       25.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE ('THOU,AV)        10.7       8.6       7.1                7.1        7.4        6.4
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)      51.0      32.2      26.3               34.4       29.4       22.9
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)     64.6      67.8      69.5               66.1       70.2       70.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.4       2.7       2.4                2.0        1.5        1.8
POPULAT1ON GRO%TH RATE (%)                      1.4 **       **/b            2.1        1.0 *. I
TOTAL                               1 41XI. 9*/                             .                    3.4-a
URBAN                                 .       6.2                          3.1        1.9        3.9
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)        23.4      37.1         . .             24.1       39.1       82.1
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                     41.2      45.9      42.1               41.2       31.8       33,3 /b
15 TO 64 YEARS                     54.5      50,4      51.2               55.1       60.6       60.2 7b
65 YEARS AND OVER                   4.3       3.7       6.7                3.7        7.6        6.5 lb
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                  0.8        1.0       1.0               0.8        0.7        0.7
ECONOIMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO            1.2        1.7       1.3               1.3        o.g/a      1:2 /b,c
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTDRS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)          .      49.8     147.6               25.4
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)            .         ..        ..                ..         *
EMPLO (MENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)        650.0**   600.0***   820.o*'           350.0 /a   265.0     1000.0 /b
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)       36.0      33.0       29.2              22.o       36.0        8.6 7W
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)          . .      17.5***   2T.O***           12.5        1.1        3.8 7D
INCOME OISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS          30.2 /..                                 ..       12.1 /b     3.4 /d
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS          61:2 7i      :.        ..                ..       39:1 7i    38.6 Id
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS           2.2 7i      ..        ..                ..        7.9 7      7.8 7
LOWIEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS          8.2 7j      ..        ..                ..       19-8 7     20.5 7jd
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND ODNERSHIP
% OWNEC B3Y TOP (0% OF OWNERS         74.6 !b
% OWNED fl; SMALLEST 10% OWNERS        1.6 76                         ..        ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                     26300     3520.0 /C         2330.0  b  1290.0      410.0 le
POPULATIJN FER NURSING PERSON      1990.2. 1710:0        740.0             400.0 -    610.0      200.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED         250.0/d   240.0      260.0             230.o      190.0      170.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)       91.0     103.0      114.0              97.0       99.0      116.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)            56 0Lb    56.0 /a   67.0               64.0 /c    78.0/c     92.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       20.04      29.0-       ,,              34.0-      33.0-      49.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4           6.5        4.2       4.6               1.8
EDUCATION
ADJUSrED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIrAARY SCHOOL                   1(8.0     106.0     132.0              110.0 /d    82.0 Id    128.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                   10.0      30.0      28.0               4o.0 77    53.07d      32.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)           12.0      12.0       13.0              15.0       12.O       12.0
VOCATIONAL IENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                    9.0       5.0       5.0                8.0       12.0 /d    45.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                 ..      82.0      as.oLd            88.0       85.0       84.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)               1.6        .          .               1.7 /e      ..         1.5 /f
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOU,T
PlIPD WATER (%)                    79.0      78.0 /b      ,               64.0 /f
ACCESS TO ELECT4ICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINCS)                  ..     27.0        ,,               66.0 /&      ..       94.0 /f
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                    ..        ..        .,                ..         ..       58.0 /f
CONSUMPT ION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)       88.0      376.0        ,              276.0      263.0       223.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)        20.0       39.0      45.o              73.0       88.0        51.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)        312.0      625.0    1110.0            1172.0      987.0      2350.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)              2.9       4.6       4.4               5.9         2.7       11.6
SFE NnTFS ANr, DEFINITIONs ON REVERSE



- 24     -                                                      A   _    
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to ejW yeaLr betveen 1959 end 1961, for 2970 between 1.968 and 1970, and for itot Recent Estimate between
1975 end 1975.
O NP per oapita data sace based on World Bank Atlas inethodology (1974-76 basis).
flu  to erigration population growth rate is lower than the rate of eatual increase.
Data based on offioila) definition which includes those willing to work but not act'vely seeking moploymnet. Date for most recent
uIempluete estimate is Decem~ber 31, 1976.
laraehas   m  ectd asthe objective country because of ita aimilarity) in population sine and dependence on foreign trade.
JAMAICA                1960     /a, 1958;      Ab  1961-62;     /c   1963;     /d  1962.
1970    A4   1964-66;      A   Inside only.
MSCT RECEhT ESTIM'ATE:      /a  1976;     /b   1970-75;     /c  1971;      /d  1972.
TRINIDAD& TOBAGO       1970     /a  15-64 years;      /b   incluAing midwives;      /c   1964-66;     /d  Government maintained end aided schools only;
/e  Total, ubnand rural;          /f   Inside only;      /4  1966.
CYPRUS                 1970     /4. Ratio of population under 15 end 65 and over to total labor force;             Ab  1966, urban;      ft  1964-66;      /d  Excluding
Tarkiah schools.
ISRAEL.                1970     /a  Eue to mncigration popuxlation growth rate is -igher than the rate of natural increase;              lb  Including data relating
to certain territories under occupation by Israeli military forces since June 1967;              /c  Ratio of population under
15 and 65 and over to total labor force;         /4   Jeish asge earners, urban only;         /e  Registered, not all practicing
in the country;      /f   1966.
59, icytenber 1, 1977
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATOB
Lsnd Aces (then kea2                                                                       Posuistion pear sorein  paress - PopulaCtio  divided by   umbar of practicing
Total -Totai eurfacs ares onprietig land area and iniasd wtatrs.                              asia and f   lesi  gradnas  orss  "trisad" or c,ettified    curses,. an d
antic.  M-Ms   recan.t eatissts of  gioiua      araa usad temporarily or parns-              staslitry peranaml with training orsoris.
osatiy foe oropa, pastocee, macbt h bitches gardasa or ts lie fatiow.                    P.solation ear- hospital bed - Population divded by sinber of hospital beds
available is pobiio and private general and speislised hospital asd
GNP net capita (US$)5  - G'P per ..pio. sacimaces sc current macbt prio-s,                    rehabilitation, cascara; smcisdea eursieg heme   and eatabiiahno-ta for
-lsicoitad by san   co  mrs       eehsd as World Bank Atlas (1973-75 baeiel;               cotodisi sd presoettiveare
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                                psrossit   nueyof noo        s(I nf requirementsl - Cumpocedrroc ensrgy
sqivslest of netr food sopplios  av -islebl  in counry per ospits per day.
Posuletion and vital etatietin                                                                available soppli..cnapries dseetio production, imports less noporca, sod
Ponulation (mid-vest million)     us of July first:   if sot avilable, average                change  in atnobk; oat sapplisa esolude selmal feed, seeds, quso,ti.ie   -ed
of coo and-past astimates; 1lii0, 1970 sod 1975 data,                                       is food procesaing and losses is diatribotios; requirements were estimated
by FAO bas..d on physiological seeds for -ora    activiy sod heoltb -onid-
Pouaindeshity - sar enosre he-id-past Popolstoin per square kilntac                     acing sewirstal tamparstors, body naights, ago and asee distributions of
(100 benra      fnoiae.PsPr'litis                                                                       andP'1 alof ing 10fe  was dteat h   rousehol  lavel.     pr  pt
Pnltodaeicy -ka sncah        of agrii. land - Compotad as above fsr                 Pa  aissrl         ferti       saserdy)           rti     ote      fpropo
agricultuta1 land nely.                                                                     net sopply of fnod per day; net supply of fond is defined as shove; zaqoirc-
cents for all cnoetrisa establishad by UOSD ic-onnic Resesrob Services
vital staciscina                                                                              provide for a minimum sl11a--    of 60 grins of total protein per day, sod
Crude hirtch,rst ear thnueand. vra       a -un   1e live births par thos-sed nf               20 grams of animal and poles protein, of whiob 10 gram     should ha selasaI
nid-ysac popula tion; tar-year arithmsetic averages andieg is 1960 and 1970,                protaim; thses standards aer lowr than those of 75 gram      of totsI pro...in
an:d fiv-pas    evecage and Ing in175fc      et resent estimate,                             and 23 gram  of animal prntein as an average foc the world, proposed by FAO
Crde deathb cts sat thoosd.   rvsgse - dnnual deshe par thouaad of mid-year                 in the Third World pood Su-ve.
population; tae-year scithmatin avaragas anding in 1960 and 1970 and fiv-                 par capita protain euPoly frnn asiasl and pulsa - Protais supply of food
past averags andin    in 1975 for meet recent estimate,                                      derived frn  slela     sod pui.ess in gram  per day.
Ifnmntslity rats (/thnu   - A-n.aI deaths nf isfante undar ona peat of age            Dsath rats i/thou) as.- 1-4 - annua I a.ths per ohb.....d to age group 1-4
per thsuased live birtb..                                                                   pasta, in children is tibi  age group; suggrated aanIndicator of
Life senecten"y at bicth lyre) - Average emaber of pasts of life remaining at                 malnutrition,.
birth; oa"slly fiva-ysar vavrageasending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for dwvalop-
leg cous,tcis.                                                                            4ocfatm
~nGr ,zguzgtig.h rat,g    - Avrage unuber of live deaghiere. a .a em     ill bear           MIdi6toenrollmont ca.th.oj -Pri-r    achnol - tornilaset of all ages as per-
in ba  norma   raproductiv- period if she saprienoes present ag-s-psificctaas                          primry scholag         poostu,   nludes children aged A-li year
fertiliiy rates   usual..ly fiv-e-pastavragas ending in 1985, 1970 and 1975                 bat adutad for difrn        lngb    ofpmay       doao;frcucia             nu
for daesopng counirise.                                                                     unvra     adoration, anroillet may eso-d 100% sieca sa        popgil ara hal1w
5oeoiatin ernat rats (1 - tnLi - Cumpound annual growth rates of mid-past            or above the official achnol 5age
population for 1950-60, 1980-.70 and 1970-75.                                             AdiAiad amrsillert ratio - secondary euhsol - Cinputed s.aebova; seondary
'snulcion  rsythtate(7.1  ache  - Cmp.ted likes growth rate sof total               edstin trquirse at least four pasts of approved primary iatrroctiom,
popuIatise;,different definitisons of urban areas may affect cemparability of               prevides gaesra1, vonational or teacher training inecrutolon    for pupil.
data s.non   catri,is,                                                                      sof 12 is 17 years of age; correspandeena  onurasa are ga...saly sauloded.
lchejtQ e UIstion It, nf total) - Satis of urban is itetl papulation; diffacan t            Ysar! ofi.1 anhss n e ervdad (flirst sadisecond levels) - Total ypsar af
,siticione of urban aresm may affeet comparahility of data among ceuntries.               nnaln;a        sodr       ae,vcteal instruction may he partially or
aOMPIately secluded.
Affs structure mpacsant) - Children .(i-lb pears), nothing-age (15-66 peasra,               Vaainletlimani (7. of sqceedary          - Rotational i-stitutiona  include
admte'd (65 pears and -var)a      percentages of nid-ysar papolatiam .                   teshnical, indus trial or ocher programs shitch operate indapandeetly or s
A     ' eseeCy ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 85 and ant to those             dapattmeete af sanondary institutions.
sof gags 15 ithough 64.                                                                   Adult literacy rate(.1 - Literate adulie (able to red and write) as pe-
aiancdnndancy ratio - gaits of population ondac 15 and 85 and ever to                   cantags of total adult population agad 15 years and ovr.
the labor force in age group of 15-84 peace.
taflly elannins - aecsceptor  (cUMUulatiVe. chess - Cumulative number of acce ptors         kluifn.
mn.. birthcontrol                                    2~b,, ,-  devices under auspic.a ef national family planning program  h."   . 10 ISS,frnkinj - A-roge number of persons per coos in occupied
sie  netio.                                                                          nsnen    Ianeds liege in urban    -ara; dwellings necluds non-psrmonent
ramily slannins: -,seers ft fmarriedv ente        Percentages of married wooan   f            structures and unoccupied parts.
child-be~aring age         Y.- pers) wtisos bitrh-non rgi deie    ta all marriedO.ned.d.lin w ithoat sisd0 eater (1-Occupied conn-ntione1 dualinga
amn In sam      Sag  group.                                                                 in urban ad rural areas    ithosi inside at astside piped cater facilities
as peresetags sf all onnopiad dwellingls.
To I iWIT., HIr                                                                           %~~~~~~~~~~~Ansa a lctict  f O f all dwalliaael  - Coftventienal dwellings with
f11:1'f1h:,1f).- E1ulnammicLlyp antic.srparse  inludisi  armed              electricity in living1f," quar tars as percenit of tetal dwellings in urban acd
farces ansapee          u   elding hbssswvsta, students,sc;dfiiin                           urlaes
in naras    csuntriss are nst comparable.                                                                            toadslna  once   igelectricity (7.1 - Camputed as shone for rural
Labhc faes *n aeieUlisr   I7.)  AgricultureI laber ferns. (in farming, faresty        d   alsge  ny
hunting and fisin)as preetasa         f canal lbor fares,ry
Inm ya  to  laba  I5g)- Unamploead are usuallyd dfined ase prarsos who
are able and willing totRsaI,,ou           Oa o     o    gvs    a,reaedot                                       h         - All typsa of receivers for radio broadcasts.
f aJ.:, and seebing winc for a     pspcified minimum period eel xa.c.ading on               sgeea     pubflcpathomdfpputinaeids                       nicedrrisr
nab; may hot be camparabl. etwaeen cauntries due to different deinitions                    in countries and in, years chain registration of radio sets weeas e.ffact;
of unamployad and snares of data, e.g., ampleymec office statistics, sample                 data for recen.t pears may cot he omaparabla since nest countrie.sabo1iehed
su rvey, nampulsory unemploymemt inaursecs.                                                 licensing.
Pseasner ars  set bs,.ens)-. tasne   ars camprise motor tare   etn
inc  i dietcributien - Pecceetage of private incems (both in cash and bind)                  las  hn    igt-55o5          seide  ambulanra, Mareas. and nilttary
reevdby ciohest 57., richest 207., poorast 201, and p.oersc 407. of house-              vehicles.
holds.                                                                                    Electricity fwb/vr Pear .4sS  - Annual -onaiption of industrial.     aeca
public and privtate el-nricicy in kIlowatt baust par capita, genere lly
Sia:tdribu.tiocn of land esarathie - Percentags  of land owned by nsalthiaet 10%              bae   on. d productin data. sithout allesnose far losses. in grids bUL allo--
and poet 157. of land swnars.                                                             ing far imports and ..Porta of a1antricity
Newsprint (ka/vt set cad -Per caPita anuaul oscaumption in kilograms
geIthad       trition                                                                         atimatad Ore dameotoc production p1u     met imports of ceceprinc
Poslaie  eer physiuian - population divided by lumbac of practicing
physicians qualified fram a eadil school at unv-rsity level.



-25-                               ~~~~~~~~~ANNEX I
JAMAICA
SELECTED ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
Average Annual
Average        Actual         Estimated     Projected        Growth Rate
1970-72    1974       1975      1976      1977      1980     1974-76 1977-80   1976     1977     1980
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                                      CONSTANT 1974 US$ Millions                                          As % of GDP
Gross Domestic Product                  2,300.0   2,476.6   2,452.6   2,283.8   2,055.4    2,275.0     -4.0    3.4   100.0     100.0    100.0
Gains from Terms of Trade                   0.3       0.0     169.1     124.5     121.0      180.6       .      .      5.5       5.9      7.9
Gross Domestic Income                   2,300.3   2,476.6   2,621.7   2,408.3   2,176.4    2,455.6     -1.4    4.1   105.5     105.9    107.9
Imports (incl. NFS)                    1,090.4    1,064.3   1,177.7     986.2     834.4   1,005.6      -3.8    6.1    43.2     41.0      44.2
Exports (import Capacity)                 941.8     959.2     992.0     809.3     830.8    1,098.6     -8.2    9.8    35.4      40.4     48.3
Consumption                             1,722.3   1,922.7   2,146.8   2,188.4   1,880.0    1,912.6      6.7    0.4    95.8      91.9     84.1
Investment                                726.2     659.0     660.6     396.8     300.0      450.0    -21.9   J4.5    17.4     14.6      19.8
National Savings                          395.1     482.7     384.9     126.3     198.1      433.3    -48.7   31.5     5.5       9.2     19.0
Domestic Savings                          578.0     553.9     474.9     219.9     296.4      543.0    -37.5   23.5     9.6      14.0     23.9
MERCHANDISE TRADE                                          CURRENT US$ Millions                                            As Bof Total
Imports 
Food                                     76.0     122.1     129.9      88.0      95.0      128.0    -15.0   10.4     9.6     11.0      10.0
Other Consumer Goods                     95.5      74.4     103.7      76. 7     80.0      122.0      1.5   15.1     8.4       9.3      9.5
Petroleum                                46.8     195.2     215.0     203.5     220.0      326.0      2.1   14.0    22.3      25.4     25.5
Other intermediate Goods                165.7     288.2     328.7     310.9     285.0      440.0      3.9   14.3    34.1      34.1     34.4
Capital Goods                           180.1     252.0     345.7     233.9     175.0      264.0     -3.7   14.7    25.6      20.2     20.6
Total March. Imports (cif)              564.1    -93-1.9  1,123.0    _91-3.0    8~55_.0  1,280.0     -1T. 0  14_.0  1 00. 0  100). 0-  100.0
Exports
Bauxite-Alumina                         225.3     516.0     529.8     455.5     589.8      913.6     -6.0   15.7    68.9     73.8      74.2
Sugar                                   37.9       81.8     153.7      61.4      60.5       77.0    -13.2    8.4     9.3      7.6       6.3
other                                    80.5     120.4     131.1     144.1     148.7      239.6      9.4   17.2    21.8     18.6      19.5
Total March. Exports (fob)              343.7     718.2     814.6     661.0     799.0    1,230.2     -4.0   15.5   100.0    100.0     100.0
Merchandise Trade Indices                                            1974 - 100
Export Price Index                                100.0     139.4     135.9     144.9      185.5     16.6    8.6
Import Price Index                                100.0     111.0     116.0     124.7      155.0      7.7    7.5
Terms of Trade Index                              100.0     125.6     117.2     116.2      119.7      8.3    1.0
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                     ANNUAL DATA AT 1974 PRICES AND EXCHANGE RATE
Agriculture                                       178.2     181.5     187.0                           2.4            8.2
Mining                                            327.8     243.1     221.1                         -18.0            9.7
Other                                           1 970.6   2,028.0   1,7.                             -2.4           82.1
Total                                           2,476.6   2,452.6   2,283.8                          -4.0          100.0
PUBLIC -FINANCE (J$ millions, current)   1973/74   1974/75   1975/76   1976/77   1977/78
prices) _(Central Government)
Current Receipts                        346.9     513.5     639.4     605.1     806.0
Current Expenditures                    340.2     493.2     614.1     758.0     792.0
Budgetary Savings                         6.7      20O .3    25.-3   -71 52. 9   14. 0
Capital Revenue                           0.8       4.0       1.3       1.6       -
Capital Expenditure                     102.9     211.4     304.8     359.2     322.0
Extra Budgetary operations                4.0      -0.5      14.8      13.6       -
Overall Deficit                         -99.4    -186.6    -293.0    .524.1    -308.0
Central Government                                                             Central Government
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS             1974/75   1975176   1976/77            INVESTMENT PROGRAM DETAILS          1974/75 1975/76  1976/77
(As % of Total Current Expenditure)                                            (As % of Total Capital Expenditures)
General Administration                  28.2      30.7      29.9             Economic Services                     59.0    57.8     42.3
Social and Community Services           37.9      38.7      36.4             Social Services                       28.7    30.3     29.4
Economic Services                       20.2      17.3      23.9             General Services                       9.7     5.1     18.4
Other                                   13.7      13.3       9.8             Other                                  2.6     6.8      9.9
SELECTED INDICATORS                     1965-70   1970-75                      FINANCING OP PUBLIC SECTOR INVEST. PROGRAM
(As % of Total Gopital Expenditure)
Average ICOR                             4,5       4.7                      -Public Sector Savings                  9.6     8.3    -42.6
Import Elasticity                        0.8       1.0                       Domestic Borrowing (net)             20.4     37.7     90.7
Imports/GDP                             41.7      46.2                       External Borrowing (net)              26.1    32.6     23.2
Exports/GDP                             39.5      36.0                       Other                                43.9     21.4     28.7
Value Added Per Worker
EMPLOYMENT AND OUTPUT                              Total Employed                            (1974UPrices and Exchange Rates)
PER WORKER                                  Thousands         % of Total                          US              fAver!se
1969      1975      1969      1975                           198i 7~  1969     1975
Agriculture                            232.8     223.3      37 .7    32.8               662.4      864.3     21.1     24.4
Manufacturing                           68.4      74, 7     11.1     11.0             3,549.7    5,5SO.0    113.0     156.6
Public Administration                   54.7      99.0       8.9     14.5             2,972.5    2,692.9     94.6      76.0
Other                                  261.1     283.8      42.3     41.7             3,872.9    6,099.4    123.3    172.1
Total or Average                       617.0     68 0. 8   100.0O   100. 0            3,141.0    3,543.2    100.0     100.0
Not applicable.                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Country Programs Department II
Not applicable.                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Latin America And Caribbean Regional Office
-nil or negligible.                                                                                October 18, 1977



ANNEX I
- 26 -
JAMAICA
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(In current US$ millions)
Avg. Annual
Actual                Estimated                 Projected                  Growth Rate
1974         1975       1976        1977         1978        1979         1980     1974-76   1977-80
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (incl. NFS)                                     959.2     1,101.1      838.8      1,036.0     1,235.3      1,448.6     1,702.9     -6.5      L8.0
Imports (incl. NFS)                                  1,064.3      1.307.2    1,144.0      i,o41 0     1,174.3     1,360.3      1.558.7      3.7      14.1
Resource Balance (X-M)                                -105.1       -206.1     -205.2         -5.0        61.o         88.3       144.2
Interest (net)                                         -32.8        -49.0      -54.0        -59.3       -65.0        -74.0       -80.0     28.5      10.5
Other Factor Service Income (net)                       -38.4       -50.9      -54.7        -63.3       -75.0        -82.0       -90.0     19.3      12.4
Current Transfers (net)                                 27.8         26.2       18.7         17.6        17.0         18.0        19.0    -18 0       2.6
Balance on Current Accounts                           -148.5       -279.8     -295.2       -110.0       -62.0        -49.7        -6.0
Private Direct Investment (net)                         -3.2        -14.3       -5.5         -8.0       -10.0        -10.0       -10.0
Public M&LT Loans
Disbursements                                        187.8        246.7      195.4        177.0       145.0        215.7       174.0
-Repayments                                           -31.6        -31.9      -51.4        -80.8      -107.0        116.0        98.0
Net Disbursements                                       156.2       214.8       144.0        96.2        38.0         99.7        76.0
IMF DRAWINGS                                             0.3         -0.6       64.6         32.5        45.0
Capital Transactions n.e.i.                             55.4         -2.2     -175.9        -10.7        19.0          -            -
Change in Net Reserves (- increase)                     60.2         82.1      268.0           -        -30.0        -50.0       -60.0
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
Official Grants & Grant-like Loans                         -           -           -             DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE                       1974       1975        1976
Public Debt Out. & Disbursed              475.2       660.8      854.5
Public M&LT Loans
IBRD                                                  46.5         15.0        6.8               Interest on Public Debt                   32.8       49.0       54.0
IDA                                                     -            -          -                Repayments on Public Debt                 31.6       31.9       51.4
Other Multilateral                                    19.0          7.2       22.2               Total Public Debt Service                 64.4       80.9       105.4
Governments                                            11.1        38.4      159.5               Other Debt Service (net)                   ..
Suppliers                                                -          1.8          -               Total Debt Service (net)                   ..         .
Private Financial Institutions                       140.5        143.0       20.7
Bonds                                                    -           -        10.3             Burden on Export Earnings (%)
Public Loans n.e.i                                       _          2.1        0.5
Total Public M&LT Loans                                217.1        207.5      220.0               Public Debt Service                        6.6        7.3        10.5
Debt Outstanding on Dec 31, 1976              PDS+Direct Invest. Inc.                  13.6        16.5       22.6
EXTERNAL DEBT                                          Disbursed only             Percent
IBRD                                                    58.7                     6.9             Average Terms of Public Debt
IDA
Other Multilateral                                       12.5                     1.5              Int. as % Prior Year DO&D                 10.7       10.3         8.2
Governments                                            257.6                    30.1               Amort. as % Prior Year DO&D               10.3        6.7         7.8
Suppliers                                               17.6                     2.1
Private Financial Institutions                         396.1                    46.3             IBRD Debt Out. & Disbursed
Bonds                                                   47.0                     5.5              "       as % Public Debt O&D                8.0        6.7         6.9
Public Loans n.e.i.                                     65.5                      7.6                     as % Public Debt Service            7.2        6.8         5.7
Total Public M&LT Loans                                854 5                    100.0
not applicable
not available                                                                                                                                               October 13, 1977
- nil or negligible



ANNEX II
- 27 -
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERIATIONS IN JAMAICA
A. Statement of Bank Loans (as at September,30, 1977)
----US$ million----
Loan     Fiscal                                                            Amount
No.       Year            Borrower                Purpose            (less cancellation)
Bank    Undisbursed
7 loans fully disbursed a/                                           46.3
727      1971     Jamaica                    Education              13.5       7.5
899      1973     Jamaica                    Highways                9.3       2.3
1003      1974      Jamaica                   Sites & Services       15.0      11.8
1004      1974     Jamaica Development Bank   Agriculture             5.5       1.9
1032      1975      Jamaica                   Highways               13.5       9.0
1043      1975      Jamaica                   Airports               12.5       7.0
1146      1975     The Water Commission
Kingston, Jamaica         Sewerage/Water        15.0      13.7
1284      1976      Jamaica                   Population              6.8       6.7
1464      1977      Jamaica                   Rural Development      15.0        -
Total (net cancellation)                        152.4
of which has been repaid                         13.1
Total now outstanding                           139.3
Amount sold                   1.6
of which has been repaid      1.4                 0.2
Total now held by Bank                          139.1
Total undisbursed                                          59.9
B.  Statement of IFC Investments (as at September 30. 1977)
Type of                ----US $ million----
Year                Obligor                   Business               Loan  Equity   Total
1961      Jamaica Pre-Mix Ltd.                Pre-mix concrete        0.2            0.2
1968      Pegasus Hotel of Jamaica Ltd.       Tourism                 2.2    0.7     2.9
Total gross commitments                                     2.4    0.7     3.1
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                       1.2            1.2
Total commitments now held by IFC                           1.2    0.7     1.9
Total undisbursed                                            -       -
a/ Including a telecommunications loan (481-JM) made in 1967 to the Jamaica
Telephone Company and cancelled in the same year.



- 28-                      ANNEXII
C. Projects in Execution
Ln. No. 727 Second Education Project; US$13.5 million of March 25, 1971;
Effective Date: July 30, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Project implementation is about three years behind appraisal
schedule due to a change in government, high turnover in project unit staff
and a lack of project implementation machinery. However, project implementation
now seems satisfactory. As a result of initial delays in getting the physical
aspects of the project underway, the construction of schools will not be
completed before August 1978. Thus, the Closing Date, originally December 31,
1975, has been extended to December 31, 1978. Due to sharp increases in
prices and wages in the construction sector since appraisal, estimated project
costs are about 100% greater than originally anticipated. Counterpart funds
are available, however, to allow project implementation to proceed
satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 899 Road Improvement and Maintenance Project; US$9.3 million of
June 1, 1973; Effective Date: August 31, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
After some initial delays and quality control problems, the
resurfacing and resealing program is proceeding satisfactorily. The technical
assistance and training programs of the consultants are also proceeding satis-
factorily. Total project costs are estimated to be about 50% above the
appraisal estimate due to increased costs of asphaltic overlay; nevertheless,
the project is estimated to have a rate of return of about 30%.
Ln. No. 1003 Sites and Services Project; US$15.0 million of June 13, 1974;
Effective Date: September 9, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Delays in the project have been caused by initial start-up problems,
political violence and ineffective management controls. The project is over
one year behind schedule and costs are running 50% more than anticipated. The
Government is considering suggestions made by the Bank to improve management
systems and controls.
Ln. No. 1004 Second Agricultural Credit Project; US$5.5 million of June 13, 1974;
Effective Date: October 3, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Project funds have been entirely committed. The worsening general
economic situation and difficult drought conditions over the last year have had
a negative impact on the Borrower (the Jamaica Development Bank) and the
project. As a result arrears on principal and interest payments have risen to
unacceptable levels. The Jamaica Development Bank has initiated an in-depth
review of its loan portfolio, which includes the reappraisal and rescheduling
of loans and the strengthening of collection activities.



ANNEX II
- 29 -
Ln. No. 1032 Third Highway Project; US$13.5 million of July 26, 1974;
Effective Date: September 27, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Construction has been delayed due to adverse weather conditions,
redesign of some sections and labor problems. Although most project elements
are now proceeding satisfactorily, the delays that have been encountered will
undoubtedly lead to an as yet undetermined escalation in project costs.
Ln. No. 1043 Airport Development Project; US$12.5 million of October 2, 1974;
Effective Date: March 14, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
All major contracts have now been awarded, but earlier delays
encountered during the design and award phases, mean that the project comple-
tion date will slip from 12 to 18 months, and the project cost will probably
exceed appraisal estimates by about 10%. Though execution of work in progress
has been slower than expected, the Government's tight fiscal situation makes
the revised construction schedule more acceptable. The Airports Authority's
aggressive management has improved this institution's financial position in
spite of reduced traffic and high inflation. Nonetheless, the Authority will
be unable to supply its contribution to the project financing plan. The short-
fall will be made up by the Government with help from the Venezuelan Investment
Fund.
Ln. No. 1146 Kingston Sewerage and Water Supply Project; US$15 million of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: June 24, 1976;
Closing Date: September 30, 1979.
After some initial delays in establishing the project unit,
project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. Construction has begun on
all of the subcomponents of the water supply construction program and been
completed on one of them. The Government has approved a water rate increase
required by the loan, but has not yet implemented it.
Ln. No. 1284 Second Population Project; US$6.8 million of June 17, 1976;
Effective Date: August 30, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
A good start in the implementation of the project has been made.
Civil works and procurement are on schedule and project costs are within
appraisal estimates.
Ln. No. 1464 Rural Development Project; US$15 million of June 29, 1977;
Effective Date: October 14, 1977
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The loan was declared effective on October 14, 1977 and project
implementation has only just begun.



-30-                          ANNEX III
Supplementary Loan Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
a) Loan request made to the Bank:            June 1977
b) Bank mission to review request:           August 1977
c) Completion of negotiations:               November 11, 1977
d) Planned date of effectiveness:            December 15, 1977
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions:
1.         Disbursement of US$10 million of the loan amount may be made
only after Jamaica has met the eligibility requirements for the second
(after December 1, 1977) drawing under the Fund Stand-by arrangement.
Disbursement of the remaining US$20 million of loan funds would be conditioned,
in part, on Jamaica's meeting the eligibility requirements for the third
(after March 1, 1978) drawing under the Stand-by (para. 55).
2.         Eligibility for the disbursement of the last US$20 million of funds
available under the loan would also be conditioned on the adoption by the
Government of a satisfactory three-year public sector investment and financing
program, commencing with the Jamaican fiscal year beginning April 1, 1978
(para. 56).



ANNEX IV
- 31 -
STATISTICAL APPENDIX
List of Tables
1. Population Trends, 1972-76.
2. Labor Force Statistics.
3. Sectoral Origin of GDP in Current Prices, 1972-76.
4. Sectoral Origin of GDP in Constant Prices, 1972-76.
5. Implicit Deflators, 1972-76.
6. Expenditure on Gross Domestic Product, 1972-76.
7. Projected Resources and Use of Resources.
8. Balance of Payments, 1972-76.
9. Exports by Major Commodities, 1972-76.
10. Imports by End Use of Category, 1972-76.
11. Projected Balance of Payments, 1977-80.
12. Projected Exports by Major Commodities, 1977-80.
13. External Public Debt Outstanding as of December 31 by Borrower,
Lender and Maturity, 1972-76.
14. Summary of External Public Debt Operations, 1972-76.
15. Central Government Operations, 1973/74-1976/77.
16. Central Government Revenue, 1973/74-1976/77.
17. Central Government Expenditure by Economic Classification,
1973/74-1976/77.
18. Commercial Bank Credit to the Private Sector, 1972-76.
19. Selected Interest Rates, 1972-76.
20. Output of Selected Commodities, 1972-76.
21. Tourism Statistics, 1972-76.
22. Consumer Price Index, 1972-1977.



- 32 -
Table 1: POPULATION TRENDS, 1972-76
1972      1973      1974      1975      1976      1977
(In thousands)
Population (beginning of
year                         1911.4    1953.5    1990.7    2025.0    2060.0
Population Increase             42.0      37.2      34.2      35.4      24.9
Natural Increase                52.3      47.7      47.1      47.5      47.1
Births                       (66.2)    (61.9)    (61.5)    (61.5)    (61.7)
Deaths                      (-14.0)   (-14.2)   (-14.4)   (-14.0)   (-14.6)
Net Emigration                 -10.2     -10.5     -13.0     -12.1     -22.2
Population (end of year)      1953.5    1990.7    2025.0    2060.3    2084.9
(In per cent)
Rate of Natural Increase         2.7       2.4       2.4       2.3       2.3
Birth Rate                    (3.5)     (3.2)     (3.1)     (3.0)     (3.0)
Death Rate                   (-0.7)    (-0.7)    (-0.7)    (-0.7)    (-0.7)
Rate of Net Emigration          -0.5      -0.5      -0.7      -0.6      -1.1
Rate of Population Increase      2.2       1.9       1.7       1.7       1.2
Sources: Department of Statistics; National Planning Agency.



- 33 -
Table 2 - LABOR FORCE STATISTICS
1973                    1974                    1975                     1976
Apr.-      Oct.        Apr.         Oct.        Apr.         Oct.        Apr.        Oct.
(In thousands)
Population                               1,963       1,982        1,993       2,012        2,032       2,047       2,063        2,083
By economic status
Economically inactive                  1,152       1,179        1,173       1,192       1,182        1,181       1,191       1,188
Labor force                              811         803          820         820         850          866         872          895
By sex
Male                                     499          506         503         518          515         523         523          529
Female                                   653         673          670         674          667         658         668          659
Labor force                                811          803         820         820          850         866         872          895
By economic status
Employed                                 637         622          642         651          680         685         693          679
Unemployed                               174          181         178         169          170         181         179          216
By sex
Male                                     442          445         454         455          475         470         481          489
Female                                   369         358          366         365          375         396         391          406
(Unemployment as per cent of labor force in respective group)
Total                                     21.4         22.5        21.7        20.6         20.0        20.9        20.5         24.1
By sex
Male                                    12.4         13.4        12.0        12.7         11.1        11.9         12.1        14.7
Female                                  32.4         33.8        33.7        30.6         31.2        31.7        30.9         35.6
By age group
14-24                                   37.2        40.1         39.5        37.2         36.2        37.8        38.2         45.2
25-34                                   22.4        21.6         21.7        19.0         18.2        19.3        19.9         22.7
35 and  over                            12.6        13.0         12.0        12.5         11.5        12.4        11.1         13.0
By occupation
Professional and self-employed           4.3          5.6         4.8         3.5          4.8         5.0          5.3         7.0
Clerical and sales occupations          15.0        17.5         17.7        15.2         13.7        17.9         16.5        20.5
Service occupations                     35.3        32.1         34.0        31.8         30.8        33.6         34.0        38.8
Craftsman and operating
occupations                            18.3         19.0        19.5        19.1         17.3        19.4         21.6        23.1
Unskilled                               19.4         22.8        18.6        20.7         20.6        17.7         17.3        23.4
Occupation not specified                19.4         61.5        36.4        42.1         18.9        23.8         27.3         7.4
Source: Department of Statistics.



- 34 -
Table 3: SECTORAL ORIGIN OF GDP IN CURRENT PRICES, 1972-76
1972     1973    1974     1975    1976
(J$ million)
Agriculture, Forestry & Fishing            106     128      162     202      229
Export Agriculture                       (25)    (25)     (36)    (47)     (54)
Domestic Agriculture                     (47)    (54)     (70)    (84)     (95)
Livestock                                (21)    (31)     (37)    (48)     (54)
Other                                    (13)    (18)     (19)    (23)     (26)
Mining                                     122     149      298     272      240
Bauxite & Alumina                       (113)   (139)    (288)   (264)    (233)
Quarrying & Refining                      (9)    (10)     (10)     (8)      (7)
Manufacturing                              241     293      379     455      539
Sugar, Molasses, & Rum                    (8)     (8)     (18)    (26)     (20)
Other Food                               (38)    (45)     (68)    (79)     (97)
Textiles                                 (12)    (23)     (18)    (23)     (23)
Other                                   (183)   (217)    (275)   (327)    (399)
Construction & Installation                185     216      260     305      257
Electricity, Gas & Water                    17      18       22      36       57
St.rvices                                  807     980     1130    1449     1494
Transportation, Storage &
Communications                         (93)   (117)    (137)   (157)    (171)
Distributive Trades                     (285)   (332)    (364)   (452)    (385)
Financial Institutions                   (64)    (74)     (94)   (105)    (131)
Owmership of Dwellings                  (120)   (149)    (180)   (217)    (252)
P'b3ie Administration                   (137)   (186)    (251)   (328)    (381)
NIas.-llaneous Services                 (108)   (122)    (104)   (190)    (174)
GDP at Current Market Prices              1478    1784     2251    2719     2816
(As % of Total)
Agriculture                                7.2      7.2     7.2      7.4     8.1
Mining                                     8.2     8.3     13.2    10.0      8.5
Manufacturing                             16.3    16.1     16.8    16.7     19.1
Construction                              12.5    12.1     11.5    11.2      9.1
Electricity, Gas & Water                   1.2     1.0      1.0     1.3      2.0
Services                                  54.6    54.9     50.2    53.3     53.1
of which:   Public Administration       (9.3)  (10.4)   (11.1)  (12.1)   (13.5)
Source: Department of Statistics.



- 35 -
Table 4:   SECTORAL ORIGIN OF GDP IN CONSTANT PRICES, 1972-76
1972    1973     1974    1975     1976
(J$ million, 1974 prices)
Agriculture, Forestry & Fishing           168      157     162      165     170
Export Agriculture                      (40)     (32)    (36)     (33)    (36)
Domestic Agriculture                    (69)     (64)    (70)     (73)    (73)
Livestock                               (39)     (42)    (37)     (40)    (42)
Other                                   (20)     (20)    (19)     (19)    (19)
Mining                                    257      267     298      221     201
Bauxite & Alumina                      (245)    (256)   (288)    (214)   (194)
Quarrying & Refining                    (12)     (11)    (10)      (7)     (7)
Manufacturing                             392      395     379      403     376
Sugar, Molasses, & Rum                  (13)     (12)    (18)     (13)    (13)
Other Food                              (73)     (66)    (68)     (77)    (87)
Textiles                                (18)     (27)    (18)     (16)    (16)
Other                                  (288)    (290)   (275)    (297)   (260)
Construction & Installation               347      279     260      249     193
Electricity, Gas & Water                   20       22      22       25      24
Services                                 1176     1177    1130     1167    1112
Transportation,Storage &
Communications                       (122)    (129)   (137)    (143)   (138)
Distributive Trades                    (482)    (447)   (364)    (387)   (326)
Financial Institutions                 (102)    (101)    (94)    (107)   (122)
Ownership of Dwellings                 (168)    (173)   (180)    (177)   (157)
Public Administration                  (186)    (223)   (251)    (241)   (277)
Miscellaneous Services                 (116)    (104)   (104)    (112)    (92)
GDP at Constant Market Prices            2360     2299    2251     2230    2076
(As % of total)
Agriculture                                7.1     6.9      7.2     7.4     8.2
Mining                                   10.9     11.6    13.2      9.9     9.7
Manufacturing                            16.6     17.2    16.8     18.1    18.1
Construction                             14.7     12.1    11.6     11.2     9.3
Electricity, Gas & Water                  0.8      1.0     1.0      1.1     1.2
Services                                 49.8     51.2    50.2     52.3    53.6
of which:   Public Administration      (7.9)    (9.7)  (11.1)   (10.8)  (13.3)
Source: Department of Statistics.



- 36 -
Tab . 5: IMPLICIT DEFTLATORS, 1972-76
(1974 = 100)
1972    1973    1974    1975     1976
Agriculture, Forestry & Fishing       63.1    81.5   100.0   122.4   134.7
Mining                                47.5    55.8   100.0   123.1   119.4
Manufacturing                         61.5    74.2   100.0   112.9   143.4
Construction                          53.3    77.4   100.0   122.5   133.2
Electricity, Gas & Water              85.0    81.8   100.0   144.0   237.5
Services                              68.6    83.3    99.9   124.2   134.4
GDP at Market Prices                  62.6    77.6   100.0   121.9   135.6
Source: Department of Statistics.



- 37 -
Table 6: EXPENDITURE ON GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT, 1972-76
(J$ million)
1972      1973      1974      1975      1976
Consumption                           1146.1   1349.5    1747.4    2191.0    2521.9
Private                              952.8    1073.3   1356.2    1715.2    1940.1
Public                               193.3     276.2    391.2     475.8     581.8
Gross Domestic Invesment               412.1    563.2     599.1     715.9     480.9
Fixed Capital Formation              386.1    471.8     505.1     643.0     448.9
of which:  Private                (347.6)   (425.2)   (429.2)  (519.8)   (329.5)
Public                  (38.5)    (46.6)    (75.9)   (123.2)   (119.4)
Change in Inventories                 26.0     91.4      94.0      72.9      32.0
Goods and Non-factor Services Balance  -80.0   -129.0     -95.5    -187.4    -186.6
Exports of Goods & NFS                 493.0    575.0     872.0    1001.0     853.4
Imports of Goods & NFS                 573.0    704.0     967.5    1188.4    1040.0
GDP at Current Market Prices          1478.2   1783.7    2251.0    2719.5    2816.2
Less Indirect Taxes and
Subsidies (Net)                      130.8     152.3     186.5     211.0     231.1
GDP at Current Factor Cost            1348.0    1631.4   2064.5    2508.5    2585.1
Net FActor Income Payments Abroad      -43.0    -52.0     -64.7     -90.8     -98.8
GNP at Current Factor Cost            1305.0   1579.4    1999.8    2417.7    2486.3
Source: Department of Statistics, Bank of Jamaica.



- 38 -
Table 7: PROJECTED RESOURCES AND USE OF RESOURCES, 1977-80
(Constant 1974 US$ million)
Actual    Estimated                Projected
1976        1977         1978        1979        1980
GDP                              2,283.8     2,055.4     2,060.0      2,163.0     2,275.0
Gains from Terms of Trade          124.4       121.0        140.5       152.3       180.6
Gross Domestic Income            2,408.2     2,176.4     2,200.5      2,315.3     2,455.6
Imports (incl NFS)                 986.2       834.4        876.0       944.0     1,005.6
Exports (import capacity)          809.3       830.8        921.9     1,005.3     1,098.6
Consumption                      2,188.3     1,880.0      1,824.6     1,864.0     1,912.6
Investment                         396.8       300.0       330.0        390.0       450.0
Domestic Savings                   219.9       296.4        375.9       451.3       543.0
National Savings                   126.3       198.1        251.7       297.4       433.3
Source: Mission estimates.



- 39 -
Table 8 - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, 1972-76
(US$ million)
1972         1973          1974          1975         1976
Exports (including NFS)                      578.8        632.5         959.2       1101.1         938.8
Imports (including NFS)                     671.6         774.4       1064.3        1307.2       1144.0
Resource Balance                           - 92.8        -141.9      - 105.1       - 206.1      - 205.2
Interest (net)                             - 12.3        - 17.4      -   32.8      -  49.0      -   54.0
Other Factor Service Income (net)          -104.9        - 41.9      -   38.4      -  50.9      -   54.7
Current Transfers(net)                        22.7         26.7          27.8         26.2          18.7
Balance on Current Account                 -187.3        -174.5      - 148.5       - 279.8      - 295.2
Direct Foreign Investment                     17.5         33.7      -    3.2      -  14.3      -    5.5
Public M&LT loans (net)                       34.4        131.9        156.2         214.8         144.0
(Gross Disbursements)                   (53.5)       (148.8)      (187.8)       (246.7)      (195.4)
(Amortization)                         (-19.1)       (-16.9)      (-31.6)       (-31.9)      (-51.4)
IMF Drawings                  /               5.5           -            0.3         - 0.6          64.6
Capital Transactions n.e.i. -                86.9          34.4         55.4         - 2.2      - 175.9
Change in Reserves (- increase)             -43.0          25.5        -60.2          82.1         268.0
a/ Includes errors and omissions.
Source: Bank of Jamaica.



- 40 -
Table 9 - EXPORTS BY MAJOR COMMODITIES, 1972-76
(US$ million)
1972      1973       1974      1975      1976
CONSTANT (1974) PRICES
Bauxite                    118.9     122.6     130.1       82.9     100.8
Alumina                    272.7     308.8     385.9      315.7     212.8
Sugar                       83.7      79.1      81.8       76.8      69.7
Bananas                     22.1      18.8      12.5       11.9      13.3
Other Merchandise           83.9     100.2     107.9       97.0      89.9
Total Merchandise          581.3     629.5     718.2      584.3     486.5
Nonfactor Services         307.7     341.3     241.0      238.7     198.4
Total Goods & NFS          889.0     970.8     959.2      823.0     684.9
PRICE INDICES (1974=100)
Bauxite                     72.5      72.0     100.0      131.0     149.8
Alumina                     55.4      53.2     100.0      133.4     143.1
Sugar                       50.8      49.8     100.0      200.0      88.1
Bananas                     67.3      97.0     100.0      135.8      98.8
Other Merchandise           99.8      83.2     100.0      118.6     145.7
Total Merchandise           65.1      62.5     100.0      139.4     135.9
Nonfactor Services          65.1      70.0     100.0      120.0     140.0
Total Goods & NFS           65.1      65.2     100.0      133.8     137.1
CURRENT PRICES
Bauxite                     86.2      88.3     130.1      108.6     151.0
Alumina                    151.1     164.3     385.9      421.2     304.5
Sugar                       42.5      39.4      81.8     153.7       61.4
Bananas                     14.9      18.2      12.5       16.1      13.1
Other Merchandise           83.7      83.4     107.9     115.0      131.0
Total Merchandise          378.5     393.6     718.2     814.6      661.0
Nonfactor Services         200.3     238.9     241.0      286.5     277.8
Total Goods & NFS          578.8     632.5     959.2    1101.1      938.8
Source: Bank of Jamaica, IMF.



- 41 -
Table 10 - IMPORTS BY END USE OF CATEGORY, 1972-76
1972      1973       1974      1975      1976
(US$ million)
Food                              89.1      93.3      122.1     129.9      88.0
Other Consumer  oods             118.6      93.0       74.4     103.7      76.7
Petroleum                         55.5      72.7      195.2     215.0     203.5
Other Intermediate Goods         168.3     199.9      288.2     328.7     310.9
Capital Goods                    185.2     207.3      252.0     345.7     233.9
Total MErchandise Imports        616.7     664.5      931.9    1123.0     913.0
(As % of total)
Food                              14.4      14.0       13.1      11.6       9.6
Other Consumer Goods              19.2      13.9        8.3       9.2       8.4
Petroleum                          9.0      10.5       20,9      19.1      22.3
Other Intermediate Goods          27.3      29.8       30.8      29.3      34.1
Capital Goods                     30.1      30.8       26.9      30.8      25.6
Total Merchandise Imports        100.0     100.0      100.0     100.0     100.0
Note:  The figures for total imports in 1972 and 1973 have been revised
but no breakdown is available for these totals. Therefore, the
original breakdown has been adjusted in the same proportion as
the totals.
Source: Bank of Jamaica; Department of Statistics.



- 42 -
Table 11: PROJECTED BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, 1977-80
(US$ Million)
Act.     Est.             Projected
1976     1977       1978     1979     1980
Exports (incl. NFS)                      938.8    1036.0    1235.3   1448.6    1702.9
Imports (incl. NFS)                     1144.0    1041.0    1174.3   1360.3    1558.7
Resource Balance                        -205.2      -5.0      61.0     88.3     144.2
Interest (net)                           -54.0    -59.3      -65.0    -74.0    -80.0
Other Factor Service Income (net)        -54.7     -63.3     -75.0    -82.0     -90.0
Current Transfers (net)                   18.7      17.6      17.0     18.0      19.0
Balance on Current Account              -295.2    -110.0     -62.0    -49.7      -6.0
Direct Foreign Investment (net)           -5.5      -8.0     -10.0    -10.0     -10.0
Public M&LT loans (net)                  144.0      96.2  /   38.0     99.7      76.0
(Gross Disbursements)                (195.4)   (177.0)-  (145.0)  (215.7)   (174.0)
(Amortization)                       (-51.4)   (-80.8)  (-107.091(-116.0)   (-93.0)
IMF Drawings                b/            64.6      32.5      45.0-    10.0        _
Capital Transactions n.e.i.-            -175.9     -10.7      19.0       -         -
Change in Reserves (-increase)           268.0       -       -30.0    -50.0     -60.0
Memo Items
Gross Official Reservea/(import
coverage in months)-                    0.5       0.6       0.7      0.8       0.9
Debt Service Ratio (%)                     11.2     13.5      13.9     13.1      10.5
% Share of IBRD in:
Public Debt OutstanPng & Disbursed-     6.9       6.9       7.5      7.8       8.0
Public Debt Service-                    5.7       5.4       5.7      6.3       7.3
c)' Trfludes US$10 million of the proposed US$30 million Bank program loan.
b/  .ucludes errors and omissions.
c'  Includes US$29 million under the current Stand-by arrangement and US$16 million
under supplementary financing.
d/  It is assumed that most of the increase in reserves beyond 1977 will be used
to reduce foreign liabilities of Bank of Jamaica which stood at US$230 million
at the end of June 1977.
e/  Also includes publicly guaranteed private debt.
Sources: Bank of Jamaica; mission estimates.



-43 -
Table 12: PROJECTED EXPORTS BY MAJOR COMMODITIES, 1977-80
(US$ million)
Actual      Estimated              Projected
1976          1977         1978     1979       1980
CONSTANT (1974) PRICES
Bauxite                  100.8         102.6        108.5    110.0      112.0
Alumina                  212.8         278.0        305.0    334.0      350.0
Sugar                     69.7          66.7        68.0      69.0       70.0
Bananas                   13.3          14.6         14.9     15.0       16.0
Other Merchandise         89.9          89.7        100.0    110.0      120.0
Total Merchandise        486.5         551.6        596.4    638.0      668.0
Nonfactor Services       198.4         158.2        185.0    215.0      250.0
Total Goods of NFS       684.9         709.8        781.4    853.0      918.0
PRICE INDICES (1974=100)
Bauxite                  149.8         158.1        170.0    182.7      197.0
Alumina                  143.1         153.8        168.0    180.0      198.0
Sugar                     88.1          90.7        94.0      99.0      110.0
Bananas                   98.8         100.7        108.1    115.0      121.0
Other Merchandise        145.7         157.0        166.0    178.0      191.0
Total Merchandise        135.9         144.9        158.1    169.8      185.5
Nonfactor Services       140.0         149.8        158.1    169.8      185.5
Total Goods & NFS        137.1         146.0        158.1    169.8      185.5
CURRENT PRICES
Bauxite                  151.0         162.2        184.4    201.0      220.6
Alumina                  304.5         427.6        512.4    601.2      693.0
Sugar                     61.4          60.5         63.9     68.3       77.0
Bananas                   13.1          14.7         16.1     17.2       19.4
Other Merchandise        131.0         140.8        166.0    195.8      229.2
Total Merchandise        661.0         799.0        942.8   1083.5     1230.2
Nonfactor Services       277.8         237.0        292.5    365.1      463.7
Total Goods & NFS        938.8        1036.0       1235.3   1448.6     1702.9
Source: Bank of Jamaica; Mission estimates.



- 44 -
Table 13: EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT OUTSTANDING AND DISBURSED
AS OF DEC. 31, 1972, 1975 and 1976
(In million US$)
1972         1975         1976
Suppliers Credits                  2.2         20.9         17.6
Private Bank Credits              44.1        402.0        396.1
Publicly Issued Bonds             50.3         28.4         31.3
Privately Placed Bonds             2.4         15.9         15.7
Nationalization                    -            -           53.2
Other Private Debt                0.07          4.8         11.8
Multilateral Loans                35.2         52.5         71.2
IBRD                            34.8         44.1         58.7
IDB                              0.4          8.4         12.5
Bilateral Loans                   43.0        136.3        257.5
Barbados                         -            -            7.3
Canada                          11.2         34.6         36.8
Trinidad and Tobago              -            -           77.0
United Kingdom                   2.2          5,0          4.9
United States                   29.6         84.0         89.1
Venezuela                        -           12.5         37.5
Other                            -            -            4.9
Total External Public Debt       177.3        660.8        854.5
Source: External Debt Division, IBRD.



- 45 -
Table 14: SUMMARY OF EXTERNAL PUBLIC AND PUBLICLY
GUARANTEED DEBT OPERATIONS, 1972-76
1972        1973        1974       1975        1976
(US$ million)
Debt Outstanding and
Disbursed (end of period)      177.3       306.3       475.2       660.8       854.5
Debt Service Payments             31.4        34.3        64.4        80.9      105.4
Amortization                   19.1        16.9        31.6        31.9        51.4
Interest                       12.3        17.4        32.8        49.0       54.0
(In percent)
Debt Outstanding and
Disbursed /GNP                  10.5        16.1        19.8        22.9       28.6
Debt Service Ratio                 3.5         5.4         6.7         7.3       11.2
Source: External Debt Division, IBRD, Bank of Jamaica.



- 46 -
Table 15;  CENTRAL GOVERNMENT OPERATIONS, 1973/74 - 1976/77
(J$ million)
1973/74     1975/75      1975/76     1976/77
Current Revenue                               346.9       513.5        639.4       605.1
(Taxes on Income and Profits)              (147.7)     (185.0)     (194.8)      (219.0)
(Taxes on Production and Consumption)       (92.8)     (121.7)     (157.7)      (190.4)
(Taxes on International Trade)              (55.8)      (59.2)      (85.7)       (40.4)
(Transfers from CDF) a/                     ( -  )      (85.0)     (125.0)       (80.0)
(All Other)                                 (50.6)      (62.6)      (76.2)       (75.3)
Current Expenditure                           340.2       493.2        614.1       758.0
Current Surplus                                 6.7        20.3         25.3      -152.9
Capital Revenue                                 0.8         4.0          1.3         1.6
Capital Expenditure                           102.9       211.4        304.8       359.2
Extra Budgetary Operations                      4.0        -0.5         14.8        13.6
Overall Deficit                               -99.4      -186.6       -293.0      -524.1
Financing                                      99.4       186.6        293.0       524.1
External Borrowing (net)                     53.9        55.2         99.4        83.2
Domestic Banking System                      18.1        43.2       114.9        325.9
Nonbank Financing                            27.4        76.8         77.6       114.5
Other                                         -          11.4         1.1          0.5
a/ Transfers of the bauxite sevy from the capital Development Fund.
Source: Ministry of Finance.



- 47 -
Table 16: CENTRAL GOVERNMENT REVENUE, 1973/74-1976/77
Prov.
1973/74     1974/75      1975/76     1976/77
(In millions of Jamaica dollars)
Total Revenue                           347.7        517.5       640.7        606.7
Tax Revenue                              322.2       394.5       477.5        484.8
Taxes on Income and Profits              147.7       185.0       194.8        219.0
Companies                             (66.8)       (78.5)      (71.5)       (74.1)
Bauxite and Alumina                 /21.0/       /23.5/      /13.5/       /15.6/
Other                               /45.8/       /55.0/      /58.0/       /58.5/
Personal                               (80.9)     (106.5)     (123.3)      (144.9)
Taxes on Property                        10.7         12.1        22.4         21.0
Taxes on Production and Consumption      92.8        121.7       157.7        190.4
Excises                                (54.8)      (57.4)      (52.9)       (48.5)
Consumption Duty                      (19.9)       (43.9)      (75.1)      (114.0)
Retail Sales Tax                        (5.1)       (6.9)      (12.6)        (7.1)
Motor Vehicle Licenses                  (6.6)       (6.8)       (9.4)       (10.0)
Other                                   (6.4)       (6.7)       (7.7)       (i0.8)
Taxes on International Trade and
Transactions                            55.8         59.2        85.7         40.4
Import Taxes                          (54.6)       (57.9)      (83.9)       (39.0)
Travel Tax                              (0.2)       (1.3)       (1.8)        (1.4)
Other Taxes                              15.2         16.5        16.9         14.0
Stamp Duties                           (15.2)      (16.5)      (16.9)       (14.0)
Nontax Revenue                           24.7         34.0        36.9         40.3
Royalties                                  3.6         6.6         5.4          4.8
Interest                                  1.0          0.8         0.8          1.2
Debt Charge Reimbursements                0.8          0.2         0.1          0.1
Post Office                                5.8         6.3         8.5          8.2
Bank of Jamaica Profits                   8.2         12.1         7.8          8.3
Departmental and Other Miscellaneous
Revenue                                  5.3          8.0        14.3         17.7
Transfers from Capital
Development Fund                         --          85.0       125.0         80.0
Capital Revenue                           0.8          4.0         1.3          1.6
Source: Ministry of Finance.



- 48 -
Table 17: CENTRAL GOVERNMENT EXPENDITURE BY ECONOMIC
CLASSIFICATION a/, 1973/74 - 1976/77
Prov.
1973/74       1974/75      1975/76       1976/77
(In millions of Jamaica dollars)
Total Expenditure b/                443.1         704.6        918.9       1,117.2
Current Expenditure                 340.2         493.2        614.1         758.0
Goods and Services     c/           168.7         223.8        269.9         321.7
Personal Emoluments -            (109.5)       (142.4)      (181.0)       (227.4)
Other Goods and Services          (59.2)        (81.4)        (88.9)       (94.3)
Interest Payments                    25.6          38.8         58.5          95.3
Current Transfers                   131.8         230.9        283.2         342.6
Local Authorities                  (38.5)       (73.9)        (91.0)      (109.0)
Education                          (48.8)       (78.5)        (98.0)      (147.9)
Other Public Sector                (22.1)       (48.7)        (56.7)       (67.6)
Private Sector                     (13.7)       (17.3)        (22,0)       (15.4)
Foreigners                          (8.6)       (12.0)        (12.9)       !(2.7)
Unallocable                         (0.1)        (0.5)         (2.6)         (--)
Unclassified                           4.3           -             --          7.8
Adjustments d/                         9.8         -0.3           2.5         -9.4
Capital Expenditure                 102.9         211.4         304.8        359.2
Capital Formation                    49.7          84.7         136.0        113.8
Purchase of Land                       3.0          3.8          10.0         16.7
Capital Transfers                     75.7        115.3         151.7        205.8
Local Authorities                   (4.9)       (12.9)        (15.8)       (18.6)
Education            e/             (0.1)        (0.1)         (0.4)        (7.8)
Other Public Sector -              (51.5)       (84.9)       (112.5)      (140.0)
Private Sector                     (14.0)       (13.8)        (20.0)       (33.1)
Foreigners                          (3.9)        (3.6)         (3.0)        (5.8)
Unallocable                         (1.3)         (--)          (--)        (0.5)
Unclassified                           1.1           --            --         20.2
Adjustments                          -26.6          7.6           7.1          2.7
(As percent of total)
Current Expenditure                   76.8         70.0         66.8          67.9
Capital Expenditure                   23.2         30.0         33.2          32.1
a/  Final data through 1975/76 and Consolidated Fund data for 1976/77.
b/ Net of amortization.
c/  Includes cost of government contributions to the- National Housing Trust on
behalf of government employees.
d/ Adjustments are equal to the difference between t-he control totals used and
the totals shown in the documents used to derive the detailed classification.
e/ Grants, subsidies, and loans, as well as capital subscriptions to and share
purchases in government institutions.
Source: Ministrv of Finance.



- 49 -
Table 18:  COMMERCIAL BANK CREDIT TO THE PRIVATE SECTOR, 1972-76
December 31
1972      1973       1974      1975       1976-
(In millions of Jamaica dollars)
Total                                    405.4     490.8     563.0      678.5     686.0
Personal                                  85.3      91.4     106.9      131.9     114.7
Professional and Other Services           15.5      22.2      33.1       40.4      44.7
Industry                                 85.9      110.1     112.8      117.7     123.1
Sugar, Rum, and Molasses               (15.3)    (19.7)    (16.3)     (13.4)    (14.7)
Food, Drink, and Tobacco               (16.6)    (17.5)    (18.7)     (21.4)    (25.1)
Textiles, Leather, and Footwear        (10.1)    (16.8)     (16.2)    (15.8)    (12.1)
Other Industry                         (43.9)    (56.1)    (61.6)     (67.1)    (71.2)
Distributive Trades                       69.8      76.9      85.5       97.5     107.6
Construction and Land Development         72.3     104.9     125.4      141.0     126.8
Public Utilities                          26.6      22.6      27.6       17.3      15.4
Tourism and Entertainment                 16.1      19.7      20.8       16.2      17.2
Agriculture and Fishing                   12.9      22.5      26.6       71.1      82.4
Credit to Financial Institutions         12.9       13.8      18.1       21.3      19.9
Mining                                     8.1       6.6       6.2        5.8       6.4
Transport and Communications               --        --        --        18.3      27.8
(As per cent of total)
Personal                                  21.0      18.6      19.0       21.0      16.7
Professional and Other Services            3.8       4.5       5.9        6.5       6.5
Industry                                  21.2      22.4      20.0       18.8      17.9
Sugar, Rum, and Molasses                (3.8)     (4.0)     (2.9)      (2.1)     (2.1)
Food, Drink, and Tobacco                (4.1)     (3.6)     (3.3)      (3.4)     (3.7)
Textiles, Leather, and Footwear         (2.5)     (3.4)     (2.9)      (2.5)     (1.8)
Other Industry                         (10.8)    (11.4)    (10.9)     (10.7)    (10.3)
Distributive Trades                       17.2      15.7      15.2       15.6      15.7
Construction and Land Development         17.8      21.4      22.3       22.6      18.5
Public Utilities                           6.6       4.6       4.9        3.6       2.2
Tourism and Entertainment                  4.0       4.0       3.7        2.6       2.5
Agriculture and Fishing                    3.2       4.6       4.7       10.5      12.0
Credit to Financial Institutions           3.2       2.8       3.2        3.4       2.9
Mining                                     2.9       1.3       1.1        0.9       0.9
Transport and Communications               --        --        --         2.7       4.0
Source: Bank of Jamaica.



- 50 -
Table 19.  SELECTED INTEREST RATES, 1972-1977
(In percent per annum)
December 31                                           July
1971          1972           1973          1974          1975          1976          1977
Money Market
Bank Rate                       5.00          6.00          7.00           9.00         8.00           9.00          9.00
Treasury Bills (90 days)        3.52          4.97          7.18           7.20         6.98           7.27          6.93
Long-term Government Bonds      8.20          8.50          9.30          11.10        11.10          11.70         11.70
Commercial Banks
Time Deposits
3-6 Months                3.50-5.00      4.00-8.50     4.00-10.00    8.00-12.00    5.00-10.00    6.00-12.50     2.00-10.75
6-_i2 Months              4.50-7.00      4.50-9.00     8.25-10.13     9.50-12.00   6.00-10.50    6.00-14.00     2.00-12.00
Savings Deposits                3.00          3.50          4.00           6.00         6.00           7.00          7.00
Prime Lending Rate              7.00          8.00          9.00          11.00        10.00          11.00         11.00
Source: Bank of Jamaica and IMF.



- 51 -
Table 20: OUTPUT OF SELECTED COMMODITIES, 1972-76
1972       1973      1974       1975      1976
Major Agricultural Export Products (thousand long tons)
Sugar Production                       373        326       367        355        359
Exports                             (276)      (261)     (264)      (254)      (245)
Domestic Sales and Inventories       (97)       (65)     (103)      (101)      (108)
Banana Production                      304        303       222        218        253
Exports                             (127)      (108)      (72)       (70)       (79)
Domestic Consumption                (177)      (195)     (150)      (148)      (174)
Domestic Crops (thousand short tons)
Copra                                   18         15          9         7          6
Vegetables                              79         73        77         82         84
Plantains                               30         30         29        20         17
Potatoes                                40         28         39        32         26
Yams                                   140        141        145       148        130
Other Root Crops                        56         45        48         61         62
Cocoa                                    7          5         5          5          5
Pimento                                  3          3          3         3          5
Animal Feeds                           178        169        152       191        210
Livestock Products
Head Slaughtered (thousands)
Cattle                                59         64        67         90         69
Hogs                                 126        151       100         88        130
Poultry Meat (million pounds)           20         26         24        37         39
Bauxite and Alumina (million long tons)
Bauxite Production                    12.3       13.4      15.1       11.4       10.1
Converted into Alumina              (5.3)      (6.1)     (7.2)      (6.0)      (3.9)
Exports                             (7.0)      (7.3)      (7.9)     (5.4)      (6.3)
Alumina Production                     2.1        2.5        2.8       1.8        1.6
Exports                             (2.1)      (2.4)      (2.8)     (1.8)      (1.6)
Other                                (-)       (0;.1)      (-         -)(
Manufactures
Rum and Alcohol (million gallons)      3.7        4.0       4.9        4.7        3.8
Beer and Stout (million gallons)      10.9       13.0      13.6       14.7       13.3
Molasses (million gallons)            22.4       19.8       18.6      18.8       18.1
Electricity Sales (million kwh)        947        969        990     1,065      1,120
Industry                            (568)      (572)     (575)      (607)      (640)
Other                               (379)      (397)      (415)     (458)      (480)
Sources:   Department of Statistics; National Planning Agency; Bank of Jamaica;
Banana Board.



- 52 -
Table 21: TOURISM STATISTICS, 1972-76
1972      1973        1974      1975       1976
(In thousands)
Total Visitors                      493.5      517.4      530.7      552.7     470.7
Stopover Visitors                   407.8     418.3       433.0     395.3      327.7
Three Nights and Over            (374.6)    (384.4)    (406.9)   (377.0)    (313.6)
Under Three Nights                (33.2)     (33.8)     (26.1)     (18.3)    (14.1)
Cruise Visitors                      71.5       91.5       92.7     150.4      141.5
Armed Forces Visitors                14.2        7.7        5.1        7.0       1.5
Origin of Stopover Visitors
United States                       316.2      325.3      339.7      297.2     229.3
Canada                               38.3       36.9       37.4       46.7      48.5
United Kingdom                       16.9       17.8       17.2       16.0  )   275
Europe                                8.3        9.0        9.9       10.5  )
Commonwealth Caribbean               13.7       15.1       14.1       11.0  )
Other                                14.3       14.2       14.7       14.2  )   22
Number of Beds                      17.94      19.90      21.90      22.22     23.85
Hotels                              13.19      14.95      16.40      16.59     17.90
Guest Houses                          0.49      0.52       0.50       0.51      0.50
Resort Cottages                       3.62      4,02       4.71       4.82      5.15
Apartments                           0.65       0.42       0.30       0.30      0.30
(In percent)
Room Occupancy Rate                  48.9       48.1       43.8       43.5      33.2
Bed Occupancy Rate                   45.3       43.3       40.0       39.5      30.4
(In days)
Average Length of Stay                7.9        8.3        8.4       8.3        8.1
(In millions of Jamaica dollars)
Estimated Expenditure               107.9      115.8      121.2     116.8       96.1
(In Jamaica dollars)
Average Expenditure Per Visitor       219        224        228       211        204
Source: Tourist Board.



- 53 -
Table 22: CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (ALL JAMAICA), 1972-77
(January 1975 = 100)
Household       Personal
Food      Fuel and                  Furnishings      Clothing
and      Household                    and             and          Personal    Transpor-    Miscel-
Total     Drink      Supplies      Housing     Furniture      Accessories     Expenses      tation      laneous
Weight                    100.0     53.28       5.13           8.87         3.18             8.15          8.43         4.86        8.10
Average During Period
1972                       60.7     57.2        58.7           60.3         60.6            69.2           62.2         61.8        76.0
1973                       71.4     71.3        65.9           70.1         64.7            74.8           71.3         64.6        81.9
1974                       90.8     92.0        90.2           92.6         82.1            89.3           87.9         85.3        92.1
1975                      106.2    108.4       103.8          106.8        104.8           104.0          102.9        101.1      107.2
1976                      117.1    118.1       112.4          121.0        121.2           115.9          112.1        106.5       120.9
End of Period
1972                       63.1     60.0        60.9           62.4         61.3            70.4           64.1         63.7        78.7
1973                       80.1     81.7        81.6           76.9         71.9            78.9           78.5         65.9        87.5
1974                       96.6     97.9        96.6           96.6         88.7            95.7           91.1         99.4        95.6
1975                      111.8    113.1       107.9          116.6        106.5           108.7          108.3         99.5       117.1
1976                      120.9    121.8       114.0          125.4        124.6           119.8          116.2        111.3       125.6
July 1977                 130.0    128.7       120.3          127.0        139.9            126.9         120.2        122.1       161.0
Source: Department of Statistics.



ANNEX V
- 54 -
INDUSTRIAL IMPORTS BY SUBCATEGORIES, 1976
(US$ million)
Paper, Paperboard and Manufacturers Thereof                 22.7
Textile Yarn, Fabrics                                       15.5
Plastic Materials, Regenerated Cellulose and
Artificial Resins                                         15.3
Chemical Materials and Products                             14.7
Manufactures of Metal                                        9.9
Wood, Lumber and Cork                                        4.2
Iron and Steel                                               3.4
Dyeing, Tanning and Coloring Materials                       2.6
Essential Oils, Perfume Materials and Cleaning
Preparations                                               2.1
Machinery Other than Electric                                0.6
Tractors, Whether Fitted or not                              0.3
TOTAL                                                       91.3
Source: Ministry of Finance.



-55                                   ANNEX VI
EXPENDITURE FOR DEVELOPNENT PROJECTS WITH EXTERNAL FINANCING REQUIRING COUNTERPART CONTRIBUTION,
1977/78, 1978/79, 1979/80
(J$ million)
1977/78                                       1978/79                                 1979/80
External      Government                External          Government                 External      Government
ARencies      of Jamaica     Total      Agencies          of Jamaica     Total      Agencies       of Jamaica      Total
I. Ongoing Projects
Industrial Development             5.0             5.7         10.7         1.1               1.6           2.7         2.1            1.4           3.5
Education                           7.6           12.3         19.9          3.5              3.0          6.5          3.2            2.6           5.8
Agricultural Development            3.8            2.5          6.3          1.0              0.3           1.3          -               -            -
Transport & Communications        22.5            14.4         36.9          9.0             15.3          24.3        10.6            6.9          17.5
Water Supply                        40o            2.9          6.9          3.5              2.5           6.0         2.7             1.5          4.2
Sites & Services                   10.8            9.2         20.0           -                -             -           -               -            -
Other Construction                 2.0             3.1          5.1          1.7              0.6           2.3         0.1             0.2          0.3
SUBTOTAL                          55.6            50.0        105.6         19.8             23.3          43_.        18.7            12.6         31.3
II. New Projects with Agreed
External Financing
First Rural Development            5.9             2.1          8.0          6.7              2.3           9.0         3.6             1.9          5.5
Second Rural Development             -              -            -           1.4              3.5           4.9         1.4             3.5          4.9
Mandeville Water Supply              -             0.1          0.1          1.5              0.5           2.0         2.0             1.5          3.5
Canadian Bridge V & VI              -              0.2          0.2          2.5              0.6           3.1         2.5             0.5          3.0
SUBTOTAL                           5.9             2.4          8.3         12.1              6.9          19.0         9.5             7.4         16.9
III. New Projects with External
Financing Under Negotiation
Construction of Micro dams         3.2             1.5          4.7          1.6              1.6           3.2          -              1.7          1.7
Pre-investment Fund                1.1             0.4          1.5          1.8              0.6           2.4         0.7             0.2          0.9
Drainage                           0.5             1.0          1.5           -                -             -           -               -            -
SUBTOTAL                           4.8             2.9          7.7          3.4              2.2           5.6         0.7             1.9          2.6
IV. Other New Projects to be
Submitted in the Near Future
tD External Agencies
Vocational Training                  -              -            -           0.6              0.2           0.6         0.6             0.9          1.5
Literacy                            0.6             -           0.6          0.4               -            0.4          -               -            -
Early Childhood Education           0.3             -           0.3          0.5               -            0.5         0.3              -           0.3
Irrigation                          -               -            -           2.0              3.0           5.0         5.0             9.0         14.0
Fisheries Boat Project               -              -            -           1.2              0.2           1.4         1.2             0.2          1.4
Small Farmer Credit                1.6             2.2          3.8          6.1               7.7         13.8         6.1             7.7         13.8
Ocho Rios Water Supply               -             0.1          0.1          1.5               0.5          2.0         2.5             1.5          4.0
Banana Project                      2.0            0.5          2.6          2.0              0.5           2.6          -               -            -
Squatter Upgrading                 0.4              -           0.4          0.9               -            0.9         0.3              -           0.3
Kingston Water Sewerage             0.5            0.4          0.9          1.6               1.0          2.7          1.4            0.8          2.2
SUBTOTAL                           5.4             3.3          8.6         16.8             13.1          29.8        17.4            20.0         37.4
Total Categories I & II           61.5            52.4        113.9         31.9             30.2          62.1        28.2            20.2         48.2
Total Categories III & IV         10.2             6.2         16.4         20.2             15.3          35.5        18.1            21.9         40.0
GRAND TOTAL                    71.7            58.6        130.3         52.1             45.5          97.6        46.3            42.1         88.2
Source: Ministry of Finance






---------21' S
C _ _ _ _ _      S        I          2 .
?     3                  iii0 



