Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9584
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND FLOOD (EMERGENCY) REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1876-BD)
MAY 24, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENS
(At Appraisal, November 1987)
Bangladesh (Tk) 1 Taka - 100 paisa
US$1- Tk 31.2 (official rate)
- Tk 32.95 (free market wage earner's
system rate)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m) - 1000 millimeter (mm)- 3.281 feet Jft)
1 kilometer (km) - 1000 meters - 3,281 feet - 0.621 mile
1 square kilometer (sq km) - 100 hectares(ha)- 0.3861 square mile
1 Square meter (sq m) - 10.76 square feet
1 hectare (ha) - 2.471 acres.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BIWTA       -     Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority
BWDB        -     Bangladesh Water Development Board
DCA         -      Development Credit Agreement
DPE         -     Directorate of Primary Education
FAO         -      Food and Agriculture Organization
FD          -     Facilities Department of Ministry of Education
GOB         -     Government of Bangladesh
IDA         -      International Development Association
LGD         -     Local Government Division of Ministry of Local Government,
Rural Development and Cooperatives
MOF         -      Ministry of Finance
LGEB        -     Local Government Engineering Bureau
O&M         -      Operation and Maintenance
PCR         -      Project Completion Report
RHD         -      Roads and Highways Department
SAFE        -      Special Account in Foreign Exchange
SDR         -      Special Drawing Rights
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIL U  ONLY
THE WOtLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Ofice of Drectv.1Ceiwal
OrwtnS IOIWEwiatiim
May 24, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report - Bangladesh
Second Flood (Emergency) Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 1876-BD)
Attached, for your information, is a copy of a report
entitled "Project Completion Report on Bangladesh - Second Flood
(Emergency) Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1876-BD)" prepared by the
Asia Regional Office with Part II of the report contributed by the
Borrower, represented by five implementing agencies. No audit of
this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department
at this time.
Attachment                                  ?
This document has a frstrict d distribution and may be used by fipients only in the perorccm
of their official dutit Its contents mayr not otherwi e be disclose without Wofld Bk authonization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1876-BD)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Evaluation Summary   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                U
PART I : PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project  Identity   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  I
Background   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
Project Objectives  and Description   . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . .  2
PLoject Design and Organization  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
Pr-.ject Implementation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
Project Results  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
Project  Sustainability   ....  .                  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .     .   6
Bank Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
Borrower  Performance   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
Project Relationship   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
Consulting Services  ....  .                 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .   8
Project Documentation and Data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
PART II : PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Introduction   ....  .               .  .  .   .   .  .   .   .  .  .  .   .   .  .   .   .  .   .   .     ..  9
Roads and Highways Department - RHD . . . . . . ... 9
Local  Government Division  (Local Government  Engineering
Bureau - LGEB) ........................ . 11
Bangladesh Water Development Board  - BWDB  . . . . . . . . .                               . . . 12
Bangladesh  Inland Water Transport Authority  - BIWTA  . . . . . . . . 13
Directorate  of Primary Education  - DPE   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Lessons Learned ......................... . 15
PART  III        STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Tables
1. Related IDA Credits ...................... . 16
2.   Project Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
3. Credit Disbursements ..................... . 18
4.   Project  Implementation
BWDB Component ...................... . 19
LGD Component  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
*                        DPE Component  .....            .      .  .  .  .  ..  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  21
BIWTA Component  .....  .                 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  22
RHD Component  .....            .      .  .  .  .  ..  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  23



5. Consolidated Project Costs .................. . 24
6.   Consolidated Project Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
7.   Status of Covenants  . . . . . . .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
8.   Use of Bank Resources  ......               ..   .      ..  .   ..  .   ..  .   ..  .      . 27
ANNEX 1
Consolidated Credit Disbursements ................ . 28
BWDB Component Credit Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
RHD Component Credit Disbursements   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
LGD Component Credit Disbursements   ....  .                    .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .     . 31
DPE Component Credit Disbursements.                         . . . . . .  -                 3
BIWTA Component Credit Disbursements   . . . . .33
ANNEX 2
BWDB Component Project Costs   .....  ..  .                     .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .    .  34
BWDB Component Project Financing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
RHD Component Project Costs   ...             ..   .       .  ..  .  ..  .   .  ..  .   .    . 36
RHD Component Project Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
LGD Component Project Costs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
LGD Component Project Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
DPE Component Project Costs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
DPE Component Project Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
BIWTA Component Project Costs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
BIWTA Component Project Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43



PROJECT COIPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1876-BD)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Flood
Rehabilitation Project in Bangladesh, for which Credit 1876-BD in an amount of
SDR 18.2 million equivalent (US$25.0 million) was signed on February 19, 1988.
The Credit closed on June 30, 1989 as scheduled. Disbursement was 96% of the
credit amount, in SDR equivalent terms. The last date of disbursement was
January 30, 1990.
This PCR was pr-pared jointly by Country Department 1, Asia Region
(Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower, represented
by five implementing agencies (Part II). There was no cofinancier partici-
Pation in the project.
Preparation of the PCR commenced during the Bank's final super-
vision mission of the project in October 1989, and it is based on the
following: Development Credit Agreement, President's Report, supervision
reports, monthly disbursement summaries, correspondence between the Bank and
Borrower, internal Bank memoranda, executing agencies' reports, project
proforma and project digests, and discussions with staff of the Bank and the
Borrower concerned with the project.



- iii -
PROJECT CONPLETION REPORT
BANGLAD-ESH
SECOND FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1876-BD)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
i.       The projact's objective -as to rehabilitate, during the 1987/88 and
1988/89 construction seasons, the priority elements of the 1987 flood damage.
In order to assist the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) to quickly restore
damaged infrastructure, the following components were included in the project:
(a) flood control, drainage and irrigation; (b) infrastructure and waterways;
and (c) primary education. The project was implemented by five different
project agencies: Bangladesh Water Development Board (BWDB), Roads and
Highways Department (RHD), Local Government Engineering Bureau (LGEB),
Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority (BIWTA), and Directorate of
Primary Education (DPE).
ii.      In conjunction with providing technical services by local and foreign
consultants, the scope of the work of each project agency was as follows:
(a) repair/reconstruct damaged irrigation, drainage and flood protection works
(BWDB); (b) repair/reconstruct damaged roads, bridges and culverts (RHD and
LGEB); (c) procure equipment and repair facilities for the inland water
transport system (BIWTA); and (d) repair/reconstruct damaged primary schools
(DPE'.
Implementation Experience
iii.     The project was prepared and implemented in line with the Bank's
Operational Directive 8.50 (Emergency Recovery Assistance). It met its
objectives of rehabilitating the flood damage to infrastructure (para. 24).
The Credit was declared effective on March 18, 1988, 27 days after credit
signing. Prior to effectiveness, assessments were prepared by the respective
implementing agencies to select the works to be executed under the project.
Most of the civil works, however, could not commence before mid-October 1988,
due to late appointment of consultants and delay in preparation of tender
documents. The monsoon period and the flood of 1988 further delayed project
implementation. As a result of the severe nature of the 1988 flood, IDA made
provision in the project for rehabilitation of the damage, without a change in
the original credit amount of SDR 18.2 million equivalent (US$25.0 million).
Implementation was also handicapped by the fact that the formalities for
procurement of equipment and furniture were not completed within six months
after credit effectiveness.



- iv -
iv.      Project implementation spanned 22 months.  On June 30, 1989, the
Credit was closed. However, civil works continued six months beyond the
credit closing date because of the necessity to:  (a) redesign structures
affected by the 1988 flood; (b) closely supervise bridge work; and (c) work
around the non-readily available equipment (e.g., road rollers and tarboilers
for roadworks). The project accounts remained open until January 31, 1990.
An amount of about SDR 704,000 equivalent (or 4X of the credit amount) was
cancelled.
v.       The inclusion of the 1988 flood damage resulted in an increase of the
work volume and a cost and time overrun in the LGEB component. However, not
all additional works could be accommodated under this project and IDA agreed
to finance part of the additional damage from the Third Flood Rehabilitation
Project (Cr. 2048-BD).
Sustainability
vi.      The objectives of the project were related to the rehabilitation or
repl- .ement of infrastructure and equipment items on a current and emergency
basis. It is noteworthy, however, that the rehabilitation work restored the
infrastructural items to a better than pre-flood condition. And as proper
operation and maintenance (O&M) are major requirements for keeping restored
structures up to standard, they are the focus of more recent projects financed
by various donors.
Results
vii.      The project restored structures to their original; or, in some
cases, higher specifications. The quality of civil works, which included the
reconstruction and repair of flood embankments, roads, irrigation and drainage
canals, bridges and culverts, water control structures and schools, was
generally good.
Findinas and Lessons Learned
viii.     The implementation delay could have been avoided by timely
appointment of foreign and local consultants, thus reducing the time required
for preparation of tender documents. It proved difficult to select works of
high priority because of local interests. Strengthening of the overall
monitoring aspect of future projects of this type is therefore essential, and
provision for this has been made in the Third Flood (Emergency) Rehabilitation
Project (Cr. 2048-BD). Inclusion of an equipment component for roadworks
could have been considered (although lengthy administrative procedures could
have caused delay in this undertaking as well).
ix.    The project was successful for two reasons.  First, GOB gave it high
priority. The President and senior Government staff oversaw the work of the
project agencies and closely followed project implementation. Second, the
project was implemented in line with the Bank's Operational Directive 8.50
(Emergency Recovery Assistance), i.e., it: (a) followed simple processing
procedures; (b) had limited objectives; and (c) followed a realistic time
schedule.



PROJECT COMPLETION REP,ORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1876-BD)
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
Project Name             :    Second Flood Rehabilitation Project
Credit No.               :     1876-BD
RVP Unit                 :    Asia
Country                  :    Bangladesh
Sector                   .    Emergency Reconstruction
Sub-sector               :    Flood control, drainage, irrigation;
Main roads;
Local roads;
Primary education;
Inland water transport.
Background
1.        Bangladesh, mostly a low lying alluvial plain, is subject to
routine flooding in normal years because of its geographic and climatic
conditions and poor drainage system.. Major rivers of the country - the
Brahmaputra (Jamuna) and Ganges (Padma) - draw water from snow melt in the
Himalayas and monsoon rainfall in their 160 million hectares of catchment
area. Of this area, only 7.5% lies in Bangladesh. Annual rainfall in the
country varies from 1.25 to 5 m, with floods most likely to occur between July
and September when intensive and incessant rainfall coincides with snow melt.
The country's natural drainage system cannot contain the excess water. In
addition, high ocean tides at certain times of the year and cyclones also
cause flooding in the southern coastal belt.
2.        Coming in three surges during July, August and September, the 1987
flood was probably the worst the country had experienced since 1962, although
somewhat unusually the principal cause was excessive rainfall within
Bangladesh itself. Nonetheless, the flood caused damage to over 50,000 square
kilometers in 390 out of 460 upazillas, covering 56 districts out of 64.
Mejor rivers flowed above danger levels continuously from August to September.
Severe cyclonic storms also caused strong tidal surges wle{tch aggravated the
situation.
3.        The successive 1988 flood occurred during the first part of
September, principally because three major rivers - the Meghna, the Jamuna
(Brahmaputra) and the Padma (Ganges) - peaked within a few days of each other,



--
rather than up to a month apart which is the nor-mal situation. Its severity
exceeded that of 1987.
4.        The 1987 flood damage to infrastructure and equipment was estimated
at US$216 million, out of a total damage estimate, including agriculture and
other sectors, of US$640 million. Damage occurred to infrastructure and
equipment in: (a) roads and railways; (b) flood control, drain&ge and
irrigation; (c) schools; and (d) inland water transport facilities.
5.        The Second Flood Rehabilitation Project was the Bank's third
assistance to the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) in its efforts to
rehabilitate damage caused by severe floods. The Coastal Area Rehabilitation
and Cyclone Protection Project (Credit 339-BD) was launched in 1972 (US$25.0
million) to provide assistance in rehabilitating enormous damage caused by the
1970 cyclone which struck coastal districts and killed many people. Eight
categories of investments were financed in the affected area involving seven
implementing agencies. The Bank's second assistance in disaster relief was in
1985 when SDR 31.30 million for the first Flood Rehabilitation Project (Credit
1587-BD) was approved to allow the Governrment to rehabilitate damage caused by
the 1984 flood. The project was implemented through four executing agencies.
6.        As with the two former disaster relief operations, IDA's financing
of the Second Flood Rehabilitation Project was aimed at providing emergency
assistance in rehabilitation and/or replacement of priority elements of
infrastructure and equipment in the target sub-sectors.
Proiect ObJectives and DescriRtion
7.        The project's initial objective was the rehabilitation, during the
1987/88 and 1988/89 dry seasons, of priority elements of 1987 flood damage.
Subsequently, because of the extent and severity of the damage arising from
the 1988 flood, IDA allowed inclusion of critical 1988 flood damage without a
change in credit amount. As originally formulated, the Second Flood
Rehabilitation Project was to lead to a more comprehensive and longer term IDA
assistance program to rehabilitate flood damage. The specific objectives of
the project were to:
(a) assist in rehabilitation or replacement of priority elements of
infrastructural and equipment damage for BIWTA, RHD, Local
Government Division of Ministry of Local Government, Rural
Development and Cooperatives (LGD), DPE and BWDB;
(b) --epare designs for flood rehabilitation components of the planned:
-  Second Small Scale Flood Con1htbl, Drainage and Irrigation
Project
- Rural Roads and Markets Imrrovement and Maintenance Project; and
(c) allow reallocation of funds for rehabilitation works from ongoing
credits, namely:
- Second Primary Education (Credit 1574-BD)
- Third Population and Family Health (Credit 1649-BD)



-3
- Rural Electrification (Credit 1262-BD)
- Ashuganj Thermal Power (Credit 1254-BD)
- Drainage and Flood Control II (Credit 1184-BD).
8.        The Second Flood Rehabilitation Project had. as its scope the
following tasks:
(a) rehabilitate or roplace damaged irrigation, drainage and flood
protection structures administered by BWDB in all parts of the
country except the southwestern region;
(b) rehabilitate or replace damaged roads, bridges and culverts in the
northwestern and southwestern regions o! the country, administered
by RHD and LGD;
(c) repair, reconstruct and refurnish damaged primary schools,
administered by DPE;
(d) procure a tug boat, navigational aids, water gauging equipment,
vessel spares, etc. and repair river landing jetties, ferry docks
and other facilities for the inland water transport system,
administered by BIWTA; and
(e) provide technical services for BWDB, RHD and LGEB by local and
foreign consultants.
Project Design and Organization
9.        The project was dbsigned to quickly restore to pre-flood condition
the country's road and waterway networks; its drainage, irrigation and flood
control system; and its primary school facilities in specific regions of the
country. The project was prepared by the Bank's Resident Mission based on
damage assessments made by the participating agencies. Its design and concept
were appropriate and -imely, given that both the Bank and Borrower recognized
the necessity for giN_ng priority attention to normalize the activizies of
concerned agencies. Reflecting the urgency of the project, normal project
preparation and appraisal procedures were not followed. Within appropriate
financial limitations, however, retroactive financing was provided for works
executed between October 1, 1987 and February 18, 1988, the day before credit
signing.
10.       Without the Bank's participation, reconstruction, works would have
been lengthy and difficult with the limited resources of the country. In
particular, crop production would have been impeded. As it was the first
phase of a larger IDA reconstruction program, the project cost was estimated
at US$30.3 million. The Bank was to finance US$25.0 million, including 100%
of foreign exchange, 100% of consultants services, and 95% of civil works. In
procurement of equipment, the Bank was to finance 70% of local expenditures
for items procured locally to 100% for foreign expenditures. Reflecting
experience from earlier disaster financing operations, the project was
designed to be implemented directly through BWDB, RHD, BIWTA, LGEB (for LGD)



-4-
and the Facilities Department of the MH.nistry of Education (FD) and Upaz-Alla
administration (for DPE). Roles of all implementing agencien were clearly
defined.
11.       In retro;;pect, direct project implementation without any central
coordination and the employment of consultants were factors in successful
project completion. The one exception, albeit of a relatively minor nature,
was DPE for which 6% of that credit component remained unutilized and only 68%
of the proposed furniture was procured. In the case of BIWTA, fund
insufficiency was responsible for non-procurement of a propnsed tug boat.
PrJoect Tmplementation
12.       Selection of works for execution was based on damage assessments
prepared by the respective implementing agencies. The Credit was declared
effective within 27 days of its signature. Except for retroactive works,
there was an initial delay in project startup as:
(a) consultants acceptable to IDA were appointed in March 1988 instead
of by December 31, 1987. By the time the consultants prepared the
tender documents, and IDA had evaluated them and awarded contracts,
it was May 1988. At this time, the monsoons had begun and were
later followed by the 1988 flood (August-September). As a result,
most of civil works coui" not commence before mid-October 1988; and
(b) formalities for procurement of spares and a tug boat (by BIWTA) and
for furniture, and the repair of schools (by DPE) were not
completed within six months of credit effectiveness.
13.       Being an emergency operation, the Credit was closed on June 30,
1989 as scheduled. However, implementation of some civil works and
procurement of furniture and spares contini-2d through December 1989. The
principal reasons for conti.nuing civil works beyond the credit closing date
were late contract awards, project redesign due to the effects of the 1988
flood, and the need for extra care and supervision for bridge works.
14.       Each component generally made use of its existing designs as the
basis for the rehabilitation program. However, the RHD consultancy included
in its scope the study of the cause of the flood and the reasons why its
impact had been so severe on structures in particular. The designs which
resulted from this study %ere included in the bidding documents and
subsequently implemented. A similar process was adopted for LGD works.
15.       Supervision missions observed that BWDB ignored the Development
Credit Agreement (DCA) requirement that the project be intended to replace
damaged structures with the equivalent to what h'ad been there before the
flood, unless it was clearly apparent that the original structure was
seriously inadequate. BWDB and its consultants generally produced designs



-5-
considerably more complex and costly than necessary, and, in particular,
adopted return periods which were longer than used in the initial design of
the projects. Part of these designs were corrected and implemented in line
with the DCA provisions, and further improvements were achieved under the
Third Flood (Emergency) Rehabilitation Project.
16.       BIWTA could not award contracts for procurement of spares and a tug
boat until July 1988, although the agency could have reduced this delay by
correctly assessing the funds required during project preparation. As it
turned out, the vessel could not be procured due to fund insufficiency, and
the resulting savings were later utilized in procuring emergency equipment to
replace those items damaged by the 1988 flood.
17.       Although the evaluation of 61% of schools under reconstruction was
finalized in February 1988, contracts were not awarded until the following
May/June by the Facilities Department (FD), which did not float a tender for
procurement of furniture until five months after credit effectiveness. DPE
only finalized the list of schools to be repaired within this period. Early
awarding of contracts, supervision aimed at quick project completion, and
engagement of solvent contractors could have arrested the impact of price
escalation of construction materials, resulting in increased achievement at
constant cost. Lengthy administrative procedures and slow followup operations
delayed the award of contracts for repair of 15% of the schools in certain
areas by up to 12 months after credit effectiveness. Fortunately, the
Resident Mission intervened to improve the situation. In hindsight, though,
it may have been more appropriate had only one organization been appointed to
undertake the primary education component, rather than two: FD (under DPE)
for reconstruction and furniture procurement, and the Upazilla administration
for repair.
18.       Even with the initial delay, procurement was satisfactory with RHD,
LGEB and BWDB. Prequalified contractors with financial solvency performed
well for RHD and LGEB.
19.       The total cost of the project did not exceed the original estimate,
as shown in Part III, Table 5. Due to inclusion of 1988 flood damage, work
volume increased and, as a result, there were cost overruns in the LGEB
component, which IDA has agreed to finance from the Third Flood Rehabilitation
Project (Credit 2048-BD).
20.       BWDB programmed the finanancing of rehabilitation works in two
phases: short term, under Credit 1876-BD, and long term, under Credit 1870-BD.
Because of the additional input in rehabilitation work arising from the 1988
flood, and through utilizing savings from ongoing Credit 1184-BD, funds from
Credit 1876-BD were not exhausted during the 1987/88 financial year and part
were utilized in the long-term program. Due to this complexity in financing,
project cost was difficult to derive and for simplicity has been considered
equal to the amount financed.
21.       On request from FD on December 28, 1989, an amount equivalent to
US$0.023 million was released the same day by DPE. If this amount could have
been utilized as the GOB contribution in another withdrawal application, it is



-6-
unlikely that there would have been any remaining UOB liability at the credit
closing date.
22.       Disbursements of the credit over the project period are set out in
Part III, Annex 1, for the project as a whole, and for each of the five
components. There was no significant delay in fund release. The books of
accounts remained open until January 31, 1990 for adjustment against
commitments, instead of the intended December 31, 1989. As at the closing
date, 96% of the Credit had been disbursed and an outstanding balance of SDR
704,723.03 equivalent was canceled.
23.       The principal disbursement problem arose with BWDB and related to
the initial Special Account in Foreign Exchange (SAFE) advance. Because the
works were urgent, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) advanced to BWDB sufficient
funds to commence the project. Subsequently, BWDB drew its SAFE allocation
but was unable to use it because of the existence of the advance from MOF.
This component was then forced to operate without SAFE, utilizing instead Taka
withdrawal applications. While in the long term, this had little impact--
since all component expenditure was reimbursed--it did mean that the
Government had to commit its own funds initially, rather than making use of
SAFE advances to finance the project.
Proiect Results
24.       The project was successful in meeting its objective of emergency
restoration of structures to their original or, as appropriate, to higher
specifications. W3rks implemented under the project included the
reconstruction and repair of: (a) about 120 km of flood embankments; (b) about
230 km of roads; (c) 10 km of irrigation and drainage canals; (d) about 450
water control structures; and (f) more than 1,200 schools. Equipment and
furniture damaged by the floods were replaced and delivered to BWDB, DPE and
BIWTA (details in Table 4). The quality of civil works implemented under the
project was generally good.
Proiect Sustainabilitv
25.       The sustainability of a project of this nature is not particularly
relevant as the objectives of the project are related to the rehabilitation or
replacement of infrastructure and equipment items on an urgent and emergency
basis. The rehabilitation work has, however, restored the infrastructural
items to a "pre-flood" or "better than pre-flood" condition. The
sustainability of this work and equipment will be largely dependent on the
annual maintenance allocations of the relevant departments, and it is the
focus of recent projects financed by various donors.
Bank Performance
26.       The Bank was approached in August 1987 for emergency assistance.
On receipt of specific proposals, the project was prepared by the Resident



-7-
Mission with assistance from headquarters, staff during September-October
1987. As the operation was urgent in nature, the Bank saved considerable time
by not following conventional project preparation and appraisal procedures.
As a major provider of development assistance to a country which sustained
heavy loss due to flood, it was appropriate that IDA extended assistance for
rehabilitation.
27.       The Bank's staff contributed to the success of the project through
working relationships and specialized advice, both technical and financial.
As many as 12 supervision missions visit4d different project sites throughout
the 22-month implementation period. The missions were adequately staffed, and
they successfully identified problems and suggested remedial measures. The
missions' activities were aimed at improving cash flow, clearing backlogs,
assisting in procurement actions, maintaining technical standards,
implementing DCA covenants, all with a view to completing the project on time
and to the quality required.
28.       For DPE, however, where 25% of the total credit was to be utilized,
only two supervision missions were scheduled and carried out. The number of
missions would appear to have been inadequate, once it became apparent that
there were problems in implementation. There may have also been some merit in
including an appropriate technical specialist in the missions, since civil
works of one type or another made up 89% of the component value. An added
complication lay in the fact that two agencies (FD and Upazilla
administration) implemented DPE's rehabilitation work.
Borrower Performance
29.       The Government, having acquired considerable experience from
earlier disaster relief operations, performed well in handling the 1987 flood
emergency activities, both in the initial stage and during the project
implementation period. Recognizing tne necessity for external assistance,
line agencies quickly prepared damage estimates; and by mid-October 1987, GOB
provided specific proposals which were scrutinized by IDA and consultants.
The Government's decision to replace the conventional Project Proforma with a
simpler Project Digest, was a positive step towards reducing administrative
and financial complexity. Release of adequate funds was timely, although
substantial amounts from the 1987/88 Annual Development Plan allocation were
canceled due to non award of enough contracts by implementing agencies.
30.       BWDB, RHD, LGEB, BIWTA, and FD are GOB's key implementing agencies
for national development and maintenance programs, each having countrywide
operations. Overall performance of all agencies in project management and
implementation was satisfactory. Again DPE, being basically a non-engineering
organization with little technical background, faced some difficulty in
monitoring project affairs and coordinating with involved parties. A small
unit with engineering expertise under administrative control of DPE could have
reduced this extra burden, the nature of which was not familiar to the agency.
31.       After receipt of the initial advance provided for under the DCA
(33% of the credit sum, Part III, Annex 1, there was initial delay in



-8-
submission of reimbursement claims by all agencies. However, the situation
began to improve from September 1988 (Part III, Table 3) and at the end 96% of
the Credit, in SDR terms, was utilized.
Project Relationship
32.       The Bank's relationship with the implementing agencies has been
productive and beneficial.
Consulting Services
33.       Consultants were appointed for the RHD, LGEB and BWDB components.
These consultants worked effectively and made a positive contribution to the
success of what was a difficult task, both from a technical and management
point of view, given the geographically widespread and widely different nature
of the works. There were problems with the BWDB consultant because of the
manner in which his data were presented. As a result, the Resident Mission
had difficulty in estimating progress, and even project size.
34.       As required under their terms of reference, the consultants
prepared and applied improved design standards to replacement structures so as
to make them more resistant to future floods. IDA's insistence on appointment
of supervision consultants--and their subsequent performance in supervision,
monitoring, and reporting--contributed much in attaining quality works and
assisted in effective credit utilization within the limited project period.
The appointment of these consultants effectively reduced the likelihood that
the works would not be completed on time.
Proiect Documentation and Data
35.       The main documentation for this project assessed structures damaged
during the 1987 flood, with the main aim of restoring the infrastructure.
This proved a useful framework during project implementation. Due to the
involvement of five implementing agencies, the relevant data for preparing
this PCR were not readily available and required much effort to collect.
There was also a complex situation for financing the BWDB component. In
addition, project cost was difficult to derive because several IDA credits
were used for multiple short- and long-term rehabilitation works.



-9-
PART II : PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
This part contains issues related to the project and a retrospective
assessment of project implementation and are given for the five implementing
agencies separately.
Introduction
1.          The project was implemented by five agencies, each of which has
prepared material to be included in this part of the PCR. The following text
summarizes, on an agency basis, each of these inputs.
Roads and Highways Department - RHD
2.          Administration of the principal road network system of the
country, including operation and maintenance of ferries where gaps were not
yet bridged, is the primary responsibility of RHD. The department is under
the administrative control of Roads and Road Transport Division of the
Ministry of Communications. RHD is managed by a Chief Engineer at the
headquarters in Dhaka. He in turn controls operations through a central
organization and field divisions throughout the country.
3.          Immediately following the 1987 flood the World Bank appointed a
consultant, Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation in association with
Bangladesh Consultants Limited, to undertake an assessment of damage caused to
the principal road network, including the associated drainage structures.
4.          The rehabilitation program was planned to be phased in stages
considering fund availability and work magnitude, based on the assessment.
5.          The credit was intended to finance first phase, or emergency
works, leaving the less critical damage to be funded under subsequent credits
which could be appraised and negotiated in a more normal manner. For RHD this
meant that the credit was to finance works which were necessary to restore
service to areas cut off by flood damage, and to reconstruct bridges that were
urgently required. These works were to be undertaken in the north western and
south western regions of the country. The Asian Development Bank undertook to
finance a similar program in the remainder of the country.
6.          This approach to project design was appropriate for the emergency
requirements of the country, and the aim to restore structures to their
original specification or to higher specification, applying improved design
standards, safeguarded optimal performance over a reasonable future life. The
provision of design and supervision consultants reduced the extra load on RHD
and ensured that proper quality control was obtained, as well as risk that the
project would not be completed in time.



- 10 -
7.          Part III has been prepared in consultation with RHD and its
consultant and reflects RHD's understanding of the project and its funding
history.
8.           Part I has also been prepared in consultation with RHD and its
consultant and reflects RHD's approach to the project, to the Bank's role in
it and to its ultimate outcome.
9.          Within 50 days of credit negotiation, the project was approved by
the Bank. During the project's 22 month implementation period, there were
three supervision missions, manned by qualified personnel well conversant with
road rehabilitation work and project financing.
10.         An amount equivalent to 97.16X of the component allocated to RHD
was disbursed in 18 withdrawal applications without any unusual delay. The
Missions worked to assist RHD in acquiring maximum benefit with optimum credit
utilization.
11.         RHD managed its component of the project through its normal field
divisions, under the overall direction of the Additional Chief Engineers for
the particular zones wherein the works were being undertaken. There was no
separate Project Implementation Unit or similar body set up for the purpose.
Overall this arrangement worked well, but at times the dispersion of
responsibility - the field zones and divisions for day to day technical
control and the central office for financial control, credit management and
liaison with the Bank - led to delays which a separate organization may have
been able to avoid. However, the Department's consultant largely filled this
role and there was, as a result, little negative impact.
12.         An amount of SDR 0.75 million equivalent was earmarked for
retroactive works, defined as works executed between October 1, 1987 and
February 18, 1988. Although a large number of works, representing 19.68X of
total contract value, were undertaken under this retroactive provision, few
payments were made before February 19, 1988 due mainly to uncertainties within
the field divisions as to when and how funds will become available.
13.         Normal works, ie non-retroactive, consisting of 37 packages, were
grouped for bidding purposes in accordance with the DCA covenant on contract
package size, with the exception of a small number of works which, due to
their geographic isolation, could not be combined with others. Due to delays
in the appointment of the consultant, and the subsequent need to prepare
designs and documentation, most normal works did not commence until October
1988.
14.         The supervising consultant SMEC-BCL was responsible to the
Department for over all project design and monitoring. The consultant fielded
35 supervisory personnel with two short-term specialists, under the direction
of a Team Leader. They performed well in monitoring, quality and quantity
control, reporting and production. The Consultant's input to the project can
best be understood from the fact that, though major procurement began late in
1988, all works were completed before December 1989.  Even with addition of



- 11 -
1988 flood emergency works, total expenditure on civil works was 2.84% below
the original estimate.
15.         The project's objective of restoration of structures to their
original specification or to higher specification through consultants was
largely achieved.
Local Government Division (Local Government Engineering Bureau - LGEB)
16.         LGEB, being LGD's technical arm, was responsible for the
implementation of rehabilitation works financed under Credit 1876-BD. An
assessment of the damage caused by the 1987 flood was conducted by two
consultants, after which the decision was taken to execute the works in two
phases, as described for RHD in the preceding section.
17.         The component scope encompassed 177 schemes grouped into 74
packages. Certain packages ended with increased cost due to quoting of higher
rates as working places were not easily accessible. To accommodate this extra
cost, work volume were reduced. All works except one bridge were completed
before July 1989. The bridge work was awarded late because of design changes
arising from the 1988 flood. The component was completed satisfactorily with
a cost overrun of US$0.47 million, because of addition of 1988 flood damaged
works, which IDA has agreed to finance from Credit 2048-BD.
18.         Financing under the credit was for first phase high priority
works; these were taken up in the north-western and south-western zones of the
country. The project design reflected the requirement that the primary
necessity was to restore traffic access immediately the flood waters had
receded. Due consideration was also given to the necessity of applying
improved design standards so that structures become more resistant to future
floods.
19.         Part III has been prepared in consultation with LGEB and its
consultant and reflects LGEB's understanding of the project and its funding
history.
20.         Part I has been prepared in consultation with LGEB and its
consultant and reflects LGEB's approach to the project, to the Bank's role in
it and to its ultimate outcome.
21.         Performance of the Bank was satisfactory during the project
implementation period. Supervision missions carried out by the Resident
Mission's staff maintained good continuity. Disbursements were timely.
22.         The estimated cost of bid packages was determined on the basis of
an approved schedule of rates for individual districts. Works were grouped
into packages following DCA covenants and tenders were invited by LGEB
Executive Engineers and Pourashava Chairmen. Only prequalified contractors
were allowed to participate in the tender. The tender committee at district
level, consisting of professionals of similar departments and headed by an
elected chairman or member of parliament, was responsible for evaluation and



- 12 -
finalization of tenders, where quoted rates were up to 5% above the estimated
cost. Tenders exceeding this limit were finalized at LGEB headquarters.
23.         Consultants verified all documents before invitation of tender and
looked after quality and quantity of works during implementation, under the
guidance of a team leader. They were in charge of overall supervision and
certified reimbursement claims. A short-term specialist was also employed by
the consultant to review designs of drainage structures. This procedure
generally worked well, and enabled the works to be completed within a
reasonable time and to adequate levels of quality.
24.         In assessing the overall effectiveness of the project, it needs to
be borne in mind that feeder and urban roads under the technical control of
LGEB are generally sub standard in nature even before they were effected by
the 1987 flood. Inadequate waterway openings as well as insufficient numbers
of drainage structures, low embankments constructed without mechanical
compaction and poor pavement structures are the usual features of existing
roads. During the rehabilitation program, the geometry of the road was
improved where necessary and possible, and requisite openings were provided to
drainage structures. The latter were provided with improved foundations.
Pavement structures were also constructed to more consistent and improved
specifications.
Banfladesh Water DeveloRment Board - BUDB
25.         The BWDB component of the Second Flood Rehabilitation Project
under Credit 1876-BD was taken up in order to restore the effectiveness of
completed and on-going IDA aided projects, and other projects funded by
bilateral donors. These projects were located throughout the country, except
in the South west, where the Asian Development Bank wr.s providing funding.
The scope of all of these projects includes flood control, drainage and
irrigation and important segments of these were damaged by the 1987 flood.
The rehabilitation works were to be carried out on embankments, canals,
protection works, structures, closures and other facilities.
26.         The design of the project was satisfactory.
27.         Part III has been prepared in consultation with BWDB and with its
consultants, of whom there were three. The information contained therein
reflects BWDB's understanding of the project and its funding history.
28.         Part I has been prepared in consultation with BWDB and its
consultants and reflects BWDB's approach to the project, to the Bank's role in
it and to its ultimate outcome.
29.         The performance of the Bank during evaluation and implementation
was generally satisfactory. The observations of the review missions helped in
implementation of the project properly. However, there were some instances
where special attention should be given by the Bank in future to such
projects. These include the following:



- 13 -
(a)   The SAFE fund for the project was received late; as a result, GOB
funds were used for the Reimbursable Project Aid component; the
SAFE received later could not be fully utilized. Consequently,
the project works suffered delays.1
(b)   To extend the funding available, savings from Credit 1184-BD were
diverted from the DFC-II project to the Second Flood
Rehabilitation Project, but the closing date of the Credit was not
extended. As a result, the program of works originally proposed
to be charged under Credit 1876-BD and Credit 1870-BD (part-D) had
to be rearranged. In projects such as this, where project works
are small in scale and cost and are taken up on piecemeal basis at
different locations, it is difficult to charge them to different
credits operating simultaneously. It is therefore suggested that
works of this type be charged to one credit first until it is
exhausted and only then commence charging to a subsequent credit.
This will avoid overlapping of works and facilitate smooth
implementation of the project. It will also incidentally
facilitate the preparation of reports, thereby allowing the Bank
and the implementing agency better control over the project and,
at its conclusion, allow the Project Completion Report to be
prepared with minimum delay.
30.         BWDB's performance on the technical aspects of the component were
satisfactory. The specification and construction standards adopted were
adequate for the purpose. The process of preparation of estimates, designs
and tender documents were generally satisfactory.
Bangladesh Inland Water TransRort Authority - BIWTA
31.         The BIWTA component of the Second Flood Rehabilitation Project had
as its scope the restoration of damage to waterways, river ports, launch
ghats, ferry ghats, dredgers and navigation equipment etc. caused by 1987
flood.
32.         The component was designed to quickly restore to pre-flood
condition or better the country's waterway network system. The project was
prepared by BIWTA on the basis of a damage assessment it carried out during
and immediately after the flood.
33.         Part III has been prepared in consultation with BIWTA and reflects
its understanding of the project and its funding history.
34.         Part I has also been prepared in consultation with BIWTA and
reflects its approach to the project, to the Bank's role in it and to its
ultimate outcome.
IDA disagrees:   Initial deposit of the Special Account were made
shortly after IDA received authorized specimen signatures.



- 14 -
35.         During evolution and project implementation Bank's performance was
satisfactory. Experience gained in following the World Bank's guidelines to
prepare bidding documents, contracts etc, will be useful in the implementation
of future projects with time constraints.
36.         During evolution and project implementation, BIWTA's performance
was satisfactory. However, it has become obvious that the mechanism by which
the initial advance deposit is made to the project SAFE account does not tally
with the quarterly fund release system of the GOB. This needs to be addressed
to avoid delays in future projects.
Directorate of Primary Education - DPE
37.         The DPE component of the Second Flood Rehabilitation Project was
designed to rehabilitate primary schools damaged during the 1987 flood and to
ease the difficulties consequently being experienced by primary school
children. The scheme envisaged reconstruction of 524 fully damaged schools
and repair of 703 partly damaged schools. Reconstruction of each school
included construction of three class rooms, one head teacher's room, a
veranda, installation of tube wells and construction of one latrine. For each
school there was also provision for procurement of 48 pairs of seat benches
and four teacher's tables including four chairs. It may be mentioned here
that repair work was done by the upazilla parishad under the direct
supervision of the respective Deputy Commissioners. With the exception of a
small number of schools all works were completed before December 1989.
38.         Both the Bank and GOB felt it necessary for giving high priority
to rebuilding schools damaged during the flood. Without the Bank's
participation, construction and repair of flood stricken schools would have
been lengthy and difficult, given the limited resources of the country. The
component amount provided in the credit was SDR 4.60 million.
39.         Part III has been prepared in consultation with DPE and reflects
its understanding of the project and its funding history.
40.         Part I has been prepared in consultation with DPE and reflects its
approach to the project, to the Bank's role in it and to its ultimate outcome.
41.         The Bank's active involvement with the component was a key element
in its successful completion and this is very much appreciated. DPE also
found the Bank's supervision missions useful but suggests that they would
have been more useful had a senior officer of DPE been included in the mission
team. This matter should be addressed in future.
42.         For reconstruction of the selected schools the tender committee at
the zonal level consisted of professionals including the District Primary
Education Officers of the respective districts. The usual procedure was for
the Upazilla Chairman to select the schools and forward the list to the
Director General who in turn forwarded it to the Ministry for approval. The
zonal executive engineers invited bids and, after selecting the lowest bidder,



- 15 -
issued work orders. Only contractors enlisted with FD were allowed to
participate in the tender.
43.         This procedure generally worked well and enabled the bulk of the
envisaged work to be completed before the credit closing date.
Lessons Learned
44.         The major lessons learned during the implementation of the project
can be suimmarized as:
(a)   The use of Worid Bank procurement guidelines by the agencies
will benefit the implementation of future projects.
(b)   The benefit of engaging consultants for the key implementing
agencies allowed expenditure to be kept to estimated values
and assisted with the credit utilization and disbursement.



- 16 -
PART III - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
TABLE 1
BANGLADESH
SECOND FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT (CR. 1876-BD)
Related IDA Credits
caZrT TmTL                               PRPOE                    YEAm Of         STATyI
:Credit 33-0D                        :RehDabilitatt10  orf ""so cured by         *972      Ccplet.d in
:Coastal Ar" Rehabilitation          :trn t*1  cyclon                                           9
nd Cyclon Protct ion Project
:erwa1t 587-SD                     s9ht':R9hbitAtion of damage cnaM4d by       t1U8       Ccmleted In
Flood Rehabilitation Project        :thr 184 flood                                             19s
Cr-dit 1940-8D                        Rehabiit at1on of damao  caus4d by        19t8    :To b  copleted:
:Rural Road and V arkets I  rpovement :the 1987 flood                                          in 1990
:and Maintnwm Pro4ect - Flood
:Rehabilitation Componnte-
:Credit 2048-50                      :Rehabilitation of damej. causod by        t198      :To br ccpiet.d,
:Third Flood Rehabilitation Project   th  19J8 f*lood                                          in 1991
Credit 1870-3D                                                                   198     :To beompleted
Second Sall Seal. Flood Centrol,                                                              in 1995
Orainage and Imigration
:     S         :0:
I                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Q_____________~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



TALLE 2
C ANGDADESH
SECOND FLO:i,O  RzH4BILITATION PROJECT_CR. 1876-.)
1~~~~~~~~ _L                      _                - 
PjoAct 'Timetable
DATE             DATE               DATE
ITEM                PLANNED_          RE:VISFD           -ACTUAL
IDENTIFICA7ION      (1)          _                            Aug 1987
PREPARATION         (1)                                       Sept-Oct, 1987
APPRAISAL MISSION  (1)                                             _
CREDIT NEGOTIATION (2)                                        Dec 19-21, 1987
BOARD APPROVAL                                                Feb 9, 1988
CREDIT SIGNATURE_                                             Feb 19, 1988
CRFDIT EFFECTIVENESS    Feb 15,1988                           Mar 18, 1988
PROJECT COMPLETION        Dec 31, 1988                        Dec 31, 1989
CREDIT CLOSING      (3)  Jun 30, 1989                    __  Jun 30, 1989
NOTES:
1.  Project was identified by GOB and prepared by the Bank's Resident
Mission with assistance from Headquarters staff visiting Bangladesh.
2. IDA agreed to the following:
i. to accept comptroller and auditor general as independent auditcr.
ii. adjust allocations to the five participating agencies within the
credit ceiling.
iii.  award local contracts through standard GOB procedure with some
modifications.
iv. terms of reference for employment of consultants.
v. execution of:
- part A of the project in all parts of the country except the
south-west
- part B of the project in north west and south west
- part C and D, across the country.
vi. to waive normal project preparation and appraisal procedures
because of the urgent nature of the project.
vii.  consultants to be appointed by 31 December 1987.
3.  Books of accounts to remain open to 31 January 1991 for reimbursement.
REMARKs
The time between credit signature and effectiveness was a result of:
i. delays by some agencies in appointing the signatory to the
Special Account.
ii. delays in establishing the Special Account itself.
iii. delays in appointing consultants where required.



- 18- -_
T.ABLE 3
BA,GLA.DESH
SECOND FLOOD REKABILITATION PROJECT (CR. 1876-BD)
Credit Disbursemenos
saAn PY         l3ss             1383              18
$1^          $sR  son         WIS 
Estimte   tt)                       :1.J0      9.03    23.00    1.75   235.00    8.20
Actua1                                8.30     6.00    17.04    12.75    23.14    17.50
Acta I of e*timate                   *O.t4S   00.45S   74.01S   ?6. 12    52.505   Se.ISs
"ato of final di1.wr_.ment                          January 30 1930
MOTE3:-
1.  Iaad On Prwsid,.rte' rept
Actual final disburement as So* 17.36 si14o  (38.655 of *stiate)
There was an- acumulated  orrouer'8 g ain of 30R 0.46  ilIlimn 0e to adjstmnt
of aa'vaa s in 5w  (the Special Account was d1nnatd In $US)
PLANNED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENT
BASIS - PRESIDENT'S REPORT
,3R  million
20
15  -.President' Reportt
/                           -A           Actual DOlburaement
5-.------- 
1988                           1969                   -I- *198
0 L             f                                                                   II  9    t    I  9 t   9  I  t  
MarApr Ma Jun Jul AuQSep0ctJo0OeCJanFe0Mar Apr Ma Jun Jul Aug3epOc4o%OecJan
PERIOD



- 19 -
TABLE 4.1
B.ANGLUDESH
SECOND FLOOD REMABILITATION PROJECT (CR. 1876-BD)
Proiect I mlementation.  Bt.'DB Comoor.ent
Z~~IoaeS            atta.i.e      (1Dctum1(w PCS .wtilata)   C2)
-~~ -:  - - ---      --
SM I "tzr I           aat.aerarti by guts
C S.54  :C l                                                     S.S3 k3.
*  a----.-~ ~~~314k:Pqecj*  e
:   :                         :                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~17. " km
#'Wtor cotrl  *tutAx          234 NO:Wat  cat r  gt1  "U-V        234 Mo,
:aL~aa~~s                 II.214 Me:
;:-1ood                     20.1 k  o"              'W. 1"  km
:GIdim                          ?C N12ili4               1z me. :
Q~ ~~OAV  repairg                           MoQms reai                       el "aq  t b
;           : St                               No    : te                        *   :
C  C.: Oher                      *2 me,:
. Pr d  by VAt)  to be  arir- fr 2m             eat& 14ta-r and 1              23 t4@.
2. Th       e the*         ani       of eator rrd X               Cre tgtg.
kt* S            rtr t      d w , or e"bng, c_ld vn  o-
~~~~a    av.f-                     200. 3rige  az aalgr                 30 a19
1.  a1sly  in awar  of constracts
11. in1bm(sbilty of e_m *1t-
funds*avai. l i t -             ne      61 C o:S,t re pase 6t1t .



- 20 -
TABLE 4.2
BANGLADESH
SECOND FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT (CR. 1876-BD)
Proiect Implementation. LGD ComRonent
Indicators :             Estiat-                      Actual(or PCR esti1ate)
Restoration by LOO
:Reonstruction and repair of --    :Recnstruction and repair of -
:Sndscator  1:Paved roads               113.55 km  Paved roads               127.74 b
:Bridges and culverts      580.04 a  ;Oridges and culverts     821.38 m
:Drains                  3,280.00 a   Orains                 3,410.00 a
Retaining walls         1,499.00 *   Retaining walls         1,325.00 a
t. Work volues increased du  to the addition of damge caused by the 1988 flood. This
was provided for under a credit asendeont dated Septoatbr 22,1988. Theo workA wore
of an emergency nature and were required to restore traffic accoss.
2. All work except Harinarsyan2ur Bridge at Kustia were ecpleted beore 30 Junoe 183.
Completion of the bridgo was d-layed due to design changes mad necesaary by the
1988 flood. The bridge was eomplted in 4oveaber 1989.
3.   DA agreed that the additional ?Lnd* required were to be obtained from Credit
2048-30.



- 21 -
TABLE 4.3
BANGLADESH
SECOND FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT (CR._1876-BD)
Proiect Implementation.  DPE Comornent
2n4icators               Etisate                     Actual(or PCR estimate)
:Indicator  1 Reaonstruetion and repair by OPE
: ~~----------:
RReconetruction of 529 fully daa-ged:Fully reconstrweted         508 NO
:praSry school                      :Party reconstructed           3 No
( incoplete)
:Repair of 731 partly dasa9 d       ,Rrpairs to partly d  s9 d
:Primary schools.                    schools                     838 No
:Indicator 2:Furniture and equipment for  529  :Furnished schools with-
:Shools.:
36,288 pairs soot benches.          24,528 pairs seat benches.
3,024 no chairs.                    2,044 no chairs.
3,024 no tables.                   2,044 no tablets
NOTES:
1.  The osti1ata was revised in September 1989 ( four moths before credit cloeure)
to the following extont:
a. reconstruction of 524 fully damaged schools
b. repair of 703 partly daaged schols
a. furnishing echools with
25,232 *et bOnches
2,116 tables
2,t11 cnairs
Due to non-copletion of withdrawal procodures thore remained at credit closing data
a 008 liability of $S 0.1096 million.



- 22 -
TABLE 4.4
BANGLADESH
SECOND FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT (CR. 1876-BD)
Project Implementation, BIWTA Component
Indicators *          Estimate                        Actual(or PCR estimate)
:                                                                                     :
:Xndicator  1:          Reoair by BlWrA
:flood da agfd ferry gnats.         :Flood damagd ferry ghMt*,
eJtties,  awways. pilot              :jetties, Sangways, pilot
houses. godowns etc          100 no  house*, gedwvns etc         100 no
:Parking yards, bank protection,    :Parking yards, bank protection,
:roads & boundary walls              :roads & bowndary walls
53,800 sq *                         53,800 sq a
:Indicator 2         Acquisition by BZ(TA
*:a. N.vigationmI aids, hydrographic  All items procured with tt-
:urvey  and water gauging *quipeent  oxception of on water level
av-cce1 wares etc.                    recorder, two circuit boards,
:three current meters C4e to tund
1insufficiency :
:b. One tug boat.                                     Nil
:(Saving utilised for proouro nt of
:equipment damaged by 1588 flood)
__ __ __ __ _ -  _______ ______ _______ ______ _______ ______ _______-_-_-_



- 23 -
TABLE 4.5
BANGLADESH
SECOND FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT (CR. 1876-BD)
Project Implementation. RHD Component
Zndicators :        Appraisal estimate                ActUal(or PCR estimate)
-- - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  -  -- -   .
:IndicAtOr  t;        R-storation by RiO
----------
:Repair and strsngtnwning of         Repair and strengthening of
:pave_nt  and s*houlders at         :pav.emnts and shculdors at
:damaged locations on 537.5 km       :locations equivalent to 85.55 km
:ot road                            :of road (Nots 1)
:Reconstruc:tin of damaged           :Reconstruction of damaged
:culvorts                   67.60 a culverts                      64.20 *
Reconstruction of daCaged            Reconstruction of damaged
:wing walls                    13 no  wing walls                    le no
:Construction of portable            Construction of portablo
Steel bridges on permanent           steel bridges on permanent
concrete forw,ations           8 no  concrete foumndations (158.53.) 8 no:
:Reconstruction of bridge            Reconstruction of bridge
substructures                 13 no :substructures                  * me:
Repair and strengtnening;            Repair and strength.ning
of bridge approactes          12 no  of bridge approactws          17 no
:Strengthon1ng and protection        :Strengthening and protection
of eroded embankments          2 km : of erded embanknents         2 kb:
NCTES:
1. Length equivalent to 100t   of the assessed and eftimated ength.



- 24 -
TABLE 5
BANGLADESH
SECOND FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT (CR. 1876-BD)
Consolidated Project Costs
Figures expressed in miltions
Estimate Cl)                                        Actual (2)
Item   -------------- ------------------------------------ . .-------------------------------
Locat      Foreign      t o t a l       Local       Foreign        T o t a l
Costs      Exchange                     Costs       Exchange
Costs                                   Costs
(SUS)     (SOR)                            (SUS)      CSDR)
............................................................... .................................
a. Civil works
(including
construction
materiaLs)
BWDB             7.7752    1.4800    9.2552    6.7382    6.5167                  6.5167    5.1141
RBD              5.1482    1.2878    6.4360    4.6857    5.6957                  5.6957    4.4177
LGD              2.3100    0.5800    2.8900    2.1041    2.6717                  2.6717    2.0742
DPE              4.9784    1.2430    6.2214    4.5295    5.7161                  5.7161    4.3969
BIWTA            0.4485    0.1089    0.5574    0.4058    0.5179                  0.5179    0.3877
b. Equipment
BIWTA
1. Navigational     0.1571    0.2361    0.3932    0.2863    0.3088       0.2026    0.5114    0.3925
aids, vessel
spares etc.    _
2. Other.            1.0475    1.5739    2.6214    1.9085    1.6019      0.6118    2.2137    1.7049
Tug boat        _         _
DPE               0.6183    0.0673    0.6856    0.4992    0.5917                  0.5917    0.4596
Furniture                            _
C. Consultants
services           __I
BWDB             0.0418    0.1448    0.2066    0.1504    0.1876                  0.1876    0.1500
RHD              0.1858    0.4341    0.6199    0.4513    0.2788       0.2825    0.5613    0.4371
LGD               0.1240    0.2893    0.4133    0.3009    0.2054       0.0770    0.2824    0.2180
TOTAL           22.8348    7.4452   30.3000   22.0599   24.2923        1.1739   25.4662   19.7527
NOTES:
1.  $US amounts are equivalent at negotiatlons (SDR 1 - $USI.3735)
BWDB component includes approxsmately $USI.89 million equivalent implemented under a Food-for-work
program, under which a significant proportion of the civil works were implemented.
2. Excluding the food-for-work BWDB component, cost at completion for the overall project was 89Z
of the original SDR credit amount.



- 25 -
TABLE 6
BANGLADESH
SECOND FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT (CR. 1876-BD)
Consolidated Proiect Financing
Proposed Credit                                         Actual
Source                    Agrement (1)                                             (2)
(SDR)            (SUS)             (SDR)               (OUS)                   2
IDA Credit
a. Civil works
BWDB                   4,900,000.00      6,729,800.00       4,858,347.48        6,190,814.16              99S
RED                    4,200,000.00      5,768,400.00       4,196,785.73        5,410,926.60             l00X
LGD                    1,850,000.00      2,540,800.00       1,970,434.95        2,538,079.41             1072
DPE                    4.100,000.00      5,631.000.00       4,097,032.24        5,326,192.91  l_7S _
BIWIA                    370,000.00        508,200.00         368,307.94          491,984.69             100S
b. Equipment
BIWTA
1. Vessel                180,000.00        247,400.00         172,;51.35          225,646.82              9fS
spares
2. Other               1,200,000.00      1,649,000.00       1,165,219.10        1,509,384.38              97S
DPE (furniture)          500,000.00        685,600.00         321,672.84          414,138.25              646
c. Consultants
services
BWDB                     150,000.00        206,700,00         150,000.00          187,554.00             100S
LGD                       300,000.00        413,200.00         215,981.64          282,375.16              71X
_       _RHD                 450,000.00       619,900.00          437,105.79          561,240.58              972
TOTAL                    18,200,000.00    25,000,000.00       17,953,639.06       23,138,336.96
Domestic (GOB)
a. Civil works
BWDB                   1,838,900.00      2,525,500.00         255,702.50          325,832.33              14S
RED                      486,200.00        667,700.00         220,883.46          284,785.61              45X
LGD                      254,100.00        349,006.00         103,707.10          133,583.13              412
DPE                      430,000.00        590,500.00         215,633.28          280,325.94              50S
BIWtA                     35,800.00         49,200.00          19,384.63           25,893.93              542
b. Equipment
| BIWtA                                                    _ _ _ _  _ _ _ __                        _  _ _ _  _ _ _
1. Vessel                104,300.00        145,800.00         219,745.05          285,668.57             2072
spares
2. Others                708,800.00        972,300.00         541,673.60          704,175.67              765
DPE (furniture)                                               137,859.79          177,487.82           _      _
TOTAL GOB                 3,858,100.00      5,300,000.00       1,714,589.41        2,217,753.00              442
TOTAL PROJECT            22,058,100.00    30,300,000.00       19,668,228.47       25,356,089.96              892
Notes:  1.  $US equivalents Are as at the dat. of negotiations.
BWDB component includes Food-for-Work equivalent of $1.89 million for civil works,
2. Percentage completion calculated relative to Credit Agreement (SDR basis).
For DPE component GOB financed 302 of furniture cost, being procured locally.
Due to non-finalization of withdrawal proceduros before the Credit closed, DPE
retains a liability of SDR 0.082 million (SUSO.1096 million) which could not be financed.



- 26 -
TABLE 7
BANGLADESH
SECOND FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT (CR. 1876-BD)
Status of Covenants
Covormn.                 5utject               Deadline        Status
:                                                                                        :
:                                                                                        :
Reference
:                                                                                        :
:Sectian 3. 01 a  'orrower to imple-nt project                 Fully coeplied.
Ut~a Mgh   D, IWTA, RHO, LCD
aid DPE in conforinty with
ppr oriate practice.
*                                                                                        a
*                                                                                        I
Sectin 3.02     Consultant to review                          Fully complied.
Schedule 5.    ccnplarec. with criteria
for selection of rehabilitation
works to be taken up by tWDB
LoD  ahd RfD.
:S.ction 3.03    Sorrow r to  nploy coniultants  3t Dec 187  Fully coplied wth
SeIh.dule 3    for iiDS  LCD ond RHD wodr                    *lthoug  so   Oelays
Section 11     using selection prec*durss                    were exper1-ned.
acceptabl-  to tne rank.
:                                                                                        :
:S^ct10n 3.04    Design standards and                          Fully co l1-d.
condtrct io chtAyar.
-re to be mutually agreed.
:S                                                                                       :
Section 4.01(b)  Sorrower to furnish                           Fully oo.plied.
11         certified copies of audited
ot *nd of each fiscal year.
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _



- 27 -
TABLE 8
BANGLADESH
SECOND FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT (CR. 1876-BD)
Use of Bank Resources
A.  Staff Inputs (Staff Weeks)
Stage of
Project Cycle                                            FY88    FY89   FY90    FY91   TOTAL
Through Appraisal                                           3.1            2.3                                         5.4
Appraisal through
Board Approval                                           7.6                                                         7.6
Board Approval through
Effectiveness                                                                                                        0.0
Supervision                                                8.0             58.0                          .4    66.4
TOTAL                                                     18.7             60.3                          .4          79.4
B. Missions
Stage of Project            Month/year        No. of    Days in         Specialization         Performance       Types of
Cycle                                    persons        Field         Represented             Rating         Problems
(a)                                                     (b)               (c)               (d)               (e)
Identification                  8/87            2             2               ens
Preparation                    10/87            2            10
Supervision 1                  3-4/88            2           12               en8                     2               t
Supervision 2                  6-7/88            2          nr              eng+dis                   2              m
Supervision 3                    7/88            2          nr               st+dis                   3          m+f+p+t+mp
Supervision 4                    7/88            2            4             eng+dis                   2               f
Supervision 5                    7/88            2            4             eng+dis                   1               t
Supervision 6                    7/88            2            1             eng+dis                   1             t+f
Supervision 7                    3/89           2           nr               st+dis                   3           m+t+p+f
Supervision 8                    3/89            2            4             eng+dis                   1
Supervision 9                    3/89            2            2             eng+dis                   2             m+f
Supervision 10                   3/89            1            4               eng                     2             t+f
Supervision 11                 3-4/89            2           19*            eng+dis                   2            t+m+mp
Supervision 12                  10/89            2           17*            eng+dis                   2            t+p+n
NOTES:
(a)  D - DPE; L - LGD; R - RFD; T - BIWTA; W - BWDB
(b) nr - not recorded
(c) eng - Engineer; st - Statistician; dis - Disbursement officer
(d) 1 - problem free or minor problem; 2 - moderate problem; 3 - major problem
(e) t - technical; f - financial; p - procurement; m - management; mp - manpower.
In view of the emergency nature of the works, normal preparation and appraisal procedures were not used.



BANGLADESH
SECOND FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT (CR. 1876-BD)
Consolidated Credit Disbursements
Expressd In SDI equivalent.
-Y---- *nd    ----u-x ----v  C --lt ---------e--------------------------^--------------------------------------------------------- -----------------------
so* FIscal   Estleated         Rfvised                                   CR1031l DIsoU3J3nENT                                              ACTUAl.        ACTUAL
Ourter                                      Civil woro    Conmultmncy        Equlpmnt        AOVAItCE      RECOVEtY          TOTAL         cAZOlT            I
includins                                                                                 DIS tEIM        OF ESTIMATED
materials
Itt1122  4                                          0.00            0.00           0.00   6.004.044.2t            0.00   0.004,0t4.2t   6.004.064.28           32.2n1
1600166  I                                          0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00   0,004,064.28          12 *n3
*                                  i.346.i i         83.422.42       61,163.66           0.00            0.00 1,Sts5.03.08   7.1196.TS.40            41.33
a                                  2.253.003.84      I90,966.41     109,423.b0            0.00     42,81.1TS   2,79,115.36  tO1,t31502.64            26.656
4                                  *4.294.16.01     401,044.03      221.063.10            0.00   2.49I.1ZI.21   2,431,2?4.45  I2.141,1t.2S            10.04S                 OD
1666WS                                      2.15,.622.20       33,122.53      1#2,16.44           0.00     036,163.43   2,120.801.T4  14I. 11.03              61.91
Z                                  X         s3.90ISM.SS  *1.613.34  42T,Su0.02           0.00   1,012.400.33   *.461,313.40  11.300.134.4)           61.422
3                                  I.360.019.23       14.81.6*2    846,64t.21             0.00   1,602,653$.     128.642.54  11.48S.216.51           66.33
iS .200,000.00
TOTAL       14,200,000.0                   13,430,806.34      8030,07.43   i.51.641.2* 6,004.084.2S  0,462,440.30  17.495.21E6.                                16.t31
1. Although the Credit was denmlnated In SON, the Special Acown t was denominated in SUS. Because of variations In exchange rxto. 4appied from tims to tie._
recovery in terms of Bokties become more than the original advance.
2. IVnoring recovery end Advance, the total Credit diabureement wae 51.561 of the estimate.
ID
O 2M
Fb 
o



BANGLADESH
SECOND FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT (CR. 1876-BD)
BWDB Component Credit Disbursements
Expr.oed" In SDI equivalent.
Slan. PIecet   fetluated        Revised                     CREDIT DISBUISO4NT                                                  *fCOWRYt         ACTAL           ACTUAL           ACTAL
Y.er en       Cumulative      Cumulative---------------------------------------CREDIT                                                                          CDUflATMV       DISOuosnI
jgarter                                    WDS He             Date            I-A. C~ivil         1-S           ADVANCE                      OISsmSINENT        caeow               I
works       Cuw~eltancy                                                     ooIsIISNmT    oP nOTfl4m
Incluading
mnaterials
Its?/So  4                                  I               4/21/IS                                            1,301.949.?2                    1.501.140.12   1,501.043.12              20.4:
1000113  4                                  2.214           6/12/03             212,133.70                                                       212,130.10   1.114.00S.42              31.131
* to 10         0/3/50              215,001.IS                                                       zss.9o1.1S   2.033bOI1.20              40.401
S.11toll        5/3/30              534.502.04                                                       534.302044   2.314,493.04              50.001
S/IslIs                                                           f.63S.107.311 (1.133,107.31)    330.310.45                11.1411
21 to 25        6/27/SO             495.004.30                                                       435,004.38   1.431 .330.03             20.341 13,
it to 20        1/23/80                             110.000.00                                       150,000.00   1,5011.330.83             31.311
138e0/0  I                                  27 to 32        01/419              120.O0S.SS                                                       720.308.8S   2.302.230.71              45.101
33              0/14/00             481,031.74                                                       461,451.14   2.1301013.45              $1.250
34.3S           0/25/03             517,713.33                                                       1117,1f.03   3.307,001.00              55.501
2                                 36,37           1200                  04,431.S1                                                      504,451.51   3.002.332.0S               11.211
30.33           12/20/03            005,132.03                                                       109,132.13   4,101.40S.20              04.411
3                        ~~~~~~~~40       1/2/00              104,124.13                                                       104,124.53   4.S72.1180.SI             0042:
S .050.000.00
TOTAL         5,050,000.00                                                    4.851.347.48       150,000.00   1.501.043.72   1,038,107.35   4.812.183.81                                04.43
Adjuntawnt of S/IS/SI wasn offected tram the Special Account Inl 31.
00



BANGLADESH
SECOND FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT (CR. 1876-BD)
RHD Component Credit Disbursements
aspt""d In 6   oqunvalnt.
_.____.___ ___._.  ._ ..................................__._._____..................--..-- .-.-_.....   _---,_---- -----.--------- ...................................................  --_-__------___._.___ ..............................   __ -____ -___ -___________ -._                                -------- - ----                                       
M* Flsal   stimated               Revised                       CIIEDIT D0IWRSDHNT                                                      Kt01)ERW          ACIL              W7TUA6L           ACUAL
lear an        Cumulative       C.mIattCvh -----------C------------------------------------------- ---------------------                                    CIKDJT         COWTIV           D "S3ZtS
Qumrter                                             tt/O No            OUt           5-A. Cilvil           5-6            ADVANCE                        D1S3IMSEMHET        CR1n                  S
works        Ceunultancmy                                                        OM MSIhNlT    OF  3T1I3t*D
Includin#
materl;
- --_-----__---------------............................ _- - --.- - - --------------------__-______
lUJ/U   4                                              t             4/20/tOU                                          1,S00,440. d 3                     ,0,o460.48
f1il/si  2                                             2            12/30/61           37.319.72                                                           337.313.72   I.11,1#10.40                 40.31:
3                                           364            2/15/IS           331,041.43       146,553.62                         106,002.04       423,513.06   2,3214113.46                 43.121
s            3/Il/S9           456,046.t                                                            453 043.31   2.79.420.31                  53.11         0
4                                            6             5/at13           340,514.02        126,052.95                        234.317.76        234,309.13   3,013*130.10                 64.311
7             5/3/63           174 J29.02                                                           t74.u2. .02   i. ,4us.s.is                s.si
*                t/1111        213S,67.52         12,773.43                         77,e04.16       146,513.01   3,331,030.23                 T1.1In
1410            6/20/66          404,063.95         51,247.17                                          451,311.72   3,714,34S."                  81.301
1133s10.  I                                           tit            1/1t1t6           10,435.24                                                            131,46S 24   S.11,s.831.11                IS.30
12            8/10/I 9          114,0S11                                            114,031.7l              0.00   3,15.6 35.13                Al .st
*                                           13             10/61/3         t12,533.08          31,053.83                        221,137.36              10.00)  3,flS,35.15                1s.101
14             OO/S/o           228.532.49                                          223,932.43              0.00    0,9l7 ,831.13              93.50O
Is             12/5/IS          214,320.45                                          216.820.40              0.00   3.971633S.13                IS.101
1s             1217/8/          23D,741.37        42,554.51                                          332,2Dl.88   4*308,130.0T                 32.311
3.00                                            Ii             113/30           &42,114.36        i4,86l.12                         351,033.50              0.00   4.306.131.01                32.035
t              1/13/60          210017.31                                                           210,01T.31   4.511.143.30                 97. tn
4,650,000.00
__._.....__.__...._____._.__................__........_....................       - ---------- - --------                                           ------ -     - -- -
TOTAL          4,t50.000.00                                                          4.116,765.73       431,101.73   1,300.40.60    1.616.205.32   4,513.148.38                                       9n.tnt
___._._._ ................_..___........   __._  _____.__ .............. _ .-.---........ _ __....._._____.............._.__._______........................__..___...................... _ ....._ .__..
Oa
'(D



BANGLADESH
SECOND FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT (CR. 1876-BD)
LGD Component Credit Disbursements
Uxproseed In 0        vmlat.
......... ..4............. .. ___....................... .. .._.. . _...... ..  _......__ .  ......................-------------------- _. _-.-_-_---_-----__..--___
2MMI fliecl   tEtlmted          4evised                      CREDIT D1aWStfNt                                                     RECOVERY         ACTUAL          ACtAL            ACTUL
Vr            Cmultiv    Cmulative - - --------------------------------                      ----------------------------------------              CREoIT        CLATIVE    OmolsT
Qurter                                           w/D No            Date         4-A. Civitl         4-             ADVANCE                      0 os3m5s           ConDT 
work*        wuuncu1tesmy                                                   DISSURSEENET  orF niSarTO
including
eaterlei
MM7/$6  4                                           I            sl2/6                                          1,U2S.79,.23                    1,12SO71S.23
1960/09  2                                          2            1114/68                           46,778.63                                       40,18.03   1,172,370.03                54.54
3           II/21/is          67,372.14                                                        6,372.14   1,231&,90.20                57.0Th
4           12/30/6           70,132.0s        34,643.50                                      1t2..         l,352&,20.35              62.32
3                                         5             1/11/8I          03,928.52                                        41,104.21       41,364.10   1,34,690.01                14.0Th
I            1/27/00          09,350.31                                        t6.33.63        52,718.44   1,441,407.05               *7.321
7            2/8/83          227,103.50                                        45,40.45s    IOi,703.11   1,62911tD.18                 75.113
*            2/t1/s6          00,001.40        42,415.05                       24.60.0 11       0,425.03   1,727.53S.24               00.351
*            3     |/1189    141,010.32                                                       141,071.32   1,5,2013.53               05.31        I
o             3120/3           62,743.57                                                        32,743.57   1,931,357. IS              39.32
4/7/61           '4,603.01 4,3*3.01   2,010.160.14                                                                     33.7 "
12            4/161/3         111,12 1.0                                        11.100.53       40,933.25   2,07,083.31               35.0Z1
i3            4/21/66                          31,331.41                                        31,351.41   2,004,444.00               37.421
is            513/09          los,437.8?                                        70,105.93       31,331:94   2,105,171.74              101.071
0            5/16/s9          92,022.28                                        33,204."        53,t17.30   2.233,506.04              104. in
Il            0/5s             40,113.3                                         24,064.10       25,040.21   2,213,243.23              103.301
14116          6/7/00          161,4ts.91        23,615.41                      111,460.4s        3,3317.63   2,336,601.13             101.70%
19            6/19/09         103,704.46                                        49,450.20       54,234.18   2,412,053.30              112.23%
20            6/20/03         144,501.30                                        81,341.15       03,220.81   2,471,070.17              115.121
00 90                                             21            1/11/00                           31,176.3s                                        MA,IM0.S   2,507,252.72              116.621
22            7/li/Os          54,070.01                                        31,171.10       14,093.01   2,522,i51.73              117.311
23            0/10/09          39,634.30                                        39,834.38             0.00   2.522.l5t.73             117.311
3.00                                         2-A           1/30/SO        12t,190.42                                       121,19t.32             0.00   2.522,151.71             117.311
--           t1/10SO                                                           411.337.20    141t.337.26)  2,110,614.47 4                .161
2,150,000.00
  ----------------------------------   ------------------------------ ---- ---- ---- ------------                                                                               -----------
TOTAL         2,50,000.00                                                       1,970,434.35      215,531.64   1,125.719.23   1,201,401.35   2,110.014.47
.... m   --                        _.e -.-..-- -.-...... - -_-------------------------------------------------_---_-------_--___---------_-________-_-----------
,l   u r^"twb         Of illsm  Wu effet"  fomOOts"ISI fecont
o90
(IQX
(D 



BANGLADESH
SECOND FLOOD REIIABILITATION PROJECT (CR. l876-BD)
DPE Component Credit Disbursements
9mptr..u on son ogilvalent.
ftk 2ttca)   Estimated          Revtma                     CREAJT DOSIMS Uti                                                   SCOV             aCtUl.          ACtUAL            ACItma.
Year ad   C uatlath   Cumultiv -................................ E..T ..UL ..ATIW   ISUmntwnT
siarter                                        tSi  nlo         baie         2-A. Civil          2-6           ADVAMC                       OIS6UStEnE         tIo?                 a
$WOks        Eqwlpa.ut/                                                     *ISISMSEIINT    OF 151T14*720
Inctuding       Futrnture
w   n       twnOtu
._.__............................,,.__..._.......__ ......._.__._._..._- _-___-_-....------_-_-____  ---------- - --------------------  --------- - ---- I- ---- -_ ----- -___ ______
1667/46   4                                        1            9/Eisa                                           I503.155 .4                  1,501*515.64
611446  t                                         2           1123166          240,034.16                                                      240.094.6. l.74t1.50.34                  31.3O3
3          12130166         $43,665.34                                                       342.605.34   2.064,2Z5.66               451.31
3                                        4            1/20166        $3.123.61                                         14.431'. 14     271.666.1   2.39S.642.35                51.221
5           2/17/69         377,367.42                                        75.4)3.76      301  s.634   2.5720,a.1                 ST.in.
6           3/6/66          35S1.12.01                                                       355.712.09   3.013,30.11 ISCSI
7           s     e31211    I56,364.61                                                       2561364.11   3.727.I.6 U        1.111              r 0s
J                                        6            4ffn12S         232,947.04                                                       232141,.04   7.505.640.02 7U.O3 J
6           6/12/69          164,610.T3       46.t66.74                                      233.346.4)   3.7311.480.6               St atg
10           6/22/69         137.05337                                         60,402.06       76631.11   3.616.1 20.66               st 
1566/50  1                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~is  7/11/66        141.9640.2                                       it. 136. 5      @2.510.07   6.616.666 -S                 4 S"3
12           6/1/s6          441,690.21         6,.556.62                     106.240.03           40.00)  3.8?0.660.41               go an
2                                       13            12I7T/8         193.62t.19       66314. 77                                       263,42. IS   4. 14.419.43               60.013
la           12/14/661       1617.034.164                                                     197,03*.14   4.306.500.57               113.114%
Is          12/13/66         216,267.07        6,666.06                       237,33 1935           0.00   4.306,50B.57               63.661
1            B122166          44,1576.16       1 ,630.72                       56,666.30           10.00)  4,303,506.57               63.631
S                                       IT           I/lll0           34511,166.6     11,733.71 4345.30.40                                  10.00)  4.306S,30.7                93.6 S
4,600.0"0. 00
101*8.       4,600,000.00                                                     '3,o 80012.24     321,672.84  1I90V.55S.44   t,610.751.66   4,301.306.51                                  63
00
0
a  t
Oah



BANGLADESH
SECOND FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT (CR.1876-BD)
BIWTA Component Credit Disbutrsements
Expressed in SDR equivalent.
Estimated             C R E D I T      D 1 S 8 U R S E M E N T S
CumuI ti v-
3-A. Civil                                                                                               Actual           Actual
Works          3-8-1          3-8-2                                                  Actual         Cumulativ         Disburam?nt
Bank Fiscul Year                                             including      Equipment/      Equipmont/                                              Credit          Crad;t                 1
an   urtr                          KID No. Date          Materias        Weasel*          Other                Advance        Recorver       Disbursement      Diabursement      of Estimated
1987/88           4                      1       05/18/80                                                       374,319.18                           374,319.18        374,319.18   21%
1988/89           2                      2       12/12/88        187,715.70                         30,041.20                                        217,756.90        592,076.08   331
3       12/30/88        32,876.79       57,522.46                                                           90,399.25        682,475.33   90S
3                      4       02/09/88                         68,323.09                                                          68,323.09         750,798.42   42J
5       03/20/88        38,283.51                         41,100.71                                         79,384.22        830,182.64   47%
4                      9&10   05/09/88          72,646.74       23,697.34        39,162.09                                         135,306.17        965,688.81   551
6-A     05/18/88                                          22,977.42                                         22,977.42        988.666.23   58S
9-A     05/20/88                                          25,291.57                                         25,291.57      1,013,957.80   58S
11     06/19/88                                           65,271.94                                         65,271.94      1,079,229.74   621
1989/90           1                      16      09/28/89                         23,208.46         81,0:8.16                                        104,226.62      1,183,456.36   681
2                      16      10/11/89                                          20,279.31                                          20,279.31      1,203,735.67   691
17      10/25/69                                          61,627.03                       51,627.03              0.00      1,203.735.67   691              W
OFHL    11/21/89                                           2,596.94                                          2,596.94      1.206.332.61   691
18      11/21/89                                          29,868.92                                         29,868.92      1,236,201.53   711
19      12/07/89                                         102,347.07                                        102,347.07      1,338,548.60   761
20      12/08/89                                         120,529.18                                        120,529.18      1,459,077.78   831
3                      5-A     01/04/90                                           2,615.93                                          2,615.93       1,461.693.71   831
12     01/09/90                                           14,871.90                                         14,871.90      1,476.565.61   85%
13     01/10/90                                           17,807.44                                         17,807.44      1,494,373.05   881
14     01/10/90                                          140,141.94                                        140,141.94      1,634,514.99   931
7      01/12/90                                           26,118.77                                         26,118.77      1,660,633.76   951
22      01/09/90                                         101,726.34                      101,726.34              0.00      1,660,633.76   83S
23      01/09/90                                          73,068.82                       73,068.82              0.00      1,660,633.76   95%
21      01/09/90                                         102,302.50                      102,302.50              0.00      1.660,633.76   951           O %
24      01/11/90        12,803.22                         54,453.92                       67,257.14              0.00      1,660,633.76   951           * X
1,750,000.00     25      01/19/90        23,981.98                                                                           23,981.98      1,684.615.74   96% 1            .
TOTAL                1,750.000.00                             368,307.94      172,751.35      1,165,219.10   374,319.18         395,981.83      1,684,615.74                     96S



BANGLADESH
SECOND FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT (CR. 1876-BD)
BWDB Component Project Costs
F1gume oxprtoed In millions.
Estimate  (1)                              Rnv1cd estimate                               Actual  (2)
te--,-,,_,____,,,--,_____________________________________________________________________________________________----- _--- -__----
Local costs    Foreign          Total       Local costa    Foreign           Total      Local casts    Foreign           Total
exchange costa                              exchange costs                              exchange costa
UJS          SM $US               8OR       SM           tUs          50R     SUS       sts                       SW       MA
--e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                                                 ----   --
IC1v1I works     7.7752          1.4801   9.2553  6.7383                                                  6.5187                  6.5167  5.1141
(including
construction
mterials)
Flood control
drainage1
Irrigation.
b.Conxultxnts     0.002          0.144?  0.2007  0.1500                                                   0.1676                  0.10?0    0.15
servicess
TOTALs        7.6372         1.6248   9.4020  6.8839      0.0000         0.0000  0.0000   0.000       8.7043          0.0000  6.7043  5.2041
1. $US aaomtx are calculated at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of negotiations.
Civil worka local cost includes xus 1.09 million Food-for-Work program.
2. Cost at copletion, in OR torus, was 76.41% of estimate exclud1ng Food-for-Work progrm.
D
oz
(0
I-.
o t.)



BANGLADESH
SECOND FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT (CR. 1876-BD)
BWDB Component Project Financing
............._._.__...........-----------------------------   ---------------------------------------------------------------------_____ --__-_________-____--------
Pltnned crodit                                 Revised                                    Final
Sourco           *grer nt (1)                                                                              12)                               Com Cents
ODR             5us               ODR              5UO          X            SOR                                   I :
IDA expenditur                                                                        :       :
: categorIe                                       *.                                          
*.Civil works    4,00000.00   0.7'60.00.00                                                    4 95e,347.40   *,o10,014.tO  :  igs::
(includIng                                                                                  .
construction
interilul                                       
b.Consultonts        l50 000.00      206,700.00                                                  t50O000.00       182 554.00   l00.OOO:
service                                                                                                                     :          :
Total IOA          5.050.000.00   69s33.S00.0o                                                  S0 5.00S,48 .S iss37e3.ie          *..is::
IDoaestic. aOW.
$Civil works       1,836,100.00   2,525,500.00                                                    255,702.50       325,382.33      13.91X1
:Tatel ooe          1,eno,100.oo   2,325,500.00                                                     255,702,50       325,032.33    13.91X:
ITOTAL PROJECT      80886 SOO OO   ,14e2,000.00                                           .       5 2e4 041 50   0 704,200.4S    70.41X:
__.___..._.__..,,.,..,._,._..__._...____.._________.__.__________________________________________,_______,.._________________ ____________________
1.  $US  auxntc aer calculated at tthe xchange rote prevaililng on the date ot negotiations ...... 0
Civil works loc a l * t Include  IUS 1.I   illion food-tor-Work program.
2.  Cowot  *t completion. in  eDF tt. no uoe  70 41X of astnoFts excluding Food-tlor-"ork prograr.......                                                                     Z 
IDA financed 95 t1X  of total component cost. excluding Food-tor-Work expenditure...... oa



BANGLADESH
SECOND FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT  (CR.  1876-BD)
RHD Component-Project Costs
Figures exproessd In millions.
Estimate  *I                                 Revised estimto                                   Actual
Local costs     Foroign           Total        Local Costs     Foreign             Total      Local costs      Forelgn            Total
exchange costs                                 exchange cost                                   exchnp costs
(UlS 1)       (USI)       (W)  SDR             (U9 S)        (UilS)       (ilS)    SOR        (UIs )         (US I)      (USW   StDR
a.Ctvil works      5.14*2           1.2079   6.43Sf   4.6802                                                      5.695?                    5.6357   4.41tt
(including
construction
mater iasl)
For principal
roads,orIdges
A culverte.
b.Consultants      0.1356          0.4341   0.o191   0.4500                                                       0.2788           0.2625   0.5113   0.4311 
"ervoes.
TOTALs         1.3S40           1.7220   7.0500   5.1302      0.0000           0.0000   0.0000   0.0000       5.9745           0.2025   0.2570   4.8546
NOOTES:
1. uw amounte are calculated at the exchange rate prevealing on the date ot negotiations.
2. Cost at completion, In ODR terms, was U4.122 of estimate.
OQ
0
oI2:
o 1'.



BANGLADESH
SECOND FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT (CR. 1876-BD)
RHD Component Project Financina
Planned credit                             Revised                               final
Source         agremnt (1)                                                                       (2)                         Come_ntc
(SDR)         ;US I)          (SOR)          (US 1)        x   :      SDR)          (US t)     :X
!IDA expenditure
catagorlso
&.Civil worke    4,200,000.00   5,708,400.00                                          4,19e,785.73   5,410,926.60 ,99.921::
(Including
construction
b.Consultants      450,000.00     613,300.00                                            437,105.79      501,240.58 :97.131:
Total IDA        4.060,000.00   6.383,300.00                                          4.633,391.S2   5,972,167.13 :,.ssx::
-- -- -- - -- -- - -- -- - -- -- - -- -- - -- r  -- -- - -- -- - -- -- - -- -- - -- ----- -- - -- -- - -- -- - --  - - -- -- - -- -- -
*                                             ..ostic  C 03
Civil worha        436,200.00     667,700.00                                           2220,53.40       284,735.61 :45.43X:
Total 008           438,200.00     687,700.00                     :                      220,683.46      24,785.01  45.431
:TOTAL PROJECT    5.136,200.00  1,056,000.00                                            4,854,774.98   6,256,U32.19 :94.521:
NOTESt
1. $US amounts are calculated at the exchange rate prevailing on the date ot negotiations.
2. In SON terms, IDA financed 95.45X of the component cost.                              
o 



BANGLADESH
SECOND rLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT (CR. 1876-BD)
LGD Component Project Costs
FIire expressd In willons
tatlt-  *1                                     Revised satimato                                     Actual  *2
Local onto       foreign             total        Local costs      Foreign             'Total       Local costs       Fore ln            Total
oxans*  costs                                     exchange costo                                    *xSchnpe est
(UsSI)         (USS)        (US         WR Soft   (US )          (Us W)       (Us  )      SDR       (US$)          (US $)        (Us I I      01
_.__.__.__ ........  .  ...........__.___..............   _ _, ,,,.,_ _, , _  ,   ___ _ _   _ __  _ __ ___________  _ ,_  --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- _ _ _ . -
o.CIVIl marks       2.5100            0.4198   2.3333   2.1041                                                           2.6011                      LOTS?   2.02 42
(tnoluding
Po.ntnictlon
materials)
for tdr
road ,brIdges
S culverts.
b.Cnoualtanta       0.1236            0.2094   0.4132   0.3000                                                           0.2054            O.0VFo   0 1f4   5 #I" 
- - - - - - - - -w - - - - - - - - - - - - - -* - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -----............
TOTAL           2.4)38           0.8632   1.O0JO   2.4041I                                                          2.0771            0.0770   2.1341    2 2tO2
NOTES:
1.  $US  oun*tr are calculatod at the exchange rate prevalllng on the date or negotiatlons.
2.  Cost at completIon, In DOD  term,, was 93.261 of estlato excluding Food-for-Work progrm.
(D
0 z
tJ'
o 



BANGLADESH
SECOND FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT (CR. 1876-BD)
LGD Component Project Financing
-----_-__-_---_-.-.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Plorwed credit                               Revised                                 fln al
Source         agreemnt (1)                                                                          2)                             Co_ -tx
: ~~~~---------- -------- -----------w------ ------------------------------ ...... ....................
*          :                                :      : --.-                                    :                      :
(9CR)          (SUS)            (9DR)           (hS)       : t      .   (SON)          (Us )      :     
:IDA empenditur                                                                                                                                           :
catagories
a.Civil works    1,850.0Wo.o   2,540,100.00                                            :  1,970,434.15   2,539,079.41   106.51::
:  (including
acontruction                                                                                                                                           :
1 aterIals)                                 :                                                                                                            ;
b.Consultants      300,00.O0       413,200.00                                          :    215,981.64      22,3175.19   It.9,sI
services                                                                                                                      .
Total IDA     a   2,150,O0u.00   2,954,000.0o :               :  :                         2,186,415.59   2,820,454.57   fol.68tI
:                                              :                                                                             
l:lv11 works        254,100.00     343,000.00                                               103,?07.10      t33,503.13      .OlS:
Cetol 000ks        254,100.00      349,000.00                                               103,707.10      133,583.13    40.81XS
TOTAL PROJECT     204,100.00   3403,000.00                                             Is 2t290,123.19   2,954,03T.30   95.2618
._______.________________________________________________________________ ........ 
NOTES:
1.  1   amwto art calculated at the etichange rate prevailing on the date of negotlations.
0
2.  *n 903t terms, IDIA f'tna.d 35.471 ci the component covt.                                                                                      U'
I                                                                                                          s 



BANGLADESH
SECOND FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT (CR, 1876-BD)
DPE Component Project Costs
fiure  expressed in millios.
._..,,__...________________........................ .... ............................________...............................____.__,_,,__.................................................. _______......................... _________
Ertimto  (1)                                     Reovisd estimato                                      Actual  (2)
Local moate      Foreign             Total        Local oate        Forsign              Total        Local costo      Foreign             Total
exchange costs                                     exchng  cooats                                    *xchinge cots
UO 1 )         1US$)        (lUlS)      UDR SON    M )            IUSI)        (US5 )      UOR        (US 11)         M  $)        M W)       IOn
*aCivil worho        4.0765           1.2430   0.2215   4.3300                                                             5.1101                     1IM11t   4.3 1
'(Including
construction
materials)
For raccot.a
repair et
ocDwsIa.
S.1p _              0.6181            0.0613   0.0650   0.5000                                                             0.931?                     0.5111   0.43          
iVl'~urwJ 
........   ______________... . . --------------------.........___-______________-____-____-_-_______________.__________---------------------------------------------------_________.____________________________
TOTAL           1.311             i.3103   6.1011   9.0300                                                            6.308                       5.3016   4.S6!
---- --_-_-____-___-_-___-_--_-_---_-- ---_- - -- ---__--- -- -- - -- --.-.-- --- -- --- -- -                                               -----------------------
NOTES3
1.  iUp  eowtn  are calculated at the exchange rate prevailing on the dato of nogotlatlons.
Civil works local cost Includes rU3 1.69 mllion Food-for-Work program.
2.  Cost at cooplotion, In SON termr, was  6.41S of estirmte excluding Food-for-Work progra.
B,.
OQ
o0o



BANGLADESH
SECOND FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT (CR. 1876-BD)
DPE Component Project Financing
Pliamid credit                               Revised                                  final
Sorce          agreesnt (1)                                                                            (2)                            Comnts
---------------------    ----------------    ------
(SON)          (SW)              ($OR)            tUS)        X   2      (SDR)           (US 9)
--------------*--* -   ---         ------      ----- ~~~~~~-~~ --------- -~~ ---------    ----    -------~~o~~~ -~ ----------- ~-----
IDA Oxpnditur?
catagori0                                                                                                              0
a.Civil works    4,100.000.00   51631,000.00                                               4,057,032.24   S,328,132.91   39.332;
(including
conbtuct1 In
materials)
b.Equtpment       '500,000.00      885,600.0 0                                               321,072.84      414,138.25   04.33S2
(furniture 
---------------------------------------------- -- - -------------------------- ------ -------------------------  ...........
Total IDA         4,600,000.00  06,311600.00                                               4.418,205.08   5,740,331.16 t      .091:
------------ ---------  -    ----------- ---------   -- ----------- ------------ --   ------   - ------------ ----------- ---- -------- -----------
2D0eeetic. 005
:Civ1  works          430,000.00     590.500.00                                                215,633.20       250,325.94   50.15M
Equipment                                                                                     13,65.79         17t7,i407.82   32.0812
~~~~~~~~~~-------------------------------------------__- _ -----------------  ---- ----                          ----  __ -___ _-_-_____________
:Total GOB            430.000.00     590,500.00                                                353,4933.0       457,813.780   02.211:
:TOTAL PROJECT     5,030,000.00   6.307lo00.00                                               4.772,130.15   0,130,144.92   94 .87X:
NOTES:
1.   US Suounto are calculated at the exchange rate prevalling on the date of negotiations.
2.  tn SDR terms, 'JA financrA 10. 3  ot the component cost.                                                                                          
At crodit closing date there rmained an amount of 9DR 0.0642 million equivalent which could not be financed.



BANGLADESH
SECOND FLOOD REHABILITATION PROJECT (CR. 1876-BD)
Figures expreemed In millin..                               BIWTA Component Project Costs
Estimate  (1)                                  Rei*wed estimato                                  Actual   (2)
Ite      - ---------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------___________ _______ -----------------------------______
Local osto      foreign            Total        Local costo     fore1gn             Total       Local costs o     oreIgn           Total
exchange costs                                  Oexhnge costs                                   oexhng  costs
(Us I         (1)          US)        SOR       (US $h (USI)               (US3$)     3OR       (US$           (W$)        (US$       son
a.Civil works      0.44a5           0.1080   0.5574   0.4058                                                       0.3170                     0.5173   0.3877
(including
construction
materials)
For ferrydocis,
Jetties, port
facilities etc
b. Equipment.
nevigational     0.1571          0.2301   0.3932   0.2863                                                        0.3080           0.2026   0.114   0.33925 
aide vessel
spares *tc.
Tug boat.        1.0474           1.5732   2.0213   1.9086.                                                      f.00ts           0.6110   2.2137   t.7009
TOTAL          1.6530           1.9189   3.5719   2.6007                                                      27.286            0.8144   3.2430   2.4871
DOTES:
t. $13 amoumto are calculated at the exchange rato prevalling on the date of negotiation,.
2. Cost at Completion, In 9DR terms, was 95.33x of setisato oxcluding Food-for-Work progra.
Savings from noaprocureosnt of a tug boat wero utilieod for procuroomnt of oquippent damaged by the 1980  flood.
00
0
oIZ
o Irs



BANGLADESH
SECOND FLOOD REIIABILITATION PROJECT (CR. 1876-BD)
BIWTA Component Project Financing
Pluwed credit                 .                 ovised                                  Finat
source          agreement I)                                                                             (1)                             C      _ment s
.... .c ...........----e    ----   -------- -e     n-                               e---.-a------.-n-e-
(son)            ItS)      :      SOII)         1U S)           X          (BUR)            (U             SI:3S
: - --                   -               0 ----:--- -----I------- -----_ -_ - -_ -_             - .....
SI   xpsnditur.                                    I                                         1 
*-                                                                                S       S                                 .        S                   '  I
* catapries                                                                        .
a.CvIl works        37010000.00      P5.200.00                                    :            3.1,307.54       491.314.IS    39.545:
(Includng                                                                                                                  I
:    aterils)                                                                                                                  : 
:M.quipmet.
:b.(1) Y  1tt                                      :':                                       :' :                                   :                          :
~par*          189,00.60       241,.400.00:                                                172,751.35      225.646.12    u5.1sx:                        :
(2) Others       i,20#,000.00   1.U4.9000.00:                                                1,1II,219.10   t,e09,324.38        1.o10t:                     :
..............--- -                                                    ----------------------- --.--.--------------------- ------                           .
tal IDA           1t7S0,000.00   2.404.600.00                                     0* l1 0I211.39   2.227.015.81    31.502:
.. .      e....      ee...... e. .     eO. ...s....eeee: ---:- ------ .--                          ---------------  -----
:Onetic. 0o0.                                     . .
:       -~--5                                      :                                 :       :                                 :         :
Civil works           35a  00.00      43,200.00                                                   15,314.3 3      25,893.13    54.151:
(1) Vel" 
are            1016300.00      143,B00.00                                                  21945.05        25.O    .$? S  200.721
(2) Others         100300.00       912,300.00                                                  *41 et, .mO      v04.175.0t    *16.44::
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~----- :-:--                                        - ---- - ------ ----  -----------                         - -----
Total We               0,100.00   1#167,300.00                                                  .100,03.20    I.lt.S3g.t? I 1.7115:
: :::.. :....................................... :----------------------------- :-------s-                --.--- -                       - -
:PROJECT TOTAL      26T00.0OO.O0   3,571100.00 I                                     *          2,40t,031.47   2,242.154.06 I  t9.O3JX
.................. ................-  ----------------------------------  -   -  ----  -  -----------------------------------..................................................................._...........____.__________.
I.  SU1 aounwts ars calclated at the edchange rate prevailing on thie dato of negotiation. 
2.  In S0N teme, IDA tinancd 01.013 of the compont cost.
MAl *tna,w.t 11 At  of the total Component cost. including pOaeent ot dutote  and taxes on isported Ites.



I
I
I
I



