Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1876 BD
(Second Flood Rehabilitation Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 19, 1988
CREDIT NUMBER 1876 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 19, 1988, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has  requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.O1. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence  of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Page  2
Section 1.O2. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"BWDB" means the Bangladesh Water Development Board established and 
operating pursuant to the Bangladesh Water and Power Development Board Order,  1972 
(P.O. No. 59 of 1972), as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(b)
"DPE" means the Directorate of Primary Education within the Ministry of 
Education of the Borrower;
(c)
"BIWTA" means the Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority  
established under the Inland Water Transport Authority Ordinance, 1958 (EP Ordinance 
No. LXXV of 1958);
(d)
"LGD" means the Local Government Division within the Ministry of Local 
Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives of the Borrower;
(e)
"RHD" means the Roads and Highways Department of the Ministry of 
Communications of the Borrower;
(f)
"Implementing Agencies" means BWDB, DPE, BIWTA, LGD and RHD collectively;
 
(g)
"Bangladesh Bank" means the Central Bank of Bangladesh established under 
Bangladesh Bank Order, 1972 (President's Order No. 127, 1972);
(h)
"Rehabilitation Works" means any program of reconstruction or repair, 
including the provision of equipment and technical assistance therefor, selected or 
proposed to be selected by the Borrower under the Project pursuant  to Section 3.02 of 
this Agreement;
(i)
"Special Account" means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(j)
"TK" means Taka, the currency of the Borrower.
 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms  and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in  various 
currencies equivalent to eighteen million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 18,200,000).
Section 2.O2. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the  Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this  Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this  Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in Bangladesh Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of,  the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.O3. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1989, or such later date   as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount 
of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time. The commitment  charge shall accrue 
from a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement to the 
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit 
Account or shall be cancelled.
(b)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the  
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind  imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency  specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
Page  3
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.O5. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
May 1 and November 1 commencing May 1, 1998, and ending  November 1,  2027. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on November 1, 2007, shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the  Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and  after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the  Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not  yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amount of such installments, 
the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal 
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in 
the judgment of the Association, such  revision shall not change the grant element 
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph  (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition  has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end,  shall carry 
out the Project through the Implementing Agencies with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering 
practices, and shall  provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the generality of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the  Borrower shall 
ensure that adequate funds are allocated for the operation and maintenance of the 
Rehabilitation Works.
Section 3.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of  this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall select Rehabilitation Works to be carried  out under the 
Project in accordance with criteria mutually agreed between the Borrower and the 
Association including those set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the  provisions of Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall construct and improve all works included  under 
the Project in accordance with design standards and construction  specifications 
mutually agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Page  4
Other Covenants
Section 4.O1. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project  of the departments 
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof, including the Implementing Agencies.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section including those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than nine months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by the said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the 
said records, accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until one year after the Association has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last disbursement 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date
Section 5.01. The date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.O4 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary or any Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy 
Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the External Resources Division of  the Ministry 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.O2. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.O1 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Page  5
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's
   Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
BAHIRSAMPAD 
642226 SETU BJ
Dhaka
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 2O433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
 
INDEVAS 440098 
(ITT)
Washington, D.C. 
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of  the day and year first 
above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ A. H. S. Ataul Karim
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ A. Karaosmanoglu
Regional Vice President
Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to  each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                           it Allocated             % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  BWDB (Part A
     of the Project):
     (a)  Civil works         4,900,000         95%
          (including
          construction
          materials)
     (b)  Consultants'          150,000         100%
          services
(2)  DPE (Part C of
     the Project):
Page  6
     (a)  Civil works         4,100,000         95%
          (including
          construction
          materials)
     (b)  Equipment             500,000         100% of foreign
          and furniture                         expenditures,
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 70% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
(3)  BIWTA (Part D
     of the Project):
     (a)  Civil works           370,000         95%
          (including
          construction
          materials)
     (b)  Equipment
          (i)  Vessel           180,000         100% of foreign
               Spares                           expenditures,
                                                100% of local
          (ii) Other          1,200,000         expenditures
                                                (ex-factory cost)
                                                and 70% of local
                                                expenditures for
                                                other items pro-
                                                cured locally
(4)  LGD (Part B
     of the Project):
     (a)  Civil works         1,850,000         95%
          (including
          construction
          materials)
     (b)  Consultants'          300,000         100%
          services
(5)  RHD (Part B
     of the Project):
     (a)  Civil works         4,200,000         95%
          (including
          construction
          materials)
     (b)  Consultants'          450,000         100%
          services
          TOTAL              18,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
Page  7
3.
Withstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made 
in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement except 
that withdrawals, not exceeding the aggregate amount of SDR 3,000,000 and consisting, 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, of the  amounts specified below in 
respect of the Categories directly opposite to  them, may be made on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after October 1, 1987:
(i)
SDR 750,000 for Category (1);
 
(ii)
SDR 750,000 for Category (2);
 
(iii)
SDR 375,000 for Category (3);
 
(iv)
SDR 375,000 for Category (4); and
 
(v)
SDR 750,000 for Category (5);
 
(b)
expenditures under the Categories specified below until the Association 
has notified the Borrower that the Association is satisfied with the appointment of 
the following consultants:
(i)
in respect of Category (1), to assist BWDB in carrying out Part A 
of the Project;
(ii)
in respect of Category (3), to assist BIWTA in carrying out Part D 
of the Project;
(iii)
in respect of Category (4), to assist LGD in carrying out its 
portion of Part B of the Project; and
(iv)
in respect of Category (5), to assist RHD in carrying out its 
portion of Part B of the Project.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in the financing of a 
high priority program to restore flood damaged facilities in the Borrower's territory.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Restoration, by BWDB, of irrigation, drainage and flood protection works, 
including: the compacted filling of embankment breaches; the resectioning, 
strengthening and protecting of damaged embankments; the retirement of embankments 
where the existing location is no longer tenable; the repair or replacement of damaged 
or destroyed water control structures; and the reconstruction of town protection works 
including groynes, sheet piling, brick mattressing, boulder and cement block 
revetments, and flood walls.
Part B:
1.
Restoration, by (a) RHD and (b) LGD, of roads and associated structures, 
including: the compacted filling of embankment breaches; the resectioning, 
strengthening and protecting of eroded embankments; the reconstruction of damaged 
culverts, bridges and retaining walls; the restoration of road shoulders; the repair 
and strengthening of damaged pavement; and the construction of additional drainage and 
culverts in flood damaged areas.
2.
Provision of consultants' services to assist with the design of the 
rehabilitation, under future projects, of flood damaged roads and associated 
structures.
Part C:
Provision of furniture and equipment and reconstruction and repair of primary 
Page  8
schools to permanent standards by DPE.
Part D:
1.
Acquisition, by BIWTA, of navigational aids, hydrographic survey and water 
gauging equipment and vessel spares to replace the flood damaged equipment, including: 
steel lantern buoys, mooring gear, dredger pipe, shore beacons, markers, gauges and 
recorders.
2.
Acquisition, by BIWTA, of a tugboat for use in flood rehabilitation work.
 
3.
Repair, by BIWTA, of flood damaged ferry docks and related structures, cargo 
jetties, passenger jetties, port facilities, and pontoons including replacement of 
mooring shackles.
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1988.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Bangladesh may be granted a margin of  preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Contracts for civil works shall be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, 
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the  Association, 
provided, however, that: (i) civil works under Parts A, B (1)(a),  C and D (3) of the 
Project, up to an aggregate amount not exceeding SDR 2,500,000 equivalent may be 
carried out through force account; and (ii) except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, civil works under Part B (1)(a) of  the Project shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost TK 2,500,000  or more each, and under Part B (1)(b) of the 
Project into bid packages estimated to cost TK 1,000,000 or more each.
2.
Pontoons repairs, buoys and related equipment for Part D of the Project 
(excluding the BIWTA tugboat as well as gauges and instruments) may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in 
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.
Proprietary items required for Part D of the Project, up to an aggregate amount 
not exceeding SDR 350,000 equivalent, may be procured through direct contracting with 
the suppliers or manufacturers thereof under procedures satisfactory to the 
Association.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for civil works and equipment estimated to 
cost the equivalent of $150,000 or more, the procedures set forth in  paragraphs 2 and 
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to 
be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that 
the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be 
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the 
Special Account in respect of such contract.
Page  9
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of  the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the 
Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.  Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, 
the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed consultants whose  qualifications, 
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the 
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and 
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use 
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" 
published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to SDR  
6,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit  Account and 
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
of the Special  Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. On the 
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw  from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amounts as  shall be required to replenish the 
Special Account with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the  Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence 
supporting  the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Page  10
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this  Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to or at the  time of such request, 
such documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing 
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Association when  either 
of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement; or
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible Categories minus the amount of any outstanding special 
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall 
be equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount  not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not  justified by the evidence 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Association, deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such 
deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further  payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the Credit Account.
SCHEDULE 5
Criteria for the Selection of
Rehabilitation Works
1.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all Rehabilitation Works 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, shall be undertaken only after 
prior review and approval by the Association of the scope and cost of such works.
2.
Rehabilitation Works not covered by the preceding paragraph shall be selected in 
accordance with the following criteria: 
(a)
damages to be repaired shall be:
 
(i)
a consequence of the 1987 floods, or damages which, if not 
repaired, will vitiate or seriously diminish the effectiveness of 
other flood damages being repaired under the Project; and
(ii)
of significant nature, not include minor works of deferred 
maintenance, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, 
shall (a) in respect of Part B (1)(a) of the Project have an 
estimated value of TK 500,000 or more; and (b) in respect of Part 
B (1)(b) of the Project, have an estimated value of TK 200,000 or 
more.
(b)
reconstruction work shall restore structures to their original 
specifications or to such higher specifications, including necessary additions  or 
alterations, as  may be warranted to ensure their optimal performance and  integrity 
Page  11
over a reasonable life; and
(c)
other external sources of finance are not available.  
3.
All rehabilitation works selected for financing under the Credit under Parts A 
and B of the Project shall first have been reviewed by the supervising consultants 
employed under the Project and found by such consultants as complying with criteria 
set out in paragraph 2 of this Schedule.
