Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repor No. 7875
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MALAYSIA
SECOND POPULATION PROJECT
(LOAN 1608-MA)
JUNE 30, 1989
Population and Human Resources Unit
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients on in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without We Id Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Malaysian Dollar (M$)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACRONYMS
AVPC        - Audiovisual Production Center
DG          - Director General
EPU         - Economic Planning Unit
FDTC        -  Family Development Training Center
FPSC        -  Family Planning Specialist Center
GOM         -  Government of Malaysia
IEC         -  Information, Education and Communication
MCHIFP      - Maternal and Child Health/Family Planning
MOA         - Ministry of Agriculture
MOH         - Ministry of Health
MONRD       - Ministry of National and Rural Development
NFPB        - National Family Planning Board
NFPSC       - National Family Planning Specialist Center
PCCU        -  Project Construction Coordination Unit
PCR         -  Project Completion Report
PWD         -  Public Works Department
REMIS       - Research, Evaluation and Management Information System
TA          -  Technical Assistance



yeaOE VvCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Wasigton. D.C. 043
016c @i OVtiMGWtd
Opat. £vbaa,m
June 30, 1989
ElMORANDuM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTs Project Completion Report on Malaysia
Second PoRulation Pro ect (Loan 1608=Nl
Attached, for information, Is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on Malaysia - Second Population Project (Loan 1608-MA)"
prepared by the Asia Regional Office. No audit of this project has been
made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
Thb dosumnt   a a mduud dbtububouud my be usd by nxiPbOts OfY in the edft0=6
of theit offici duieL Its contoots may not odbwiso be dbWed wout Wadd Bm  "fu_.fi



FOR OMCIL USE ONLI
MALAYSIA
SECOND POPULATION PROJECT (LOAN 1608-MA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE              .      .....................................................    i
BASIC DATA SHEET .........         .      ....                        .  ..*..      ii
EVALUATION SUMMARY .        ............................................  l v
I. INTRODUCTION..                                                                 1
A. Sector Background ........... ............................               1
B. Previous Bank Involvement in the Sector.                                 2
II.   PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION, AND APPRAISAL.               .          3
A. Identification and Preparatio.                                           3
B. Project Appraisal.                                                       4
III. THE PROJECT. . ..   5
A. Objectives . .                                                           5
B. Project Components. . .                                                  6
C. Organizational Arrangements .                  .                         7
IV. IMPLEMENTATION                        ....
A. Effectiveness.. .                                                        8
B. Changes to the Project Environment             . . .                     8
C. Progress of Project Activities              . . .10
D. Overall Project Results  ....13
E. Project Costs and Financing               . . .15
F. Disbursements                  . . .15
G. Performance of Contractors, Consultants and Suppliers                   16
H. Compliance with Loan Covenants              . . .16
I. Reporting                   ...17
V. PROJECT AND PROGRAM IMPACT    ..17
A. Achievement/Failure of Project Components .17
B. Family Planning Program Performance and Impact on Health
and Fertility.                                                     1
VI. IlSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE    ..19
A. Project Justification and Objectives: To the Bank and
the Borrower .19
B. Project Content and Scheduling .20
C. Project Implementation and Operating Outcomes .20
VII.   CONCLUSIONS ..............................................                  24
Irhi, document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discksed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
1.   Project Construction Components
2.   Overall Physical Achievement of Project Civil Works
3.   Disbursements
4.   Compliance with Loan Conditions
5.   Key Performance Indicators



KALAYSIA
SECOND POPULATION PROJECT (LOAN 1628-MA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is a Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second
Population Project, for which Loan 1608-MA was approved on July 1, 1978 in
the amount of US$17 million. The loan was closed one year behind schedule.
Only US$5.9 million of the original US$17 million was disbursed.
The PCR was prepared by the Population and Human Resources Unit,
Country Department II of the Asia Region and is based on the Staff
Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement, documents contained in project files,
interviews with Bank staff, and completion report prepared by the Borrower.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower for comments; these have been
incorporated into the text of this final version.



- 14. -
PROJECT COILIO  REPORT BASIC DATA  ET
MALAYSIAt SECOND PPULATION PROJECT (LOAN 1608-MA)
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal             Actual or
Lts                                                                               curtstl  earrent estimate
Total Project Cost (US$ eIlion)                                             57.7                  17.7 
Underrun ()
Loan/Credit Amunt (US1 eillon)                                             17.0                   87
Disbused )
cancelled      )                                                                                11.1
R"pOld to )
atoeynding to -
Date Phyalel I Components Complted                                      121                   12/31/
Proporion  mpl     by Above Dote M                                           100 )73 
Proportion  f Ti_ Underun or Ovorrun ()-
Economic Rat of Return                                                       NI
Financial PefornmnceR
Iotttutional Perfcimene                                                     Good                  Fair
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original                                    Actual or
Item                                             Pln               Revisiono             Eat. Actual
First Mention tn Files or TImetble                                                                 0     7
Ooverne nt'- Application
Negoti atione                                                                  ZZ0^ 7
Board Approval                                                                                         06  zt!7
Clon/Cedit Agr e ent Dte                                                     i1 
norr                                                    overnment of Malile
Executing Agencles                                      Nitionl FaMlit'  nnin Board  Ministries of Ne'ith
Trc-* Siuitur. *nd PubTTTUOoacs UDeD tmon
Piecel Yeoa rf Borrowr                                  Janua  IL 1   -  10dor IL
F.l low-on Project  _e msH
MISSION DATA
Sent                         NO. of       No. Of                          Data of
Lts                   bW         month, Year      We?e         Persons       Staff-weeks        Resort
Preparation                                 /2                                         6/
Preporation            097I                                                            I            Ii
Proparation                               am                             I             a
Preparation                               Mm                             X            1 I
Appraisal                                                                             II
Sup rzl-lon I                 ~~08/78          J 8                                       09/2978
Supervision II                                                           2 1          15
Supervision III                            1 95
Supervision IV                                                                        70
Supervision V                                             I              I             U             81  81
Supervision VI                            0                              i             I
Supervision VII                           O                              I             1               1
Supervision VIII                          1                              T             1
Supervision IX                            O 3             1              1 
Supervision X                                             I              I             I
Suprvilsion XI                            ;08             i              1             1            11184
Completion                                                I i           i
COUNTRY EXCHANGE RATES
Name of Currency (rbbroviatlon)                                     MalaYsi7n Dollar             ( M   )
Year:
Approisal Year Avrage         1977I7n                              Exchange Rate: USIl a          2.40
Intervening Years Average     1I-83                                               USlI            Eli
Completion year                  94                                               USSI *          2
J  Project nevwr completed due to Inadequate counterpart funding, changes In governm_t population policy and
lmplementtion delays.
Jb In term of numbers of facilities constructod.



- ill -
CUMII.A1T? ESlINATED AND ACTUAL D!SS)M3EMENTS
1906    1091  1902    1NS   1094  1NS
Appraisal Estimate (US elIIIon) 4.4    0.4   14.9   17.0   17,6   17.0
Actual (US2 mil.on)          0.1    1.5    2.5    t.6 -- 4.7    5.9
Actual as X o. Aoprleal (M)   3.0   16.6   17.0   21.0   268.   35.0
t    US 11,118,822.29 of the loan amount was cancelId on June 8, 1905, following
loan closing on D e  ber 81, 19S4.
STAFF NPUT
(Staff week.)
FY          76  n     76   79   60   01   02 68    64   86  86   87   88         Total
Pre ppralal  .2 27.7 70.4  -    -    -   -    -    -    -   -    -    -         98.2
Appralsal    -   -   64.5  .7  -    -   -    -    -    -   -    -    -           85.2
Negotiation  -   -    9.1  1.6  -    -   -    -    -    -            -    -      10.90
Speprrlolon  -   -    -   6e.6 U3.7 27.1 21.6 19.5 28.7  6.? 8.7  8.6  2.0  266.0
Other       -   -    -    -    2.6  -   -    -    -    -   -    -    -           2.6
TOTAL        .2 27.7 1l4.6 65.1 39.4 27.1 21.6 19.6 28.7  8.7 8.7  8.6  2.6  406.6



- v -
MALAYSIA
SECOND POPULATION PkOJECT tLOAN 1608-MA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Summary
Obiectives
L.       The Government of Malaysia's Third Malaysian Plan (1976-80) placed
renewed emphasis on redressing economic and social imbalances in the country
through the introduction of a number of initiatives, including the provision
of additional meas for tne poorer members of society to limit family size,
considered an essential element in equalizing economic opportunities. The
Government's demographic goals were to reduce the population growth rate In
Peninsular Malaysia from 2.4S in 1975 to 21 in 1985 and to encourage the
population of Sabah and Sarawak to space their children in the interest of
maternal and child health. The Second Population Project was designed to
support these objectives bys (a) intensifying family planning efiorts in
* urban areas to reach an estimated..36S of the population living in slums;
(b) extending integrated maternal, child health and family planning- services
to rural areas; and (a) integrating the family planning program with other
development activities designed to reach disadvantaged communities and
regions.
'-.      The project extended activities begun under the first Population
Project (Loan 880-MA, approved in January 1973), through six major components:
(a) establishing family planning specialist centers (FPSC) for specialized
health care related to family planning; (b) intensifying family planning
service delivery in poor urban areas; (c) strengthening maternal, child care,
and family planning services in rural areas; (d) expanding and strengthening
the Ministry of Health's (MOH) capacity for in-service training; (e) integrat-
ing family planning Information, education, and communication (IEC) and
motivational efforts with development programs; and (f) strengthening the
National Family Planning Board's (NFPB) management Information system and
research capability. Project activities were to be implemented by NFPB, MON,
the Public Works Department and the Ministry of Agriculture (MQA) which
provided family planning information in conjunction with its other programs
offered in rural areas. NFPB was responsible for coordinating project
activities while the Economic Planning Unit (EPU) oversaw interagency policy
coordination. The project was appraised in November 1977 and the Bank loan
was approved In July 1978.
Implementation ExDerience
iii.     Project implementation was undermined by a combination of problems
which seriously retarded loan disbursement and ultimately necessitated loan
cancellation. With about a third of the loan allocated to civil works and
another third allocated to other inputs contingent on the completion of civil
works, higher-than-expected increases in civil works costs coupled with the
Government's increasingly difficult economic situation in the late 1970a
resulted in inadequate budgetary allocations for project works and thus



significant implementation delays; budget cuts were Implemented from 1982
onwards. Extremoly slow site acqiateition and frequent changes in planning and
design decisions exacerbated the situation. PrQ?oaed technical assistance and
training activities were also substantially curtailed by the Government's
reluctance to use borrowed funds for these purposes.
iv.      Project management arrangements proved inadequate, as the various
implementing agencies proved reluctant to recognize NFPB's authority and key
managerial staff in MOH and NFPB were transferred during the project period;
KOH and NFPB staff were also preoccupied by preparation of the Fourth Malaysia
Plan. Finally, the Government's adoption of the new population policy with a
target of 75 million in 1982 resulted in an overall slackening of family
planning activities, particularly its promotion tbrough IEC. Subsequent
efforts to restructure the project to emphasize family health proved fruitless
and the loan was closed on December 31, 1984. The remaining US$11.1 million
of the project loan were cancelled on June 8, 1985. The loan had been
extended from December 31, 1983 on the basis of a commitment by the Treasury
to increase budgetary allocations for the project, but these funds never
materialized.
v.       Actual costs for project activities totaled US$17.7 million, or 472
of the US$37.7 million eatimated at appraisal. Disbursement under the Bank
loan totaled US$5.9-uillion, or 35..Pf the loan amount.  The Government
financed the remaining US$11.8 million of project costs.
Results
vi.      Though the project was plagued with problems, the most significant of
which were beyond the control of project management, some positive results
were achieved. The project played an important role in extending maternal,
child care and family planning services to rural areas, particularly in
Sarawak. At loan completion, of the 84 planned MOH rural health facilities in
Peninsular Malaysia, 53 (63S) had been built and equipped, and 53 (902) of the
58 facilities in Sarawak were completed. The objective of Intensifying family
planning In urban areas was partially met by the construction of 14 of the 36
planned urban family planning clinics, and the successful establishment of one
of the five NFPB Family Planning Specialist Centers. The one facility
completed by the purchase and equi-ing a building and becoming operational--
a National FPSC-in Kuala Lumpur--was considered a major achievement by the
Government and enjoys great prestige in Malaysia. Offering a wide-ranging
program of reproductive related services and training, the Center has
established a basis for developing an important family health program. In
all, 131 of the planned 200 project facilities were completed. Most of the
vehicles, equipment and furniture--except those tied to uncompleted
facilities--were procured and distributed. The Family Planning Specialist
Center and NFPB9s Research, Evaluation and Management Information System
(REMIS) Division benefited from consultant input and six REMIS staff members
received long-term training. The goal of integrating family planning into
other development activities for disadvantaged areas was not aceieved due to
the shift in the government population policy. The same factor was
responsible for the project's failure to help reduce the population growth
rate to 2% uy 1985. The World Development Renort 1988 estimates the average
population growth rate in Malaysia at 2.72 during 1980-86.



- vi -
Sustainability
vii.     In light of the above, the long tenm sustainability of the project is
mixed. The Infrastructure created by the project including the National Family
Development Center and the heal.h centers La operational and is likely to be
maintained by the Government. However, population policy goals and objectives
have been weakened by decisions outside the control of the project.
Findinas
-viii.    The following salient lessons emerge from the experience with this
project:
(a) the conditions of loan effectiveness sugge2ted at appraisal--that
project sites for the first two years of implementation be acquired
and that architect's briefs be submitted for civil works--were
considerably weakened by the time of negotiations, which contributed
significantly to the slow start of civil works under the project;
(b) the feasibility of designat'Ag an lnterministerial body such as the
NFPB to coordinate activities of line ministries should have been
more critically reviewed by the Bank, and specific measures included
In the project to enable NFPB to handle its role effectively;
(c) the Bank was correct in its decision to extend the loan in 1983
despite problems in project pert mance, in light of government
assurances of additional resources to allow saccessful
Implementation and in order to continue the population dialogue with
Government. By 1984, however, it became clear that the major shift
in government population policy and its continued severe budget
constraints left no option for the Bank but cancellation of the
remaining loan amount;
(d) success in social sector development, population in particular, is
highly vulnerable to the political commitment of the borrower.
Creating a broad-based professional constituency for population
issues, particularly in academic institutions and powerful
nongovernmental organizations, could serve as a cushion against an
adverse climate for population aetivities;
(e)  in retrospect, too close identification of the Bank's population
activities with a single vertical program structure escalated inter-
agency conflicts and hindered greater integration and sustenance of
population activities in the larger development context.



MALAYSIA
SECOND POPULATION PROJECT (LOAN 1608-MA)
Project Completion Report
I. INTRODUCTION
A. Sector Background
1.1      In 1975, Malaysia had a population of 12.3 million which had grown at
a rate rf 3.2S per annum between 1960 and 1370. The natural rate of popu-
lation growth in 1975, at 2.42, showed a decline from the 1966 level of 31 due
to socioecoromic development and family planning efforts. However, with a
continued gRowth rate of 2.41, the population would have doubled in about
29 years. The legacy of a high birth rate during the 19508. wa strongly felt
in the 1970s, pushing a greater proportion of women into the reproductive ages
and a larger aumber of entrants into the labor market. These factors had the
potential for high rates of population growth and unemployment in the absence
of deliberate policies to moderate those trends.
14,      Fertility levels in Malaysia vary by socioeconomic status, women's
education level, region and ethnic background. In 1975, wvmen whose husband's
monthly income averaged more than M$500 had an average of 3.6 children,
compared to 4.6 children among those with a monthly income below M$100. on
average, women with 12 yjars of education had less than two children, women
with no education had more than five children; rural women had an avexge of
4.4 children, while their urban counterparts had 4.0. Malay women had an
average of 4.8 children, compared with 4.0 for the Indians and 3.7 for the
Chinese. The less-developed states of Trengganu and Kalantan had birth rates
of about 37 and 36 respectively, compared with about 26 in the more-developed
states of Perlis and Penang.
1.3      Family planning activities in the country were initiated first in
Peninsular Malaysia in 1953 by a private organization and were officially
incorporated into government planning in the first five-year plan in 1966. In
East Malaysia (Sabah and Sarawak) family planning activities were started in
1967 by voluntary 4ssociations. As a result of these efforts, the total
fertility rate (av.,rage number of children per woman over her childbearing
years) in Peninsular Malaysia declined by 172 during 1967-74, with the number
of family planning acceptors rising from 20,000 in 1967 to 80,000 in 1977.
1.4      Malaysia's family planning program has been mainly the responsibility
of the National Family Planning Board (NFPB), an interministerial body under
the Prime Minister's Department consisting of a Chairman and 21 members, 10



- 2 -
representing interested ministries/departments and 11 representing the private
sector.11 Under the Board are the NFPB Director General and the staff of
four technical divisions and of planning and development units. The NFPB
formulates population and family planning policy, implements the program
directly or through other agencies and coordinates activities. The NFPB
budget for 1976, shortly before the project was appraised, was M$7.75 million
(US$3.2 million), which represented a threefold increase since 1973.
1.5      The Ministry of H..alth (MOH) also plays a role in family planning,
Viich it began to integrate into its maternal and child health (MCH) services
in the early 1970s. The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) has likewise trained
its agricultural extension and community development workers in family
planning since 1971. MOA provides family planning information in conjunction
with its activities to raise the socioeconomic status of women in rural areas
through vocational training.
B. Previous Bank Involvement in the Sector
1.6      Bank support for population planning in Malaysia began with the first
Population Project which was initiated in 1973 with the assistance of Bank
Loan 880-MA for US$5 million. The first project was designed to strengthen
the national family planning program by: (a) improving administration and
management; (b) extending and improving family planning services and health
programs in rural areas where the majority of the population lived;
(c) providing family planning training to paramedical medical personnelt and
gd) establishing population research programs.
1.7      The project mainly provided for:  the construction and equipping of
administrative centers, clinics and a training center as well as extensions to
many existing facilities; equipment for research and education; vehicles to
permit staff mobility; and training. Project completion was delayed by about
four years due to organizational problems, slow site acquisition, design
changes, and inexperienced contractors. Administrative and financial
procedures further compounded difficulties in processiAg loan disbursement
requests. According to the Project Performance Audit Report for the project
(December 19, 1984), implementation of the project's nonconstruction compo-
nents was more easily achieved than the construction components, and human and
institutional development efforts were generally successful although the
population education as well as the information, education and communication
(IEC) components were not so effective, being constrained by the general
sensitivity surrounding family planning. While many constraints to the family
planning program had been overcome under the project, some factors remained
problematic, including insufficient political commitment, inadequate counter-
part funding, inadequate interagency coordination and restriction on IEC
activities. Overall, the project's major impact was on institution building,
with a contribution also made to the increase in family-planning acceptors.
1/ The NFPB was later renamed the National Population and Family
Development Board (NPFDB).



- 3 -
1.8      At the time of appraisal of the Second Population Project, it was
hoped that several measures introduced into the project's design would circum-
vent problems experienced under the earlier project, thus facilitating
implementation. Optimism about the follow-on project was further sparked by
new management at NFPB which had significantly expedited the progress of the
first project.
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
A. Identification and Preparation
2.1      The project was identified in 1975 in the course of supervision
missions for the first Population Project, when the Economic Planning Tt t
(EPU), the Treasury, MOA and NFPB expressed interest in a follow-up pr. '.ct to
support the population objectives of the Third Malaysia Plan (1976-80).
Government's commitment to the project was confirmed in July 1976, and project
preparation was initiated shortly thereafter in October 1976.
2.2      Discussions during preparation of the project were not encouraging,
however. NFPB had not received instructions from EPU or the Treasury with
regard to the second project, and the Third Malaysia Plan (1976-80) had
allocations only for follow-on activities from the Second Plan. Since the
Third Malaysia Plan's Mid-Term Review would be held in 1978 or 1979, the Bank
and EPU discussed the possibility that, during the review, funds would be
reallocated from other scheduled expenditures to a Second Population Project.
During these discussions it became evident that the Bank favored a rural focus
to the project while the Government preferred an urban focus. Given that the
first Population Project had been criticized in Parliament for its rural bias,
it was agreed that more facilities for urban areas would be provided in the
second project, while some components would be retained for strengthening the
delivery of family planning services integrated with maternal and child health
(HCH) services in rural areas.
2.3      At the first preparation meeting, the ranking EPU official present
was enthusiastic about the project. At a subsequent meeting, however, EPU
staff expressed reservations about a second project, noting that the lessons
of the first project were still being assessed. EPU staff also indicated that
they were not receptive to the multisectoral approach proposed for the
project, which would involve four ministries, and the project's potentially
complex implementation arrangements. EPU staff argued that enough money had
already been allocated for family planning and suggested waiting to consider a
second project until 1980-81 when the Fourth Malaysia Plan would be developed.
The mission pointed out that if a high rate of population growth was
recognized as a serious obstacle to the development effort, the requirements
of the implementing agencies needed to be met.
2.4      Support for the project within Government continued to appear
uncertain despite statements to the contrary. In the course of preparation,
MOA participation in the project was added as the Government was known to be
interested in furthering women's development and, by incorporating MOA-
sponsored activities for women, it was thought that political commitment to



-4_
the entire project would be increased. EPU staff continued to stress the neea
to intensify urban family planning efforts, while Bank staff urged expansion
of rural family planningJMCH coverage and for enhancing the stature of NFPB
and thus the national credibility of family planning. In an effort to fulfill
both concerns, project design emphasized construction of eight large urban
facilities for NFPB, provision of one large urban facility for MOA, and six
large rural facilities for MOH.
2.5      Additional coordination and commitment difficulties surfaced.  In
April 1977, the previous mission had provided EPU with detailed checklists for
project preparation which were to have been distributed to NFPB, MOH and the
MOA, but these were delayed. MOH staff expressed serious concerns to Bank
staff about accepting NFPB as the project coordinator, and were not sure that
they could justify MOH's part of the project in terms of family planning
activities. Within the NFPB itself, staff showed interest and willingness to
work with the mission on project preparation, with the exception of the IEC
Division. Another issue that surfaced was that EPU no longer wished to chair
the Project Coordinating Committee as it had in tke first project. The Bank
considered EPU's past chairing of the committee to be very important for its
positive effect on coordination of the multi-ministerial program.
2.6      Despite these issues between the proposed implementing agencies,
during an April 1978 visit, a World bank senior vice president was told by
NFPB, with Treasury and EPU confirmation, that the Government was very much in
favor of the second project and would appreciate an early appraisal. During
the July 1977 preparation mission, members of the conservative element of the
ruling coalition at its annual convention demanded abolition of the NFPB.
This demand was subsequently changed to either banning a voluntary family
planning organization active in Malaysia or to increased control of the
agency.
2.7      In Washington, the Bank reviewed the issue of whether or not to
proceed with the project given the political opposition to family planning in
Parliament and the slow implementation of the first project (4h years into
that project only 13t of the loan had been disbursed). Bank staff members,
however, were impressed with the direction the new NFPB Director General was
providing the Board, and they thought that the structure of the loan itself
could counter political opposition in the Government since the project
supported the integration of family planning with the development activities
of several agencies. It was further expected that project activities would
not overly suffer if political opposition to family planning continued to be
expressed, due to the project's substantial MCH component. It was also hoped
that a continuing dialogue between the Bank and the Government could
strengthen the national family planning efforts. Preparations for appraising
the project therefore continued, although some senior Bank staff remained
unconvinced and critical of the project.
B. Project Appraisal
2.8      At appraisal in November 1977, the project components were fairly
well defined. The project was envisaged as a multi-sectoral involvement in
family planning with substantial participation in population and developmental
activities. The project had a large civil works component since other donors
were reluctant to finance infrastructure for the sector. NFPB would have the



central coordinating role in order to give it a stature consistent with that
of the other implementing agencies. MOH agreed to this with an eye to showing
support for the new NFPB Director General. The organization of the second
project was expected to avoid the extensive construction delays experienced in
the first project by setting up a Project Construction Coordination Unit
(PCCU) in the Public Works Department (PWD) to design the 200 facilities,
supervise their construction, and marshal contract documents.
2.9      During the first project, the Government's cumbersome financial
procedures for processing withdrawal applications to the Bank contributed to
long lags between the allocation of funds by the central PWD to the State
PWDs, and between expenditures and disbursements. Under the second project,
these lags were to be reduced by (a) allocating funds once payment vouchers
were received; (b) permitting PWD and other implementing agencies to submit
vouchers directly to the NFPB Project Administrator who was authorized to sign
the withdrawal applications on Government's behalf; and (c) collecting
vouchers and monitoring civil works by mobile supervisory teams comprised of
PWD and Project Secretariat staff.
2.10     Originally, the Bank proposed as conditions of loan effectiveness:
(a) that the sites needed in the first two years of the project be acquired;
and (b) that architect's briefs be submitted for each physical facility.
However, the project Decision Meeting in February 1978 change these conditions
so that only the 71 sites needed in the first year had to be acquired and only
detailed space requirements rather than architect's briefs were to be
submitted.
2.11     During negotiations in May 1978, three conditions for effectiveness
were agreed; (a) the completion of site acquisition for 46 facilities
scheduled for the first year of the project (reduced from the earlier 71);
(b) appointment of an adviser to prepare a plan of action for a proposed
Family Planning Specialist Center; and tc) the assignment of a part-time
architect and two part-time technicians. In addition, the Government assured
the Bank that the project administrative officer would be permitted to remain
throughout the life of the project.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Ob3ectives
3.1      The project was designed to assist the Government meet developmental
goals enunciated in its New Economic Policy of 1970 and the Third Malaysia
Plan (1976-80), which were both aimed at eradicating economic and social
imbalances. Recognizing that providing the poorer sections of society with a
means of limiting family size is essential for equalizing economic opportuni-
ties, the Government formulated a program to intensify family planning
activities in urban areas to reach an estimated 36% of the population living
in slum areas, further extend integrated maternal, child health and family
planning services to rural areas, and integrate the family planning program
with other development activities. While no long-term demographic targets
were as yet formulated, in the medium term the Government sought to reduce the
rate of population growth in Peninsular Malaysia from 2.41 in 1975 to 2? in
1985. Against these overriding objectives, the project had the following
specific goalss



- 6 -
(a) to improve the rate of continuation of contraceptive practice,
promote the availability of alternative methods, and increase the
number of acceptors;
(b) to extend services to regions and communities where they were
inadequate or unavailable;
(c) to improve the monitoring and evaluation of the program and promote
operational and policy-related research into determinants of
demographic changes and their linkages with socioeconomic
development; and
(d) to promote demand for family planning services and a smaller family
norm.
B. Project Components
3.2       The project comprised the following componentst
(a) construction and equipping of one national and four regional family
planning specialist centers and operation of the centers for four
years;
(b) construction and equipping of 36 urban family planning clinics,
including 15 in areas where no services were currently available and
the remainder to replace existing but inadequate facilities;
Cc) vehicles and equipment to extend the provision of maternal-child
healthlfamily planning (MCH/FP) services in rural areas, including
188 mini-buses and 500 motor scooters; 2,580 scales; 1,100
refrigerators for vaccines; educational and audiovisual materials
and equipment; and 50 vehicles for mobile teams servicing the more
remote areas. Health services in Sarawak were to be augmented
through the equipping of lU mobile teams with ambulances, long boats
and engines and the addition of 12 MCHIFP clinics to existing
dispensaries, including vehicles for the clinics. Nine person-
months of fellowships were included to train MOH officials in the
planning and management of MCHIFP services.
(d)  t.-ining of staff for integrated rural health and family planning
services through: (i) the construction and equipping of: six
integrated rural health and family planning training schools for
various categories of rural health staff--three in Peninsular
Malaysia, two in Sarawak, and one in Sabah; field training
facilities for community nurses and hospital assistants, including
trainees' quarters; and 25 ataff quarters at training schools in
Sarawak; (ii) the provision of vehicles, equipment, training
materials and manuals; (iii) the evaluation of the training program;
and (iv) 46 person-months of fellowships.
(e)  for information, education and communication (IEC) services offered
by NFPB: the construction and equipping of a print shop; 18 mobile
vans; funds for the production and purchase of films; fellowships
for 27 person-months of training; and two officers for evaluation of



- 7 -
IEC activities. For the Ministry of Health's Education Unit, the
project would provide: the construction and equipping of an
audiovisual production center (AVPC): one truck; a mobile
maintenance unit for audiovisual (AV) equipment; 16 mobile vans with
AV equipment, funds for the production and purchase of films and
other IEC software; 77 filmstrip projectors; nine person-months of
fellowships for staff training; advisory services to establish the
AVPC; and funds for health education evaluation.
(f) to improve the socioeconomic status of women and thereby give them
alternatives to child bearing, a women's development program
included (i) construction of two training centers to train community
development workers and 12 community service centers where the
community workers would train village women in vocational and family
life skills (nutrition, child care, etc.) as well as handicrafts;
(ii) the purchase of a shop for a women's handicraft sales
organization to motivate rural women to engage in economically
beneficial activities; (iii) 53 person-months of fellowships for
staff involved in these programs; (iv) surveys to determine women's
training preferences and types of handicrafts in demand; and
(v) program evaluation;
(g) to strengthen the Research, Evaluation and Management Information
System (REMIS) of NFPB, the provision of computers and equipment;
the hiring of university graduates for data analysis; fellowships to
train three senior professionals and salary support for 20
evaluation assistants; and 6.4 person-years of advisory services;
(h) to strengthen the administration and management capacity of MOH,
construction and equipping of eight district health offices, as well
as equipment and a fellowship for NFPB;
Ci) construction and equipping of a central warehouse for NFPB to store
supplies and six delivery vans; and
(j)  US$600,000 to fund innovative proposals made by local authorities in
the course of project implementation.
C. Organizational Arrangements
3.3      To avoid repetition of administrative and managerial difficulties
experienced under the first project (para. 1.7), a number of new features were
introduced into the project's organizational arrangements. The NFEPB Project
Unit responsible for overall coordination of project activities was to be
strengthened under the project. Interagency policy coordination for the
project was to be carried out by a Project Steering Committee chaired by EPU.
Each agency participating in the project (NFPB, MOH, MOA and PWD) designated a
project manager to coordinate and expedite project work within the agency,
including site acquisition and preparation of architects' briefs. The work of
the agencies was to be coordinated and monitored by a Project Management
Committee, a subcommittee of the Steering Committee. For coordination and
steady implementation of civil works, a project construction coordinating unit
(PCCU) was set up in PWD and staffing of the State PWDs was strengthened.
Procedures for processing withdrawal applications for Bank funds were
streamlined and a schedule of site acquisition was agreed.



IV. IMPLEMENTATION
A. Effectiveness
4.1      The project was presented to the Bank's Board for approval on July 6,
1978 and the Loan Agreement was signed on July 17. 1978. The project loan
became effective on December 15, 1978, about two months later than planned due
to delays in fulfilling one of the three conditions of effectiveness, i.e.,
the acquisi ion of sites for construction works during the first project year.
B. Changes to the Project Environment
Changing Economic and Policy Factors
4.2      The project was never formally revised, although its scope was
considerably reduced in the course of implementation due to changes both in
the strength of the Malaysian economy and in government population policies
introduced four years after loan effectiveness. The project was initiated
during a period of changing economic circumstances for Malaysia. During
project preparation, Malaysia was experiencing a decade of impressive economic
growth, with GNP increasing at over 7Z annually. But in the late 1970s,
economic development was relatively less favorable, with GNP growth slowing
to 4-5Z, and current account deficits in the balance of payments growing
rapidly. This led the Government to adopt austerity measures to constrain
public expenditures, with priority being given to income-generating projects.
As a result, inadequate counterpart funds were allocated by Government to
cover ongoing and planned activities under the Second Population Project.
Government financial support was not forthcoming and led to an eventual
stalemate in the civil works component. Since about a third of the Bank loan
was allocated for civil works and another third was for inputs that were
contingent on completion of the civil works component (incremental operating
costs, US$1.2 million; equipment US$4.35 million; furniture US$0.4 million)
the shortage of counterpart funds seriously affected project progress. Thus,
in October 1981, the third year of the project, only 1O2 of the loan had been
disbursed, compared with the appraisal forecast of 55Z.
4.3      The problem of insufficient counterpart funding was vastly compounded
by a new Government population policy announced in 1984. Under the new
policy, the country was urged to achieve a population of 70 million by the
year 2100. Implicitly, the new policy was pronatalist since Bank projections
indicated that Malaysia's population would reach only 38 million in the year
2100 on the basis of projected trends in fertility and mortality. The reason
stated for this abrupt change in Govern-ment policy was to create a large
domestic market for Malaysian manufacturers. Despite the change in projec-
tions, the Malaysians stated that the policy was not meant to be pronatalist.
However, other government policies and programs did indicate a pronatalist
orientation that implicitly undermined the project's family planning
objectives. Based on data on acceptors and birth rates since the new popu-
lation policy, the evidence is that the policy ha; affected family planning
performance and hence project objectives. Policy changes such as in September
1984, for example, when the Government amended its wage-employment law to
increase the provision of maternity benefits from coverage of three children



-9-
to five children created a difficult environment for the family planning
program.21
21 The Government in its review of the PCR stated with regard to the
population policy and its impact on the family planning program as
followss
'The new population policy which was promulgated In 1982 augments the family
planning program In Malaysia. The following strategies were developed to accomplish the
sTod policy and achieve a target of 70 million population.
Continuing the family planning program but with greater emphasis on spactng of
births and expanding the services offered to include Infertility management, genetic,
marriage counselling and family life education.
Strengthening the health services to include both preventive and curative
activities with emphasis on maternal and child care and Integrated prenatal care with
family planning in particular.
The Governomnt took positive steps to implement the remaining family development
projects which were carried over to the Fifth Malaysia Plan. With the recent Improvement
In the economy, most of the family development projects and four regional specialist
centers will be constructed and be available for service by the end of 1990/91.
The Government's adoption of a pronatalist policy resulted In an overall
slackening of family planning serviceso Is misinterpretation of the 70 million population
policy by the World Bank.
The new population policy Is not a pro-natalist policy because It allows
fertility rates to decline slowly over a period of 85 years when a replacement level
fertility will be achieved I.e. In the year 2070 (through family planning practice). The
population of 70 million will only be achieved In the year 2100 and the population Is
expected to etabiliso around 73-75 million In the year 2150.
The new population policy was developed and promulgated mainly to accelerate and
assist economic development. This Is spelt out clearly In the mid-term review of the
Fourth Malaysia Plan (1981-85).
There Is also no slackening of family planning activities. The years 1984 and
1985 were lean yers for family planning acceptors recruitment. Tbh number of acceptors
for 1983 was 65,061 and went down to 58,013 In 1984 and further dropped to S1 488 In 108.
In 1986, the number of acceptors recovered to 57,734 and to 70,071 In 1987. in 1988, tho
number of acceptors in estimated to have reached 90,000. The populace have understood the
spirit and the rationale of the 70 million population policy.
The wage employment law to increase the provision of maternity benefits from
coverage of three children to five children is not the recommendation of the Populatlon Ad
Hoc Comittee under the Prime Minister's 'epartment. It was a *eparate exercise under the
Ministry of Labour.
The emphasis on family planning communication activity was reduced not suspended.
Informal education and communication activities were allowed to contiTnue but not thorough
the media such as radio, TV and press".



- 10 -
The Bank's Reaction
4.4      In late 1983, the Bank explored with the Government the possible
repackaging of project components to emphasize family health and development
rather than family planning per se, in accord with the Government's policy
thrust. The Bank agreed to consider a Government proposal to reduce the
project scope to US$26 million, extend the loan closing date up to two years,
and increase the civil works disbursement percentage. The Bank in turn
submitted a revised project for Government's approval which, inter alia, would
have deleted construction of small facilities still without sites and reduced
software to be provided. This would have required the Government to contri-
bute M$14 million in 1984 and M$11 million in 1985. The Bank also proposed
financing a demographic study, analyzing the long-range implications of the
new population policy. However, no positive responses were forthcoming from
the Government.
4.5      Two distinct schools of thought developed in the Bank with regard to
the loan. One group advocated granting further extensions, the thinking being
that although the official government population policy had changed, it was a
political change which had not materially affected the delivery of contra-
ceptive services. The Bank should therefore remain as an encouraging voice
for continued comprehensive service delivery in the family health and family
development programs. The other school of thought, which eventually carried
the day, advocated cancellation of the remaining loan funds. This school
cited: (a) the lack of implementation progress which made it difficult to
justify the allocation of staff time to project supervision; (b) the lack of
any indication that project performance would improve due to the shortage of
foreign exchange; and (c) the lack of senior level support within Government.
Some staff also felt that cancellation would remove a potentially contentious
item from the Bank's broader dialogue with Government.
C. Progress of Project Activities
Civil Works Components
4.6      Implementation of all civil works carried out under the project
suffered from several general problems which seriously delayed their
completion. At loan closing, 132 of the 200 buildings planned under the
project had been finished, 6 were under construction and 31 were ready for
tendering. Eleven of the 8 buildings uncompleted at loan closing were large
facilities. Buildings that were completed suffered from delays of from one to
three years compared to the appraisal implementation schedule. For those at
the tender stage, but not yet built, the two or more years spent on their
planning were wasted. Project implementation was most successful in Sarawak
where 52 of the 58 planned facilities were built. The major factors
responsible for the implementation problems are described below.
4.7      Site Acquisition.  After the Federal Government had identified the
sites for project facilities, the land parcels, all rather small, had to be
acquired according to procedures which varied in each state. When the land
was actually owned by a state, the Federal Government requested release of the
site and the request was processed according to the procedures specific to the
state in question. Since the land parcels were small, the requests received



- 11 -
low priority by the state administrations. Additional delays were introduce
when it was determined that some project locations had not been correctly
selected and when shop houses rather than land were purchased for clinics, in
which case the deeds of ownership had to be located. The Loan Agreement
stipulated that all sites were to have been acquired by the end of the second
project year. Works implemented by the MOA, Sabah and Sarawak were on
schedule, as were one-third of the 4H0 sites. However, none of the
outstanding NFPB sites had been acquired by that time. By project compietion,
19 sites had yet to be acquired, and of these, 14 had not yet even been
identified.
4.8      Larger Facilities.  The civil works component ambitiously emphasized
the construction of larger facilities, as opposed to the smaller facilities
constructed under the first project. Ir. all, 27 large buildings were to have
been constructed: 8 NFPB facilities in urban areas, 6 rurai facilities for
the MOH, one urban building and 12 rural community service centers for the
MOA. As a result of the decision to soften the conditions of effectiveness,
no architectural plans for these buildings were available when implementation
began (para. 2.9), necessitating; first, the identification of guidelino's for
facility design and function, then the preparation of designs and, finally,
the approval of designs by the central agencies. The requirements for many of
the major buildings, including the audiovisual center, the research centers,
the regional training schools and the Sabah Training School, were changed more
than once and were not finalized until 1982. The Bank urged the Government to
accelerate construction of the large buildings outstanding in order to avoid
overtaxing the PWD due to the bunching of work at later stages. But since
government budgetary allocations were lower then expected, PWD concentrated on
construction of smaller facilities which required a lower level of financial
commitment.
4.9      Cost Overruns and Inadequate Budget Allocations.  Cost escala  on for
project works far exceeded the levels anticipated at appraisal. This escala-
tion was partly due to rapid inflation in the construction industry, partly to
the larger-than-expected size of buildings finally planned, and partly to the
fact that larger contractors were not interested in bidding on these smaller
projects. The smaller contractors who undertook the construction did it at
higher unit cost, as they were unable to realize economies of scale. Since
the appraisal focused on the construction of larger facilities, when budget
allocations proved less than expected, construction of the larger works could
not be carried out.
4.10     Staff Turnover.  Smooth implementation of the civil works component
was also negatively affected by high staff turnover and absences from the job
at NFPB; understaffing, high staff turnover and over burdening of staff at
DPW; and changes in top management in MOH and at EPU. At NFPB, the Director
General was indisposed for some time, the Deputy Director General resigned,
and the project administrative officer, whose presence during the entire
project period had been agreed at appraisal, was asked to rejoin her civil
service agency half-way through the project. (Since NFPB is an inter-
ministerial body under the Prime Minister's Office, its employees are not
regular Malaysian civil ser-ice. Some employees are seconded from other
ministeries or departments.) The architect and three of the technical staff
of PWD's PCCU resigned during the early part of project implementation to take



- 12 -
up more permanent appointments elsewhere. (To ease its staffing problem, PWD
arranged with NFPB to commission a private architect to plan the warehouse and
print shop.) The Bank's project liaison at EPU changed three times during the
course of the project, and the Director General of MOH at the time of
appraisal was replaced by an official who spent little time on project
matters.
4.11     Use of Bumiputra Contractors.  Project construction focused primarily
on smaller facilities, and 'overnment policy for such works required that the
contracts be let to bumiputra (ethnic Malay) contractors. As happened in the
first project, additional problems were introduced by using these contractors
since they were often overcommitted, causing inordinately long time lags
between tender awards and commencement of work. With limited financial and
management resources, these contractors were vulnerable to periodic shortages
of materials and fluctuating prices. Higher prices, added to the limited
credit available to them, led to work stoppages and contract default. Until
late-1980, EPU was required to carry out a time consuming, case-by-case review
of all funding requests affected by cost escalation before approving
government funding. This introduced additional delays which the small
contractors could ill afford. Of a total 141 contracts awarded by the end of
the project, 17 were stopped, forcing PN to obtain new tenders and to delay
works even further.
4.12     Other Factors.  The MOH's belated decision, four months into the
second project, to review MC' service standards at urban family planning
clinics caused significant delays in implementation of that component. Such a
review had been done prior to project appraisal and the MOB had assured the
Bank that an early decision would be taken on the siting of the 15 new
clinics. In 1985, sites for 12 clinics still had not been identified. In
other areas, delays were introduced when the operational sequence of
construction was tied in with some other facility to be completed which was
also behind schedule. Lastly, since the first project had been extended from
1978 to the end of 1981, with a total implementation period of 84 years,
officials in the implementing agencies expected that the second project would
also receive extensions to span a similar period. Had the project closing
date been extended an additional 24 years, most of the civil works components
probably would have been completed.
Technical Assistance and Fellaoships
4.13     US$1.27 million was allocated under the project for consultant
services, fellowships and salaries of local experts. Roughly equal amounts
were allocated for consultants and fellowships and the funds were spread out
over the various project components. Fellowships of varying duration were
meant to upgrade the technical competence of staff at all levels, with 25
person-years of advanced training fellowships and 12 person-years of technical
consultancies planned at appraisal.
4.14     At project completion, US$500,000 of the US$1.27 million allocated
had been disbursed in this category. For the advanced training fellowships,
3.6 person-years (14?) had been used by end-1984. Six of NFPB's staff with
the REMIS Division received long-term training (1 PhD, 4 Master's, and 1
Diploma). The IEC fellowships never materialized. At MOH, one staff member



_ 13 -
attended a 3-month graphics course in the United Kingdom, and MON reported a
better quality in the subsequent materials design.  MOH staff attended a
health education meeting in the .nited Kingdom, one staff member arranged an
Asian study tour and another was sent for training in the United States. The
remainder of the MOH fellowships were not used due to administrative delays
and staff turnover. The poor performance in this area was in part due to the
Government's reluctance to use borrowed money for "software" such as
fellowships and in part to their perception that Bank procedures were unduly
stringent; construction of facilities was seen as a more acceptable use of
loan funds.
4.15     Of the 12 nerson-years of advisory services envisaged under the
project, only 25 person-months (172) were used. At NFPB, five consultants
were engaged, three of whom were expatriates. The Family Planning Specialist
Center and the REMIS Division benefited from consultant input in women's
health services and in the demographic analysis of family planning acceptor
characteristics in Malaysia. In 1983 an Australian demographer was retained
to perform an analysis of population policy and its integration into
socioeconomic development planning.  The MOH appointed two of the consultants
envisioned at appraisal; the other consultancies were contingent on the never-
constructed Audiovisual Center. At MOA, an expatriate consultant in program
planning helped the Women's Development Program to get off the ground but
activities dwindled after his departure. This advisory assistance had not
been included in the appraisal. Another consultant was hired to perform a
financial anp'ysis in 1981. The PWD hired a private architect to plan the
NFPB warehouse and print shop, neither of which were constructed. The overall
impact of the technical assistance actually carried out under the project was
favorable; if the project had received all the technical assistance envisaged
at appraisal the project outcome might have been improved.
D. Overall Proiect Results
4.16     As a result of economic and policy changes that negatively affected
the project environment as well as the various problems cited above that
delayed or prevented implementation, actual accomplishments under the project
was far below expectations. The major implementation accomplishments and
shortfalls are described below while the status of project civil works is
summarized in Annex 1, with further details in Annex 2.
(a) Family Planning Specialist Centers. Due to delays in counterpart
funding, only one of the five centers planned was in operation at
project completion. The national FPSC in Kuala Lumpur was
constructed, and considered a great success by Government, while the
four regional centers were not completed. By project completion, the
FPSC had completed several biomedical and contraceptive health
projects, trained 300 private and government physicians in advanced
contraceptive technology, and developed a number of training modules
and family planning teaching materials.
(b) Urban Family Planning Services. Of the 36 urban family planning
clinics proposed, only 14 clinics were completed at loan closing
(with some purchased rather than constructed) and five were under
construction.  Originally, MOH was to construct 15 of the clinics,



- 14 -
but shortly after project effectiveness the Ministry reassessed its
needs and dropped two clinics. In 1982, it dropped six more since
polyclinics were being constructed at those locations. NFPB's
progress in constructing the remaining 21 clinics was extremely slow,
and only 7 were actually carried out.
(c) MCH/Family Planning Services in Rural Areas. Much of this component
was carried out. Most of the equipment (an estimated 95Z of clinical
equipment) and vehicles intended for MOH were purchased by project
completion. A transportation maintenance system was put in place in
Peninsular Malaysia. Clinics were added to existing dispensaries,
but tle nine person-months of fellowships were not used.
ld) Staff Training. Of the six rural health MCHiFP training schools
planned, two were built, both in Sarawak. Authorities in Peninsular
Malaysia decided that their current facilities were adequate, and
dropped plans to build their additional schools; the Sabah training
school was never built due to lack of funds. Regarding trainees
quarters, 21 of the 73 facilities for Peninsular Malaysia were
deleted, while Saravak dropped only 6 of the 44 planned. Of the 46
person-months of fellowships. only one staff member was sent for
training in the United States, and the survey of training needs of
rural health staff was only partly completed.
Ce) IEC Component. The political sensitivity to family planning led to a
marked slowdown in IEC activities, and very little was accomplished
under the component.
(f) Women's Development Program. Early in the project, Bank missions
noted inadequate staff skills in MOA for planning and evaluating the
program training component. The role of the Women's Handicraft Sales
organization was unclear: was it to be merely a retail shop or a
vehicle for social change? The sales shop in the capital which was
to be purchased with Bank funds created the most interest. In the
end, an impressive building was constructed in downtown Kuala Lumpur
and opened by the Queen in December 1981. However, the integrated
sales marketing orientation of the shop never developed. Although
the Bank suspended disbursement for this category until the situation
was rectified and a consu:tant was hired to develop an accounting and
financial management systeuz for the sales organization, the original
concept was never fulfilled. No plan of action had been developed
linking training carried out in training centers with the community
service centers or the sales organization. The regular production
and supply of handicrafts that were to have been fed from the village
community centers to the central sales organization were never
organized, although 10 of the 12 centers were built. The fellowships
were not used due to delays in selecting candidates and high staff
turnover. It had also been hoped that MOA would develop into the
dominant force in family development activities, but planning and
management of these activities continues to be diffused among several
groups. Coordination deteriorated between NFPB and the newly
organized Ministry of National and Rural Development (MONRD). (The



_ 15 -
HOA had been reorganized into two ministries, one of which was
MONRP.) The number of women annually receiving family development
training grew from l50 in 1977 to 400 in 1984, although MCHIFP was
not successfully incorporated into their training.
(g) REMS. The objectives of this component were to strengthen the NPPB
management information system and to increase NFPB's research and
evaluation capacity through the provision of software, equipment,
vehicles, and training.  The REMIS Division, noted at appraisal to be
'bottom heavy," sent six staff for advanced training abroad during
the first three project years. An expatrLvte demographer hired under
the project provided in-depth analysis of service statistics that
proved helpful in identifying trends in FP acceptance. All of the
REMIS equipment was procured. Today, with the return of the
fellowship recipie.ts, there exists an effective mechanism for the
collection, processing, analysis and reporting of service statistics.
The strengthened REMIS Division has set up a population data bank and
a data management system, and research activities have improved
considerably. However, coordination difficulties have hindered the
analysis of MCH data and the evaluation of MOA activities.
(h)  Contraceptive Storage and Distribution. Construction of the ware-
house did not occur, not were the six delivery vans procured.
(i) Innovation Programs. Although other agencies submitted proposals to
NFPB for innovative schemes, none of these proposals were approved by
NFPB. NFPB did prepare and submit its own proposals to the Bank for
approval, but was unwilling to carry out the extensive and detailed
revamping of these proposals requested by the Bank. In retrospect,
the Bank sought too much detail for the type of scheme originally
envisaged.
E. Proiect Costs and Financing
4.17     The project, as implemented, cost US$17.68 million, far less than the
US$37.7 million estimated at appraisa' due to the failure to complete many of
the components envisioned. Financing of project costs was provided by the
Bank loan (US$5.88 million) and the Government (US$11.8 million).
F. Disbursements
4.18     At loan closing on December 31, 1984, US$5.9 million or 35Z of the
loan had been disbursed (see Annex 3). The remaining funds were cancelled in
June 1985.  From the first year of the project, disbursements lagged behind
appraisal estimates due to an unforeseen construction cost escalation of 7-8X
that rendered project construction more expensive than either the Government
or the Bank had anticipated, and made the Government reluctant to embark on
the large-scale building program planned. By the second year, a large gap had
developed between expenditures and reimbursement claims. Although this had
occurred under the earlier project due to the large number of dispersed small
civil works carried out, it had not been expected under this project which
emphasized larger-scale works. However, with Government's reluctance to fund
the larger buildings, only smaller -works were carried out and the problem



- 16 -
recurred. The Bank recommended that the Project Secretariate activate the
task force sent out to the field during the first project to accelerate the
collection of financial documents, but due to the Government's financial
retrenchment policy, the task forces activated in 1981 were later
discontinued. The long time lag between the construction and procurement of
related furnishings also slowed disbursement of funds. Disbursement for
technical assistance under the project was constrained by Government's reluc-
tance to use borrowed money to pay for "software such as fellowships.
4.19     The loan closing date was extended from December 31, 1983 to December
31, 1984. In 1983, project implementation was barely progressing and the Bank
offered the Government the option of cancelling the remaining loan funds still
unspent if it could not provide budgetary support. However, the Federal
Treasury cabled the Bank saying the EPU was considering an additional 1983
budgetary allocation for the project. In March 1983, the Bank was informed
that EPU would -rovide an additional M$9 million in FY83 to cover the 56
contracts whieit were ready for tendering. This was reconfirmed by the
Assistant Secretary of the Malaysian Finance Ministry during a visit to
Washington in April of that year. The Bank understood that all the agencies
concerned were pre3ared to implement the pending contracts quickly once funds
were made available, so an extension of the completion date until December
1984 was approved. However, the promised supplemental funds required Cabinet
approval, which never materialized.
4.20     In February 1983, the Federal Treasury also requested an increase in
the disbursement percentage for civil works from 302 to 602 in view of the
escalation in building prices since the 1978 Loan Agreement. (The Finance
Ministry staff on an April 1983 visit to Washington estimated an 80Z cost
escalation in civil works.) The Bank considered increasing the percentage to
50X, but was concerned that this might cause a depletion of funds in this
category without further progress in civil works. In the April 1983 meeting
with Finance Ministry officials, the Bank indicated that it preferred to leave
the percentage unchanged.
G. Performance of Contractors, Consultants and Suppliers
4.21     As noted in para. 4.12, the use of small local contractors
contributed to project delays. Few consultants were employed under the
project (para. 4.15), but those that were used largely performed adequately.
However, the implementing agencies' frequent changes in decisions on the plans
and designs of facilities were sometimes spurred by the advice of consultants
hired under the project. Supplier performance was satisfactory.
H. Compliance with Loan Covenants
4.22     Compliance with conditions of the Loan Agreement was mixed, the most
notable example of noncompliance being Government's failure to provide
adequate counterpart funds which prevented the implementation of many
components. Details are provided in Annex 4.



- 17 -
1. Reporting
4.23     Reporting was adequate, although the departure of the project
administrator half-way through the project affected the quality of the
reporting somewhat.
V. PROJECT AND PROGRAM IMPACT
A. Achievement/Failure of Proiect Components
4.24     The most notable project achievement has been the development and
implementation of specialized family planning services, training, education
and research under the newly established National Family Planning Specialist
Center (NFPSC). The NFPSC has succeeded in enlarging acceptance and retention
levels of clinical contraceptives, permitted a guadrupling of the number of
women receiving cancer detection tests, and has trained significant numbers of
physicians in advanced contraceptive technology. The Center has implemented
an active program including specialized fertility and contraceptive services;
biomedical, infertility and various contraceptive research and publication
programs; child development and perinatal action research; an advanced family
planning diploma course for general practitioners; development and production
of printed and audiovisual training and educational materials on population
and family health issues; and a Malaysian population information service. As
a specialized clinic, the Center enjoys great prestige in Malaysia, and to
have en expertly-manned government clinic devoted to reproductive health
issues can accord long-term benefits to the national MCHIFP effort. The
Center continues to train physiciaas and quietly spread reproductive health
messages. By providing a wide range of fertility and family health services,
the Center has established the basis for developing a future program focussed
on quality of life and family health. During 1984-85, the Center generated
revenue of M$95,000 and over time may become self-sustaining.
4.25     The project also played an important role in extending MCH/FP
services to rural areas, particularly in Sarawak. At project completion, of
the 84 MON rural health facilities planned for Peninsular Malaysia, 53 (632)
had been built and equipped, while 53 (90?) of the 58 planned for Sarawak were
completed. The objective of intensifying family planning in urban areas was
partially met by the construction of 14 of the 36 planned urban family plan-
ning clinics, and the successful establishment of the NFPSC. Overall, 131 of
the planned 200 project facilities were completed, and most of the vehicles,
equipment and furniture--except those tied to uncompleted facilities--were
procured and distributed. The NFPSC and NFPB's REMIS Division benefited from
consultant input and six NFPB staff members received long-term training.
4.26     Owing to sensitivity to overt family planning activities, the IEC
component was radically curtailed and the integration of family planning with
other development activities for disadvantaged areas was never achieved. The
attempt to involve women in development through the marketing of handicrafts
was also not really successful. The women's handicraft sales organization
promoted demand for products but failed to organize regular production and
supplies. Frequent changes in the managers of this component and high staff
turnover in MONRD hindered the required institutional development. While some



- 18 -
training facilities were provided, no major FP training program eventuated.
Lastly, there was a lack of institutional and human resources in the
Government agencies involved to sufficiently manage this multisectoral
investment program. With the exception of the NFPB Research Division, the
project's attempts to remedy this in the form of fellowships was not
successful.
B. Family Planning Program Performance and
Impact on Health and Fertility
Overall Program Performance
4.27     From its inception in May 1967 to the end of 1983, the National
Family Plannirng (FP) program recruited more than one million acceptors. The
proportion of married women in reproductive age (15-44) practicing contra-
ception in Peninsular Malaysia was about 352 in 1974-75 (402 in urban and 252
in rural areas) and increased to about 542 in 1983 (562 in urban and 412 in
rural areas). The number of new acceptors rose from about 80,400 in 1977 to
87,260 in 1979 and levelled off to about 62,000 in 1984 (Annex 5). The
suspected reasons for this fluctuation include: near saturation of urban
areas, skimming of ready clientele in rural areas, use of the commercial and
private sectors by an increased number of acceptors and an increasing
proportion of young women among acceptors, practicing temporary and possibly
non-program methods for birth spacing rather than birth controlling. The ban
on media (radio, TV and press) and reduced emphasis of explicit family
planning communication activities in the field since May 1982 on the grounds
of suspected political sensitivity to the family planning program probably
also contributed to the performance slowdown. Positive aspects of the
performance trend include: the gradual narrowing of acceptance differentials
among the ethnic groups, greater contraceptive continuation rates in rural
areas, an increasing proportion of young couples among new acceptors and
greater diversity in the method accepted.
4.28     Despite these encouraging signs, the acceptance level in the eastern
states is half that of the western states and substantial differentials in
performance exist between urban and rural areas (Annex 5). These differen-
tials reflect the fact that both the eastern states and the rural areas are at
the early stage of the FP program.
Achievements Under Bank Projects
4.29     With gradual expansion of integrated ?4CHIFP services, supported
under the two IBRD-assisted population projects, the number of new acceptors
recruited through the MOH rural health facilities rose from about 7,00   in
1974 to over 27,000 in 1983. In terms of percentage of total acceptors, MOH's
share of acceptors rose from 122 to 38Z. As expected, NFPB's share has
declined from 592 to 402 for the corresponding years, although the absolute
number of acceptors recruited through NFPB clinics remained at about the same
level throughout the period. Given a 542 acceptance level, the continuing
shift of acceptors from program to non-program sources in urban areas and a
greater reservoir of acceptors in rural areas, NFPB's share of new acceptors
is likely to shrink further. However, without continued expansion of the
integrated program and intensified efforts of communicationleducation,



- 19 -
performance under the integrated rural health services may level off
prematurely. NFPB may also need to focus special programs on young people
and urban squatter communities. Expansion of the family planning specialized
services under the National Specialist Center is likely to contribute to
generating greater confidence in quality of services, hence retention of
contraceptive practice, among the acceptors.
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
A. Project Justification and Objectivess to the Bank and the Borrower
6.1      Development of the second population project should be viewed in the
context of Malaysia in the mid-seventies. Although the Government had sought
to maintain low visibility in its efforts to promote family planning in the
first project, in fact it had been allocating ever-increasing resources, both
human and financial, to the effort. (The allocations grew in absolute terms
but at a slower rate than did the federal budget.) In the first project, the
Government had financed the significant cost overruns incurred. Due in part
to support from that project, family planning services by the mid-19709 were
more widely available than in 1973 when the project had begun. The Bank's
Interest in the follow-up project was sparked by a desire to support those
elements in the Third Malaysia Plan that sought equalization of economic acti-
vities in the rural areas since it was aware of Malaysian data showing the
relationship between poverty, high fertility rates, and economic imbalances.
The second project was thus intended to expand the country's health infra-
structure to assist in accelerating fertility decline.
6.2      The risks involved in the project received considerable attention by
the Bank and were well-documented during preparation. These well-founded
concerns centered on questions of political commitment and on continuity in
project leadership.  The actual components proposed were conventional project
inputs except for the Women's Development Program. The components proposed
for both the MOH and NFPB--primarily construction, procurement of vehicles and
equipment, and fellowships and advisory services--expanded elements from the
first project's demonstration areas to other health districts, assisted in the
extension of MCHGFP services to East Malaysia, and strengthened NFPB's
planning and coordination efforts as well as its service delivery in urban
areas. The envisioned IEC support was to have built up both MOH's and NFPB's
lEC infrastructure capacity in terms of buildings and human resources, and did
not focus on the least successful area in the first project, i.e., population
education. The MOA component, with its dual objectives of handicraft
production and relaying of the MCHIPP messages, was the only untested
intervention.
6.3      As noted in para. 2.3, opposition existed within the Government to
proceed with preparation of the second population project. Among the
objections voiced were (a) lack of evaluation of the earlier project;
(b) adequate funding already available for family planning from Government
sources; tc) disinclination to acknowledge NFPB as the coordinating agency for
family planning activities; and (d) religious resistance to family planning.
The project was, however, championed by senior managers in all the concerned
agencies, who saw the project as helping to improve health facilities



- 20 ^
throughout the country through its infrastructure strengthening and to
strengthen the limited ongoing efforts to integrate MCH and family planning
services. NFPB saw the project as expanding its reputation and providing it
with project management experience.
B. Project Content and Scheduling
6.4      By the mid-seventies, the Bank was concerned with the difficulties of
monitoring and evaluating projects with numerous components. Nevertheless,
Bank staff involved in the Malaysia project saw the proposed multi-sectoral
approach &s a partial answer to weak political commitment: if the project were
integrated into several government agencies, it would garner more broad-based
support.
6.5      The se'"nd project's design consciously tried to avoid the pitfalle
encountered in tne first one by (a) setting up a construction coordination
unit within the FWD; (b) requiring project coordinators to be named, key
positions to be filled, and technical assistance hired in each agency; and
tc) requiring 46 sites to be acquired for the first year of construction as a
condition of loan effectiveness. At the onset of project preparation, the
Bank had had the intention of making the loan conditions more stringent
(requiring sites for the first two years and architect's briefs) but had
changed to more lenient conditions in the months just prior to negotiations,
in part because of confidence in the leadership and coordination abilities of
NFPB. Given the project's plans to construct more than 200 facilities in four
years, and the difficulties encountered with land acquisition and construction
delays in the first project, in hindsight it was a mistake to reduce the
conditions of effectiveness and to schedule construction activities so tightly
in the second project. Since EPU, a formidable power in the Prime Minister's
Department, had requested that the project not exceed US$30 million, the
number of facilities to be constructed probably should have been reduced, thus
satisfying EPU's budgetary concerns, and the project scheduling would have
been more realistic.
6.6      A number of concerns that surfaced during preparation were not
accorded sufficient attention at the time and later undermined the project:
(a) the Government's displeasure with the commitment charges associated with
the project; (b) the lack of participation of the NFPB's IEC section;
(c) MOH's concern about having to look to NFPB for leadership; and td) EPU's
reluctance in continuing to chair the Coordinating Committee meetings. In
addition, at preparation the Government's reluctance to use borrowed money for
fellowships was not detected. Nor was it detected that the MOA viewed the
project primarily as a source of construction funds. and the NFPB's involvement
in their activities as inappropriate.
C. Project Implementation and Operating Outcomes
Preparation Requirements
6.7      The same Bank team worked on the project throughout the two-year
preparation, and coordinated the preparation activities with the newly-



- 21 -
appointed full-time NFPB Director General, who remained in her position
throughout the life of the project. During project preparation, the Bank had
as a subsidiary goal raising the stature of NFPB through its coordinating
activities and thus according more importance to the family planning message.
The Bank also worked to ensure that MOH received equal allocations in the
project budget.
Borrower's Implementation Capacity
6.8      Once the loan became effective, the Sarawak Directorate of Health was
poised to begin construction and did so with alacrity. On the Peninsula,
despite precautionary measures built into the project's organizational
arrangements (para. 3.3), administrative problems arose in the project's
second year due to various factors including project complexity, the need for
multi-agency coordination and staff problems. It was hoped that project
execution would flow smoothly by having each ministry appoint a project
coordinator, with overall direction coming from NFPB, and by having EPU chair
the multi-agency coordinating committee. But coordination problems arose in
the Second Population Project, as they had in the first, due to the other
agencies' reluctance to recognize NFPB's coordinating role. NFPB did not
always provide clear-cut management direction, and a loss in project momentum
was noted as early as mid-1980 when NFPB was preoccupied with development of
the Fourth Malaysia Plan. NFPB also failed to notify PWD as to which funds
would be available for construction of project facilities or which buildings
were to be priority projects. EPU was also sometimes slow to respond to Bank
correspondence. The MOH part-time project coordinator only erratically
reported project progress to NFPB while MOA sought to manage the women's
development program itself and, like MOH, became progressively less
cooperative towards NFPB.
6.9      As has frequently been noted in other countries where different
agencies are expected to cooperate, unless incentives and inter-dependencies
are built in, the agency with coord4nation responsibilities may lack authority
over the other implementing agencies. Given the Bank's desire to develop and
strengthen NFPB's role in planning, evaluation and coordination, tne appraisal
design did not separate out various project components by agency and set up
parallel funding arrangements. In retrospect, this should have been done.
(The latter design was suggested for a proposed third project.) The MOH might
then have shown increased interest in the project. EPU had typically assumed
an active role in structuring and shepherding new projects, but normally bowed
out once implementation got under way. Having EPU continue to chair the
coordinating committee proved a miscalculation as interagency coordination
difficulties surfaced anyway, and EPU did not assume its role as chair with
any regularity. Its reluctance stemmed in part from an admitted lack of
experience in project monitoring. In retrospect, too close identification of
the Bank's population activities with a single vertical program structure



- 22 -
escalated inter-agency conflicts and hindered greater integration and
sustenance of population activities in the larger development context.31
6.10     The project design attempted to offset the perceived lack of
specialized management skills in each of the agencies involved through the
provision of advisory services, and some of the technical assistance was used
and did alleviate problems. At MOA, once the unscheduled technical advisor
departed, there was little comprehension of the sales and marketing
organization to be developed.
Bank Supervision
6.11     There was an unusual degree of continuity in supervision performance
by Bank staff, as the sociologist who participated in project preparation and
appraisal became the project officer in 1979, and the architect remained the
same throughout implementation. Total staff time spent on the project was 399
staff weeks.
6.12     Although the Government felt that the Bank review missions did not
spend sufficient time in the country and with the working staff, particularly
during the later part of the project period, mission records indicate regular
and timely missions during the first four years, of normal duration and
apparently fully staffed. It is true, however, that as the project was
winding up, Bank review missions became shorter, their composition smaller,
and focused more on specific issues as compared to earlier missions which
undertook comprehensive reviews of the project. In addition, the later
missions were conducted en route to or from supervisions in other countries.
6.13     The Government also felt that the Bank should have foreseen that the
project would not be completed on time and a decision to reduce the scope of
the project should have been taken much earlier. Supervision missions,
however, noting the much improved start of Population II over Population I,
reported optimistically on project progress during the first years of
implementation. The decision to terminate the project was, to a great extent,
based on the changes in Government population policy which were inconsistent
3/ The Government in its review of the PCR stated with regard to the role
of EPU and on administration/personnel matters as followss
*We would like to inform the Bank that of our administrative
system, personnel functions and service matter are routinely carried
out to enhance the total development process of the Nation. As such
adequate attention would be given at appropriate times to handle the
existing work load.  EPU, as a central agency for development of socio-
economic planing has to consider various factors before deciding on any
financing options. Based on the above situation and administrative
system, it is requested that what has been reported in the relevant
part of the PCR mentioned above, the Bank should considet recasting
such comments accordingly.  While recasting, the Bank should also take
into consideration, the budgeting and allocation system of funds
carried out by EPU and Federal Treasury as well as personnel
administration by the Public Services Department which the Bank may not
be aware of."



- 23 _
with project objectives. The poor project implementation and disbursement
performance only reinforced the decision to terminate the project. Had there
been no change in policy focus, other alternatives to improve project
performance would have been sought, including further extension of the closing
date and increasing the percentage of disbursements by category to be financed
out of the loan.
6.14     Frequent prolonged delays in correspondence reaching Washington had a
negative impact on project implementation. The most notable example of this
was a request from Sarawak for a change in its training plans. The request
was mailed in March 1982 to NFPB in Kuala Lumpur, which relayed the request in
July. The Bank received the correspondence in October, seven months after the
original request, and cabled a reply.
6.15     Toward the end of the second year of project implementation, project
performance ratings in the Bank's reports began to reflect the growing
problems that would eventually lead to loan cancellation. The reports began,
somewhat belatedly, to note MOA's failure to incorporate the family planning
message in their training courses, the lack of IEC progress within MOH and the
very limited use of available technical assistance by the implementing
agencies.
6.16     There were significant differences of opinion within the Bank as to
the appropriateness of project cancellation. Project staff in the Bank
department responsible for the project (the former Population, Health and
Nutrition Department) preferred to keep the loan open in hope that
implementation levels would pick up and further dialogue with the Government
would continue. On the other hand, managers in the Department felt that the
project's high supervision coefficients could no longer be justified given the
poor rate of disbursements. Staff in the Bank Department responsible for
country-related matters favored cancellation in light of the above-mentioned
implementation difficulties and because it appeared that, for the time being,
little agreement with Government on population topics would be possible.
Follow-On Proiect
6.17     Four months into the second project, the Bank approached EPU about
commencing discussions for a third population project in order to help ensure
continued support for the national population program. In September 1979, EPU
requested that the Bank suspend any further preparation work since many
Government leaders preferred to see results from the first and second projects
before considering a third. The Government perceived the third project
primarily as a family planning service delivery program, while the Bank
proposed support to an integrated MCH/FP program. In December 1979, when the
Bank reintroduced the subject, EPU expressed interest in a Primary Health Care
Project. However, the government ministries that might be involved were
ambis,uous about their potential roles, and the Government preferred to await
their review of sectoral proposals scheduled for 1980. In June 1980, the EPU
official who chaired the Project Steering Committee wrote to suggest that
future projects be identified after the Fourth Malaysia Plan had been
finalized. However, no further action was taken until the fall of 1988 when
the Government and the Bank began to discuss the possibility of Bank support
to a health management and financing project.



- 24 -
VII. CONCLUSIONS
7.1      The Second Population Project was implemented during a time of
decreasing government budgetary resources and declining government commitment
to family planning. Unfortunately, neither of these two most critical factors
could have been predicted with assurance at the time of project preparation.
The Bank did, however, recognize the potential for some resistance to the
project and the continued existence of difficulties which had hampered
implementation of the earlier population project, and attempted to relieve or
circumvent these problems through the inclusion of various project design
features. This was largely to no avail and major implementation problems soon
surfaced. Still, problems like slow site acquisition, government staff
turnover, etc. were less decisive in creating the paralysis that gripped
implementation than were the overriding factors of lack of goverz.ment funding
and the interruption of commitment to its demographic goals. Without the
latter two elements, the project could not succeed.
7.2      The project was only partly completed and, not surprisingly, its
primary goals could not be attained. The rate of population growth actually
increased from 2.212 in 1977 to about 2.97Z in 1984 (Annex 5); the proportion
of government expenditure on family planning declined from 0.122 in 1977 to
0.052 in 1982; and the number of new acceptors declined from 80,400 in 1977 to
62,000 in 1984.
7.3      The project did, nevertheless, have some positive effects.  Although
no direct correlation can be claimed between project inputs and fertility
rates, certain performance indicators (Annex 5) reflect favorably on the
project's influence on the demographic course of events from 1977 to 1984.
The percent of rural women aged 15-44 accepting contraception rose during the
project period (from 252 to 46Z). The total fertility rate declined (from
4.26 to 3.84), as did infant mortality (from 34 per 1,000 live births to
29.2). The research supported under the project auspices noted other positive
aspects of the performance trendt the gradual narrowing of contraceptive
acceptance differentials among the ethnic groups; greater continuation rates
in rural areas; an increasing proportion of young and low-parity couples among
new acceptors and greater diversity of contraceptive methods accepted.
7.4      The experience gained under the project provided the following
salient lessons:
(a) the stringent conditions of loan effectiveness recommended by the
appraisal mission for this project, which were based on the
experience of the earlier population project, should not have been
reduced during loan processing, despite the understandable intent to
expedite preparation. The same issues arose again during imple-
mentation of the Second Population Project and created friction
between the implementing agencies and the Bank missions;
(b) the feasibility of designating an interministerial body such as the
NFPB to coordinate the activities of line ministries should have been
more critically reviewed by the Bank, and specific measures included
in the project to enable NFPB to handle its role effectively;



- 25 -
(c) the Bank was correct in its decision to extend the project in 1983
despite the problems in project performance, in light of government
assurances of additional resources to allow successful implementation
and in order to continue the population dialogue with Government. By
1984, however, it became clear that the major shift in government
population policy and its continued severe budget constraints left no
option for the Bank but cancellation of the remaining loan amount;
(d) success in aocial sector development, population in particular, is
highly vulnerable to the political commitment of the borrower.
Creating a broad-based professional constituency for population
issues, particularly in academic institutions and powerful non-
governmental organizations, could serve as a cushion against an
adverse climate for population activities; and
(e) in retroaspect, too close identification of the Bank's population
activities with a single vertical program structure escalated inter-
agency conflicts and hindered greater integration and sustenance of
population activities in the larger development context.



- 26-                            ANNEX 1
HA;YSI
SECOND POPULATION PROJECT (LOAN 1608-MA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Project Construction Comnonents
Completed     Not         Under
Item                                                by 12/84   completed  construction
NFPB
1 national family planning specialist center        1          -
4 regional family planning specialist centers       -          4
36 urban family planning clinics la                 14         17             5
15 to include MCH clinics
8 conversions of mobile to static
13 replacing inadequate facilities
1 central godown                                    -          1             -
1 print shop                                        -          1             -
M-OH
6 rural health/family planning training schools
3 PeninsulaL Malaysia                            -          3             -
2 Sarawak                                        2          -             -
1 Sabah                                          -          1             -
73 trainees' quarters at field training
facilities, Peninsular Malaysia                  52         19             2
39 at community health centers
34 at MCQs
32 centers to have 56 trainees' quarters
built, Sarawak                                   27          3             2
12 training schools to have 25 staff
quarters built, Sarawak                           9          3             -
12 MCH/FP clinics added to 12 existing
dispensaries, Sarawak                           11           1
1 AV material production center, Kuala Lumpur       -          1
8 district health offices with MCH/PP
service facilities                               1           5            2
MOA
1 center for women's handicraft sales
organization, Kuala Lumpur                        1          -             -
12 commmnity services centers, Peninsu-
lar Malaysia                                  10           2
2 family development training centers,
Kuching, Lumut                                    -          2             -
202        Total                                    131         60            11
/a Changed to 34 in 1980.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
- 27 -
MALAYSIA
SECOND POPMLATION PROJECT (LOAN 1608-MA)
PROJECT COMPLEi TON REPORT
Overall Physical Achievement of Project Civil Works
1.       National Family Planning Specialist Center (1).  A 4-1/2 story
building with a built-in area of 28,673 ftz was purchased at Batu Complex,
Ipoh Road to serve as the National Family Planning Specialist Center.
2.       Regional Family Planning Specialist Centers (4).
(a) Penan& Location-Residency Road: Implementation of this project will
be carried out under the 5th Malaysia Plan.
(b) Ipoh Location-Ashbys Plans completed. Project will be constructed
under the 5th Malaysia Plan.
(c) Johors Project will be built next to the family planning clinic
within the vicinity of the general hospital. Plans completed.
Project ready to be tendered out but unable to proceed due to
recession. Project will be carried out under the 5th Malaysia Plan.
(d) Kota Bharu-Relantan: Change in sitellocation has delayed the
project. Efforts to obtain a new site are under way.
3.       National Population Family Plannint Board Central Godown.  Project
site located at Section 17, Shah Alam, Selangor. Project ready to be tendered
out. However, implementation of this project is being deferred pending
approval of funds. Project will be carried out under 5th Malaysia Plan.
4.       Print Sho.  Site available at Pahang Road, Kuala Lumpur.  Planning
of project is completed. HoVever, project is being pat off due to recession.
Project will be carried out under the 5th Malaysia Plan.
5.       Urban MCIPH Clinics (34).  Out of a total of 34 clinics requested
under this project, '-4 have been completed and 15 clinics were planned in new
areas whose MCH services to be provided by the Ministry of Health (MOH) were
not available. The need for the remaining clinics was to be met by using MOH
facilities and additional mobile clinics. It was decided to build 12 urban
MCHIFP clinics (original request was 15 clinics) which included four outside
local authority areas where polyclinics are built, six within local authority
areas and two without the MCH component. Four shophouses have been bought and
services are provided in three of them now. The remaining projects will be
included in the 5th Malaysia Plan.
6.       Regional Trainint School (3).  Of the proposed three regional
training schools, one in Teluk Intan will be built under the 5th Malaysia
Plan. After reviewing the strategies for in-service training of the



ANNEX 2
-28 -                               Page 2
auxiilaries, it was decided that training could be done at the local level as
well as in the existing two rural health training schools in Batu Rakit and
Teluk Intan. where the facilities available are suitable and sufficient to
carry out the training of auxiliariee as well as the practical training of
trainee public health nurses. The practical training of the public health
nurses can be continued in the centers already located at Semenyih and Teluk
Datuk. The original plan of utilizing the proposed training schools for the
health education officers to do their internships was changed to in-service
training, practical training, as well as internship to be carried out in the
states where they are posted. Thus, the proposal to build the other training
schools in Trengganu and Pahang was dropped.
7.       Trainee Quarters at MCQ.  Of the 73 quarters for trainees, including
conversion of 34 MCQ to community health clinics, 52 have been built, two are
under construction, 17 are in the planning stages and have been included under
the 5th Malaysia Plan, and the remaining two quarters will not be built.
S.       Trainina.  Change of site and increase in the scope of the project
delayed training implementation. Project is being put off pending approval of
funds and will be carried out under the 5th Malaysia Plan.
9.       Auxiliara Staff In-service Training School, Sarawak.  The two
training schools, i.e., one for community nurse training in Batu 7 and the
other for the training of Junior Medical Assistants in Miri, have been built.
10.      Quarters for Field Training at 32 Health Units. Sarawak.  Of the
planned 56 field training quarters (including three hostels) at 32 rural
health centers in Sarawak, quarters at 27 centers have been built, two centers
are under construction and the remaining three will be built under the 5th
Malaysia Plan.
11.      Extension of Existing Dispensaries to Provide MCHIFP Clinics.
Sarawak. In order to upgrade existing dispensaries so that MCH/FP services
can be included, 12 additional MCHIFP buildings were built as additions to
existing dispensaries in Sarawak as planned.
12.      Staff Quarters at 12 Existing Trainina Centers, Sarawak.  In Sarawak,
of the 12 staff quarters requested for training schools as well as for centers
which are to be upgraded, 11 have been built, one is under planning.
13.      Audiovisual Material Production Center (AVMPC).  The AVMPC building
was not built due to lack of funds. However, planning of the project is
completed and construction will be carried out by the Ministry of Health under
the 5th Malaysia Plan.
14.      Health Offices with MCHIFP Service Units.  Out of the eight proposed
health office buildings, one has been built (Kemaman in Trengganu), and two
are under construction (Pasir Puteh in Kelantan and Jelebu in Negeri
Sembilan). Building of the five other health offices will be carried out
under the 5th Malaysia Plan.



- 29 -
ANNEX 3
"ALAYSIA
SECOND POPULATION PROJECT (LOAN 1608-MA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Disbursements
(US$ million)
A. Final Disbursement Position
Catexory                      Original loan allocation        Final disbursement
Civil vorks                             3.88                         1.66
Furniture                               0.40                         0.03
Equipment                               9.35                         3.69
Consultants                             1.27                         0.50
Innovative activities                   0.30                         0.00
Contingencies                           1.80                         0.00
Total                             17.00                         5.88 /a
S. Estimated and Actual Cumulative Disbursements by FY
Fiscal year       AoDraisal estimate       Actual       Actual as 2 of appraisal
1980                    4.4              0.1                    3
1981                    9.4              1.5                   16
1982                  14.9               2.5                   17
1983                  17.0               3.5                   21
1984                  17.0               4.7                   28
1985                  17.0               5.9                   35
la  US$11,118,822.29 of the loan amount was cancelled on June 8, 1985,
following loan closing on December 31, 1984.



-30 -
Table 1
Page 1 of 4
MALAYSIA
SECOND POPULATION PROJECT (LOAN 1608-MA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Copglince w_ith Loan Conditions
Loan conditions not complied with                               Status
3.01  Borrower ... shall vrovide promptly,        G0M budget cuts prevented this measure
as needed, the funds. facilities,           from being complied with. la
services and other resources
required for proiect implementation.
3.08  Strengthening the Health Education          An officer had been designated as Head of
Unit in the N0X with alpointment of         the MOH Health Education Unit and was
a _He#  of the Unit of appropriate rank.    expected to assume his new responsibili-
ties by December 1984. la
3.12 Appointment of a full-time Proiect           The part-time Project Coordinator, with
ManasLer in the NOR and other Dgrei-        support staff, in MOH performed satisfac-
cipatint agencies.                          torily, but this arrangement was unsatis-
factory for HONRD's Family Development
Component. la
3.14  A committee would be formed by NFPB         No funds were disbursed for this category.
to review innovative schemes of new         Certain schemes were submitted to NFPB
ideas for improvement of the family         that did not meet with their approval.
planning program. The Bank's                The schemes which NFB did forward to the
comments on the schemes would be            Bank were referred back with detailed
sought prior to using the funds.            critiques for methodological improvement.
Rone were execu-ed. lb



_ 31 -
ANNZX 4
Table 1
Pap 2 of 4
Loan conditions partially complied vith                         Status
3.05  The remaining sites (required for          At Project Completion, 19 sites had not
physical facilities scheduled for          been acquired (14 had not been identi-
design or construction before the          flied).
end of the second year of the
project) would be acauired.
3.06  The functions and trainSng needs of        A consultant, vith MOB staff, completed
the rural health staff would be            the first phase of the study; the second
evaluated before developing the            phase, i.e., the analysis of the findings,
training curricula; this curricula         was to start in November 1984. The cur-
and the training of trainers of such       ricula and the training of trainers vas
staff would be completed at least          not undertaken.
three months prior to the completion
of construction of the training
centers.
3.07  National IEC plan of action to be          An IEC plan was completed, but due to the
developed by the NFPP  and a subplan       radical change in COM policy in 1982, the
of health education to be developed        plan would have had to have been radically
by the MOB, would be submitted for         revised to be applicable.
the Bank's comments not later than
January 31. 1979 and April 30, 1979
respectively.
3.11  The Ministry of Agriculture (the           Progress was unsatisfactory; Project Coor-
division responsible for the project       dinator was weak, and MONRD interest was
component subsequently was placed          lukewarm.
under the new Ministry of National
and Rural Development), would
prepare a detailed plan of action
linkint the training to be carried
out in the Family Development
Training Centers with activities
Planned for the Community Service
Centers and the Vomen's Handicraft
Sales Organization.



- 32 -
Table 1
Page 3 of 4
Loan CondLtions Set
3.02 The Borrower shall employ consultants snd euiorts for grovision of technical assis-
tance (fellowships and advisory servicess (a) to the research, evaluation and man-
agement information system divisions; (b) to the national family planning specialist
conters; (c) in the computerized analysis of studies; (d) In the design of construc-
tion facilities; te) for integrated rural health and family planning training; (f)
for a study award to M(H director of training; (g) for a study award to MCI/PP unit
in the MOH; (h) for audiovisual productiontmanagement (fellowship and assistance).
3.03  The Borrower fwilll ensure the imported goods financed out of Loan proceeds against
hazards ... and shall cause all Roods and services ... to be used exclusively for
the Prciect.
3 04  The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank ... glans, specifications, retortsg contract
documents and work and procurement scheduled for the Proiect, etc. ...
3.09  The Borrower shall cause the operational manual for the Project be prenared ... and
approved by the Borrower's project steering cammittee
3.10  The Borrower shall by March 31, 1979 aoint a head of the audiovisual material oro-
duction center, and by October 31, 1978 emnlov a consultant to prepare plans.
3.13  The Borrower shall cause MOD, not later than August 31, 1979, to finalize the estab-
lishment of an anwronrite transportat ion maintenance system.
3.15  The Borrower shall auooint within the project construction coordinating unit of PND
an architect and two technicians with sunprtinA staff.
4.01  If any lien shall be created on any public assets ... the Borrower shall secure the
principal of the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfactory to
the Bank.
4.02  The Borrower shall maintain ... records ... reflecting sound accounting practices in
respect of the Project.
4.03  The Borrower shall cause NPPB to maintain records ... [reflecting) appropriate
accounting practices.
4.04 The Borrower shall operate all facilities included in the Project in accordance with
appropriate family planning administration and financial practices.
4 05 The Borrower shall cause NFPB at all times to employ qualified and experienced per-
sonnel to assist it in carrying out its functions.
5.01 (b) An advisor to NPPB [will be appointed) for at least six months to prepare a
plan of action for the centers (1 national and 4 regional specialist centers) of the
Project and to determine physical space, equipment and manpower requirements for
such centers.



_ 33 -
Table I
Page 4 of 4
{c)  A part-time architect and two part-time tecbniclans with supporting staff will
be assigned to form the PCCU of the Borrower's PVD until the appointments referred
to in Section 3.15 of this agreement have been made.
la Sources Supervision Report, Anne 2, November 1984.
lb Sources Project Completion Report, NFPB, p. 80 and East Asia Files.



34                                    ANNEX 5
MALAYSIA
SECOND POPULATION PROJECT (LOAN 1608-MA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Key Performance Indicators
1977               1984
Annual recruitment of number of new         80,376/a             62,00OLb
acceptors
7 of rural women in reproductive age            25/b                 46Th
(15-44) currently contracepting
X of urban women in reproductive age            39/b                 59/c
(15-44) currently contracepting
Total population                        12,875,000           15,217,000
Rate of population growth                     2.21/d               2.97/t
Crude birth rate                              30.4/d               30.5/d
Total fertility rate                          4.26/d               3.841d
Infant mortality rate                           341d               29.2/d
Per capita GNP (USS)                           930le              1,980/f
Government expenditure on family              0.12L&        0.05 (1982)/f
planning (C)
Continuation rate                              N/A                N/A
Number of sterilizations performed           3,6221b       5,327 (1982)/b
per year
Number of women undergoing cancer           21,480/b             78,000b
detection per year
S of government physicians trained in            2/b                 21.b
advanced contraceptive techniques
X of government nurses trained in                5lb                 56/b
latest contraceptive techniques
Number of cowmunity nurses and mid-          2,770Jb              5.800lb
wives trained in FP/MCH/nutrition
Number of women trained in family              1501                400/b
development annually
la Bank Supervision Report, Annexes 10 and 11, October 1981.
lb  Bank Supervision Report, Annex 8, November 1984.
Lc National Family Planning Board of Malaysia, Project Completion Report
(p. 83), December 1984.
Ld World Bank provisional estimate.
le World Development Report 1979.
/f World Development Report 1986.
LI NFPB Facts and Figures 1982.



