Document of
FILE COPY                             The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-235 6-MA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
MALAYSIA
FOR THE
SECOND POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
June 15, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank avtthorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS *
Currency Unit = Malaysian Ringgit (M$)
US$1.00      = M$2.40
M$1.00        = US$0.417
M$1 million  =  US$416,666
*The exchange rate is floating; the rate used in this report is indicated here.
ABBREVIATIONS
AVPC    - Audiovisual Material Production Center
FFPA    -  Federation of Family Planning Associations
FP      -  Family Planning
FPA     -  Family Planning Association
GDP     -  Gross Domestic Product
GNP     -  Gross National Product
LEC     -  Information, Education and Communication
IIDA    -  Intensive Input Demonstration Area
MCH     - Maternal and Child Health
MOA     - Ministry of Agriculture
MCQ     - Midwife Clinic-cum-Quarters
MOH     - Ministry of Health
NFPB    - National Family Planning Board
PWD     -  Public Works Department
3MP     -  Second Malaysia Plan
TMP     -  Third Malaysia Plan
UNDP    - United Nations Development Program
GOVERNMENT OF MALAYSIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALAYSIA
SECOND POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        Malaysia
Amount:           US$17 million
Terms:            The loan would be for a term of 17 years, including 4 years
of grace, with interest at 7.5% per annum.
Project
Description:   The project is designed to assist in achieving the Govern-
ment's development goals of improving the quality of life
generally and equalizing economic opportunities by reducing
demographic disparities among and within communities and
regions. The overall objective of the proposed project
would be to strengthen further the national family planning
program in order to achieve its demographic goal of reducing
the birth rate from 30.3 per thousand in 1975 to 26 in 1985,
with a corresponding reduction in the population growth rate
from 2.4% to 2% in Peninsular Malaysia, and to extend family
planning services to Sabah and Sarawak for the improvement
of maternal and child health. To these ends the proposed
project, to be implemented over a four-year period, would:
(a) establish six family planning specialist centers under
the National Family Planning Board (NFPB) for the provision
of specialized health care related to family planning;
(b) extend the NFPB service delivery network in urban areas;
(c) strengthen the Maternal and Child Health (MCH) and
family planning services of the Ministry of Health (MOH);
(d) expand and strengthen the capacity of the MOH to give
in-service training to its staff in integrated rural health
and family planning; (e) strengthen the health education
program of the MOH and the Information, Education and
Communication (IEC) program of the NFPB; (f) strengthen the
NFPB management information system and increase NFPB's
research and evaluation capacities; (g) expand the capacity
of the Ministry of Agriculture's (MOA) family develop-
ment training and promote nonfamilial roles for women;
(h) strengthen the administration of health and family
planning services at the MOH and NFPB; (i) improve NFPB's
contraceptive storage and distribution system; and (j) make
provision for various innovative activities to test new
strategies for program improvement. The project would
assist in recruiting about 800,000 new acceptors during
1978-85, thereby attaining the national target of 44%
of eligible couples practicing contraception effectively by
1985. Attainment of this target would facilitate reaching
an average two-child family norm by 1990 and a stable
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
population by 2030. The main risks are likely to be the
inadequate administrative and management capabilities of the
implementing agencies and delays in land acquisition, as
well as the possibility of increased political sensitivity
to family planning.
Estimated Costs:
Local Foreign Total
--- (US$ million) ---
Specialized National Family Planning Service             3.6     2.7      6.3
Urban Family Planning Service                            2.9      1.3     4.2
Integrated Rural Health & Family Planning Training   3.4          1.7     5.1
Storage and Distribution of Contraceptives               0.4     0.3      0.7
Strengthening MCH/FP Services in Rural Areas               -     3.6      3.6
Administration & Management, Health &
Population Program                                     1.2     0.5      1.7
Information, Education & Communication                   0.6     2.0      2.6
Women's Development Program                              2.7      1.4     4.1
Research and Evaluation                                  1.1     0.6      1.7
Innovative Activities                                    0.3     0.3      0.6
Project Implementation                                   0.6     0.1      0.7
Total base cost                                   16.8    14.5    31.3
Contingencies                                            3.9     2.5      6.4
Total cost                                        20.7    17.0    37.7
Financing Plan:  The proposed loan would finance the foreign exchange
component estimated at US$17.0 million or 45% of the
total cost. The remaining US$20.7 million in local cost
would be financed by the Government.
Estimated
Disbursements: Bank FY         1980    1981    1982    1983
------- (US$ million) ------
Annual         4.4     5.0       5.5      2.1
Cumulative    4.4      9.4      14.9    17.0
Rate of Return:  Not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:         No. 2012-MA, dated June 9, 1978.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO MALAYSIA FOR THE SECOND POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Malaysia for the equivalent of US$17 million to help finance the
foreign exchange cost of the Second Population and Family Health Project.
The loan would have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with
interest at 7.5% per year.
PART I - THE ECONOMY /1
2.        The latest economic report, "Malaysia:  New Perspectives on the
Third Malaysia Plan" (No. 1594-MA), was distributed on October 21, 1977.
The Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        By most economic indicators, Malaysia has done well in the past
and, in particular, during the Second Malaysia Plan (SMP, 1971-75). The per
capita income of US$860 (in 1976) is among the highest in Southeast Asia.
Public and private investment activity was stepped up and, as a result, GNP
growth, which during the 1960s averaged 6% a year, increased during the SMP
period to 7%. Moreover, the decline in the terms of trade during the 1960s
was reversed during the 1970s, and as a result there was an acceleration in
per capita income growth on a trend basis from 2% during the 1960s to about
5% during the Second Plan period. Progress has also been made in reducing
the economy's dependence on rubber, and the manufacturing sector has per-
formed well in terms of output, employment, and exports. With a high export
component in GNP, the country is very vulnerable to external fluctuations,
which were significant during the SMP. In spite of the increased investment
activity and resulting current account deficits in the balance of payments,
Malaysia managed to maintain a strong external position during the SMP with
relatively low debt service payments and growing international reserves.
4.        Notwithstanding this good performance, existing racial inequalities
in income and employment, and considerable poverty, especially in the country-
side, persist. The inferior income position of the Malays is related to
the concentration of Malays in traditional smallholder agriculture and their
meager ownership of corporate assets; furthermore, Malays are poorly repre-
sented in the modern industrial sector, especially in managerial, professional,
supervisory, and clerical occupations. The inequalities threatened the
stability of the country and, in 1971, prompted the Government to introduce a
New Economic Policy, which is designed to achieve national unity through the
two-pronged objective of eradicating poverty and restructuring society to
eliminate the identification of race with economic function.
/1 Paragraphs 2-15 are essentially the same as those contained in the
corresponding sections of the President's Report No. P-2327-MA, dated
May 1 1978, on the FELDA VI Land Development Project which was approved
on June 6, 1978.



5.        More specifically, the policy proposes to reduce in a 20-year
period (1970-90) the sharp income differences between Malays and non-Malays
by reducing disparities in the ownership and control of wealth in the cor-
porate sector, and by reducing the concentration of Malay employment in
traditional low-income rural activities, while increasing Malay presence
in the relatively high-income urban sectors. Since poverty is largely
concentrated among Malays, a redressal of poverty would contribute signifi-
cantly to a reduction of the racial inequalities of income.
6.        The principal means proposed to achieve these objectives is rapid
growth of the industrial and service sectors. This growth will not only
increase average incomes but will also serve the objective of racial restruc-
turing of the labor force. In addition to pursuing a rapid growth strategy,
the Government also proposes to achieve its goals through more direct means:
on the poverty side, mainly through public investment programs directed
towards the poor and, on the racial restructuring side, through controls and
quotas.
7.        In mid-1976, the Government initiated the Third Malaysia Plan (TMP,
1976-80) reconfirming the goals of the New Economic Policy. The major
objectives of the TMP are: (a) to reduce the overall incidence of poverty
(from 44% in 1975 to 34% by 1980, which would mean reducing poverty in the
agricultural sector from 63% to 49%); (b) to increase Malay employment in the
modern sectors of the economy (from the 1975 Malay share of 32% towards the
1990 goal of 50%); and (c) to increase the share of Malays in the equity
ownership of the corporate sector (from the 1975 Malay share of 8% to 16%
in 1980).
8.        The TMP goals are set out in a framework of substantial economic
growth. The target growth rate for GDP is set at 8.5% per annum. Private
investment is targeted to grow about 10% a year and public investment
about 6%, resulting in an investment of M$44 billion in current prices over
the TMP period. Public development expenditures were set at M$18.6 billion,
with a higher level of M$20 billion targeted if additional resources became
available.
9.        In addition to following a rapid growth strategy, the Government
also proposes to reduce poverty through direct programs that will raise
agricultural productivity and production. In the Third Plan, one quarter
(M$4.7 billion) of total public development expenditures is allocated to this
sector (compared with 22% or M$2.1 billion in the SMP). Of this, more than
one third will be spent on increasing productivity in existing agricultural
areas. In addition, one million acres of new land are scheduled for develop-
ment. As a means of reducing poverty, the TMP also provides for improved
housing and other essential services for the poor in both rural and urban
areas. The TMP also stresses that greater attention will be given to
improving the less developed states.
10.       Improved economic information for 1975 and 1976, however, has
significantly altered the macro framework of the Third Plan. First, there
was a larger recovery in traditional exports and in the terms of trade in
1976, as well as higher present and prospective levels of oil production.
Second, it now appears that real private investment fell considerably in
1975 and declined further in 1976.



- 3 -
11.       During 1976, significant increases in exports, both in prices and
volumes, particularly of oil exports, combined with moderate import increases,
resulted in a current account surplus equivalent to 6.2% of GDP. Despite a
reduction in market borrowing by the Government, reserves increased by US$900
million. At the end of 1976, gross official reserves were the equivalent of
about seven months of imports.
12.       Current projections of oil exports and of export prices in general
are higher than those used as a basis for the TMP. Therefore, the resource
outlook for Malaysia is now brighter than was forecast in the Third Plan.
Overall export earnings during the Plan period should be about US$5 billion
more than was forecast. Largely as a result of this increase, public sector
revenues are also expected to be higher by about US$3 billion. The likelihood
of these additional resources has prompted the Government to choose the
higher TMP target for development expenditures of M$20 billion (see para. 8
above) and, if implementation constraints are overcome, an even higher target
could be set.
13.       While the availability of resources is thus expected to be consi-
derably improved, there is some uncertainty about achieving the Plan's
private investment targets. As a result of the decline in private invest-
ment in 1975 and 1976, private investment would now have to grow at more
than double the projected 10% rate during the remaining years of the Plan in
order to achieve the Plan targets. While there are a number of possible
factors involved in this downturn in private manufacturing investment, it is
difficult to determine with any certainty their relative importance. First,
there was the world recession in 1974-75 which, no doubt, had some negative
impact on investment activity in Malaysia. Second, 1974 was a peak period
for private investment in Malaysia so that some cyclical decline in the rate
of private investment in 1975 would probably have been experienced in any
event. Third, there was considerable uncertainty in the private sector
regarding the impact of the Industrial Coordination Act, passed by Parliament
in 1975, which enforces racial restructuring targets for equity and employ-
ment through a system of licensing of existing and new firms above a certain
minimum size. The Government acknowledged the uneasiness in the business
community and amended the Act in 1976. Two important changes approved were
the establishment of an appeals procedure and an increase in the minimum size
at which a firm will be expected to restructure its equity. It is still too
early, however, to judge the reaction of the private sector to these changes.
14.       Assuming a moderate long-term recovery in private investment,
Malaysia's balance of payments should be in substantial surplus. During the
next five years, the cumulative current account surplus could amount to over
5% of GDP compared to a negligible current surplus in the previous five
years. Since such a current account surplus would be sufficient to provide
for an adequate level of reserves, capital inflows may moderate in the future.
At present, about 19% of public debt outstanding and disbursed is from the
Bank; this percentage may increase somewhat by the early 1980s. Reserves
are also expected to continue to increase slowly, while the debt service
on public obligations is likely to remain at its present level of 4-5%
of export earnings. The Bank's share of debt service is currently about
11% and may increase to 12-14% by the early 1980s.



- 4 -
15.       In general, over the next few years, it is likely that the Govern-
ment will need less external capital than previously forecast, largely because
of strong commodity prices and oil earnings. At the same time, Malaysia has
a serious income distribution and poverty problem. The country needs techni-
cal assistance and expertise to help develop poverty alleviation programs and
to assist in designing projects that reach out directly to low income fami-
lies. The Malaysians believe strongly that project borrowing, particularly
from development institutions such as the World Bank, is necessary to assist
them to mount an effective attack on poverty. Bank lending is therefore
focused on strengthening Government efforts to reduce poverty directly.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
16.       The Bank has made 41 loans to Malaysia, totaling US$928.6 million /1
for projects in education, population, agriculture, forestry, industrial
finance, power, water supply, sewerage, telecommunications, ports, railways,
roads, and urban transport. The proposed project would be the second Bank-
assisted population project in Malaysia.
17.       Although in many cases disbursements have been slower than expected,
the execution of Bank projects in Malaysia has generally been satisfactory.
As of May 31, 1978, the loans to Malaysia held by the Bank amounted to
US$729.9 million. Sixteen loans have been fully disbursed. Annex II contains
a summary of Bank loans, and IFC investments as well as notes on the execution
of ongoing projects.
18.       While currently Malaysia is a resource surplus country, the openness
of the economy (exports are 45% of the GDP) and the volatility of the prices
of Malaysia's main exports (rubber, palm oil, and tin) make the continuance of
large surpluses uncertain. To cushion against fluctuation in exports,
large reserves are needed. With regard to Bank lending, however, the primary
consideration is not resource transfer; rather, it is institution-building
and helping Malaysia to expand its capacity to implement programs to combat
the deep-rooted problems of poverty and unemployment, particularly in
the rural areas.
19.       Malaysia's commitment to assist its low-income groups has strength-
ened significantly in the past few years. The Bank can justifiably take
some measure of credit for its efforts to help Malaysia identify and prepare
projects geared toward the rural poor. In view of Malaysia's otherwise weak
preparation capability, the number of rural development projects recently
financed and in the current pipeline is impressive. The bulk of the ongoing
projects has been financed by the Bank.
20.       While these recent projects are by themselves impressive, they are
not truly representative of the Government's general capacity to develop
/1 This figure includes a $13 million loan for the Second Sabah Ports
Project approved on May 25, 1978, and a $28 million loan for the FELDA
VI Land Settlement Project approved on June 6, 1978; these loans have not
yet been signed.



- 5 -
projects; this remains very weak, largely because of a shortage of trained
staff. With the help of the UNDP-financed and Bank-executed State and Rural
Development Project, which provides technical assistance in selected federal
agencies (departments) and states, the Bank is helping the Government to
develop further its programs and projects for reducing poverty.
21.       The country needs assistance in developing future poverty programs
and projects that can reach larger numbers of low-income families in the rural
and urban areas. Bank loans are assisting those in absolute poverty by pro-
viding irrigation and drainage facilities and farm-to-market roads for
existing smallholders. At the same time, the Bank will continue to assist
landless laborers by helping to develop larger areas of new land for agricul-
ture. The Bank's lending program will also help improve support services by
expanding extension services, by increasing agricultural and small-scale
industrial credit, and by producing higher quality seeds. The Bank plans to
mount a concentrated effort to help such institutions as the Rubber Industry
Smallholders Development Authority, the Federal Land Consolidation and
Rehabilitation Authority, and the agricultural credit bank (Bank Pertanian).
In addition to the proposed project, the Bank plans to help the Government
expand social services, in particular for low-income groups, through assis-
tance for formal and informal skill training. Assistance to infrastructure
development will be very selective, concentrating on secondary rural road
links and extending electricity into the rural areas.
22.       IFC has been active in Malaysia since 1964 and has made six invest-
ments totaling US$8.69 million. The total investments held by IFC as of May
31, 1978, amounted to US$1.34 million (Annex II).
PART III: NATIONAL POPULATION POLICY AND PROGRAM IN MALAYSIA
Population Growth and Socioeconomic Development
23.       Malaysia, with a current population of about 13 million, has
had encouraging success in checking the rapid growth of population which
could otherwise frustrate plans for raising the level and improving the
distribution of income. In 1960, the population of Malaysia, with a birth
rate of around 39 per thousand and a death rate of about 9 per thousand, was
increasing at a rate of 3% per annum. By 1975, Malaysia's effective health
services had reduced the death rate to the very low level of 6 per thousand.
During this period, the birth rate fell to 30.3 per thousand, with a resul-
tant rate of natural increase of 2.4% per annum. This decline in fertility
represents the combined effect of socioeconomic development and the efforts
by voluntary family planning associations begun in the 1950s, and strongly
reinforced in Peninsular Malaysia by the official population program which
was established in 1967.
24.       The rate of population increase is still too high to be consistent
with the objectives of the country s new economic policy, namely: (a) rais-
ing income levels and reducing unemployment; and (b) equalizing economic
opportunities and the distribution of income among the various ethnic groups.
Considerable progress has been made on the first objective; during the last



- 6 -
four years, Government programs have been assisted by favorable export
prices. Meeting the second objective has been more difficult and is of
serious concern to the Government. The large size of the poorer families is
considered a handicap in equalizing economic opportunities. Also, with the
current rate of population growth, the task of reducing unemployment in the
long term will become all the more difficult. The Government, therefore, is
proposing to intensify family planning efforts generally and, in particular,
to reach the lower-income and less-educated groups. If the proposed target
(for Peninsular Malaysia) of population growth of 2% is reached in 1985,
Malaysia's population would be about one million below the level indicated by
continuation of the current population growth rate. Achievement of the
target would also make it easier to reach the average two-child family norm
by 1990 and, therefore, achieve a stable population of about 18 million by
the year 2030.
Population Policy
25.       The family planning activities in Peninsular Malaysia were initi-
ated in 1953 by a private organization, the Federation of Family Planning
Associations (FFPA). In 1966, the First Malaysia Five-Year Development Plan
(1966-70) officially adopted family planning as a means of enhancing family
health and welfare and reducing the population growth rate.  The Plan's
target was a reduction from 3% in 1966 to 2% in 1985, with a corresponding
decline in the birth rate from 37 to 26 per 1,000. The National Family
Planning Board (NFPB) was set up by an Act of Parliament in 1966 to prepare
and implement plans to reach this target.
26.       In 1967, family planning efforts were initiated in Sabah and
Sarawak, also by voluntary associations, and the Maternal and Child Health
(MCH) services were provided by the local authorities. The recent success of
these efforts indicated a substantial latent demand, and efforts are now
being made by the Ministry of Health (MOH) to provide comprehensive family
health care which would include family planning. In Sabah and Sarawak,
the MOH would be responsible for providing services, while the NFPB would
be principally responsible for program evaluation and the supply of
contraceptives.
Program Organization
27.       The NFPB, which is an interministerial body under the Prime
Minister's Department, has been mainly responsible for the country's family
planning program since its inception. The Board consists of a Chairman and
21 members, 10 representing interested ministries/departments and 11 repre-
senting nongovernmental sectors. Under the Board are the Director General
and four technical divisions. A Deputy Director General was added as
part of the first Bank Population Project. In 1976, the total staff of the
NFPB, including field staff, numbered over 600.
28.       The NFPB is responsible for formulating population policy for all
of Malaysia. In Peninsular Malaysia, it implements the program directly in
the urban areas, and coordinates activities with the other implementing
agencies. The NFPB budget for 1976 was M$7.8 million (US$3.2 million), and



represented a threefold increase since 1973. The NFPB's share of the
national operating budget increased from 0.08% in 1973 to 0.15% in 1976.
29.       In the early 1970s, the MOH began to integrate family planning with
its MCH services. The primary responsibility of the MOR is to implement
family planning activities in the rural areas. As part of the first Project,
the administration of the MOH was strengthened by the appointment of an
Assistant Director for family planning at headquarters and one Maternal
and Child Health/Family Planning (MCH/FP) officer in each of the 11 states in
Peninsular Malaysia. Also, an additional trained assistant nurse and clerks
have been provided at each of the main health centers in the "Intensive
Input Demonstration Area" (IIDA) program of the first Project.
30.       The MOH budget in 1976 was M$379 million (US$158 million), or 7% of
the total national budget. The corresponding figures for 1973 were M$254
million (US$106 million), also about 7%.
31.       The activities of the Federation of Family Planning Associations
(FFPA) are implemented in Peninsular Malaysia through its eleven State Family
Planning Associations which form the Federation. With the expansion of the
official program, FFPA activities have become more varied, and the Federation
has begun to concentrate in specialized areas such as the treatment of
subfertility, family life, education, and marriage counseling.
32.       In Sabah and Sarawak, the Family Planning Associations (FPAs)
receive funds directly from the International Planned Parenthood Federation
and subventions from the state governments. These two state associations
have not yet joined the FFPA in Peninsular Malaysia, but the possibility is
under consideration.
33.       As part of the first Project, the Ministry of Education, with
support from the United Nations Fund for Population Activities, established a
Population Education Unit consisting of eight professional and five general
support staff to prepare population education curricula, produce teaching
aids and educational materials, and train teachers to introduce population
education into the school system.
34.       The Ministry of Agriculture has been training its agricultural
extension and community development workers in family planning since 1971.
Its Community Development Division has recently begun to promote activities,
including family life education, which are designed to raise the socio-
economic status of women in rural areas. The Ministry's extension workers
(including 5,500 full-time village workers and 105 supervisors) receive some
training from the NFPB related to methods of conveying family planning
information as part of their discussions with people in the rural areas. The
village workers are responsible for recruiting women for the family develop-
ment program and giving them vocational training at the village level.
Program Coordination
35.       Inter-agency coordination with respect to population program activi-
ties is achieved through a number of working committees under the NFPB. Of



- 8 -
the nine such working committees, three deal with major program aspects and
the rest deal with specialized functions. Of these three, the National
Family Planning Committee formulates program guidelines and strategies; the
Central Coordination Committee is responsible for the coordination of the
integrated rural health and family planning activities; and the Project
Implementation Committee (now renamed the Project Steering Committee) set up
under the first Project is responsible for the coordination of project
activities. At the state level, corresponding functions are carried out by
the State Family Planning Committees and the State Coordination Committees.
Program Facilities
36.       Family planning services are provided through various channels
under the NFPB, FFPA, and MOH, and by private medical practitioners and
traditional midwives. The urban areas and their peripheries are served by 79
static and 373 mobile clinics under the NFPB, and 26 static and 112 mobile
clinics under the FFPA. The FFPA also operates 98 clinics on rubber estates
and plantations.
37.       In the rural areas of Peninsular Malaysia, the health infrastruc-
ture is composed of 1,626 facilities (68 main health centers, 243 health
subcenters, and 1,315 midwife clinic-cum-quarters and community health
centers). In 1,130 of these facilities (70%), family planning services are
already available. In the remainder, family planning services are being
integrated when the full complement of staff is trained. In addition,
services are provided by 170 traditional midwives in rural areas and 29 MCH
centers in urban areas. These existing service outlets cover a little over
one-half of the rural population of Peninsular Malaysia.
38.       In Sabah and Sarawak, FPAs provide family planning services through
state health service outlets, while the NFPB supplements supplies of contra-
ceptives in Sarawak. The health infrastructure in Sarawak covers 14% of the
population adequately, 57% inadequately, and 29% of the population not at
all; coverage in Sabah is even more inadequate, but specific data are not
available.
Program Performance and Trends (1967-77)
39.       During 1967-77, the various institutions recruited a cumulative
total of about 677,000 acceptors, i.e., about 70% of the program target. Of
these acceptors, about 60% were recruited by the NFPB, 23% by the FFPA, 10%
by MOH, and the remaining 7% by other sources. Initially, between 1967-69,
Malaysia's family planning program was confined to providing family planning
services through NFPB clinics located mainly in large urban areas. The
number of acceptors increased sharply up through 1969 (averaging more than
70,000 annually in 1968 and 1969). However, as the reservoir of ready
acceptors was exhausted, program performance declined because of the diffi-
culty of recruiting additional acceptors in urban areas and the inadequacy of
trained staff for extending the program to rural areas.
40.       Starting in 1970, the number of new acceptors dropped to 56,000 and
remained near that level until 1973. It was during this period that the MOH



integrated family planning services into its MCH services in the rural areas.
Since then, program performance has been improving. The program has also
been reaching an increasingly greater proportion of the younger, low-income,
and less-educated groups. During the period 1970-76, the ethnic composition
of acceptors has approximated the composition of the population. Also,
significant changes have been taking place in the knowledge and attitudes
toward family planning. The proportion of women of reproductive age (15-44
years) currently using contraception increased from about 8% in 1966167 to
about 35% in 1974/75.
41.        The demographic impact of these achievements is reflected in the
decline in total fertility from 5.2 to 4.1 during 1967-75 and a decline in
the crude birth rate in 1975 to 30.3 (compared to the target of 30).
The First Population ProJect
42.        The first Bank Project was designed to increase the annual number
of new acceptors by: (a) improving the administration of the national
family planning program; (b) extending family planning services to rural
areas; (c) improving family planning, health and nutrition education,
particularly in rural areas; (d) expediting the training of paramedical
staff in family planning; (e) demonstrating, as a basis for future planning,
the effects of concentrated inputs of family planning staff, supplies,
vehicles, and equipment in selected rural TIDAs; and (f) establishing popu-
lation research programs.
43.        The Loan was signed in February 1973, and became effective in June
1973. The United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA) entered
into direct agreement with the Government to finance a set of separate
Project components in parallel with the Bank. After initial delays, most of
the UNFPA funds have now been spent. The main delay in executing the Bank
component of the Project has been in the completion of physical facilities.
The main reasons for the delays were:
(a) the NFPB Project Secretariat was weak at the outset while, at the
MOH, no individual was assigned full-time responsibility for project
implementation. Because the project was small, MOH did not consider
it necessary to establish a project construction unit;
(b) the location of buildings and architects' briefs were frequently
changed causing several months of delay in construction; and
(c) the delays in the acquisition of sites.
44.      -Despite problems and delays, especially in the construction of
physical facilities, the Project appears to have had a considerable impact.
The annual number of new acceptors increased from about 56,000 in 1973 to
more than 80,000 in 1977. The Project-assisted integrated health and family
planning program registered the highest increase in performance; in this
program, new acceptors increased from 3,000 in 1973 to about 36,000 in 1977.



- 10 -
The IIDA program of the Project achieved 88% of the annual target compared
with that of 54% in the nonintensive area program. The birth rate of 33 per
1,000 population in 1973 declined to 30.3 in 1975. As provided in the Loan
Agreement, the progress of the program was reviewed in 1977 by an external
review team, whose recommendations have been taken into account in formulat-
ing the second project.
45.        In the proposed project, several changes would be made to improve
project implementation. The Government has now agreed, before loan effec-
tiveness, to: (a) set up a project construction coordination unit under the
Public Works Department (PWD) to coordinate and execute civil works; and
(b) acquire all sites needed for the project facilities scheduled for con-
struction prior to the end of the first year of project implementation
(Section 5.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). In addition, the Government has
agreed to: (c) ensure completion of key project activities according to the
timetable agreed at negotiations (Section 3.04 (b) of the draft Loan Agree-
ment); (d) prepare and adopt an operational manual to be followed by all the
participating agencies in the implementation of the project activities
(Section 3.09 of the draft Loan Agreement); (e) appoint project managers
within each of the participating agencies (Section 3.12 of the draft Loan
Agreement); and (f) strengthen the Project Secretariat (Schedule 2, Part HI
of the draft Loan Agreement).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
46.        The proposed project was appraised by a Bank mission which visited
Malaysia from November 27 to December 21, 1977. A report, based on the
mission's findings and entitled "Malaysia: Staff Appraisal of a Second
Population and Family Health Project," (No. 2012-MA, dated June 9, 1978), is
being distributed separately. Supplementary Project Data are given in Annex
III. Negotiations were held in Washington in May 1978 with the Malaysian
delegation led by Mr. Duleep Singh, Under Secretary, Treasury.
Objectives
47.        The proposed project is designed to help attain the Government's
development and demographic goals of improving the overall quality of life
and equalizing economic opportunities by reducing demographic disparities
among and within communities and regions. The overall objective of the
proposed project would be to strengthen further the national family planning
program in order to achieve the demographic goal of reducing the birth rate
from 30.3 per 1,000 in 1975 to 26 in 1985, with a corresponding reduction in
the population growth rate from 2.4% to 2% in Peninsular Malaysia, and to
extend family planning services to Sabah and Sarawak for the improvement of
maternal and child health.
Program Requirements and the Project Design
48.        The following factors were taken into account in designing the
proposed project:



- 11 -
(a) the family planning program has hitherto relied almost exclusively
on pills, the prolonged use of which (based upon an average accep-
tor age of about 26 years) by a large number of women may increase
the incidence of side effects and threaten the health of the
mother. Provision for detecting and treating these side effects
and making alternative family planning methods available would be
made a mandatory part of the program to reduce health risks and
discontinuation rates. At present, facilities for treatment of
side effects, as well as for the provision of more permanent
methods, are inadequate and fall far short of the demand;
(b) the service delivery network is inadequate, not only in the rural
areas but also in the urban areas where the population has swollen by
migration. The Government proposes to extend the national program
to these areas as well as to the states of Sabah and Sarawak,
hitherto served only by voluntary associations;
(c) family planning information and education have been provided mainly
by the NFPB and voluntary associations; there is much scope for
broadening the base of population education activities by integrat-
ing them with programs such as health education and community
development;
(d) family planning is a sensitive issue in Malaysia, as it is in many
other countries. The family planning efforts are expected to be
helped by including infertility services, and genetic and marriage
counseling, as part of the program; and
(e) the Research and Management Information System of the NFPB has
been handicapped by a shortage of professional staff and computer
software, and has so far concentrated on the production of routine
service statistics without adequate analysis to provide relevant
feedback.
Project Components
49.       The project will accordingly include support for:
(a) The development of family planning specialist centers to provide
special health services related to family planning, train doctors
and nurses in new contraceptive techniques, and facilitate country-
specific clinical contraceptive research through:
(i) the construction of, and provision of equipment and vehicles
for, one national and four regional family planning specialist
centers;
(ii) advisory services for assisting in the establishment of the
centers;
(iii) fellowships for training of the staff; and



- 12 -
(iv) incremental operating costs for four years.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that an advisor to
prepare the plan of action for the family planning specialist
centers would be appointed prior to loan effectiveness (Section
5.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
(b) The intensification of the family planning service delivery network
to reach the rapidly growing urban population and the disadvantaged
communities through:
(i) the construction of, and provision of equipment and vehicles
for, 36 urban clinics; and
(ii) fellowships for training of NFPB staff.
(c) Strengthening the MCH and FP services of the MOH in the rural areas
by expanding the first project's successful intensive input demon-
stration area program through:
(i) the provision of immunization and nutrition equipment;
(ii) the supply of vehicles for mobile health clinics and MCH/FP
field supervision;
(iii) the construction of MCH/FP clinics as additions to existing
dispensaries in Sarawak; and
(iv) fellowships for training of the MOH staff.
An assurance was obtained during negotiations that the MOH would
finalize the establishment of an appropriate transportation main-
tenance system not later than August 31, 1979 (Section 3.13
of the draft Loan Agreement).
(d) Expansion and strengthening of the MOH's capacity for in-service
training of its health staff in integrated rural health and
family planning through:
(i) the construction of, and provision of equipment and vehicles
for, six training schools;
(ii) the construction and furnishing of field training quarters;
(iii) fellowships; and
(iv) training evaluation and feedback.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that MOH would evaluate
the functions and training needs of the relevant health staff
before developing the training curricula, and the curricula and



- 13 -
training of trainers would be completed at least three months
before the completion of the construction of the schools (Section
3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
(e)  Integration of family planning information, education, and communi-
cation (IEC) and motivational efforts with development programs,
and strengthening of the MOH's and the NFPB's capacities for the
production of educational and audiovisual materials through:
(i)  the construction of, and/or the provision of equipment and
vehicles for: (a) one Audiovisual Material Production Center
(AVPC) for the MOH and one print shop for the NFPB; (b) two
family development training centers, twelve community service
centers (no vehicles), and a women's handicrafts sales organi-
zation for the MOA; and (c) the health education mobile units
under the MOH;
(ii)  advisory services for the establishment of the AVPC under the
MOM;
(iii) fellowships for training of IEC and the Women's Development
Program staff; and
(iv)  incremental operating costs for the family development train-
ing centers and the women's handicrafts sales organization and
funds for production of films and audiovisual materials under
the AVPC.
Assurances were received during negotiations that the IEC action
plan of the NFPB, the health education subplan of the MOH, and a
detailed plan of action of the MOA would be furnished to the Bank
for its comments not later than January 31, 1979, April 30, 1979,
and December 31, 1978, respectively (Sections 3.07 and 3.11 of
the draft Loan Agreement). Assurances were also obtained during
negotiations that the Health Education Unit of the MOH would be
strengthened by the appointment of a head with an appropriate rank,
and that the head and a consultant for the Audiovisual Material
Production Center within that Unit would be appointed not later
than March 31, 1979 and October 31, 1978, respectively (Sections
3.08 and 3.10 of the draft Loan Agreement).
(f)  Strengthening NFPB's management information system and promoting
local research and evaluation in population and family planning
through the provision of:
(i)  software for the NFPB computer and survey-research equipment;
(ii)  vehicles for field surveys;
(iii) advisory services;
(iv)  funds to meet operating costs for project evaluation and other
operational research; and



- 14 -
(v) fellowships for staff training.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the NFPB would
prepare a detailed plan of action for project evaluation not later
than March 31, 1979 and establish an evaluation subcommittee by
December 31, 1978 to review and redesign the existing system of
service statistics (Section 3.04(e) of the draft Loan Agreement).
(g) Strengthening the administration of health and family planning
services at the MOH and NFPB through:
(i) the construction of, and provision of equipment and vehicles
for, eight district health offices under the MOH, and one
central warehouse for the NFPB; and
(ii) fellowships for staff training.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the operational
manual being prepared by the Project Secretariat would be adopted
by the participating agencies for the implementation of the project
(Section 3.09 of the draft Loan Agreement).
(h) Improvement of project implementation through the provision of:
(i) funds for additional professional and technical staff for both
the central and state levels of the Public Works Department
and for the Project Secretariat; and
(ii) vehicles for civil works supervision by the Public Works
Department.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the key actions
including in the project, including the timely acquisition of
sites, would be completed according to an agreed timetable
(Sections 3.04(b) and 3.05, and Schedule 5 of the draft Loan
Agreement). Assignment of the part-time staff for the project
construction coordination unit until full-time staff are appointed,
and acquisition of sites for the buildings to be constructed prior
to the end of the first year are conditions of loan effectiveness.
(i) Development and implementation of innovative schemes through:
(i) provision of funds.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that a committee to
review various innovative schemes for implementing new ideas for
program improvement would be formed no later than January 31, 1979
and that its proposals would be submitted for the Bank's comments
prior to using funds earmarked for this purpose (Section 3.14
of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 15 -
Prolect Implementation
50.       The four agencies involved in the project, namely, the NFPB, MOH,
MOA and PWD, would be responsible for the implementation of the respective
parts of the project. The Project Implementation Committee (now renamed
the Project Steering Committee), established as part of the first Project,
would be retained with modified membership to oversee the implementation of
the project. The NFPB would coordinate project activities and serve as
Secretariat to the Committee. The Director General of the NFPB would be the
Project Administrator. Immediately below the Administrator, the Assistant
Project Director would be responsible for the routine administration of the
Project Secretariat under the NFPB. The NFPB, MOA, and PWD would each
appoint a project manager to supervise project-related activities within the
respective agencies, while the MOH would appoint a full-time project manager.
In each state, the State Development Officer would coordinate project
activities.
ProJect Cost and Financing
51.       The total estimated cost of the project is US$37.7 million.  This
estimate includes about US$1 million of taxes and duties. The proposed Bank
loan would finance the foreign exchange component, estimated at US$17.0 mil-
lion or 45% of the total cost. The US$20.7 million equivalent in local costs
would be financed by the Government. The combined categories of family plan-
ning service delivery account for about 45% of the total project cost and the
remainder is accounted for by training, information and motivational efforts,
and research, evaluation and implementation activities. The cost estimates
are based on salaries and prices prevailing in October 1977, adjusted for
expected inflation during 1978. The foreign exchange component is calculated
at 25% for civil works and furniture, and 100% for vehicles and equipment.
The operating cost is calculated at 100% local, except for materials for
clinical laboratories and audiovisual material production which are 63%
foreign, and innovative activities which are 50% foreign. The contingency
allowance of US$6.4 million includes physical contingencies at 10% of the
base civil works cost, and price contingencies averaging 15% of base cost and
physical contingencies. Price contingencies were calculated on the basis of
estimated expenditures, and expected annual price increases, as follows:
ANNUAL PERCENTAGE PRICE INCREASES
Category                               1979         1980         1981        1982
Construction, professional
fees, funiture and land              7.5           7.0         7.0          7.0
Vehicles, equipment and
materials                            6.5           6.0         6.0          6.0
Technical assistance and
fellowships                          9.0           9M0         9.0          9.0
Incremental operating costs            9.5          12.0        11.5         11.5



- 16 -
Procurement and Disbursement
52.       In view of the small and scattered nature of physical facilities,
contracts for civil works would be awarded on the basis of the Government's
usual competitive bidding procedures after local advertisement; foreign
contractors would not be precluded from bidding. These procedures are
satisfactory to the Bank. Contracts for furniture, equipment and vehicles
would be grouped in appropriate bid packages. Except as specified below,
these would be awarded after international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Bank's guidelines. In the evaluation of bids, domestic manufac-
turers would be accorded a preference margin of 15% of the price of competing
imports or, if lower, the applicable customs duties.  Contracts for equipment
and furniture that could not be reasonably grouped in packages equivalent to
at least US$100,000 and contracts for vehicles that could not be reasonably
grouped in packages equivalent to at least US$50,000 would be awarded after
local competitive bidding. This would be done in accordance with Government
procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank, unless term contracts of the
Public Works Department exist for the procurement of furniture or central
Treasury contracts exist for the procurement of equipment and vehicles, in
which case these contracts would be used. Contracts would be awarded on the
basis of local competitive bidding (although foreign suppliers would not be
excluded) for specialized and diverse items of materials that could not be
packaged in lots suitable for international competitive bidding. Contract
packages equivalent to or over US$200,000 for civil works, US$100,000 for
equipment and furniture, and US$50,000 for vehicles and materials would be
awarded only after the Bank's review. Contracts for equipment, furniture,
vehicles, and materials, where the individual contracts are estimated to cost
not more than the equivalent of US$20,000 each, could be procured on the
basis of competitive procedures acceptable to the Bank without resort to
local competitive bidding so long as their aggregate would not exceed the
equivalent of US$200,000. The average cost of consultancy services is about
US$4,000 per man-month.
53.       The proposed loan would be disbursed for:  (a) 100% of the foreign
exchange costs of directly imported equipment, vehicles and materials (clin-
ical, laboratory and audiovisual), 100% of the ex-factory cost of these items
when locally manufactured and when awards are won under international com-
petitive bidding, and 70% of the cost of other such items whcn locally pro-
cured; (b) 100% of the total cost of consultants' services, technical assis-
tance, studies and fellowships; (c) 30% of the cost of civil works and
furniture; and (d) 50% of the cost of innovative activities (the purpose and
amount of the withdrawal requests should conform to the proposals on which
the Government obtained Bank's approval prior to the use of funds). Dis-
bursements by the Bank are expected to be completed by June 30, 1983.
Project Evaluation
54.       The project provides for a built-in evaluation system.  Immediate
progress of the project would be measured against the implementation schedule
for each component agreed on by the Government during negotiations. Inter-
mediate progress of the project would be evaluated on the basis of quantita-
tive indicators specified by the NFPB in consultation with other participat-
ing agencies. As indicated in paragraph 49(f) above, assurances were obtained



- 17 -
during negotiations that a plan of action for project evaluation would be
prepared by the NFPB by March 31, 1979. This plan would: (a) define measur-
able objectives of each project component; (b) identify corresponding quan-
titative indicators; (c) ascertain the availability of baseline values of
these indicators from existing data; and (d) determine the future data needs
for measuring the progress so that these data are collected throu6h service
statistics or future surveys.
Project Benefits and Risks
55.       The primary justification of the proposed project lies in its
contribution to the planned reduction of the birth rate from 30.3 per 1,000
in 1975 to 26 in 1985 by helping the national family planning program recruit
about 800,000 new acceptors over this period. The complementary nature of
the project support makes it difficult to delineate specific project contri-
butions from the program contribution to the achievement of the demographic
goal. However, some of the possible program improvements resulting from the
project inputs are summarized below.
56.       The establishment of family planning specialist centers would
improve the quality of services, provide a wider range of contraceptive
methods, with increasing emphasis on more effective and permanent techniques,
and offer specialized treatment for complicated cases. Such improvements
would inspire greater confidence in contraceptive use and its retention and
thus attract a larger clientele. These centers would increase the potential
for sterilizations from 4,000 to 14,000 a year and the number of women under-
going cancer detection tests from 16,000 to 90,000. About 10% of Government
physicians, a large number of private physicians and 40% of the nurses in
government service would be trained in the latest contraceptive techniques.
The treatment of contra-indications associated with contraceptive use is
expected to improve through relevant biomedical research to be conducted at
the centers. By providing genetic and infertility counseling, both the sub-
stantive work and the image of the family planning program would be improved.
57.       The establishment of additional service points in the urban centers
is expected to increase acceptance among the urban eligible couples from 40%
in 1975 to about 60% by 1985. The extension of integrated MCH/nutrition/FP
services in the rural areas would reduce infant, toddler and maternal mor-
talities. These reductions would strengthen the motives to plan family size
and to take advantage of the easier access to contraceptives. The provision
of transport is expected nearly to double the mobility of community nurses,
widen access of services to hitherto neglected rural areas through mobile
teams, and improve the quality of services through increased supervision.
In-service training of health staff through six training schools and accom-
modations for field trainees would also add to the overall improvement of the
quality and quantum of service delivery. It is uncertain, however, if these
facilities for rural areas would be adequate to increase contraceptive use
among the eligible women from 25% in 1975 to 40% in 1985, as about half of
the rural population would still not be covered by permanent facilities.
58.       By integrating population education and motivational efforts with
health education, and family and community development activities, the
project would reach the disadvantaged communities more effectively with



- 18 -
family planning information and services. Simultaneously, it would improve
the health status of the population and create employment for women resulting
in conducive conditions for acceptance of a smaller family norm. Finally, by
reducing the overall rate of population growth, Malaysia would achieve a
better balance of population between those in the productive ages and their
dependents, the number of persons entering the labor force after a 15-year
time lag would decline, and a larger proportion of investment would be avail-
able for raising the standard of living.
59.       In view of the difficulties experienced with the first Project, it
would be unrealistic to assume that no problems are likely to arise with the
second. Problems could arise if: (a) the project construction coordination
unit is not effective and the Project Secretariat is not strengthened; (b)
acquisition of sites for physical facilities is not completed on schedule;
(c) the Government encounters increasing political sensitivity to family
planning; (d) the administrative and managerial momentum, generated by the
present leadership of the NFPB and the Project Secretariat, is not sustained;
and (e) the staffing and organizational commitment of other agencies such as
the MOH and the MOA is weakened. However, the increased interest of the
Government's Economic Planning Unit, demonstrated during the proposed project
appraisal work, and NFPB's recent intensification of managerial control over
the first Project, provide reasons to be optimistic about the success of the
proposed project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENT AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Loan Agreement between Malaysia and the Bank and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. The special features of this loan are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
61.       Additional conditions of effectiveness are that:  (a) the acquisi-
tion of the sites required for the design and construction of facilities
scheduled during the first year of the project would be completed; (b) an
advisor would be appointed to prepare a plan of action for the Family
Planning Specialist Centers; and (c) key staff would be assigned to form the
proposed Public Works Department project construction coordination unit.
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 19 -
PART VI - RECOlDMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
June 15, 1978






TABLE 3A                                              AMNEX I
MALAYSIA            - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                           Page 1
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                 ---------------------------------------------
---------------                                MALAYSIA                            REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      329.7                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      60.4                       1960       1970   ESTIMATE           PERU           PORTUGAL       MEXICO**
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                    230.0      440.0     860.0               470.0       950.0       690.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)            8.1       10.8      12.7                13.3         9.1       50.4
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       24.0       33.0      39.0                10.0       99.0        26.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       152.0      195.0     210.0                45.0      211.0        52.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         45.6       36.5      31.7                42.9        21.1       43.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          17.8        7.8       6.7                14.7        10.4        10.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       62.0        40.8/a   33.2/a               65.1/a     58.0        68.5
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       51.7       56.7      39.4                58.0        66.1       62.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.9        2.61a      2.4/a              2.9         1.5         3.1
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 2.e        2.9        2.8                2.8         o.ila      3.4
URBAN                                 5.5        3.0        4.8                4.7         1.8         4.8
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)          25.9       26.9       30.2               52.5        26.9        58.7
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       43.S       44.7/a   42,1/a               45.0        28.5       46.2
15 TO 64 YEARS                       53.4 a.D  52a 1 a   54.47a               51.        61.8        50.1
65 YEARS AND OVER                     2.8/a,D  3.27a       3.5Ti               3.1         9.7         3.7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.9/a b   o.gta    0.9/a                     a       0.6         1.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.4 a, 1.6la 1.3                         1.5ib    1.1/b          2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           ..      222.2/a  597.0/a                 ..          ..       55.5
USERS (X OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..        s.0/a   34.075.
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND),       Z300.0/a  3600.0    4200.0                4300.0     3300 0    13000 0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%X)      5.6.07E    49.5        45.2                45. Ea      29: .2 .   45:0
UNEMPLOYED (X OF LABOR FORCE)           2.05a.c   7.0         7.2                5.0/cL      2.6
tNCOME DISTRIBUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..       28.3        ..                  ..          ..       27.9
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..       56.0         ..                 ..          ..       58.3
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLOS              ..        3.5         ..                 ..         ..         3.4
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..       11.2         ..                 ..                   10.5
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
______________________________
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS             ..         ..         ..                 ..          ..       37.1
S OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           ..         ..         ..                 ,.          .,         0.3
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             6500.0/d       ..    4400.0   C          1920.0      1120.0/d   1480.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        2600.07              1570.0              3200.0     1090. t      6 1520.0/a
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           290.0 7j   270:0/a   270.0 a             470.0       170.0      960.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (x OF REQUIREMENTS)        109.0/a  112.0/b  115.0/a                 98.0       118.0      114.0/b
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              53.775    49.07       6,5 a              62.0        85.0       65.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         17.8tn    20.0i5    .L8.3 Yi             24.0       40.0        28.0/c
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4               .        4.4        4.0/a               ,.         3.4         9.8
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                      916.0.     91.0       93.0               114.0        98.0      104.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     19.0       34.0      41.G                36.0        57.0       22.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             13.0       13.0      13.0                12.0        13.0       12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                      5.0       3.2        3.2                19.0/d     32.0        24.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                48.0/a,b 55.0         60.0&                ..          . .       76.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 ,.        2.3/a       ..                 .,         0.6/f       2.2
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                        ..       65.0oa       ..                           65.5       6i.o/d
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY                                                                                      -
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   ..       43.0/a       .-                           64.2       S9.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                     *-       30.0/a       *                  .-                    28.0
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RE.:EIVERS (PER THOU POP)        37.0       41.0      31.Q               134.0       142.0       276.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)          13.0       27.0      36,0                17.0       61.8         24.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)          200.0      382.0      s41.O/             415.0       824.0       567 0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               0.8        4.1       3.67i               3.7         5.1         3.2
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                     -- - - - -   - - -  - - - - - -- - - -
SEE NOTES AND OEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANIZX I
Page 2
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1969 end 1971, end for Most Recent Estimate between
1973 end 1976.
*0  Mexico ham met a rapid path of industrial expansion and sinet Malaysia's industrial base is relatively small  nd the country has the capacity
end plans to expend its industrial production rapidly in the future, Hexico has been selected as the objective country.
MALAYSIA    1960    /a  Paninsular Maleysia;    /b  1957;    /c  1962, registered applicants for work;    /d  Pederation of Malaya.
1970    /a  Peninsular Malaysia;    /b  1964-66;    /c  Piped water inside.
IfOST RzCDIT ESTIMTE:    /a  Peninsular Malaysia;    /b  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /c  1972.
PERU        1970    /a  Excluding Indien jungle population;    /b  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    l   Urban
only;    /d  Including evening schools.
PORTUGAL    1970    /a  Due to enigration population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase;    Lb  Ratio of population under 15 and 65
and over to total labor force;    /   Excluding unemployed;    /d  Registered, including physicians practicing dentistry;
/e  Including asaistent nurses;    /f  Total, urben and rural.
MEXICO       1970    /a  Including assietant nurses;    /b  1969-71 average;    /c  1964-66;    Id  Inside only.
R.13, June 8, 1978
DYEINITIONS OF SOCIAL  1D7ICATO1
L.sd Ares (thou k.2                                                                         PoPulation pmr nursing person - Population divided by number of pr.cticing
Total   T.tsurface area conpriaiog land ares end inland waters,                               sale  nd female graduste nurses, "trsined" or "certified" nurses, sod
Agric. - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or pernn-                auxiliary peronnel with training or experience.
nently for crops, pastures, mrket & kitchen gardens or to lie fallow.                    Population per hospital bed - Population divided by number of hospital beds
available in public and privet. general and specialized hospital sod
GNP per capita (USS) - GNP per capita estimates at current mrket prices,                      rehabilitation centers; excludes nursing homes and establishments for
calculated by same conversion mthod as World Rank Atlas (1974-76 basis);                   cu todial and preventive care.
1960; 1970 and 1976 data.                                                                Par cpits supply of calories (7% of requiresent!l - Computed from energy
Pop.l.tion ..d vit.1  t.ti.ti..                                     ~~~~~~~squivalsnt of net food supplies  "avilable in country per cepits per day;
Population and vital e tatistics                                                             svailabl o supplies comprise domestic production, imports less exports, ond
population (mid-year million) - is of July first:  if not  veilble, average    -             chhanges in stock; net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds, quantities used
of two end-ysar estimates; 1960, 1970 sod 1976 data.                                       in food processing  nd losas  in distribution; r-quire mouty   wre estimaeid
by PAO based on physiological needs for normal activity and health consid-
Population density - per s*uare km - Mid-year population per square kilometer                ering enviro_Utal temperature, body weights,  ge *nd sex distributions of
(100 hectares) of total area,                                                              population, snd allowing 107 for warte at household level.
Population density - per *qwure km of agric. land - Computed as above for                  Per capita supply of protein (grane par day) - Protein content of per capitv
egricultural lnd only.                                                                     net supply of food per day; net supply of food is defined as above; require-
onte for 11 countries est.blisbed by USDA SEonomic Research Service
Vital statistics                                                                              provide for a minirsum sllomance of 60 gras of total protein per day, snd
Crude birth rate per thousand, averags - Annual live births per thousand of                   20 grass of animl and pulse protein, of which 10 gram  should be animal
.id-yeer populetion; ten-year arithmstic averages ending in 1960 snd 1970,                 protein; these stand.rds ere lowr than those of 75 grina of total protein
and five-year average ending in 1975 for moat recent estimate,                             and 23 gram  of animal protein as an  verage for the world, propo-ed by FAG
Crude death rate per thousand, averase - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-year               in the Third World Food Survey.
population; ten-yser arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-               per capita protein supply from snimal snd Pulee - Protein supply of food
year average ending in 1975 for most reent eatimate.                                       derived fron aniasls  nd pulses in grow per dsy.
Infant mortality rete (/thou) - Annual dseths of infants under one year of age             Death rate U/thou) ages 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousand in age group 1-4
per thounand live births.                                                                  yeare, to children in this age group; susggested as an indicator of
Life exPectancy at birth (yra) - Average number of years of life remaining at                 malnutrition,
birth; usually five-yesr averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for devslop-
ing countries                                                                            Education
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of live daughters a woman will bear                Adjusted enrollmnt ratio - primery chool - Enrol7 ent of s11 ages on per-
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-specific                  ceotags of primary school-sge populatine; includes children aged 6-11 yearn
fertility rates; usually five-year *vergses ending in 1960, 1970 snd 1975                  but adjusted for different lengths of primary education; for countries with
for developing countries.                                                                  universel eduoetion, enrollmnt my exceed 1007 since sm  pupils are below
Population growth rate (%) - total - Compound annual growth rates of mid-year                or above the official school age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                             Adjuted enrollment ratio - secondary school - Computed as sbove; secondary
Population growth rate (%) - urban - Computed like growth rate of tntal                      education requires at least four year  of approved primry instruction;
population; different definitions of urban *ras m_y affect comparability of                provides genera1, vocational or tsacher training in  tructions for pupils
data smong countries,                                                                      of 12 to 17 years of age; corrsepondsnce CouC555 are gensr.lly exctuded.
Urban populstion (% of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different              year of schooling provided (first and second tev Il) - Total years of
definition  of urban areas my affect comparability of date among countries,                schooling; st secondary level, vocational instruction my be psrtially or
cn lstely excluded.
Ase etructure ( prcent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age (15-" years),                 vocaonmts= =mtf  of secoIde                 Vocational institutim  Include
and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-year population.                     tenbical, industrial or oteor progrres which operate indepedently or as
Ag. dependency ratio - Ratio of Ppoplatio n oder 15 and 65 and Over to those                 deParrmeneta of secondary instritutiona .
of ages 15 through 64.                                                                   Adult literacy rare (7.) - Literate adults (eble to read mnd write) as Per-
Econo.ic dependsncy ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to               cAnttge of total adult PoPulation sged 15 years sd ovr.
the labor force in age group of 15-64 yearo.
Fseilv planning - acceptors (cumulative, thou) - Ca1lstive number of acceptors             Housing
of birth-control devices under aupices of national family planning progrm                Pers ons per room  (urban) - Average nouber of persons per roo, in occupied
since inception.                                                                           Conventional dwslings in urban  reas; dwellings eclude no-permaet
Family planning - users (X of married woman) - Percentages of married wo  n of               Structures end unoccupied part.
child-bearing ag  (15-44 years) who use birth-control devices to a11 married             Occupied dwellingts without piped water (7) - Occupied conventional dwellings
women in sane sge group.                                               in urban and rural aras without inside or outside piped water facilities
as percentage of all occupied dwellings.
Hoployma.t                                                                                  Access to electricity 17. of all dwellings) - Conventional dwellings with
Total labor force (thousand) - Ecotnoic-ly active persona, iocluding armed                    slectricity in living qurtes as percent of total dwllings in urban sd
force.soad unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.; definitions                rural ares..
in various countries are not comparable.                                                 Rural dwellines connected to electricity (7) - Co-puted as above for rural
Labor force in agriculture (,A) - Agricultural labor force (in fsrming, forestry,            dwellings only._t__U
hunting and fishing) as percentage of total labor force.
Uneoployed (7 of labor force) - Unemployed  re ususlly defined as persons who              Consumption
are able and willing to take a job, out of a job on a given day, rmained out             Radio receiver. (pr thou pop) - All type  of rceivers for radio broadceet.
of a job, and seeking work for a Specified minimum period not exceeding aom                to general public per thound of popultsion; excludes unlicensed brsci" Jer
week; may not be comparable between countriese due to different definitions                in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in effect;
of unemployed end source of data, e.g., emplynmet offic  statistics, gmple                 date for recent yearS my not he ciparahle since most coutries abolishd
surveys, compulsory uneapioymsnt insurance,                                                licensing.
Passeng.er. ca.rs (per thou Pop) -P.snenger cars comprise motor cers  etn
ncome distribution - Percetage Of private income (both in cash  nd kind)                     l                persos; excludes aobulances, hearses and military
received by richest 57., richest 207., poorest 207., and poorest 407. of homae-            vehicles.
holds.                                                                                   Electricity (kwh/yr per cap) - Annual consumption of industrial, commercial,
Di.trib.tion of land                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~public and private electricity in kilowatt hours per capita, gener.lly
ndiuriuio o   an  mnrehip - Pporestg10  of land  wd by wlthleer 107.                      based on prodution dta, without allovwace for losses in grtid  bht slov-
and poorest 107. of land owners.                                                           ing for imports end exports of electricity.
H tswiprint (kg/yr per cap) - Per capita snnual consumption in kilograms
Heal th and Nutrition                                                                        esiae   rm  oetcpodcinpu  ntiprsofnwpi
Population per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                                   frm dmestic production plus net imp.rts of n wspri.t
physicians qualified fro a medical school at university level.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 4
COUNTRY DATA - MALAYSIA
AREA                             POPULATION (1976)                       DENSITY
330 thousand sq km           -             12.7 million                       37 per sq km
POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS (1970-75 average)                          HEALTH
Birth rate                  - 31.7                  Population per physician (1973)    - 4,400 /a
Death rate                  -  6.7                 Population per hospital bed (1973) -   270 La
Population growth rate    -  2.8
EDUCATION (1972)                                            ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (1970)
Adult literacy rate         - 60%                  All dwellings   - 43% ft
Primary school enrollment - 92% la                 Rural dwellings - 30% /a
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1976:  US$860 lb
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976:                   ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (% in constant prices and M$)
US$ Mln        %          1960-65      1965-70      1970-75      1976
GNP at Market Prices         10,561       100.0          6.9          5.6          7.0        11.3
Gross Domestic Investment   2,111          20.0          9.4          7.7          6.2         6.6
Gross National Saving         2,794        26.5         11.8          7.9         10.8        11.5
Current Account Balance         683         6.5           .
Exports of Goods, NFS         5,555        52.6          4.1          6.5          5.8        20.1
Imports of Goods, NFS         4,409        41.7          3.3          5.7          4.0        10.8
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975
Value Added                  Labor Force                    V.A. Per Worker
US$ Mln          X             Min.        X                    US$          X_
Agriculture       2,367          29.1             1.9      45.2                  1,246         59.7
Industry          2,224          27.3            0.6       14.3                  3,707        177.5
Services          3,553          43.6            1.4       33.3                  2,538        121.6
Unemployed            .             .             0.3       7.2
Total/Average 8.144          100.0            4.2      100.0                 2,088         100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government
M$ Mln             % of GDP
1976        1976       1973-75
Current Receipts             7,032         25.6        24.9
Current Expenditures         6,490         23.6        22.9
Public Authorities Surplus _ 193            0.7         0.6
Current Surplus                735          2.7         2.7
Development Expenditures   2,965           10.8        10.7
Foreign Borrowing (net)        371          1.3         2.0
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES               1969   1970   1971   1972   1973    974    1975    1976
(Million M$ outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi-Money                 3,724  4,131  4,666  5,770  7,574  8,729  10,001  12,769
Bank Credit to Public Sector            909    833  1,045  1,186  1,375  1,746   2,148   3,036
Bank Credit to Private Sector         1,841  2,246  2,572  3,014  4,586  5,278   6,084   7,471
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi-Money as % of GDP   33.1   33.3   36.0   40.4   40.0   37.8    45.1    46.4
Consumer Price Index (1967 = 100)   99.4  101.3  102.9  106.2  117.4  137.8   144.0   147.7
Annual Percentage Changes in:
Consumer Price Index                  -0.4    1.9    1.6    3.2   10.5   17.4         4.5      2.6
Bank Credit to Public Sector            6.4   -8.4   25.5   13.5   15.9   27.0    14.6    41.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector           9.0   21.9   14.6   17.2   52.2   15.1    15.3    22.8
La Peninsular Malaysia.
/b  World Bank Atlas.
.  not applicable
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate
prevailing during the period covered.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                      MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974-76)
1974    1975   1976                                 US$ Mln      %
(US$ million)
Exports of Goods, NFS        4,420  4,076  5,555
Imports of Goods, NFS        4,424  3,965  4,409         Rubber                   1,087      24.8
Resource Gap (deficit = -)    -4    111  1,146           Tin                        577       13.2
Interest Payments (net)        -50    -57   -115         Timber                     677       15.4
Other Factor Payments (net) -199   -172   -291           Palm Oil                   441       10.0
Net Transfers                  -58   - 52    -57          Petroleum                 441       10.0
Balance on Current Account  -311   -170    683           All Other Commodities 1,160          26.6
Total             4,384      100.0
Direct Foreign Investment    373    229    130
Net MLT Borrowing /a                                     EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1976
Disbursements             182    589    390
Amortization               52      75    105                                          US$ Mln
Subtotal                  130    514    285
Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed   1,619
Other Capital (net)             -5  (-502  (-185         Non-Guaranteed Private Debt 
Other items n.e.i.            _      (_    (_            Total Outstanding & Disbursed   1,619
Increase in Reserves C-)    -187    -71   -913
Net Official Reserves                                    DEBT-SERVICE RATIO FOR 1976 lb
(end year)                   1,615  1,695  2,504                                              %
Fuel and Related Materials                               Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed    4.3
Imports                      416    425    519         Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
of which:  Petroleum       215      ..     ..        Total Outstanding & Disbursed    4.3
Exports                      345    402    744
of which:  Petroleum       281    355    688
IBRD/IDA LENDING (January 31, 1978)
(US$ million)
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                              IBRD
Average rate during period:                               Outstanding & Disbursed            309.3
M$ per US$      US$ per M$         Undisbursed                        426.5
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed   735.8
1971          3.05            0.33
1972          2.82            0.35
1973          2.44            0.41
1974          2.41            0.41
1975         2.40             0.42
1976          2.54            0.39
/a  Medium and long-term capital flows are obtained from World Bank debt data and
are not comparable with balance of payments estimates.
/b Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and nonfactor services.
.. not available



ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALAYSIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (AS OF MAY 31, 1978)
Amount in
US$ million
Loan                                                                        (Less Cancellations)
Number   Year        Borrower                      Purpose                  Bank      Undisbursed
Sixteen  Loans fully disbursed                                              292.9
599     1969      Malaysia                   Education (I)                  8.8          0.2
774     1971      Sabah Ports Authority   Ports                            16.1          0.9
810      1972     Malaysia                   Education (II)                15.5          7.7
880     1973      Malaysia                   Population                     5.0          3.7
885     1973      Malaysia                   Land Settlement               25.0         10.2
908     1973      Malaysia                   Water Supply (II)             13.5          2.1
931     1973      Malaysia                   Highway (II)                  19.5          5.7
967     1974      Malaysia                   Land Settlement               40.0         22.3
973     1974      Malaysia                   Agricultural Development   45.0            39.3
974     1974      Malaysia                   Education (III)               19.0         16.1
1031      1974     National Electricity
Board                   Power (VI)                    43.3         15.4
1044      1974     Malaysia                   Land Settlement               36.0         28.8
1115      1975     Malaysia                   Agricultural Research
and Extension              28.5          27.3
1178      1975     National Electricity
Board                   Power (VII)                   35.0         31.4
1213      1976     Malaysia                   Sewerage                      21.5         21.0
1214      1976     Malaysia                   Urban Transport (II)          26.0         24.3
1294      1976     Malaysia                   Rural Development             21.0         20.7
1329      1976     Malaysia                   Education (IV)                35.0         34.8
1376      1977     Malaysia                   Highway (III)                 35.0         33.9
1443     1977      National Electricity
Board                   Power (VIII)                  22.0         21.9
1444     1977      Malaysia                   Irrigation                    39.0         39.0
1493      1978     Malaysia                   National Extension /a         19.0         19.0
1522      1978     Malaysia                   Rural Development /a          26.0         26.0
Total                                                        887.6/b
of which has been repaid                                    85.6
Total now outstanding                                        802.0
Amount sold                                 40.2
of which has been repaid                  13.1              27.1
Total now held by Bank                                       775.5
Total undisbursed                                                         451.7
/a Not yet effective.
/b A $13 million loan for the Second Sabab Ports Project (approved on May 25, 1978)
has not yet been signed.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (AS OF MAY 31,1978)
Type of            Amount in US$ Million
Year                                 Business          Loan       Equity     Total
1964   Malaysian Industrial
Development Finance          Development
Ltd. (MIDF)                  Financing            -        1.31        1.31
1966   Tasek Cement Ltd.            Cement             1.28        0.28       1.56
1968   Malayawata Steel Ltd.        Steel              2.45        1.01       3.46
1969   Malayawata Steel Ltd.        Steel                 -       0.23        0.23
1970   India-Malaysia
Textiles Ltd.                Textiles          1.25        0.25        1.50
1974   Malaysian Industrial
Development Finance          Development
Ltd. (MIDF)                  Financing            -        0.63        0.63
Total gross commitment                         4.98        3.71        8.69
Less: repayments, sales, cancellations,
terminations and write-offs            3.89        3.46        7.35
Total commitments now held by IFC              1.09        0.25        1.34
Total undisbursed                               _             -           -



ANNEX II
Page 3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Loan No. 774   Sabah Ports Project; US$16.1 Million Loan of June 30, 1971;
Effective Date: August 24, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Work has been satisfactorily completed on the new berths at Kota
Kinabalu and Sandakan. Slow progress in completing the access road to
Sandakan delayed full use of the latter facilities until mid-1977. The new
headquarters building has been occupied. Delay in mobilization, procurement
of materials and difficulties in retaining suitable consultant engineers,
compounded with the world-wide inflation, resulted in a cost overrun of about
50%. Settlement of an outstanding claim by the contractors will delay the
final account and the closing date of the loan has been postponed by 18
months to June 30, 1978.
Loan No. 799   Railway Project; US$16.0 Million Loan of February 11, 1972;
Effective Date: April 17, 1972; Closing Date: March 31, 1978
All equipment and materials have been received. Malayan Railway (MR)
operations showed an all-round improvement during 1976 and 1977 although some
key efficiency indicators were still below acceptable standards, especially
those pertaining to locomotive and rolling stock maintenance. As a result of
a successful marketing drive in 1976, a modest financial return of about
1% was achieved that year compared to losses incurred during the previous ten
years. A substantial wage award effective July 1, 1977 imposed a new strain
on financial recovery, but subsequent tariff increases and some economies in
expenditure should produce a break-even result in 1977 and enable a profit to
be earned in 1978 and thereafter.  Reasonable progress is being made in
clearing the external audit backlog.
Loan No. 931   Second Highway Project; US$19.5 Million Loan of August 22
1973; Effective Date: October 25, 1973; Closing Date:
March 31, 1980
Overall, the project is about 85% completed. Two of the three
contract sections constituting the new Kuala Lumpur-Seremban Expressway have
been completed and the third section which is nearing completion has been
partially taken over. Except for a two mile section at the northern end, the
Expressway was opened for traffic in October 1976. The improvement works to
the existing Kuala Lumpur-Seremban Road are substantially completed, while
the widening and improvement works of the Kuala Lumpur-Batang Kali Road,
which were started in November 1976, will take still one and a half to two
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4
years to complete. Consulting services for various studies and detailed
engineering have been completed. Construction costs have escalated sharply
because of rapid inflation, and the total project cost is now estimated
to be US$46 million, compared to an appraisal estimate of US$37 million.
Loan No. 1214 Second Kuala Lumpur Urban Transport Project; US$26.0 Million
Loan of March 11, 1976; Effective Date: November 11, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The main objective of the project is to increase the efficiency
of the transport system in Kuala Lumpur. Public transport services will be
improved while the use of private cars will be restrained.  Although primarily
concerned with urban transport, the project also introduces new approaches to
residential development for low-income families. The main components are:
(a) road and intersection improvements, traffic engineering and control
schemes and new radial roads; (b) transport policy measures including intro-
duction of minibus services, traffic priorities for high-occupancy vehicles
and area road pricing; (c) new serviced plots for about 1,400 households and
150 businesses and improvement of infrastructure services for about 2,100
existing households; and (d) technical assistance to support traffic manage-
ment and transport planning, to prepare an urban development project for
Kuantan, and to review national housing policies and programs. Progress on
the transport components has been quite satisfactory although delays have been
experienced. Execution of the residential components has been less satisfac-
tory due to administrative and policy problems.
Loan No. 1376 Third Highway Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of April 4, 1977;
Effective Date: May 4, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The main objective of the project is to improve the highway network
in the East Malaysian State of Sabah through the reconstruction and upgrading
of priority links and the development of the Public Works Department's
maintenance capacity. A further objective is to protect road investments in
Peninsular Malaysia through a pilot road maintenance and pavement strengthening
program in three states. The project also includes an urban study of Kota
Kinabalu in Sabah and a transport/railway study in Peninsular Malaysia.
Construction work on the East and West Coast Roads in Sabah started in
September 1977, about five months behind schedule. The highway maintenance
and upgrading program in Sabah has not yet been started due to a delay of
about one year in appointing consultants to assist PWD. While satisfactory
progress has been made in the preparatory work for the construction in
Peninsular Malaysia, the reorganization of maintenance sections in the three
pilot states is behind schedule due to staff shortages. The consulting
services for the studies are slightly behind schedule and will be completed
during the first half of 1978.
Loan No. 1031 Sixth Power Project; US$45.0 Million Loan of July 25, 1974;
Effective Date: October 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1980



ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No. 1178  Seventh Power Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of December 17,
1975; Effective Date: March 10, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1443  Eighth Power Project; US$22.0 Million Loan of August 3,
1977; Effective Date: January 9, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
The 275 kV transmission lines from Temengor to Papan and from Port
Dickson to Malacca financed under the Sixth Power Project have been completed.
The Seventh Power Project (the Prai Power Station extension, 3 x 120 MW) and
the Eighth Power Project (the Pasir Gudang Power Station, 2 x 120 MW) are
still in the early stages of construction; the progress is generally satis-
factory.
Based on the Bank's recommendation, the Government has agreed to
apply fuel surcharges to commercial and industrial consumers since mid-1975
and to provide NEB with equity of about US$200 million during the period
FY77-81 on a year by year basis to bridge NEB's financial gap. Maximum demand
and energy sales for FY77 were 975-MW and 5,297 GWH respectively (16% above
FY76 levels).
The co-financing arrangement for the Eighth Power Project (commer-
cial bank loan of US$30 million) was completed on October 4, 1977.
Loan No. 908   Second Kuala Lumpur Water Supply Project; US$13.5 Million
Loan of June 14, 1973; Effective Date: August 27, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project consists of the expansion of water supply facilities
to meet increasing demands in Kuala Lumpur and the Klang Valley area. The
first part of the project, comprising ordinary water works, was completed
in 1976, practically on schedule and within the cost estimates, and is
operational. The construction of the Langat Dam, the last and major work of
the project, is progressing satisfactorily and is expected to be completed by
the end of 1979. Completion will be two years behind schedule. Cost of the
dam is likely to be about 25% more than originally estimated, resulting in an
increase in the total project cost of about 15%. No difficulties are foreseen
in raising the additional funds required. The Selangor State Water Department,
which is responsible for the project, performs well in spite of staffing
problems. Its financial management still needs some strengthening.
Loan 1213-MA   Kuala Lumpur Sewerage ProJect; US$21.5 Million Loan of
March 11, 1976; Effective Date: August 25, 1976
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is the first stage (1976-81) of a 30-year master plan
for the sewerage development in the Kuala Lumpur Metropolitan area. It
includes the extension of sewers (about 70 miles of trunk and lateral sewers)
and treatment facilities to serve an additional population of 200,000 in the
Kuala Lumpur Federal Territory; the institution of a separate Sewerage Depart-
ment within the Kuala Lumpur City Hall, with its own accounting system and



ANNEX II
Page 6
finances; engineering and management consultant services; staff training; and
the preparation of sewerage and pollution control measures for the Kuala
Lumpur metropolitan-area. The engineering of the project has been satisfac-
torily completed. Bidding for two out of the three major contracts (sewers)
has also been completed. However, land acquisition and resettlement of
present occupants are creating serious problems which are delaying the project.
The establishment of a separate accounting system for the Sewerage Department
(Kuala Lumpur City Hall) is progressing well. Action to levy the sewerage
surcharge on water bills has been undertaken after long delays. Compliance
with covenants regarding long-term sewerage and urban planning in Selangor
State is lagging.
Loan No. 885   Third Jengka Triangle Land Settlement Project;
US$25.0 Million Loan of March 30, 1973; Effective
Date: June 22, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Planting operations have been completed but due to the severe
droughts in 1976 and 1977 a heavy supplying program especially on the rubber
schemes is being carried out, which is due to be completed by the end of
1978. About 23,500 acres of oil palm and 16,400 acres of rubber have been
planted. Planting and maintenance standards are satisfactory. Only scheme 15
is in production. So far, 1,467 houses have been constructed and 1,347
settlers have moved in. Schools and clinics are under construction but will
only be completed about one year after settler entry. Due to delays in
settler house construction, settler entry will be delayed by two to two and a
half years on various schemes. JKR capacity is a major constraint in speeding
up house construction. Coordination between JKR and FELDA has improved
considerably and FELDA expects that the backlog will not increase. Oil palm
mill construction on scheme 18 is on schedule and will be completed by April
1979. Water to schemes 16 to 18 is temporarily supplied from Jengka II due
to delays in intake construction on scheme 19. Due to excessive transfers in
middle management field staff, there is lack of leadership which affects
continuity of work.
Loan No. 967   Johore Land Settlement Project; US$40.0 Million Loan of
February 27, 1974; Effective Date: May 16, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Clearing and planting proper are satisfactorily on schedule, except
for phase III of the Ulu Dengar scheme due to late logging. Planting and
maintenance standards are satisfactory. Oil palm production started on four
schemes in 1977. However, due to the severe droughts in 1976 and 1977, early
yields are disappointing. Attacks of elephants and wild boar resulted in a
loss of 25% of the total oil palm stand. FELDA has embarked on a massive
trenching program around the scheme boundaries and indications are that this
program may be effective. FELDA is now preparing for a gigantic supplying program.
So far, 828 houses have been constructed and 710 settlers have moved in. Due
to delays in settler house construction, delays of one to three years in
settler entry are to be expected on various schemes. Lack of capacity in JKR
and in the Ministries of Education and Health has delayed construction of
schools and clinics, but the situation is improving because of the creation of
separate units in these Ministries catering for FELDA schemes. Two of the
five oil mills to be constructed under the loan were commissioned in 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan No. 973   Western Johore Agricultural Development Project; US$45.0 Million
Loan of April 5, 1974; Effective Date: August 14, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Project civil works are still substantially behind schedule, and
acceleration of work has proven difficult due to unusually severe rainfall
and flooding, refinements in design requiring construction of numerous
small water control structures, and the persistent problems of land acqui-
sition in a settled smallholder area. However, work is progressing on all
drainage basin contracts, at costs considerably below appraisal estimates.
The project has recently been expanded to include the construction of
drainage works and agricultural installations in the Phase II area of
Western Johore and construction of a network of secondary roads in the
original Phase I area.
Loan No. 1044 Keratong Land Settlement Project; US$36.0 Million Loan of
October 3, 1974, Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
Clearing and planting operations on schemes 8 and 9 are delayed by
about 9 to 12 months due to late logging. Scheme 2 is in production.
Production on scheme 3 has been postponed due to labor shortages. Schemes 4
and 5 are expected to come in production by late 1978, but this may also
have to be postponed. Despite the labor shortage, maintenance standards are
satisfactory. Attacks by elephants and wild boar resulted in a loss of 12%
of the total oil palm stand. FELDA will start a trenching program whereafter
a supplying program will be initiated. Following the decision to reduce the
holding size from 14 to 10 acres, settlers of schemes 1 through 5 will be
housed in Town 22, while separate townships will be constructed for schemes 6
through 9. So far, 411 houses have been completed and 283 settlers moved in.
The relationship between DARA and FELDA has improved considerably following
the changes in DARA top management, and FELDA expects that the backlog in
settler entry will not increase. Efforts will be made to clear this backlog.
Loan No. 1115 Agricultural Research and Extension Project; US$28.5 Million
Loan of May 30, 1975; Effective Date: October 21, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Project implementation is now about two years behind the appraisal
estimates. A new Director General was appointed in mid-1977 and a new
Deputy Director for Administration was appointed in January 1978, but the
post of Deputy Director for Research is still vacant. Some progress has
been made on international recruitment of scientist and research program
reviewers. Six scientists are now on board and a total of 15 man-years has
been committed representing 15% of the total scheduled under the project.
An additional one man-year has been utilized for consultants to conduct nine
program reviews. Civil works and fellowships are the only components of the
project that have been proceeding at a satisfactory pace. The extension
component of the project is also about two years behind schedule and has had
similar management constraints with a change in Directors occurring in March
1978.  The next six months should be adequate to indicate whether the new
management will be able to get the project moving.



ANNEX II
Page 8
Loan No. 1294 North Kelantan Rural Development Project; US$21.0 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date: October 28, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project includes the Lemal Irrigation component which will
provide drainage and flood protection to 30,000 gross ha of farmland and
intensive irrigation to 12,000 net ha of paddy; construction of 190 km of
rural roads throughout North Kelantan; 15 small irrigation schemes serving
1,300 ha of paddy; construction, rehabilitation and equipping of 25 Farmers
Development Centers (FDCs); and establishment of an effective agricultural
extension service for Kelantan. The project start-up period has seen rapid
implementation of the FDC component, good progress on the agricultural
extension component with planning, staffing and preparation of equipment
specifications proceeding on schedule, and a welcome degree of cooperation
between the Farmers Organization Authority and the Kelantan Department of
Agriculture in joint planning of agricultural service buildings and field
operations. Some delay in engineering of roads and irrigation works has
occurred due to delays in approval of staff, but this problem appears to have
been largely resolved.
Loan No. 1444 National Small-Scale Irrigation Project; US$39.0 Million Loan
of August 3, 1977; Effective Date: October 25. 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The loan became effective on October 25, 1977 and the project works
have just been started.
Loan No. 599   Education Project; US$8.8 Million Loan of May 23, 1969;
Effective Date: September 16, 1969; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977
The Project provided US$8.8 million for the construction of technical,
vocational, agricultural and general secondary schools and one teacher training
college. All project institutions have been completed and are in satisfactory
operation. Savings attributable to lower than expected project costs and the
shift in the exchange rate were used to finance additional project items
transferred from the Second Education Project (Loan 810-MA). Disbursement of
the outstanding balance of US$0.2 million is expected to be completed shortly.
Loan No. 810   Second Education Project; US$15.5 Million Loan of April 5,
1972; Effective Date: July 7, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
The project is financing the establishment of a curriculum develop-
ment center, science schools for the University of Penang, vocational schools,
and an educational television system. With the exception of parts of the
University and one vocational school, project institutions are practically
completed and operating. Earlier delays incurred in the implementation of
these two items necessitated a postponement of the closing date by one year.
The delays are reflected in slow disbursements, but the problem is currently
being addressed by the Bank and the Government. Project cost overruns (20%)
are expected to be financed by the Government.



ANNEX II
Page 9
Loan No. 974   Third Education Project; US$19.0 Million Loan of April 5,
1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project assists the Government to develop technical training,
pre-service teacher training, and an East Malaysia educational television
system. Implementation has improved since a year ago when less than 50% of
project civil works had been tendered. Contracts have now been awarded for 11
out of 13 project institutions. Construction began in early 1976 and most of
the project institutes are scheduled for completion in late 1978. The Project
Unit is functioning satisfactorily, despite current problems with bid evaluation.
Loan No. 1329 Fourth Education Project; US$35.0 Million Loan of
November 18, 1976; Effective Date: January 14, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project is designed to improve the quality of primary schooling
and to redress existing imbalances in the provision of primary education
by providing additional classrooms in poverty areas, facilities for teacher
training and one teacher training college in Sarawak. The project includes
three new Industrial Training Centers and expansion of two existing ones. It
includes also a study on community education in preparation of government
investment in nonformal education. Project implementation began in January
1977 and appears to be satisfactory. Problems in the processing of disburse-
ments have been resolved. Shortage of staff in the Project Unit has been
remedied by the Government. Disbursements began a half year behind schedule
during the second half of FY78.
Loan No. 880   Population Project; US$5.0 Million Loan of February 9,
1973; Effective Date: June 21, 1973; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
After initial delays and difficulties, the project has picked up
momentum in recent months. Out of a total of 571 buildings, 232 have been
completed, another 80 are under construction, and a further 148 are at tender
stage. An IBM minicomputer has already been procured and put in operation.
Computerization of management information is under way. A review of the
total program (including the project) has been carried out by an external
team of experts. Program performance in 1977 was even better than in 1976
and the number of annual new acceptors was the highest since the inception of
the program. Project-assisted extension of integrated health and family
planning services recorded the highest increase in performance. Due to
delays in acquisition of sites, frequent changes in building locations and
architects' briefs, and inadequate coordination of civil works, the project
fell behind schedule by about 15 months. Despite recent intensification of
efforts, earlier delays in disbursement could not be made up. Up until
September 1976, only 10% of the loan was disbursed; as of May 31, 1978, this
has increased to 26%. The NFPB is continuing with intensified monitoring of
the program of civil works to clear this backlog.






ANNEX III
Page 1
MALAYSIA
SECOND POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: May-October 1977.
(b) Project prepared by: NFPB, Ministry of Health, Community
Development Division of the Ministry of Agriculture, assisted by
the Bank.
(c) First presented to the Bank: April 1977
Preparation mission: June 1977
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission:  November 1977
(e) Completion of negotiations: May 1978
(f)  Estimated date of effectiveness:  November 1978
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions Required of the Bank
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.        The following are conditions of loan effectiveness (para. 45):
(a) completion of acquisition of all sites required for physical
facilities scheduled for design or construction before the end of
the first year of the project;
(b) appointment of an advisor to prepare a plan of action for the
family planning specialist centers under the NFPB; and
(c)  assignment of part-time staff to the Public Works Department s
proposed project construction coordination unit.
2.        Other special conditions are:
(a) the MOH would finalize the establishment of an appropriate trans-
portation maintenance system not later than August 31, 1979
(para. 49(c));
(b) the functions and training needs of the rural health staff would be
evaluated before developing the training curricula; this curricula
and the training of trainers would be completed three months before
the completion of the construction of the schools (para. 49(d));



ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) a national IEC plan of action to be developed by the NFPB, and a
subplan of health education to be developed by the MOH, would be
submitted for the Bank's comments not later than January 31, 1979
and April 30, 1979, respectively (para. 49(e));
(d) the Ministry of Agriculture would prepare a detailed plan of action
linking the training to be carried out in the Family Development
Training Centers with activities planned for the Community Service
Centers and the women's handicraft sales organization (para. 49(e));
(e) the Health Education Unit of the MOH would be strengthened with
the appointment of a head with an appropriate rank, and a head of the
Audiovisual Material Production Center would be appointed not later
than March 31, 1979 (para. 49(e));
(f) NFPB would prepare the detailed plan of action for project evalua-
tion not later than March 31, 1979; and would form an evaluation
subcommittee not later than December 31, 1978 (para. 49(f));
(g) the operational manual for project administration prepared by the
Project Secretariat would be accepted and adhered to by all the
participating agencies (para. 49(g));
(h) the acquisition of sites required for physical facilities scheduled
for design or construction during the second year of the project
would be completed by December 31, 1979 and the balance by
December 31, 1980 (para. 49(h));
(i) key actions included in the project would be completed according to
the timetable agreed at negotiations (para. 49(h)); and
(j) the Government would obtain the Bank's comments on details of the
proposals prior to using funds for innovative schemes (para. 49(i)).



IBRD 13446
MALAYSIA                                                                                                                                                        At 1978
LOCATION OF PHYSICAL FACILITIES SUPPORTED UNDER
SECOND POPULATION AND FAMILY HEALTH PROJECT:                                                                                                           J'
EAST MALAYSIA(Saboh cand Sarawak)                                                   ::         i:S:                    -,  K
Ministry of Agriculture Facility
< Family Development Trcming Center                            25  5 1    7~5 t4           t 5              ;TAT
Ministry of Health Facilities                                                                                                                                                                                    6 E ;  iJfif
A     Integrated Rsrira Health & Family Planning Trqining Schools 0   2,5  5p  70 190  105 150 17,S 20
T~~~~~~~~~
*     Quarters for Field Training at Heolth Units                      KL                                                                -,             -5A AKAN V-,          t't
Addition of MCH/FP Clinic to Existing Dispensaries                                                                                           ( lS/DENCYLaf                     -,
*    Staff Quarters at Existing Training Centers                                             :- /    `SABAH                                                     ,     .-'-
- -D    Divisional Boundaries                                               j                                                                         n-,_
-       State Boundories                                                                                                                                         -
International Boundartes                                           S1                                          ,          / TEE/OR
: : R f S I D F N C ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r                              J n,- - 
p,TA WA LI 
5MY OBatuNIlB,    //
Note- Population Densities Inn Sabah and Sorawaok                                      ,A                 ~'~~ 
aire lO and 9 Respectively, per Square Kilormeter./t.                                                       ~              ~        ~       v i         v
as       n   ---- y. . .. <   ML      r4 A
~   E01ET H  hI V                                                            N IN 0 N
*0Se~o~ tleg -~x>-SARAWAK                          ~                               
Elel            u       U                    I 5O
VA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
S  nrorggorg <B~~~-g 
TrbvO      DNI1 VI~~i ~ ~ ~ 1(L~~~N                                                                                                                     '
cI_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KAA                                                                                   
Cqpn'14,    Sk~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*LMJS /~
~'5 ~ijL~.~ -~l~     liM  ,~.SINGAPORE
r~~  ~ ~    ~      DON  E  






IBRD 13445
APRIL 1978
MALAYSIA
LOCATION     OF   PHYSICAL   FACILITIES                                                            (A) National Family Plann,nq Boord Facilities Cne
SUPPORTED  UN DER SECOND  POPULATION                                                                                  Regional Family Planning Specialist Centers
AND  FAMILY  HEALTH  PROJECT                                                                             Urban Family Planning Clinics (T7ype C" & MCHC)
WEST MALAYSIA                                                                        Urban Family Planning Clinics Special Type
Central N.FPB Gadown and Print Shop
rem             ten                                t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~k                     (B) Ministry af Health Facilities
H  Integrated Rural Health and Farnilly Planning Training Schools
m     Training Quarters at MCQs
0  Audio Visual Material Production Center
T'HAI., LA,N                                                                         TL    Health Offices with MCH/FP Service Units
(C) Ministry of Agricultural Facilities
~iFamily Development Training Centers
k                                                                             ~~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A,    Community Service Centers
f E Li A H                                                                                    4L     Womean's Handicraft Sales Organization
G?euBq;nI  i                                             State Boundaries
7   ~~~~~esrrnUo  ~~~~~~~~                            International Boundaries
BHt0g                        (                  e-h/                                                         Popv ation Density per Sq Km
2  gji                               -                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~By State (1975)
.1ugor  r                                                                                                         0    50j UJob
eon Rokir ~   ~         ~        5110
'e,           K    Z A N  T A                            A                                     M O) Over~~~~~~~rergnn
3.                                                 J                                                  A                        0~~~~~ERA i~0
~' K-ooKhrng-r                                                                           D.0                            2.0       450       60
I          N             0    20~~~~~~ 40    60    60   tOO
N.                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KInOM-ETERS
-4-                                                                       P~~~~~~~~A  edo-g P,n.n.n.o*    e-                                                    .  m,.na
-  Anson                              J.rortui                              Nt <                     m             nn.rnerrn-narrv-h. 
N         A N                                      2Mre 0 Rr
en6n~~'  ,-,.  ,,ttnoorg ~   T TnedI h   AhAOonPit,S                                                o   u          h
ShahO'                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C  h  i  n 
AtoI~~    LtMP~   A
eons      t~~~~ 5enone 
KU.I. K....rg ~          ~N
noon~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VE                                     O
-        .n'    One    *       ~      ~ PorFvrn         JO  HO AP
H"n'   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~                            t~~~LAC~   osnePc,,t,
`7                                              0P.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Knd,r
V.                                                                                                                             gKotnb      0  hi- so  Nc,Kot.n
KAUSASA                uectr
~~~~~~~~~Ar-l~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*0 L05



