Report No. 423a-CM                                                             FILE  COPY
Appraisal of a
Second Railway Project
Cameroon
June 13, 1974
Western Africa Projects Department
Ports, Railways, & Aviation Division
Not for Public Use
M
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for officiai use only by the Bank Croup. it may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Croup does not accept responsibility
for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



Carrency Equivalents
Currency Unit - CFA franc (CFAF)
us$1.00        =  CFA! 250
CFA? 1 million = Us$j, Oo.
FisCal Year:  July 1 - June 30
sy sm of Weights and Measures: Metrio
Nbtric                    BritishAUS eouivalents
1 meter (r)           =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilojuter (lm)      =   0.62 mile (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)           2.2 pounds (lb)
i metric ton (m ton)  -   2,24 pounds (lb)
Abbreviations and AÀrOnyma
BCD       - Banque Camerounaise de Developpemnt
CCŒ       - Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
COFACE    - Compagnie Francaise de Credit pour l'Exportation
EIB       - European Investment Bank   -
FAC       - Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
TED       - Fonds Europeen de Developpement
OCFT      - Office du Chemin de Fer Transcamerounais
OFEROM    - Office Central des Chemins de Fer d'Outre-Mer
Regifercam- Regie des Chemins de Fer du Cameroun
USAIm     - United States Agency for International Development



CAMEROON
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMKARY .............................                      i-vi
1.   INTRODUCTION         .     ..............    .......... *   1
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ......3
A.   Background ..........3.. . . . .. ...  ..3
B.   The Transport System.        . .. ....... . ...         3
C.   Transport Policy, Planning, and Coordination ...        6
3.   REGIFERCAM .7. ...... o ........ . ..             .... .     7
A.   Organization and Management.                            7
B. Staff                      .......   8
C.   Property   .....    ..      ............                9
D. Operations .9.... . .                                     9
E. Traffic .......... ,  ....  10
F.   Costing  ....................,    ......,., ,.,    il
4.   TUE PROJECT  ................     .....  ...       .. .       12
A. Description and Cost    ....12
B.   Project Execution, Procurement, and Disbursement    16
5.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION . ........         ..      .....o.....    17
A. General ... ..                                           17
B.   Construction of the New Japoma Bridge                  17
C.   Track Renewal .......                     ...........   18
D.   Breakdown Crane ...... ........ ,..... ..... ...    18
E.   Freight-cars and Bogies               .                18
F.   Radio Link and Single Turn-outs              ..        19
G.   Sensitivity Analysis .......  .            .19
H.   Conclusion .....         ..   .. ..........,.,         19
I.   Economic Justification for Continued Operation
of Regifercam .........   ..... . .19
This report has been prepared by Messrs. H. Apitz (Financial Analyst),
M. Dick (Economist), and H. Georg (Railway Engineer).



Table of Contents (Contd.)
Page No.
6.   FINANCIAL EVALUATION .... ...... .... .... ................ ..    20
A.   Past and Present Financial Position ............    20
B.   Future Financial Position        ......................    22
C.   Sensitivity Analysis of Financial Forecasts  ....    26
D.   Audit ................................................  27
7.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMOENDATION ...............       27
TABLES
1.   Future Freight Traffic (in ton-km)
2.   Freight Traffic - Average Distances carried by Rail
3.   Future Freight Traffic (in tons)
4.   Passenger Traffic
5.   Douala Port - Operational Statistics for General Cargo
6.   Comparison between traffic of Regifercam and of Douala Port
7.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
8.   Freight-car Requirements
9.   Income Accouants, 1963/64 - 1972/73
10. Summary Balance Sheets, 1964-73
11. Debt Position as of June 30, 1973
12. Financing of Transcameroon Extension Line
13.  Forecast Income Accounts, 1973/74 - 1979/80
14. Pro Forma Summary Balance Sheets, 1973-80
15. Forecast Long-Term Debt, 1973/74 - 1979/80
16. Statement of Sources and Application of Funds, 1973/74 - 1979/80
17.  Improved Road Edea-Younde - Forecast Income Account 1975/76-1979/80
18. Financial Sensitivity to Low Traffic Forecasts
ANNEXES
1.  Third Railway Development Plan, 1970/71 - 1975/76
2.   Analysis of Cost Estimates of First Railway Project
3.   Brief Description of Railvay Property
4.   Summary of Operating Statistics, 1970/71 - 1972/73
5.   Operational Plan of Action
6.  Traffic Forecasts
7.   Construction of the New Japoma Bridge
8.   Tentative Terme of Reference for Consulting Services
9.   Details of Economic Evaluation
10. Economic Justification for Continued Operation of Regifercam



Table of Contents (Contd.)
CHARTS
1.   Railway Organization
2.   Track Characteristice
MAP
Cameroon - Second Railway Project - IBRD 11058



l



CAMEROON
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        The United Republic of Cameroon was formed in 1962 through the
amalgamation of two distinct colonial entities, each with a separate and
limited transport infrastructure. From its inception, therefore, the country
was faced with the problem of a transport network which was totally inadequate
to meet the political and economic needs of a small population scattered
through three main economic areas (West, South, and North) and separated by
large uninhabited and undeveloped regions. Recognizing that the economic
potential of the country could not be realized without an adequately developed
trunk transport system linking the capital of Yaounde and the major commercial
and import/export outlet of Douala with the important production areas, Cameroon
has, in recent years, devoted a very significant portion of public expendi-
tures to the development of trunk road and rail links.
ii.       As a result of these efforts, the basic structure of the transport
system is now nearing a stage where it can be considered generally adequate to
serve the overall needs of the country. Focussed on the port of Douala,
transport links to the rest of the country are now provided along two princi-
pal corridors: (i) the Transcameroon rail/road route which runs the entire
length of the country (about 1,700 km) and which also provides an outlet to
the sea for neighboring landlocked Chad; and (ii) the Douala-Bafoussam-Foumban
road (about 330 km). However, considerable additional investments are required
on this system; for while resources and energy have been directed to making
additions and extensions to the original routes, older sections are deteriorat-
ing, and their capacity is being strained by the additional traffic generated
by the growing economy and improvements to the basic transport network.
iii.      This is particularly true of the railway system.  Until recently,
the railway in Cameroon was quite small, and the furthest penetration from
the port of Douala was to Yaounde, a distance of about 300 km; however, con-
struction has recently been completed of a 628 km extension to N'Gaoundere
which is expected to accelerate development of the northern region of the
country. This extension has been built to high standards of design and
engineering, and its cost of about US$98 million has been financed primarily
by bilateral lending agencies either in the form of grants or of loans on
concessionary terms. While this new construction was advancing, however, the
old lines -- in particular the critical Douala-Yaounde link which was origi-
nally constructed to much lower design standards -- were deteriorating under
the impact of growing traffic volumes. At the same time, additional motive
power and rolling stock were required to meet traffic demands.



- il. -
iv.       The Bank's involvement with the railway system has focussed on
împrovements to the Douala-Yaounde line, and the equipment needed to main-
tain and augment the railway's overall carrying capacity. The First Railway
Project (Loan 687-CM, US$5.2 million, 1970) resulted from a Government request
for Bank support of the Third Railway Development Plan covering the period
1970/71 -. 1975/76. This Third Plan contained provision for major extension
of the railway system and a complete realignment of the Douala-Yaounde line.
The Bank reserved its position on these proposals, most of which were not
adequately supported by engineering and economic studies, and in fact stipu-
lated in the ensuing Loan Agreement certain restrictions on investments and
debt obligations which effectively prevented implementation of these plans
until further study and review had been undertaken. The Bank did, however,
agree to assist with items related to improvement of existing facilities
and services during the first three years of the Plan period. Consequently,
the Bank financed rolling stock, reconstruction of the Japoma bridge near
Douala, track renewal on sections of the Douala-Yaounde line, and consulting
services to study the feasibility of the Douala-Yaounde realignment. Other
project items not financed by the Bank included purchase of main-line and
shunting locomotives and miscellaneous service vehicles, reconstruction of
the Douala railway station and shunting yard, and extension of the railway's
Training Center.
v.        The Bank-financed project elements have been successfully completed,
with the exception of the Japoma bridge reconstruction. Studies undertaken in
the course of preparing bidding documents for the works proved that the intended
solution was unacceptable because of difficult soil conditions, and a new site
for an entirely new bridge had to be found; since the total cost estimated for
new construction far exceeded the amount available under the Loan, it was de-
cided to delay the work and seek further financing. Outstanding also are con-
struction of a new Douala railway station for which work and financing arrange-
ments are still incomplete, and extension of the Training Center, financing
for which has only recently been arranged with the French Fonds d'Aide et de
Coperation (FAC). The other Third Plan items not included in the First Railway
Project -- largely major railway extensions (exclusive of the final Belabo-
N'Gaoundere Transcameroon extension now complete) - have been postponed or
dropped.
vi.       Pending development of a new Plan, the Government and the railway
have requested further Bank assistance to finance urgent needs through 1976.
Therefore, the Bank has prepared a Second Railway Project consisting of:
(î) construction of a new Japoma bridge; (ii) completion of track renewal
(42 km) on the Douala-Yaounde line; (iii) installation of 50 new turn-outs;
(±v) înstallation of a radio link on the Douala-Yaounde-N'Gaoundere lîne;
(v) purchase of 100 flat-cars, 25 box-cars, 100 freight-car bogies, a break-
down crane, and spare parts for locomotives and rolling stock; (vi) purchase
of 4 main-lîne and 3 shunting locomotives; and (vii) provision of consulting
services in the fields of railway operations, costing, commercial activities
and management, and for a detailed review of the solution to foreseeable capa-
city constraints on the Douala-Yaounde transport corridor (road construction
vs. railway realignment).



- iii -
vii.      The proposed Loan would meet the foreign exchange requirements of
items (i) - (v), and item (vii). Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(CCCE) would finance the foreign costs of locomotive purchase under item (vi).
The total cost of the project, net of taxes, is estimated at about US$23
million equivalent, including foreign exchange costs of about US$20.72 million
(90%) which would be covered by the Bank Loan (US$14.56 million), the remaining
funds of Loan 687-CM (US$0.87 million), and the CCCE loan (US$5.29 million).
Regifercam would provide the local costs of the project, estimated at US$2.28
million equivalent. The Bank Loan would include US$1.44 million for interest
during the first two years of the project to ease the debt burden on the rail-
way prior to receipt of additional revenues generated by project items; the
total amount of the Loan would therefore be US$16 million.
viii.     ConcTirrently with the proposed project, the Government is plan-
ning construction of the new Douala Station and extension of the Trainîng
Center.
ix.       The railway management, if necessary assisted by the Office du Chemin
de Fer Transcamerounias (OCFT), will handle procurement and supervise the con-
struction under the project. Track renewal will be carried out by Regifercan's
own labor force. Execution is expected to start during 1974 and to take three
years to complete. All Bank-financed items (except for the spare diesel gen-
erator to be manufactured by the locomotive supplier) will be procured by
international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines.
Domestic or regional preferences in bid evaluation are not applicable, as
no local tender has been received for the bridge construction, and other items
will be of foreign origin. The Government is in principle prepared to waive
duties and taxes on all goods financed and imported under the project, upon
application by Regifercam.
x.        The railway enjoys sufficient autonomy în its day-to-day operations
to permit effective management. The quality of top management, strongly sup-
ported by French technical assistance, is generally satisfactory; there ls,
however, a need for increased participation of local staff in the decision-
making process, and for extended training in view of progressing Africanîzation.
At the departmental level in railway headquarters and throughout the network,
there is considerable scope for improvements in administrative and technical
practices to ensure improved staff efficiency and the availability of necessary
transport capacity of the railway. The proposed project provides for consulting
services for operational planning and control, costing, marketing, administra-
tive organization, management training, and corporate planning. Regifercam
has agreed that it will consult promptly with the Government and the Bank re-
garding the decisions it proposes to take in light of the recommendations
submitted by the consultants, and the means of their implementation.
xi.       The railway's physical assets are generally well maintained.  About
628 km of track constructed to high technical standards have been opened to
traffic in recent years. Efforts are being made to keep,the older trael ln
good repair, but the maintenance costs are rather high due to excessive 7.,ear
of rails in narrow curves. Training of staff is given continuous attention
in anticipation of a continuing rapid growth in traffic. Efficiency of opera-
tions has been somewhat low, but should improve following completion of the



- iv -
track reneval program and the installation of longer sidinge on the Douala-Yaounde
line, coupled with the railway's ongoing program to reinforce bridges and the
delivery of additional rolling stock and locomotives. The consulting services
outlined in para. x above are, of course, also designed to help improve
efficiency.
xii.      The openin* of the first section (Yaounde-Belabo) of the Trans-
cameroon railway resulted in a sharp increase in traffic in 1969-71. Over
the longer period 1968-72, passenger traffic increased at an average rate of
12% annually în terms of passenger-km, but then dropped sharply in 1972-73,
mainly because of operating constraints on the Douala-Yaounde line, and the
fact that rolling stock utilization was limited. Freight traffic over the
period 1968-73 increased at the rate of 13% annually in ton-km; the average
haul rose from 209 km in 1968/69 to 305 km in 1972/73. Freight traffic
tonnage i forecast to double between 1972/73-1979/80, and passenger traffic
to increase by about one-third.
xiii.     Since most of the freight traffic originates or terminates at the
port of Douala, a volumetric increase of these proportions will increase the
already apparent strain on the poorly aligned Douala-Yaounde line which pre-
sently has a virtual monopoly of freight movements in the critical Douala-
Yaounde transport corridor. Major elements of the proposed project (notably
track renewal, extended sidings, better communications, and additional rolling
stock, together with higher operating efficiency) are designed to increase the
capacity of this line to the maximum possible without a complete realignment.
These measures ehould be sufficient to meet traffic requirements until 1980
or slightly beyond, and there is no doubt that the proposed railway investments
represent the economic least-cost solution to meeting transport requirements
in the Douala-Yaounde corridor during this period. However, the Douala-Yaounde
railway line i paralleled by the Douala-Edea-Yaounde road which, between Edea
and Yaounde (about 181 km) is poorly aligned and gravel-surfaced. Road traffic
over this stretch is limited to vehicles with'an overall gross weight of 10 tons
(4 tons during the wet season).  The Government is considering up-grading this
road section. Were this to be done within the next three years, and existing
traffic restrictions lifted, road competition could be very effective, particu-
larly for general cargo movements between Douala and Yaounde. Under these
circuitstances, railway traffic would probably not attain the forecast levels,
some investmente under the proposed project (particularly some rolling stock
îtems) could be deferred, and, at lesst until 1980, the railway would not be
financially viable without subsidy support.
xiv.      It is probable, however, that by the early 1980's, overall traffic
greth will re-introduce a capacity constraint on the Douala-Yaounde corridor,
;rLd steps muet be taken to relieve this future congestion.  The railway and
the Gov-ernment propose a major realignment of the Douala-Yaounde line (at a
cost in excess of US$100 million) to accomplish this and to reduce railway
operating costs. Bank assistance with the project has been requested. If a
major ïmprovement to the road is also undertaken, however, there i likely to
be excess capacity in the Douala-Yaounde corridor. A study of the railway
realignment vas financed under the First Railway Project, but this does not
go deeply enough into the problems of the least-cost solution to the long-term



-v -
question of capacity on the Douala-Yaounde corridor. The Government has
agreed not to change the existing vehicle weight limitations or the restrictions
on timber transport on the Douala-Yaounde road, until a further examination,
to be financed under the proposed Loan, has been carried out.
xv.       During the period 1965-68, the railway's financial situation was
satisfactory, with rates of return on net fixed assets in use ranging from
5% to 7.3%. Subsequently, the position deteriorated, until in 1972 and 1973
the rate of return declined to zero, and the Government was forced to sub-
sidize the railway. The essential reasons for the deterioration were: (i)
a sharp increase in operating costs (including depreciation) arising from
opening of the first section (Yaounde-Belabo) of the Transcameroon extension,
and from inflationary pressures with no compensating increases in rates and
fares; and (ii) a fall-off in the growth of traffic due to capacity constraints
and a deterioration of service quality.
xvi.      It is now proposed that the railway will regain a sound financial
position, mainly by several substantial tariff increases designed to recover
lost ground and cope with inflationary pressures. This is in line with the
Government's policy not to subsidize railway traffic on a regular basls.  Th
execution of this policy, tariff increases were introduced in January and
April 1974, and tariffs will continue to be raised annually so that the rail-
way's position will gradually improve to a point where, no later than 1979/80,
the railway will be able to meet all its cash requirements including debt ser-
vice and a reasonable contribution to its investment program (exclusive of
major re-alignnents or extensions). On the basis of present asset valuations,
a suitable target rate of return would be 4%. However, the railway's assets
(particularly motive power and rolling stock which will need replacing in the
foreseeable future) need to be re-valued, after which the suitability of the
rate of return to meet the basic requirements will have to be reconsidered.
Agreements have been reached with the Government and the railway on the reval-
uation of assets and the renegotiation of the rate of return.
xvii.     The railway's cash position, although now being eased by Government
subsidies and bank overdrafts, will remain tight until 1976. The debt/equity
ratio is satisfactory because construction of the Transcameroon extension,
which accounts for about 60% of the railway's assets, was financed mainly by
grants. The Loan Agreement for the proposed project makes adequate provision
for limitation of the railway's indebtedness.
xviii.    The forecasts of the railway's financial future depend on a number
of factors: (i) an improvement in operational efficiency, for which consulting
services are provided in the proposed project; (ii) no increase in road com-
petition for the Douala-Yaounde line in the period up to 1980, as already dis-
cussed; and (iii) no substantial shortfall in the forecast traffic, and ro
time-lag in the tariff increases.  There is a risk that one or more of t
factors above will not meet expectations, in which case the railwayts financlai
position may be significantly weakened.  The Government has agreed that it will
protect the railway's financial position through subsidies or other approprîate
measures in the event that a cash shortfall should materialize.



- vi -
xix.      The economic case for the several elements of the project is well
justified. For the Japoma bridge, it was determined since appraisal of the
first project that the economic losses that vould result from rupture of the
existing bridge would be so great that construction of a nev facility was
justified iimmediately. Although cost estimates have increased since then,
that conclusion remains firm in view of continuing traffic increases and the
railway's vital role 'in the economy. Completion of the track reneval program
is now imperative, vith the main benefits being reduced operating and mainte-
nance costs, by avoidance of operating accidents, and resulting in increased
line capacity. The economic return on this project item amounts to a satis-
factory 12%.  The small investments in turn-outs and installation of a radio
link are expected to contribute to improved operational efficiency. The
purchase of additional freight-cars and traction power is necessary to avoid
expensive transportation by road; the return on this investment amounts to
about 16%. The cost of purchasing bogies for existing freight-cars vould
be 50% less than that of new cars, and this item is justified on the basis
of this least-cost solution. The investment in purchase of a new crane is
expected to yield an economic return of 24% derived from savings in time
lost by frequent operating accidents. The overall economic return on the
project, excluding the Japoma bridge and the bogies, is 13%.
xx.       The project provides a suitable basis for a Loan of US$16 million
for a period of 25 years including three years of grace, at an annual interest
rate of 7-1/4% to be capitalized for a period of two years. The proposed Loan
vould be made to the railway vith the guarantee of the Government of the United
Republic of Cameroon.



1. INTRODWCTION
1.01      The Regie des Chemins de Fer du Cameroun (Regifercam) and the
Government have requested Bank assistance in financing a project to meet the
urgent needs of the railway through 1976. The project would consist of:
(i) construction of a new bridge at Japoma near Douala on the railway line
to Yaounde; (ii) completion of track renewal (42 km) on the Douala-Yaounde
line; (iii) installation of 50 single turn-outs; (iv) installation of a radio
link throughout the Transcameroon line between Douala and N'Gaoundere; (v)
purchase of 100 flat-cars, 25 box-cars, 100 freight-car bogies, a breakdown
crane, and spare parts for locomotives and rolling stock; (vi) purchase of
4 main-line and 3 shunting locomotives; and (vii) provision of consulting
services in the fields of railway operations, costing, commercial activities
and management, and for a detailed review of the solution to foreseeable
capacity constraints in the Douala-Yaounde transport corridor.
1.02      The total cost of the project, net of taxes, is estimated at US$23
million, including foreign exchange costs of US$20.72 million. Of this latter
amount, US$14.56 million will be financed by the proposed Loan, and US$5.29
million by CCCE for the purchase of locomotives under item (vi) above; the
remaining US$0.87 million vill be met from funds remaining under the First
Railway Project (Loan 687-CM) for construction of the Japoma bridge (para. 1.04).
The local costs of the project (US$2.28 million equivalent) will be met by
Regifercam. The Bank Loan will include US$1.44 million for interest during
the first two years of the project, making an overall amount of US$16 million.
1.03      This would be the second railway project for the Bank in Cameroon.
The first project (Loan 687-CM, US$5.2 million, May 1970) was designed to
meet certain specific investment requirements, essentially the improvement and
rehabilitation of existing facilities and purchase of rolling stock and motive
power, relating to the first three years of Regifercam's Third Railway Develop-
ment Plan (1970/71-1975/76). The Plan itself also included completion of on-
going works on the Transcameroon extension (Belabo to N'Gaoundere) financed
largely through bilateral loans and grants, two additional major line exten-
sions, and a complete re-alignment of the Douala-Yaounde section of the exist-
ing railway. The Bank reserved judgement on the latter items, and stipulated
in the Loan Agreement that no major debt obligation (beyond that applicable
to the Transcameroon extension) should be incurred without Bank approval. Since
then, the two line extensions (Yaounde-Yokadouma and Douala-Victoria) have been
shelved by the Government as premature. The Douala-Yaounde realignment was
studied by consultants financed under the First Railway Project, but in the
light of the substantial costs of this undertaking and the possibility of com-
petition from a proposed parallel road project, further study of the implica-
tions are required (see para. 4.10). In consequence, those items of the Third
Railway Plan (other than the Transcameroon extension) that were not included
in the First Railway Project have been postponed beyond the Plan period, and
the remaining portion of the Plan itself is therefore no longer valid.



- 2 -
1.04      The Bank-financed portion of the First Railway Project, namely,
(i) track renewal and rehabilitation; (ii) purchase of 185 freight-cars and
spares; (iii) reconstruction of a bridge at Japoma near Douala; and (iv) con-
sulting services for the Douala-Yaounde re-alignment, has been completed as
planned, except for the Japoma bridge. Further site investigations in pre-
paration for the bridge vorks revealed that, because of extremely bad subsoil
conditions, a new bridge at a different site was necessary at a much higher
cost. The additional foreign exchange required to permit this work is included
in the proposed project.
1.05      Equipment items in the first project financed by bilateral sources
(six main-line locomotives, four shunters, one railcar, and miscellaneous ser-
vice vehicles) have been purchased and placed in service. Still outstanding,
however, are reconstruction of the Douala passenger and freight terminal, and
expansion of Regifercam's Training Center. The former has been delayed by
slow progress on site approval, engineering studies, and financing uncertain-
ties, the latter by lack of financing which has now been assured by FAC.
1.06      The proposed Second Railway Project would be the fifth Bank Group
operation in Cameroon's transport sector. Two of these have been projects
for highway construction nov under execution. The (First) Highway Project
(Loan 663-CM/Credit 180-CM, US$19 million, 1970) provided for improvement of
the roads N'Gaoundere-Garoua (285 km) and Tiko-Victoria (24 km), as well as
consulting services for studies and engineering for improvement of Garoua-Mora
(260 km) and Douala-Pont du N'Kam (175 km). Works on these latter roads, as
well as on Bafoussam-Foumban (50 km), are being carried out under the Second
Highway Project (Loan 935-CM/Credit 429-CM, US$48 million, 1974). This
project als provides consulting services for: (a) a feasiblity study of
forestry feeder roads, to be conbined with assistance for formulation of
forestry development policies; and (b) a road maintenance study which would
als consider requirements for betterment of feeder roads. Additionally, the
project includes technical assistance to strengthen the staffs of the Minis-
tries of Planning and Transport, and further consulting services to study
specific transport problems.
1.07      The Association has also helped finance a port project (Credit 229-CM,
US$1.5 million, January 1971) which includes: (a) construction of a deep-water
quay at Bonaberi (port of Douala) primarily for handling lndustrial raw mate-
rial; (b) improvement of log-handling facilities; (c) provision of a emall
cutter suction dredger; and (d) services of a port costing adviser. The project
ls virtually complete, about nine months behind schedule following an initial
delay in obtaining Government approval and signature of several contracts.
A second project for expansion of the Port of Douala is now under consideration
In the Bank.
1.08      This appraisal report is based on data provided by consultants
OCCR/Sofrerail (France) 1/, on the findings of a Bank mission which visited
Cameroon in February/March 1973, and on subsequent data received from Regi-
fercam. The report has been prepared by Messrs. H. Apitz (Financial Analyst),
M. Dick (Economist), and H. Georg (Railway Engineer).
1/   "L#Etude de l'Amenagement de la ligne centrale Douala-Yaounde," September
1973.



- 3 -
2, THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.  Background
2.01      Cameroon became a United Republic in 1962 following a union of the
former East and West federated states. The country's location on the Gulf
of Guinea between West and Equatorial Africa makes it an important transit
point for its landlocked neighbors, Chad and to a lesser extent, the Central
African Republic (CAR). Because of Cameroon's peculiar elongated shape and
the variety of its terrain, climate, and vegetation, the problems of trans-
port development vary considerably within the country. In the south, dense
forest and heavy rainfall make road construction and maintenance expensive.
In the south-west, the north/south mountain range hampers transport. In
the far north, excessive flooding and poor road-making soils make road
construction and upkeep difficult and costly.
2.02      The economy is primarily rural, with about 75% of the 6 million
inhabitants engaged in agriculture. The important areas of socio-economic
activity are around four main poles: (i) the coastal region near the ports
of Douala and Tiko-Victoria where most industrial activity is concentrated;
(ii) the densely populated, rich agricultural western region around N'Kong-
samba and Bafoussam; (iii) the cocoa-producing region near Yaounde, the
capital; and (iv) the densely populated cotton- and rice-producing areas
in the north, around Maroua. The long distances from the three agricultural
centers abovementioned to the port of Douala make the provision of low-cost
transportation critical to the country's economic growth.
2.03      There is a lack of transport infrastructure in the vast tropical
forest area of southeast Cameroon, at present only sparsely populated but
with good logging potential. The Government intends to commence large-scale
exploitation of this vast timber resource, and has over recent years com-
missioned several studies directed at formulating a rational exploitation and
taxation policy. The Second Highway Project provides technical assistance for
forestry policy formulation. To allow the exploitation of forest resources,
improvement and extension of feeder roads will be required in these regions,
and the abovementioned project also provides for feasibility study of about
400 km of feeder roads. The results of this study will be used in conjunction
with the Government's schedule for implementation of a forestry policy as the
basis for timing of the construction of feeder roads.
B.   The Transport System
2.04      Transport infrastructure is currently approaching adequacy in terms
of accessibility to vital economic areas. The system includes 23,000 kmnof
roads of which about 1,500 km are paved, about 1,200 km of railways, three
ports, one navigable waterway, and five airports, two of which provide inter-
national services (see Map). The export/import-oriented system is focussed
on the commercial center of Douala which has both a deep-water port and an
international airport; links to the rest of the country are provided along two
principal corridors--the Transcameroon rail/road route, and the north/south
Douala-Bafoussam-Foumban axis.



- 4-
2.05      The recently completed Transcameroon route runs the entire length
of the country (about 1,700 km). It consists of a 930 km railroad from
Douala to N'Gaoundere, and a road from there through Maroua to the Chadian
border. The last 330 km of the railway (Belabo-N'Gaoundere) vere fully
opened to traffic in February 1974 after completion of construction financed
by the European Development Fund (FED), the French Fonds d'Aide et de
Cooperation (FAC), the European Investment Bank (EIB), and the United States
Agency for International Development (USAID). The Transcameroon route serves
the productive southern region of the country, as well as the cotton, rice,
and groundnut areas in the north. It also provides an economic outlet to
the sea for landlocked Chad. At present about 25% of Chad's import/export
traffic (40,000 tons annually) goes through Cameroon, and this amount is
expected to double upon completion of the route, if the road link between
Moundou and N'Gaoundere is constructed as planned. The Government of Cameroon
has accorded this route priority in its development strategy. In addition to
the railway extension abovementioned, different sections of the road portion
of the route are being improved with financing primarily from the Bank Group
and the Federal Republic of Germany.
2.06      The axis Douala-Bafoussam-Foumban consista of about 330 km of road,
with a parallel railway between Douala and N'Kongsamba (about 172 km). The
road is the most heavily trafficked ln the country (about 2,000 vehicles per
day (vpd)), and carries much of the production of cocoa, coffee, and bananas.
Two road sections on the axis are to be reconstructed under the Second High-
way Project.
Railways
2.07      The railway network consista of two main lines originating from
Douala: (i) the Northern Line to N'Kongaamba (172 km), with a branch from
Mbanga to Kumba (28 km); and (ii) the Central Line to Yaounde (308 km), with
an extension to N'Gaoundere (628 km), and a branch from Otele to Mbalmayo
(37 km). Details on the railway system and its administration are discussed
in Chapter 3 of this report.
2.08      The railway carries about 60% of all traffic into and out of Douala
port; about half of the remaining traffic (especially importe) is local, with
the rest being road traffic. The two other transport alternatives available
to Cameroon are the Nigerian route by way of Maiduguri and the Nigerian Rail-
ways to serve the extreme northern area, and the Transequatorial route through
CAR and Congo for the southeastern region; both these routes are expected to
decrease in relative importance nov that the Transcameroon Railway i completed.
Ports
2.09      Douala, the principal port, handled in 1972 about 1.9 million tons
of cargo, and a sharp growth rate of about 9% annually is forecast. In that
same year, the volume of timber handled in the port was less than 400,000
tons, but with the anticipated increase in logging activity, this total is
expected to double vithin three years.



-5-
2.10      Although productivity of the port remains low, it is expected to
improve partly due to Credit 229-CM which helped improve log-handling and
build a berth for industrial raw materials, and partly due to drastic
measures taken to improve the efficiency of the log-stacking area. The
port is now reaching the point where constraints are beginning to appear in
the system of transfer from the railway. Plans are being prepared for port
development, lack of which will cause a serious bottleneek if forestry exploita-
tion grows on the scale envisaged, and in turn affect the economy adversely.
If the demand for rail service continues to rise, it will inhibit the growth
of railway revenues, and increase the pressure on Regifercam's finances.
Both the Government and the Bank Group therefore consider the development of
port facilities at Douala and elsewhere in the Wouri delta area to be of high-
est priority, and a second port project is tentatively included in the FY 76
lending program for Cameroon. This project would include provision of facli-
ties for evacuating logs, construction of new general cargo berths, re-siting
of workshops, development of fishing ports, and deepening of the necessary
access channels.
2.11      Traffic through the secondary port of Tiko-Victoria has been declining,
due mainly to inadequate facilities and lack of transport links. Any future
improvement of this port will be in the context of the abovementioned project
for the delta area as a whole. The port of Kribi, and the small private port
of Campo in the south-west, are lighterage facilities used mainly for log
exports. Traffic through Kribi has been increasing recently, and is expècted
to grow still further with development of the forestry industry in southern
Cameroon.
Roads and Road Transport
2.12      The road network totals about 23,000 km, of which about 1,500 l:m
are paved and 6,000 km are all-weather gravel or laterite roads; the remninder
are dry-weather roads.  The main national roads radiate out of Douala toaard3
the north.
2.13      The motor vehicle fleet has grown at an average of about 10% annual-
ly over the past five years to about 50,000 units, of which slightly more than
half are cars. Fuel consumption has increased at about 8% yearly during the
same period. Road traffie volumes are highest on the Douala-Kekem-Bafoursan
stretch, various sections of which carry from 2,000 to 4,000 vpd in the coastal
zone. The annual traffic growth rate is estimated to 4verage about 6-7%. If
the network is to cater effectively to present needs and to anticipated traffic,
then both the physical system and its maintenance will have to be improved.
The Bank Group has contributed to this effort by two highway projects now
underway.
Aviation
2.14      International air service is provided through Douala by foreign
companies and by Cameroon Airlines which also offers efficient connectin,î
services to other major cities and to Chad. Air freight is limited to
high-value goods and perishables, and is minimal in comparison to total
freight traffic carried by all modes.



-6-
C.   Transport Policy, Planning, and Coordination
2.15      The Mnistry of Transport created in 1970 has overall responsibility
for the determinatiou of policy, planning, and coordination in the sector,
though the Ministry of Planning and Development has a subsidiary planning
role. This responsibility covers transport agencies such as Regifercam, the
National Ports and Waterways Authority, and Cameroon Airlines, including review
of their investment proposals and approval of tariffs.  In the past, the plan-
ning function was re]%tive1y simple since transport needs were readily identi-
fiable; in the future-, more careful planning will be required to evaluate
projects and establish priorities. Cameroon' s capacity to do thïs needs
strengthening, and the Second Highway Project provides assistance to the
Ministries of Planninrg and Transport in setting up a permanent planning organ-
ization.
2.16      The Covernnent's present transport policy aims at: (i) developing
and improving the Douala port, the Transcameroon route, and the Douala-Foumban
axis, all of which serve export-import traffic; and (ii) improving road links
that specifically co*ribute to socio-economic integration of the two former
states which now forw Cameroon.  The transport investments in the Third Five-
Year Plan (1971/72-1975/76) are designed to achieve these goals, and if com-
pleted as planned (by around 1981), these two major policy objectives would
be achieved. The im*prtance of improving and developing feeder roads, as well
as of strengthening rtoad maintenance, is recognissd, and vill in future be the
principal foeus of aètention.
2.17      A complex transport coordination problem is pending with respect to
the vital Douala-Yaounde transport corridor. At present, freight on this cor-
ridor moves largely by rail. The proposed project is partially designed to
increase capacity on this railway close to its maximum, beyond which a major
realignment vill be required. On the basis of existing traffic forecasts,
the rail section vill reach this capacity stage by about 1980. However, the
Douala-Edea-Yaounde road roughly parallels the railway, although the Edea-
Yaounde portion of fhee road is poorly aligned and gravel-surfaced, and conse-
quently is subject to severe restrictions which limit vehicle weight to 10 tons
(4 tons in the vet season). The Government is considering upgrading this road
at a time and to a level as yet unspecified. Were this to be done, and traffic
restrictions lifted +cordingly, a considerable amount of traffic would be di-
verted from rail to road, particularly general cargo between Douala and Yaounde.
Since the road improvement vill require a major investment to make it suitable
for year-round heavy traffic movements, and since, in addition, the road trans-
port facilities vill also require substantial outlays, improvements en the
exîsting railway line as proposed in the project are undoubtedly the lower-cost
solution to present corridor traffic constraints. However, beyond 1980 when
constraints will ag*in arise if current traffic forecasts are achieved, the
issue of rail versus road investment takes on new significance because, in
either case, the outliay will be considerable, and the development of both
modes might lead to oiver-capacity.
2.18      Alloving fot construction lead time for either railway realignment
or road improvement, a decision on this important matter seems unnecessary
before 1976. This wil] allow ample time to review and analyze the existing



- 7-
report on the railway realignment, and to examine further the full implications
of rail/road competition in the corridor. Funds have been provided in the
proposed project for additional consulting inputs into this problem (para.
4.10). Meanwhile, the Government has agreed that no change will be made in
the existing vehicle weight limitations or in restrictions on timber transport
on the Douala-Yaounde road, pending completion of the abovementioned studies
and their review with the Bank.
2.19      Regifercam has now signed an agreement between itself and the truck-
ers' association which regulates rail trans-shipment of transit traffic to
and from northern Cameroon and Chad, in order to avoid uneconomic rail/road
competition between N'Gaoundere and Douala. In view of the major investments
in the Transcameroon Railway, the Bank is in favor of this agreement, and the
Government has confirmed that this îs in accordance with its general policies.
2.20      The railway parallels the paved road on the Douala-Bafoussam-Foumban
axis up to N'Kongsamba (172 km). The locomotives and rolling stock in use
are items retired from the central line, so that only marginal costs have to
be attributed to the traffic, thus maintaining the competitiveness of the
railway within its limited capacity. Major capital expenditure on track to
increase capacity would probably not be justified in view of the short-haul
nature (average 130 km) of traffic. No change in operational policy for this
line is presently contemplated, and the Government has agreed that it will
make no major capital investments on the line, unless in prior consultation
with the Bank.
3. REGIFERCAM
A.   Organization and Management
3.01      Under a 1965 Presidential Decree (amended November 18, 1972) Regi-
fercam is administered by a Board (currently chaired by the Minister of Trans-
port) consisting of 12 members, two of whom represent railway users. Board
decisions are subject to Government approval on a "no objection" basis. The
Board has adequate authority in all spheres of railway business, and can dele-
gate substantial powers to a "Comite de Direction" and or to the General
Manager. Past experience inditates that the Board does not interfere unduly
in the railway's day-to-day operations which are the responsibility of a
General Manager and two Deputy General Managers, all appointed by Presi-
dential Decree.
3.02      The internal organization of Regifercam is shown in Chart 1.  There
is nothing fundamentally unsatisfactory about this structure, but, as will
become evident later in this report, Regifercam is faced with many critical
problems relating to operations, equipment maintenance, costing, marketing,
planning, training, and administrative control, all of which are ultimately
reflected in a marginal financial position. Provision has been made in the
proposed project for consulting services to analyze Regifercam's management
and its organizational structure, in order to determine where improvements
would bolster efficiency and improve the railway's position in these vital areas.



-8-
B.   Staff
3.03      Operational staff has increased about 10% over the period 1970-73,
from 3,525 to 3,867. Management has made strenuous efforts to limit staff
growth in the face of the requirements of line extension. Staff costs (approxi-
mately CFAF 1.65 billion in 1972/73) have been maintained throughout the period
at 59% of total working expenses, which is reasonably satisfactory.
Technical Assistance Staff, Africanization
3.04      The French Government provides management assistance to Regifercam
with staff seconded from its Office Central des Chemins de Fer d'Outre-Mer
(OFEROM); of the 46 persons now assigned to the railway, 39 work in adminis-
tration and in various technical departments, and 7 are instructors employed
in training local staff. Meanwhile, Africanization is progressing steadily,
and although the General Manager and one of the Deputy General Managers
are still French engineers, local counterparts work in close collaboration
with them; also, Cameroonese railway officers (with French advisors assisting)
head most of Regifercam's departments: Personnel, Finance, Legal and Claims,
Operations, Permanent Way, and Motive Power and Rolling Stock.
3.05      As Africanization progresses and the role of French technical
assistance generally shifts from executive to advisory services, the question
of capability and efficiency of local managers becomes an important issue.
For the time being, however, Regifercam's operations are still dependent on
the presence of expatriates, and the Government has agreed that it will not
reduce either the present level of technical assistance or the responsibilities
of technical assistants in line positions, without prior approval of the Bank.
Actual and future needs of Regifercam's management will be more clearly assessed
within the context of the consulting services to be provided under the proposed
project (para. 4.10).
Training Program
3.06      In response to the increasing Africanization and the general im-
provements required in staff efficiency, as well as to the particular needs
generated by expansion of the network and anticipated development of traffic,
Regifercam's training programs have developed considerably over recent years,
and now consist of: (a) beginner and refresher courses in train operations
and in locomotive driving; (b) on-the-job training in the maintenance and
renewal of track and buildings; (c) a four-year course in the apprenticeship
center for beginner mechanics; (d) a three-year advanced training course for
technicians at the Douala Regional Training Center 1/ in mechanical engineering,
track works, and telecommunications maintenance; and (e) correspondence courses,
1/   During 1972/73, 18 trainees from Cameroon and 12 from Congo, Gabon and
Zaire, attended these courses; outstanding graduates are sent to France
for six months of further training. Extended facilities at this Center
to meet future demanda for Regifercam and for railway systems of neighboring
countries are considered as a regional effort, with possible involvement
of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).



especially for administrative work, offered by the "Centre National Francais
de Tele-Enseignement," and locally organized seminars on specific technical
matters. The above courses, arranged and supervised by technical assistance
staff, will be reorganized during 1974 on the basis of a model developed for
Ivory Coast railways.
3.07      Regifercam has been planning since 1971 on an extension of facili-
ties to allow continuing refresher courses and training of foremen to become
track section chiefs; these plans are now about to materialize, with construc-
tion of buildings and purchase of equipment financed by a FAC grant due to
start in mid-1974, and courses by early 1975. Until then, facilities at Belabo
are being utilized temporarily.
3.08      Considering all the above, Regifercam is clearly aware of the need
for qualified staff, and the training programs to achieve this are adequate.
The proposed project therefore makes no special provision for additional
training, but the consultants employed to provide general management assist-
ance will be expected to carry out an assessment of the existing programs
(para 4.10).
C.  Property
3.09      A brief description of railway track, structures, equipment, and
other property is presented in Chart 2 and in Annex 3. Out of a total of
about 1,147 km of main line, 628 km (Yaounde-N'Gaoundere) have been recently
constructed to high technical standards, and low marginal operating costs on
this line can be expected. Track on the Douala-Yaounde lîne is generally well
maintained, but the sections due for total renewal are in extremely poor con-
dition. Installations on the Northern Line Douala-N'Kongsamba (172 km) are
being left in their present deteriorating condition, as the line is expected
to be phased out in the near future. The overall signalling system is appro-
priate to present traffic, but communication facilities along the Douala-Yaounde
line are inadequate.  Since good communications are vital in operations, manage-
ment, and commercial activities, a new radio link with voice and telex circuits
is proposed in the project. This will enable improved operations, and will
also contribute to consultants' efforts to raise efficiency of management and
staff.
D.   Operations
3.10      Annex 4 presents a summary of operating statistics for Regifercam
for 1970/71-1972/73. In general, operations have improved slightly over the
past years; however, most indices are still on the low side, a result mainly
of the difficult profile of the line Douala-Yaounde, poor track conditions
in some sections which cause frequent derailments, and insufficient communica-
tions over this part of the system. Punctuality was low in both 1970/71 and
1971/72, and has since dropped further to an average delay of 99 minutes for
passenger trains and 493 minutes for freight trains. This situation is expected
to improve in the near future with completion of track renewal and longer sid-
ings which will lessen train crossing time, and when the communications system
is improved and further intensive staff training undertaken.   Staff producti-
vity is presently 134,000 traffic units per employee; this is 5% less than in



- 10 -
1971/72, due to a 12% decrease in pass-km which occurred as poor railway ser-
vice led to increased bus competition between Douala and Yaounde.
3.11      Compared with the previous year, the availability of motive power
in 1972/73 decreased from 68% to 51% for main line CC 2400 locomotives, and
from 87.5% to 62% for BB 1200 locomotives. However, a utilization of 81%
was achieved with the six new 4B 3600 locomotives (Annexes 3 and 4). The
generally limited availability vas the result of several accidents which
immobilized three locomotives for a long time. The low figure for the
CC 2400 cannot be expected to increase much above the present level because
the inadequate bogie design necessitates frequent difficult repaire. Utili-
zation of railcars has improved after bogie problems were resolved by the
manufacturera. Average turnaround time for freight-cars has increased over
1970/71-1972/73 from 6.5 to 9.8 days for box-cars, from 12.1 to 19.2 days for
gondolas, and from 9.1 to 10 days for flat-cars. The higher figures reflect
partly the effect of the newly-constructed 628 km extension Yaounde-N'Gaoundere.
Since early 1974, better wagon turnaround has occurred with the operation of new
unloading facilities for log-cars at Douala; further gains are expected from
improvements in track, operations, communications, and staff performance. A
plan of action is shown at Annex 5 which sets the operational targets expected
over the next three years.
E.   Traffic
3.12      Over the period 1968/69 - 1972/73, freight traffic increased from
205 to 326 million ton-km, at an average rate of 13% p.a. (Table 1). Actual
tonnage carried grew much more slowly at only 3% p.a., from 980,000 to 1.1
million tons. The average haul increased from 209 km in 1968/69 to 305 km
in 1972/73 due to completion of the Transcameroon extension to Belabo (Table
2).
3.13      The tonnage recorded in 1972/73 was close to appraisal forecasts
of the First Railway Project except for timber, which was substantially lower
than the estimated 640,000 tons. This was to some extent a result of slowness
in delivery of rolling stock, a problem partially solved in 1972 with delivery
of 6 locomotives and 185 flat-cars financed under Loan 687-CM, and which was
then reflected in a 24% increase in timber tonnage between 1971/72 and 1972/73
to 282,000 tons (Table 3).
3,14      Non-timber tonnages increased over 1968-73 by about 4% p.a. for
exportes and 2-1/2% p.a. for imports. Although this rate is lower than the
6% p.a. recorded in the previous four-year period, the shortfall in traffic
vas partially due to operational limitations, for example, poor availability
cf equipment and effective capacity. These probleme are expected to be
rectified under the present project.
3.15      Passenger traffic increased from 157 to 221 million pass-km over
1968/69 - 1971/72, then declined sharply to 193 million pass-km in 1972/73.
Most of the three-year increase is attributable to the opening of the
Yaounde-Belabo section of the railway; the decline probably resulted mainly
from increased bus competition between Douala and Yaounde, and a decline in
train punctuality and service reliability (Table 4).



- il -
Future Traffic
3.16      Forecasts of future traffic are outlined in Tables 3 and 4, and
discussed in detail in Annex 6. In essence, these forecasts are concerned
with: (a) the potential growth in the railway's traffic demand, and (b) the
constraints within and external to the railway's system which inhibit its
ability to meet this potential demand prior to 1979/80. Annex 6 also analyzes
the results of increased road competition for freight traffic in the Douala-
Yaounde corridor should it be allowed to develop in the period 1975-80, in
order to indicate the importance to the railway of the proposed continuation
of current road restrictions pending a decision on road/rail competition in
this corridor in the period beyond 1980.
3.17      The forecasts of potential traffic have been estimated by Bank staff,
drawing from the results of the railway's consultants' analyses of traffic
demand on the Douala-Yaounde section which carries 80% of total traffic. The
most important element is timber traffic, which is expected to increase from
282,000 tons in 1972/73 to one million tons in 1979/80, reflecting a 5-6% p.a.
growth in world demand, and the probable substitution of Cameroonian timber
for declining Ivory Coast exports of first-quality timber after 1975. The
average haul of Cameroonian timber is increasing (to over 400 km), reflecting
the exploitation of areas around Belabo as a result of the Transcameroon ex-
tension. Other traffic is forecast to grow at a rate slightly in excess of
the growth of GDP, a relationship which held true from 1962/63 until 1968/69
when the railway first encountered capacity constraint difficulties on the
Douala-Yaounde section. Total traffic demand is therefore expected to grow
from 1.1 million tons in 1972/73 to 2.3 million tons in 1979/80. Passenger
traffic is expected to grow slowly from 193 million pass-km in 1972/73 to 259
million pass-km in 1978/79, reflecting a continuing decline on the Douala-Yaounde
uine, offset by slow growth on Douala-N'Kongsamba and Yaounde-Belabo, and by
new traffic on the Belabo-N'Gaoundere extension.
3.18      The growth pattern for freight traffic will be subject to capacity
constraints on the Douala-Yaounde railway line through 1975 until the pro-
posed project items begin to have a beneficial effect. Thereafter, physical
constraints in the port of Douala's handling facilities will inhibit traffic
development until 1979, when the proposed investment in port facilities (now
under consideration for a Bank Group lending operation) is completed. Thus,
traffic forecast for the years 1975/76 to 1978/79 is below potential as measured
by a uniform rate of growth from 1974/75 to 1979/80, particularly in 1975/76
(85% of potential) and1977/78 (89%).
3.19      Should road freight competition be allowed to develop on the Douala-
Yaounde corridor as previously described, the freight diversion over the
period 1975-80 would probably average 15%.
F.   Costing
3.20      Section 5.08 of the Loan Agreement (687-C4) for the First Railway
Project provides for instituting a costing system which would enable Regifer-
cam to assess on a continuing basis the economic justification and the appro-
priate pricing of its services by line and by commodity. Compliance with the



- 12 -
covenant has nlot yet been met. Staff assigned to costing has until recently
devoted much of its time only to computerization of the payroll.   In addition,
the expertise requîred to properly execute the costing system is lacking, the
methodology is inadequate, and cost assessment is confusing, particularly for
the recently opened Belabo-N'Gaoundere extension. This situation is all the
more unfortunate since contracts for Chad transit traffic are beîng negotiated.
The consulting services under the present project provide external assistance
for completing a costing study and instituting a costing system along the lines
proposed for the first project. Regifercam has agreed to furnish to the Bank
not later than June 30, 1975 the preliminary findings of the study, and to
complete the study and institute the system by June 30, 1976.
4. THE PROJECT
A.   Description and Cost
4.01      All the items to be provided under the proposed project are needed
to meet the railway's most urgent requirements through 1976, through improve-
ment of fixed installations on the Douala-Yaounde line, and provision of addi-
tional capacity. The project would consist of: (i) construction of a new
bridge at Japoma near Douala on the abovementioned railway line; (ii) completion
cf the track renewal program; (iii) înstallation of 50 new single turn-outs;
(iv) installation of a radio link between Douala and N'Gaoundere; (v) purchase
of 100 flat-cars, 25 box-cars, 100 freight-car bogies, a breakdown crane, and
spare parts for locomotives and rolling stock; (vi) purchase of 4 main-line and
3 shunting locomotives; and (vii) provision of consulting services. The pro-
ject will be carried out concurrently with the extension of the Training Center
for which FAC financing is now assured. Furthermore, construction of a new
Douala Station (which the African Development Bank (ADB) is considering for
financing in 1975) is planned. Both these items had been included as part of
the First Railway Project. Implementation of the proposed project and of the
two items abovementioned are expected to cover Regifercam's needs during the
project period (1974-77).
4.02      The total cost of the project, net of taxes, would be about US$23
million equivalent, including a foreign exchange cost of US$20.72 million
(90%). Of this latter anount, US$14.56 million would be financed by the
proposed Loan, US$0.87 million from remaining funds of Loan 687-CM (for the
Japoma bridge), and US$5.29 million by CCCE (for locomotives). Local costs of
US$2.28 million equivalent would be provided by Regifercam. To help lmprove
Regifercam's present tight financial situation, the sum of US$1.44 million
representing interest charges on the proposed Loan during its first two years
would be included in the Loan which would total US$16 million. A breakdown of
project costs is shown below:



- 13 -
-- CFAF million-            US$ million ----  % of Total   Propo d
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total  Expenditure  Loan -
- ______  -       -   _______   -                  (US$*illions)
1. Construction of Japoma
Bridge                       215    645    860    0.86    2.58   3.44         15.0         1.71
2. Track renewal (42 km) -      165    700    865    0.66    2.80   3.46          15.1        2.80
3. 50 turn-outs 2/                13     90    103    0.05    0.36   0.41          1.8        0.36
4. Radio Link                     13     75      88    0.05    0030   0.35         1.5        0.30
5. 4 main-line locomotives        -     895    895      -      3.58   3.58       15.6          _
6. 3 shunting locomotives         -     213    213      -      0.85   0.85         3.7         -
7. Spares for locomotives         -      83     83      -      0.33   0.33         1.4        0.33
8. 100 flat-cars & spare parts  -   1,345  1,345        -      5.38   5.38        23.4        5.38
9. 25 box-cars & spare partc            205    205      -      0.82  082          3.5        0.82
10. 100 freight-car bogies2        -     100    100      -       0.40   0.40        1.7        0.h40
11. Breakdown crane                -     130    130      -       0.52   0.52        2.3         0.52
12. Consulting services            42    173    215    0.17    0.69   0.86          3.7        0.69
Sub-total              448  4h654  5,102    1.79   18,61  20.40         88.7       13.31
13. Contingencie s
(i) 2nwsical
(abou; ,C% on item lj   22      63      85    0.C9    0.26   0.35         1.5         0.26
(iî) Pricea'                 J to    463    563    0.40    1,85   2.25         9.8         0.99
TOTAL        570      50 m5,5       2.28   20.72  23.00      100.0        14.56
Froposed Sources of Fundso
1. Remaining funds of Loan 687-C0  (Item 1)             -      0.87   0.87
2. Proposed Loan  /                                     -     14.56  14.56
3. CCCE (Items 5,6,and parts of 13)                     -      5.29   5.29
4. Regifercam                                          2.28      -     2.28
TOTAL                                    2.28   20.72  23.00
1/ Excluding interest (US$1.44 }illion).
2/ Costs based on firm price o.ffers received May 1974.
3/ Price contingencies:
Item       1974  1975  1976  1977  Total contingency
1          18%   15%   12%                 28.3%
4          14%   11%    -    -             13.4%
5 and 6    14%   11%    -    -             19.4%
7 and 12   14%   11%  7.5%                 15.0%



- 14 -
4.03      The costs of most of the project items reflect firm offers received
in May 1974. For the remainder, estimates are based on early 1974 quotations
obtained by Regifercam for similar items.A physical contingency of 10% has been
provided for construction of the Japoma bridge in view of possible technical
difficulties. Tenders for construction of the bridge were submitted in March
1974, and the contract in expected to be awarded in July 1974. Price contingen-
cies are based on the latest revised Bank guidelines. and have been provided
as shown in the above table.
Additional Financing for Construction of the New Japoma Bridge
4.04      The existing Japoma bridge is a single-track steel structure of
five spans and a total length of 320-m across the Dibamba River, near Douala.
The bridge is of vital importance in the railway system, as it carries all
traffic to and from the capital city of Yaounde as well as northern Cameroon.
Its girders are in poor repair, and stability is endangered by the sinking and
tilting of one of the bridge piers. Reconstruction of the existing bridge, or
alternatively of a new bridge, had been provided for under the First Railway
Project, but further investigations revealed that neither reconstruction nor
construction on the proposed site was technically feasible; the preferred solu-
tion was to build a new bridge 150 m downstream from the present site, although
at a considerably higher cost. A description of the bridge and its construction
costs are given in Annex 7. All funds available under Loan 687-CM (about
USS870,000) would be applied to this bridge construction, leaving additional
foreign exchange financing required at US$1.71 million excluding contingencies.
There would thus be parallel financing under Loan 687-CM and the proposed Loan,
with funds under the former being disbursed first. To facilitate this operation,
the Closing Date for Loan 687-CM is being extended from June 30, 1974 to June
30, 1975.
Track Renewal (42 km)
4.05      Following renewal of 101 km of track between Douala and Yaounde
(53 km under the First Railwav Project and 48 km under short-term financing),
42 km between Otele and Yaounde still remain in need of urgent renewal with
36 kg/m rail, steel sleepers, heavy ballasting, and long rail welding. Such
renewal will improve train movements which are now disturbed by frequent rail
breakage, derailments, and speed limitation caused by poor track condition.
In the event that realignment of the Douala-Yaounde line is carried out, any
serviceable track equipment would be reused. The proposed track renewal pro-
gram, combined with the extension of sidings for which turn-outs are being
provided (para. 4.06), will bring the critical Douala-Yaounde line close to
its maximum capacity. Any significant improvement in capacity beyond this
will require a major realignment.
50 Single Turn-outs
4.06      M'any single turn-outs in stations are old and in very poor condi-
tion, causing speed restriction and derailments. In order to cope with normal
renewals, extension of sidings, and construction of new Drivate sidings to
serve the developing industrial areas, the immediate needs for new single
turn-outs have been estimated at 50 units (30 kg/m rail on steel sleepers),
and these are provided for under the proposed project.



- 15 -
Radio Link
4.07      In order to improve communications for managerial, operational and
commercial activities, the proposed project includes a radio link throughout
the Transcameroon line between Douala and N'Gaoundere to supplement the present
telephone system. Provision is also made for purchase of spares for the exist-
ing system.
Motive Power and Rolling Stock
4.08      Taking into account the traffic forecasts over the project period,
as well as the presently available fleet of motive power and rolling stock
units (Annex 3) and the anticipated improvement in productivity, Regifercarn
will need additional equipment as follows:
(a)  4 main-line diesel locomotives, type 4B 3600 HP.  To
assure standardization of Regifercam's fleet, these
French-manufactured locomotives will be identical to
the six which are now in operation and performing
satisfactorily.
(b)  3 shunting locomotives.  This is the estimated number
required for the development of log transport.
(c)  Spares for Locomotives.  To improve the utilization of the
type 4B 3600 locomotives, of which Regifercam already has
six, the project provides for a second spare diesel generator
unit as replacement in the event of major repairs or general
maintenance.
(d)  100 flat-cars.  In view of the favorable prospects for log
traffic, Regifercam has proposed increasing its fleet of
flat-cars, adding the four-bogie type (21 m long, with a tare
weight of 28 t and a maximum load of 80 t).  This car is
preferable to the present two-bogie type; its adoption will
require a lower investment cost than a larger number of two-
bogie type cars for the same load, allow reduction in the
number of daily trains from six to three (with consequent
reduction in train crew expenditures), and reduce the mainte-
nance cost of flat-cars.
(e)  25 box-cars.  These are required to meet future traffic
demands, and to compensate for cars written off because of
major deficiencies or accidents.
(f)  100 freight-car bogies.  About 50 freight-cars are unusable
because the effects of accidents and normal wear and tear
have caused deterioration of bogies. These freight-cars will
be urgently needed to help carry the forecast traffic, and the
purchase of 100 bogies as provided for under the present
project would permit reactivating them.



- 16 -
One Breakdown Crane *
4.09      The poor alignment and consequent maintenance difficulties on the
Douala-Yaounde line contribute to numerous derailments, and resumption of
traffic is often delayed because Regifercam has only one breakdown crane to
cover its entire system. It can therefore take up to eight days to re-rail a
heavy locomotive, and this results in traffic diaruption and loss of revenue.
Now that the Transcameroon extension to N'Gaoundere has been completed, the
crane based at Douala will be insufficient to meet emergency situations. The
proposed acquisition of a second crane, to be based at Yaounde, vill speed
up track clearance and improve line capacity.
Consulting Services
4.10      Provision is made for financing about 120 man-months of consulting
services in the fields of railway operations, commercial activities and
management. An outline of the Terms of Reference is given at Annex 8. Regi-
fercam has agreed that it vill consult promptly with the Government and the
Bank regarding the decisions that it proposes to take in light of the consul-
tantst recommendations, and the means of their implementation. Further pro-
vision is made for a study of the least-cost solution to capacity constraints
on the Douala-Yaounde transport corridor, including a comparison of the costs
and benefits of a complete or partial railway realignment with those of up-
grading the road Douala-Edea-Yaounde and the provision of associated road
services. There is a possibility that bilateral technical assistance will be
obtained to finance all or part of the above consulting services, in which
case the funds released from the Loan may be re-allocated to other items with-
in the project, or cancelled.
B.   Project Execution, Procurement and Disbursemnent
4.11      Regifercam is competent to carry out and supervise the project which
is expected to start during 1974 and be completed by mid-1977.
4.12      All Bank-financed items (except for the spare diesel generator to be
manufactured by the locomotive supplier) will be procured by international com-
petitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. No bids for con-
struction of the Japoma bridge, which involves highly sophlsticated techniques,
have been received from local or regional contractors. Other items under the
proposed project are materials and equipment available only in industrialized
countrîes. The consultants will be experts from modern railway systems out-
aide Africa. The track reneval program is to be carried out by Regifercam's
own labor force. Domestic or regional preferences in bid evaluation do not
therefore apply to goode or services financed under the proposed loan.
4.13      The United Republic of Cameroon is an associated member of the
European Economic Community (EEC), and in this capacity has waived customs
duties and taxes on goods imported from member countries of the Community. A
similar exemption was granted by the Government for goods imported under Loan
687-CM, regardless of their country of origin. The Government is in principle
prepared to apply these arrangements to goods financed and imported under the
present project, upon application from Regifercam.



- 17 -
4.14      Disbursements from the Loan account will be made on the following
basis:
(a) c.i.f. costs of rails, sleepers, fastenings, mechanical track
maintenance equipment, turn-outs, freight-cars, bogies, spare
parts, and equipment for a radio communications system;
(b) actual foreign exchange costs of consulting services; and
(c) actual foreign exchange costs of construction of the Japoma
Bridge (estimated at 75% of total cost of the item).
As the locomotives and freight-cars in the project are associated in the pro-
vision of additional capacity, no expenditures vill be made under the proposed
Loan for acquisition of the freight-cars until Regifercam has obtained an
assurance of financing for purchase of the locomotives, and made arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank for their delivery. Regifercam will finance all the
local costs of the project.
4.15      The estimated schedule of disbursements from the proposed Loan is
shown in Table 7. Any funds remaining in the Loan account upon completion
of the project will be cancelled.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      The demand for railway freight traffic is expected to double between
1972/73 and 1979/1980. The existing railway capacity, however, is inadequate
to carry the forecast traffic beyond 1975/76, and accordingly the items in
this project are designed to enable Regifercam to improve its productivity,
provide some additional rolling stock capacity, and increase line capacity on
the critical Douala-Yaounde line to a point near its maximum. Because the
traffic forecasts are very sensitive to growth in timber shipments, and these
in turn are closely linked to world demand factors outside Cameroonian control,
the rolling stock items (flat-cars, box-cars, and freight-car bogies) have been
kept to the level required to meet short-term needs to 1977. The radio link
has both a cost-saving and capacity-increasing role, and the other items (con-
struction of the Japoma bridge, track renewal, and purchase of the breakdown
crane) will improve line capacity and save costs. Details of the economic
evaluation are given in Annex 9.
B.   Construction of the Japoma Bridge
5.02      In the appraisal report of the First Railway Project 1/, it was
estimated that such great economic losses would result from rupture of
the bridge that construction of a new bridge was justified immediately.
Indeed, without the bridge, there would be no rail service. Thus the
1/   Report No. PTR-50a, May 12, 1970.



- 18 -
alternative to its construction would be to transport by road a substantial
proportion of the present and forecast Regifercam traffic. To assess the
cost of this alternative would require a detailed study of the additional
capital investment required in trucks, roads and ancillary facilities for
which currently available information is inadequate. Although cost estimates
for the bridge construction have increased, it seems clear that the cost
would be lower than that of the road transport investment.
C.   Track Renewal
5.03      As explained previously, the Douala-Yaounde lïne is a vital link
in Cameroon's transport system, and the only route for bulk traffic. How-
ever, the capacity of the line could be seriously impaired because of the
poor condition of existing rails. Renewal of the track is necessary and
vital, even if major realignment is realized by end-1981. This short time
horizon has been used in the economic evaluation. The major benefits from
renewal would be the avoidance of costly derailments, as well as reduced
maintenance.
5.04      Renewal of the remaining 42 km of track on the Douala-Yaounde line,
as proposed in the present project, is now essential. The economic return
on these works, as calculated on the assumptions outlined in para. 5.03,
amounts to 12%.
D.   Breakdown Crane
5.05      Purchase of a new heavy-duty crane will help reduce the time lost
with each derailment, especially if the new heavier equipment is involved.
The need for this crane becomes increasingly vital as the line nears capacity,
since the railway is being deprived of an important potential input. The
investment on the purchase of a new breakdown crane is expected to yield an
economic return of 24%.
E.   Freight-cars and Bogies
Flat-cars
5.06      As shown in Table 8, the present fleet of flat-cars is inadequate
to handle all timber traffic up to 1976177. The existing rolling stock,
some of which is 45 years old, cannot be expected to give marked increases
in productivity. A phasing out of six cars annually has been assumed. A
detailed schedule of productivity targets is given in Annex 4.
5.07      The project provides for the purchase of 100 flat-cars with an
average capacity of 60 tons, together with the motive power required to operate
and maneuver the cars. The economic return on the total expenditure for cars
and locomotives would be about 13%. This assumes no return traffie from south
to north, which is conservative, as some traffic in construction material may
be expected. The rate of return is therefore considered acceptable.



- 19-
Box-cars
5.08      The box-car fleet requires a small addition of 25 cars to cater for
growth of general cargo traffic and to replace inoperative rolling stock.
The rate of return on the item is 19%.
Bogies
5.09      At present, there are 50 freight cars which cannot be utilized
because bogies are inadequate or non-existent. Purchase of the 100 bogies
required to make the cars operational would be nearly 50% less expensive
than car replacement. As new car provision is economically justified, it
follows that the least-cost solution of bogîe purchase would yield a higher
rate of return than new car purchase, and is thus also economically justified.
F.   Radio Link and Single Turn-outs
5.10      These items are necessary to enable productivity targets to be met
through improving communications within the expanded railway system, and pro-
viding additional operating flexibility. The cost of these items is low rela-
tive to the systems which they complement, and no separate economic analysis
was possible.
G.   Sensitivity Analysis
5.11      The major components of the project have been separately subjected
to sensitivity analysis. For flat-cars, timber traffic growth at only the
long-term rate applying to the last 20 years (7-1/2% p.a.) reduces the rate of
return from 13% to 10%. For box-cars, an assumed traffic growth at a rate
no greater than that anticipated for the GDP reduces the rate from 19% to 14%.
For track renewal, the effect of the above reductions in timber and general
cargo traffic is to reduce the rate of return from 12% to 9-1/2%. All the
resulting minimum rates of return are satisfactory.
H.   Conclusion
5.12      The above evaluation shows the project and each of its components
to be economically justified. The track renewal and Japoma bridge investments
are essentially replacement items; the crane, radio link, and turn-outs are
justified by resultant productivity improvements; and the flat-cars, box-cars
and bogies are required to cater for forecast traffic growth. The overall
economic return of the project, excluding the Japoma bridge and the bogies,
is 13%, which reduces to 10% under the above sensitivity analysis.
1.   Economic Justification for Continued Operation of Regifercam
5.13      The alternative to the project is the eventual closure of Regifercam.
However, even with improvements to the Edea-Yaounde road, the railway will be
able to provide goods transport at lower cost than truckers. This applies
particularly to long-haul timber and other bulk traffic, but also to shorter-
haul timber and general cargo where the margin of advantage is limited by
road/rail transfer costs. Overall, the railway cost advantage is substantial



- 20 -
for about two-thirds of its traffic. The situation is analyzed in detail in
Annex 10.
6. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A.   Past and Present Financial Position
6.01      The current financial structure of Regifercam was established by a
Presidential Decree of August 18, 1965 and its amendment of November 18, 1972.
The railway is obliged to present a balanced budget which thereafter is made
effective by Government decree. This reflects the policy of the Government
not to subsidize railway traffic on a regular and continuing basis. The financial
equilibrium of Regifercam is to be maintained by measures appropriate for a
commercial enterprise, namely cost control and tariff increases. Within these
limits, Regifercam has adequate financial autonomy.
6.02      Regifercam's income accounts and balance sheets for the period
1963/64 - 1972/73 are given in detail in Tables 9 and 10, and summarized below:
(in CFAF millions)
1963/64   1967/68   1970/71   1972/73
Income Accounts
Operating revenue                      1,721      2,385      3,056     3,567
Working expenses                       1,262      1,678      2,255     2,818
Cash generation from operations          459        707        801       749
Depreciation                             232        269        607       744
Net operating revenue                    227        438        194          5
Interest charges                           -         22        112        260
Net surplus (loss)                        227       416         82       (255) /1
Working ratio                              73%       70%        74%        79%
Operating ratio                           87%        82%        94%       100%
Debt service coverage ratio               45.9        4.3        4.8        1.8
Rate of return                              4.3%      6.7%       1.3%       0%
Cash flow
(Net surplus plus depreciation)        459        685       689        489
Cash flow in Z of operating revenue       27%        29%        23%        14%
Balance Sheets
Net fixed assets                       5,766      7,096    17,613    20,327
Current assets                           765        655      1,378     1,822
Current liabilities                      192        459        805     1,793
Long-term debt                           743        834      5,476     7,302
Equity equivalent                      5,647      6,509    12,761    13,120
Ratio of current assets
to current liabilities                   4.0        1.4        1.7        1.0
Ratio of liquid assets
to current liabilities                   2.7        0.6        0.9       0.5
Debt/equity ratio                          12/88     11/89      30/70      36/64
/1   Not including subsidies of CFAF 224 million paid by the Government.



- 21 -
The figures show that operating revenue doubled over the period under review.
The amount of cash generated from operations was satisfactory until 1968; how-
ever, it has since then not kept pace with the increase in revenue, and in the
fiscal year 1972/73 was insufficient for the railway's cash needs. This deter-
ioration of earnings coincided with very heavy new investments, and depreciation
and interest charges therefore rose sharply; as a result, the railway has, since
1971/72, been experiencing substantial losses.
6.03      The decline of cash generation from operations in recent years, and
the corresponding increase in the working ratio, can be attributed to several
factors, of which the most significant are:
(a)  until very recently, no serious effort was made to compensate
for inflationary pressure on costs by appropriate tariff in-
creases. This is particularly true for freight traffic,
Regifercam's main source of revenue, where because of an in-
creasing proportion of low-rated commodities carried and the
taper in tariff scales for longer hauls (following opening of
the Yaounde-Belabo extension), average revenue per ton-km
dropped from CFAF 8.3 in 1963/64 to CFAF 7.6 in 1971/72 com-
pared to fully distributed costs in that year of CFAF 8.1 per
ton-km. For passenger traffic, however, revenue per pass-km
did rise over time, and now largely covers fully distributed costs;
(b) the possibilities have not been fully exploited for increasing
the productivity of labor, motive power, and rolling stock
normally associated with growing traffic volumes; and
(c) Regifercam has not always been able to meet the existing traffic
demand either in the quantity or quality of service provided.
This is particularly true for passenger traffic and the trans-
port of timber logs and petroleum products.
6.04      The sharp increase in depreciation and interest charges has been
caused by a 250% growth of the asset base over the period, due mainly (for
about 55%) to construction of the First Transcameroon Extension (Yaounde-
Belabo). The combined factors of increasing depreciation and unsatisfactory
cash generation from operations resulted in severe deterioration of the oper-
ating ratio and the rate of return. The latter particularly had averaged a
favorable 5.7% over the period 1963/64-1967/68, but thereafter dropped sharply
and continuously to zero in 1972/73.
6.05      About 40% of the above decline in the rate of return can be attri-
buted to opening of the Yaounde-Belabo extension, and the remainder to factors
mentioned in para. 6.03. Regifercam's actual cash shortage has however not
been aggravated by the operation of this extension, since revenue generated on
the new line was in 1972/73 approximately equal to the cash expenses (including
debt service) connected with its operation. In'1973/74 it is expected that
services on the extension will make a positive contribution to Regifercam's
cash flow, but it will be at least three years before they will also cover
depreciation allowances.



- 22 -
6.06      For the present report, the calculation of Regifercam's depreciation
allowances has been based on an assumed average service life of the different
items of fixed assets in use. The resulting depreciation allowance for recent
years is roughly the same as the amount shown in Regifercam's books; it would
probably be higher if that part of the fixed assets in use which will be
replaced in the foreseeable future (mainly motive pover and rolling stock)
were revalued at replacement costs. Regifercam has agreed that such a revalua-
tion will be undertaken and reflected in its balance sheet and income account
for 1973/74, and thereafter repeated at least every third year. The average
service life of the different items of fixet assets in use will also be assessed
to allow a more precise calculation of depreciation allowances.
6.07      Regifercam received substantial grants for construction of the
First Transcameroon Extension, and these, together with some self-financing,
limited the increase of long-term debt to about half that of fixed assets; the
debt/equity ratio therefore remains at a reasonable 36/64. Regifercam's pre-
sent debt terms range from medium-soft to soft, with the exception of Loan
687-CM and a credit from the Compagnie Francaise de Credit pour l'Exportation
(COFACE). Table 11 gives details of the railway's debt position as of June 30,
1973.
6.08      Regifercam's actual cash shortage, as reflected in the critically
low levels of the current ant liquid ratios, occurret principally because much
of an already low cash flow was devoted to financing new investments; the
shortage is nov being eased by bank overdrafts and subsidies from the
Government.
6.09      The balance sheet as of June 30, 1973 does not include the Second
Transcameroon Extension (Belabo-N'Gaoundere) on which service commenced February
1, 1974, nor the subventions received and debt incurred to build it.  These
elements are introduced in the last column of Table 10, and they are used
later in this report (para. 6.17 for balance sheet projections. Financing of
the entire Transcameroon extension is shown in detail in Table 12. Regifercam
made no contribution towards financing the second section of the extension line.
B.  Future Financial Position
6.10      Projections of Regifercam's income accounts and balance sheets for
the period 1973/74 - 1979/80 are shown in Tables 13 and 14 and summarized
below:



- 23 -
(in CFAF millions)
l9ZâZ74    1975/76    1977/78    1979/80
Income Accounts
Operating revenue                      4,315      7,681      10,648      15,111
Working expenses                       3,512      5,830       7,837      11.569
Cash generation from operatiens          803      1,851       2,811       3,542
Depreciation                             970      1 311       1i450       1 652
Net operating revenue (loss)      5      0         1,3611
Interest charges                         385        653         888         978
Net surplus (los)                       (M) 1/   (113)           73         912
Working ratio                             81%         76%        74%         76%
Operating ratio                          104%         93%        87%         87%
Debt service ceverage ratio                1.3        1.8         1.7         1.8
Rate of return                             (0.6%)      1.4%       3.5%        4.5%
Cash flow
(net surplus plus depreciation)        418 ?/  1,198       1,923        2,564
Cash flow in % of operating revenue       10% 2/    16%          18%         17%
Balance Sheets
Net fixed assets                      34,645     38,991      38,350      42,311
Net current assets                       741       1,132      2,291       3,061
Long-term debt                        11,880     17,216      18,723      20,228
Equity equivalent                     24,672     24,273      24,784      26,310
Ratio of current assets
to current liabilities                 1.6        1.5         2.0         1.9
Ratio of liquid assets
te current liabilities                 0.8        0.7         1.0         0.9
Debt/equity ratio                         33/67       41/59      43/57        43/57
1/ Not including subsidies of CFAF 786 million paid by the Government.
Table 13 also shows the assumptions used in the projections. They include:
(a) traffic volumes as shown in Tables 1 and 4; (b) a 9% p.a. rate of inflation
in working expenses, including staff costs; (c) a cost increase caused by
higher fuel prices; (d) certain improvements in operational efficiency (see
Annex 4); and (e) important tariff increases in five consecutive years starting
in 1975.
6.11      Concerning (e) above, the proposed increases, which are vital to the
projected improvement of Regifercam's financial situation, are discussed in
detail in the Annex to Table 13; they consist essentially of five increases in
freight tariffs (two of 15% and three of 10%), and three in passenger tariffs
(of 10% each). These are likely to be the maximum attainable, given current



- 24 -
and anticipated levels of road competition, and the fact that fairly substan-
tial tariff increases averaging about 12% and 7% were implemented as recently
as January and April 1974, the latter one as compensation for increased fuel
costs. If inflationary pressure on working expenses were higher or lower than
the 9% p.a. assumed in (b) above, the proposed tariff increases could be adjusted
accordingly, since the operating costs of competitive road transport, and conse-
quently the tariffs in that mode, wil probably be affected by roughly the same
inflationary pressure.  Tariff increases will take into account market conditions,
especially with regard to road competition.  The increase in the average haul of
railway timber traffic (para. 3.18) will probably reduce its overall sensitivity
to road competition. The above arrangements have been discussed with the Gov-
ernment and Regifercam, and an understanding reached on implementation of a
policy based on the principle of regular and substantial tariff increases.
6.12      Regifercam's expected earning situation and financial viability will
improve continuously over the forecast period, and can be considered satisfac-
tory from 1978/79 onwards. The situation will nevertheless remain difficult
until 1976, before which time only the debt service coverage will be acceptably
high. Ihe Loan Agreement therefore provides for a minimum debt service cov-
erage of 1.2 from 1973/74 onwards.
6.13      Since the projected improvement in the rate of return depends largely
on adoption of the proposed tariff policy, the Loan Agreement makes provisions
for Regifercam to apply tariff increases (or other measures satisfactory to
the Bank) so as to obtain rates of return on its net fixed assets in operation
of at least: 1Z in 1975/76, 1.5% in 1976/77, 2.5% in 1977/78, 3.5% in 1978/79,
and 4% in the fiscal years thereafter. These rates of return are based on
present asset valuations, and vill therefore have to be reviewed in 1975 after
much of the railway's fixed assets have been revalued (para. 6.06). Since this
revaluation will considerably increase the asset base for the rate of return
covenant and the annual depreciation allowance, the rate of return equivalent
to the railway's earning ability will probably decrease to some extent as a
result of this exercise.
6.14      The above rate of return targets reflect for the earlier years the
railway's earning ability, and shall serve as guidance for its annual planning.
The final rate of 4% which is to be kept constantly after 1978/79, would be
sufficient to cover all the railway's cash needs connected with working expenses,
debt service coverage, replacement of worn-out equipment at current market
prices, and increase of net working capital. In addition, a substantial con-
tribution to future investment would be possible, except for the very large
outlays required for the proposed realignment of the railway between Douala
and Yaounde, or for major expansions of the railway systems (para. 6.22).
6.15      The increase of fixed assets shown in the balance sheet projections
is due mainly to the proposed project, as well as to construction of the
Douala Station, and purchase of additional motive power and rolling stock.
Long-term debt is increasing more rapidly than fixed assets, because grants
and self-financing vill cover only 25% of capital investment (Table 15). The
debt/equity ratio vill therefore increase to 43/57 in 1980, which is acceptable.



- 25 -
6.1.6      mhe.currént position shows considerable improvement as compared to
1972/73.  The balance sheets show a reduction of receivables from theirpresent
level of about 20% of annual gross operating revenue to about 15%. mis 15%
level had been consistently kept until 1969/70, and Regifercam has agreed that
this same level vill be maintained as from 1974/75.  The liquid ratio will
oscillate over the forecast period between 0.6 and 1.0. Since any further
reduction of this ratio would lead to a cash shortage, the Loan Agreement
provides for a minimum working cash (including avaialble bank overdraft facili-
ties) of 8Z of annual working expenses.
6.17      A statement of sources and application of funds for the period
1973/74 - 1979/80, together with the assumptions used, is shown in Table 16
and summarized below:
Project Period           Rest of Forecast Period
(1973/74 - 1976/77)            (1977/78 - 1979/80)
Z of funds                    % of funds
CFAF million      applied         CFAF million applied
Sources of funds
Cash generation
from operations       6,171            53              9,442         119
Less debt service    3,732             32              5,475          69
Net cash generation  2,439             21              3,967          50
Subsidies               904             8                  -           0
Borrowing             8,509            73              4,300          54
Total funds available    11.852             102            _8,267          104
Application of funds
Capital investment  10,227             88              6,860          86
Net increase in
working capital         686             6                910           2
Repayment of bank
overdraft               724             6                 193          2
Total funds applied        11,637           100              7,963         100
Cash surplus for the
period                      215             2                304          4
After repayment of bank overdrafts and provision for increases in cash and
working capital, participation by Regifercam in capital investment out of
its own net cash generation wil be only 8% during the project period. In
the last years of the forecast period, self-financing of capital investment
will increase to an acceptable 37%.
6.18      Because of the tight cash flow during the project period, the Loan
Agreement provides for limitations of indebtedness as follows:



- 26 -
(a)  the Bank's acceptance of specified terms and conditions
for external borrowing to cover items under the project
which are not Bank-financed; and
(b)  the Bank's prior approval for Regifercam to undertake
during the praject period any investment estimated to
cost more than US$1.0 million equivalent, or to incur
any debt for such investment.
6.19      The cash flow makes no allovance either for the proposed realign-
ment of the Douala-Yaounde line (about US$112 million in 1973 prices), or
for proposed investments in major line extensions as originally included in
the Railway Plan for 1971/72 - 1975/76. During the period under review,
Regifercam is not in a position to contribute to such investments out of its
own funds, nor vill it be able to service the corresponding debt if it is
incurred at commercial teris.  The Loan and the Guarantee Agreements there-
fore stipulate that Regifercam should not carry out, or incur any debt in
respect of, the realignment of the Douala-Yaounde main-line, unlesa in con-
sultation with the Government and the Bank, and unless the works are proven
to be economically and technically sound.
C.   Sensitivity Analysis of Financial Forecasts
6.20      The foreca8t income account diaregards the possible financial impact
on Regifercam from a major improvement of the road Edea-Yaounde which would
effectively parallel the Douala-Yaounde rail line. A separate projection
assuming the improvement of this road is given in Table 17. A comparison of
Regifercam's financial position under the two alternatives -- with and with-
out the competitive road - shows that the loss of traffic and the limitations
imposed on tariff increases due to road competition would lead during the
five-year review period (1975/76 - 1979/80) to an accumulated net los of
CFA! 1.6 billion instead of an accumulated net surplus of CFAF 1.9 billion.
Also, the net cash generation from operations (after payment of debt service)
would be reduced by CFA! 3.7 billion. Since, under these conditions, the rail-
way would barely be able to meet debt service and working capital requirements,
and would have no funds for equipment replacement and other necessary capital
outlays, substantial Government subsidies would be required.
6.21      An additional sensitivity analysis has been carried out assuming
that the traffic forecast vill not be achieved for reasons other than in-
creased road competition. It is assumed that growth of traffic in general,
and for the railway in particular, will fall below the long-term trend, re-
sulting for 1979/80 in 25% lower railway freight traffic as compared to the
forecast in Table 1. Road transport competition is assumed to remain at the
present level, and therefore the tariff increases outlined in para. 6.11 are
proposed. The financial result shown in Table 18 would be an accumulated
net losa of CFAF 0.6 billion instead of an accumulated net surplus of CFAF
1.5 billion for the period 1974/75 - 1979/80. The financial situation would
improve over time, and during the last years of the forecast period, Regifercam
would have small but increasing net surpluses. However, self-financing of
even a minimum program of necessary investment for replacements and the like
would be limited to about 20%, which is critically low, and a need for Govern-
ment support could not be over-ruled.



- 27 -
6.22      There are therefore elements of risk involved either in a significant
shortfall in traffic from forecast levels, or an inability to match infla-
tionary cost increases with timely and adequate tariff increases. The analysis,
while presenting a pessimistic approach to the railway's future development,
indicates that the need for a temporary subsidy from the Government cannot be
entirely ruled out. The Guarantee Agreement for the proposed Loan therefore
makes provision for subsidies or such other financial support by the Govern-
ment as may be appropriate to protect the railway's cash position should the
need arise.
D.   Audit
6.23      Until recently, the audit of Regifercam's accounts was carried out
by a Government-appointed "Commissaire aux Comptes". This arrangement was
accepted under the First Railway Project, and was considered adequate for
the purpose of the auditing requirements set forth in the Loan Agreement for
that project. The Government recently appointed a new auditor whose report
for fiscal 1972/73 has now been received; however, the report does not con-
form with generally accepted auditing principles.  The Loan Agreement for
the proposed Second Railway Project therefore makes specific provisions that
the audit of Regifercam's books should be carried out in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, and that the report of
that audit should be of such hscope and detail as the Bank reasonably requests.
7.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations on the proposed Loan, agreements were reached
on the following principal items:
(a)  with the Government:
(i) no change will be made in the existing vehicle
weight limitations or in restrictions on timber
transport on the Douala-Youande road, pending
completion of additional studies under the pre-
sent project, and their review with the Bank
(para. 2.18);
(ii)  the agreement between Regifercam and the truckers'
association which regulates rail trans-shipment
of transit traffic to and from northern Cameroon
and Chad is in accordance with the Government's
general policies of avoiding uneconomic rail/road
competition between N'Gaoundere and Douala (para.
2.19);
(iii)  the present level of technical assistance available
to Regifercam will not be reduced, nor will the re-
sponsibilities of technical assistants in line posi-
tions, without prior approval of the Bank (para. 3.05);



- 28 -
(iv) upon application from Regifercam, the Government
is in principle prepared to vaive customs duties
and taxes on all goods financed and imported under
the project, regardless of their country of origin
(para. 4.13); and
(v)  subsidies vill be provided, or such other financial
support as may be appropriate, to protect the rail-
way's cash position (paras. 6.11 and 6.22).
(b)  with Regifercam:
(i) in order to allow a calculation of depreciation allow-
ances, an assessment will be made of the average ser-
vice life of fixed assets in use, and a periodic re-
valuation at replacement costs of motive power and
rolling stock vill be undertaken (para. 6.06);
(ii)  a minimum debt service coverage of 1.2 vill be
achieved from 1973/74 onwards (para. 6.12);
(iii)  tariff increases or other measures satisfactory to
the Bank vill be applied 80 as to obtain rates of
return on net fixed assets in operation of at least:
1% ln 1975/76, 1.5% in 1976/77, 2.5Z in 1977/78,
3.5% in 1978/79, and 4% in the fiscal years there-
after (para. 6.13);
(iv)  accounts receivable wil be maintained at a level
of 15% of annual gross operating revenue from
1974/75 onwards (para. 6.16);
(v)  a minimum working cash (including available bank
overdraft facilities) of 8% of annual working ex-
penses vill be maintained (para. 6.16); and
(vi)  limitations of indebtedness are specified concerning;
(a) Bank acceptance of external borrowing for non-
Bank-financed project items; (b) Bank approval for
undertaking investments for incurring debt of more
than US$1 million equivalent during the project period;
and (c) consultation with Government and the Bank
before execution or incurring debt in respect of
realignment of the Douala-Yaounde main-line (paras.
6.18 and 6.19).
7.02      The project provides a suitable basis for a Loan of US$16 million
for a period of 25 years, including three years of grace, at an annual interest
rate of 7-1/4%, to be capitalized for a period of about two years. The Loan
would be made to Regifercam with the guarantee of the Government of the United
Republic of Cameroon.
June 13, 1974



CAMEROON RAILWAYS
Future Freight Traffie
(million of TKm)
1968/69         1969/70         1970/71         1971/72         1972/73         1973/74         1974/75          1975/76         1976/77          1977/78         1978/79          1979/80
Direction of Exports
16.5            18.1            17.6            20.3            16.8             18              19              20              20               20              22               25
Cocoa
9.8            15.2            16.2            14.4            19.0             25              34              43              51               56              62               78
Cot ton
Aluminum                           3.5              3.5             3.3             2.9             2.6              3               4               4               4                4               4                4
Aluminux
Timber:  legs                    n.a.              .a.         ..a.              n.a.            ..a.             109             162             213             253              272             322             385
sawn                   n.a.             n,a,           C.a.             n.a.            n.a.              12              17              19              24               27              32               41
sub-total timber       55.5             67.4            69.3            66.6            98.0            121             179             232             277              299             354             426
Other Agrit. products             13.1             16.2            18,7            16.9            20.7             19              21              23              25               28              32               33
Miscellaneeca  Total              11.3             13.4            15.4            19.1            18.0             21              22               26             28               29              33               40
Dircti.o  1ToLtal            109.7            133.8           140.5           140.2           177.2            i7              269             348             40               'i36            37-
Direction cf Importa
Petroleum products                27.9             29.2            40.3            39.3            42.7             51              64               70             73               77              86              101
Construction materials            11.9             13.6            33.6            33.3            21.1             19              20              22              23               23              26               30
Alucam materials                  10.5             12.1            12.1            11.2            10.5             12              13               13             14               13              14               15
Transit North Cameron            15.2            19.5             18.5            28.4            29.8             39              51              55              58               60              66               76
Miscellane...                     30.0             45.8            39.9            50.5            46.8             55              62               66              73              76              87               99
Total              95.5           110.3            144.4           162.7           161.6            176             210             226             241              249             279              326
GRAND TOTAL        205.2            244.1           284.9           303.0            338.8           383             492             574             644              683             775              931
n.a. =  ot available
Source: Regifercam and mission estimates
January 1974



CAMEROON RAILWAYS
Freight Traffir
Average Distance
(km)
----__t-_-----------------Actual--------------------               --------------r-----t--------------------------------Forecasts --------------------------------------------------
1968/69          1969/70         1970/71          1971/72          1972/73          1973/74          1974/75          1975/76          1976/77          1977/78          1978/79          1979/80
Direction of Exporta
Coroa                                292              284             296              301              300              300              300              300              300              300              300              300
Cotton                               307              483             570              590              600              850              930              930              930              930              930              930
Aluminum                              86               84               84              85               85               85               85               85               85               85               85               85
Timber                               204              252             280              292              350              350              373              400              405              410              420              425
Other Agric. products                195              240              250             260              270              320              400              410              410              410
Miscellaneous                        251              282              255             297              300              330              340              360              370              380              390              400
Total                206              242              258              264              294              325             345              360              375              390              400              410
Direction of Importa
Petroleum products                   277              288              378             366              370              400              485              495              495              495              495              500
Construction materials               270              317              454             407              340              300              320              320              330              330              330              330
Alocam materiala                      85               85               85               85              85                85              85               85               85               85               85                85
Transit North Cameroon               307              510              599             600              600              739              935              935              935              935              935              935
Miscellaneous                        251              252              255              297             300              320              325              330              335              340              345              350
T zP1                212              235              283              302             292              318              358              363              370              378              385              392
GRAND TOTAL                     209              239              270              283              3                322              350              362              373              386              395              404
Source: Regifercan
January 1974                                                                                                                                                                                                                          k



CAMEROON RAILWAYS
Future Freight Traffic
(000 tons)
1968/69            1969/70                 1970/71                  1971/72                  1972/73
Adosl        Appraisal  Actuel        Appraisal  Actual        Appraisal  Actual       Appraisal  Actual        1973/74       1974/75       1975/76      1976/77       1977/78       1978/79      1979/80
Direction nf Exports
Cocos                                56.6            60.0      63.8          60.0       59.5          62.0      67.4           62.0      55.7         58.0           64.0        67.0           68.0         70.0         75.0          85.0
Cotton                               31.9            35.0      31.5          38.0       28.4          42.0      24.4           46.0      31.6         30.0           38.0        47.0           55,0         61.0         71.0          85.0
Alunin.im                            40.6            42.0      41.6          42.0       39.2          45.0      34.0           45.0      30.5         35.0           45.0        46.0           44.0         43.0         45.0          48.0
Timber;  log.                        n.a.            0.a.      0.a.          n.a.      ..a.           n.a.    207.2            ..a.       n.a.       3100          430.0       525.0          630.0        667.0        767.0         905.0
sawn                       n.a.           n,a.      0.a.           n.a.      n.a.           n.a.      21.0           n.a.       n.a.        35.0           50.0        55.0           61.0         57.0         80.0          97.0
Sub-total timber          272.0           303.0    267.4          410.0    247.7           530.0    228.2           640.0    282.0         345.0          480.0       580.0          691.0        734.0        847.0       1,002.0
Other agricultoral products          85.8            92.5      96.4          96.0    109.9           105.0    113.0           109.5    125.0         116.0          130.0       134.0          138.0        142.0        150.0         170.0
Miscellaneous                        44.9            47.5      53.2          54.0       60.3          56.0      64.7           67,5      62.0         65.0           66.0         72.0           76.0        79.0         85.0         100.0
Total                 531.8           580.0    553.9           700.0    545.0           840.0    531.7          970.0    588.0          649.0         823.0        946.0        1,072.0     1,128.0       1,273.0      1,489.0
Direction of lIports
Petroleum products                  100.7           105.0    101.5          112.0    106.0           120.0    107.4           127.0    111.0         127.0          132.0       142.0          148.0        156.0        174.0         202.0
Construction materials               44.0            80.0      42.9          90.0       74.0          90.0      81.9           90.0      64.7         65.0           63.0        66.0           69.0         72.0          79.0         91.0
Alucam materials                    128.9           129.0    143.7          129.0    142.8           135.0    132.0           135.0    124.9         135.0          153.0        163.0          164.0       159.0         164.0        176.0
Transit North Cameroon,
Chad and CAR                         49.4             -        38.2            -        30.9            -        47.3           -        49.5         51.0           57.0         60.0           62.0        64.0          71.0         82.0
Miscellaneous                       112.8           13t.0    133.6           123.2    151.4           125.2    162.4          134.0    162.0         171.0          191.0        200.0          218.0       223.0         252.0        284.0
Total                 449.8           460.0    469.4           470.0    510.2           487.0    539.4           504.0    513.0         549.0         595.0        631.0          661.0       679.0         740.0         835.0
GRAND TOTAL           981.6         1.040.0  1.023.3         11_70.0  1.055.2         1,327.0  1.071.1         1.474.0  l1,10.0       1,198.0       1.418.0      1.577.0        1.733.0     1,807.0       2,013.0       2_324.0
1007,      987.         100%        90%          100%       81%           100%       82%
Total without timber (rounded)  709.6               737.0    755.9          760.0    750.0           797.0    843.0           834.0    819.0         850.0          940.0    1,000.0         1,040.0      1,070.0       1,170.0      1,320.0
100%      103%          100%        99%          100%      106%           100%       89%
..a. = not ailable.
Source:  Regifercam and nission estinates.



CAMEROON RAILWAYS
Passenger Traffic
----------------------Actual--------------------               -------------------------------------------------Forecast-------------------------------------------------
1968/69        1969/70         1970/71         1971/72         1972/73         1973/74         1974/75          1975/76         1976/77         1977/78           1978/79         1979/80
Number of Passengers (000)
Northern line                               568.8          582.6           658.9           711.9             694              708             722             736             751              766              781              797
Central line
of which:  Douala-Yaounde                  912.2        1,062.9         1,108.2         1,046.2             921              927             900             840             800              800              800              800
Yaounde-Belabo                  22.0           90.6           145.6           121.1             110             120             140              145             160             170               175             190
Belabo-Ngaoundere                -              -               -               -                 -              25              52               55              57              60                63              67
Sub-total                                   943.2       1,153.5         1,253,8          1.167.3           1.031           1.072           1,092            1,040           1,017           1,030             1,038           1,057
Total                                    1,503.0        1,736.1         1,912.7          1,879.2           1,725           1,780           1,814           1,776            1,768           1,796             1,819           1,854
Average Distance (km)
Northern line                                62.9           65.4            66.5            73.0               72              73              73              73               73              73                73              73
Central line                                129.5          131.4           145.4           144.6              140             148             155             168             178              180              184              190
Total                                       104.3          109.3           118.2           117.5              112             118             123             129             134              135              137              140
Passenger-kms (millions)
Northern line                                35.8           38.1            43.8            52.0               50              51              52              53               54              56                57              58
Central line                                121.0          151.6           182.3           168.8              144             159             170             175              180             185               191             201
of which: Yaounde-Balabo                     -             20 3/           23 3/           25 3/              22 3/           27              28              30              33               35               36               39
Belabo-Ngaoundere                -              -               -                -                 -                -             30              40               47               51               56              62
Douala-Yaounde                 121            132             159             143                123    2/       132             112              105             100             100               100             100
Total                                       156.8          189.7           226.1           220.8              194.4(193.0)  211               223             229              235             241               248             259
Appraisal forecasts 1/                      156.8          182.7           194.7           204.3              213             223             263             291              306                -                -
(M)                               100            104             116             108                 91              94               85              79              77                -                 -
1/  Loan 687-CM, Report No. PTR 50a, May 12, 1970
2/ Actual
3/  Estimate                                                                                                                                                                                                                      'i
January 1974



CAMER09N
DouaaI Port:  Oifratlooaî Itatiscs for Geseral Cargo  i/
-------------------------------Atual----------------------------                     ---------------------------------------o--r------------- _Forecats----------------------------__---_                 -----
1968             1969             1970             1971             1972             1973            1974              1975             1976             1977             19/8              1979             1980
Total traffir  (000 ton.)        1,146            1,224            1,342            1,352            1,316            1,472            1,650            1,820            1,905            1,970             2,115            1,840            1,900
Nomrber ai  ship                 1,363            1,387            1,383            1,236            1,066            1,218            1,216            1,259            1,300            1,337             1,375            1,229            1,233
Tonnage handled by ship
(tons)                             841              882              970           1,094             1,235            1,335            1,470           1,557             1,620            1,686             1,752            1,594            1,539
Average aannal tannage
hasdlsd by ship-day (ton)          355              338              328              381              405              445              490              519              540               562              584              498               513
Average tonnage handled
by meter of quay (ton)             674              720              789              795              774              956            1,052            1,153            1,239            1,326             1,417              812              825
Length of quays (aster)          1,700            1,700            1,700            1,700            1,700            1,700            1,700            1,700            1,700            1,700             1,700            2,260            2,300
Duration af oalls (days)             2.37             2.61             2.96             2.87             3.05              3.00            3.00             3.00              3.00             3.00             3.00              3.00             3.00
Berth occupancy rata (2)            ô5               90              101               87               77               80               83               86                88               88               92                70               72
Average lrngth of ship
(meter)                           (163)            (154)            (153)            (153)            (147)             150              153              153              155              158               157              157              159
1/  Total traffic exoluding petroleon prodocts, cliokstr, basanas, bulk aine asd starting  in 1976, anncrraslng percentage nf timber which will ùe eoacuated throngh th. log basnj.
Assunptions:  From 1973 ta 1975:  tannage handled by ship-day in-reasen by 10% a ye-r as a result of batter operations at the log depot (62. ia 1975); d-ration of -ail  ,.noangad;
iength of quay is fird; berth occupancy rate is the reîidoal rariable.
Fram 1976 ta 1978: tannage hbndled by ship-day increased by 4% a year; dotation af rail rsmains at 3 dava: lenth nf q.oy is fiord; bertth .ocpancy is thse reid-al narlable.
To  1979  -es  barths operational, berth occupancy rate fiaed et 707, and determines quay length reqoir                 er. Berth oo..panry ficranses  itI, traIff   subsequently.
FomuaI:  berth ocrupanny rata = (doratian af cal) n (lsgth nf vensel) o (traffir)) divided hy ((365) s (lengtl of berth) a (tonnage pet ship)).
Ths same formsla nan bu nsed ta calculate the length nf berth required.
January 1974



CAMEROON
Comparison Between Regifercam and Douala Port Traffic
(000 tons)
--…----------------------- Actual -…-…------…---------    -       --------------------------------------------------- -Forecas ts ---------------------------------------------------
1968/69         1969/70         1970/71          1971/72         1972/73          1973/74         1974/75          1975/76         1976/77          1977/78         1978/79          1979/80
Total traffic
Douala Port                       1,600           1,731            1,844           1,835           2,010            2,180           2,330            2,510           2,760            2,870           3,060            3,390
Regifercam                          982           1,023            1,055           1,071           1,101            1,198           1,418            1,577           1,733            1,807           2,013            2,324
%                                    61               59              57              58               55              5;              61               63               63              63               66              69
General cargo 1/
Douala Port                       1,099           1,208            1,238           1,227            1,405           1,540           1,760            1,880           1,930            2,010           2,240            2,520
Regifercam                          756             794              804             830              878           1,063           1,252            1,373           1,448            1,516           1,694            1,935
%                                    69              66               65              68               66              69               71              73               75              75               76               77
Timber
Douala Port                         323             364              350             351              435             457             635              737              840             890            1,000           1,180
Regifercam                          272             267              248             228              282             345             480              580             691              734              847           1,003
'h                                   84               73              71              65               65              76               75              79               82              83               84              85
Petroleum products
Douala Port                         236             262              309             306              320             352             365              385             400              425              460             520
Regifercam                          101              102             107             107              111             127             132              142              148             156              174             200
%                                    43               39              35              35               35              36              36               37               37              37               38               39
1/ Total traffic excluding petroleum products, clinkers, bananas and bulk wine.
January 1974



TABIE 7
CAMEROON RAILWAYS
Estimated Schedule of' Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                                  Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter Ending                                  at end of Quarter
(US$ millions)
1974/75
September 30, 1974                                    1.02
December 31, 1974                                     4.49
March 31, 1975                                        5.52
June 30, 1975                                         9.35
1975/76
September 30, 1975                                   12.88
December 31, 1975                                    13.66
March 31, 1976                                       14.06
June 30, 1976                                        14.91
1976/77
September 30, 1976                                   15.29
December 31, 1976                                    16.00
March 31, 1977                                       16.00
June 30, 1977                                        16.00
Assumptions: 1. Effective Date: September 15, 1974
2. Bidding for Procurement:
Japoma Bridge: December 1973/May 1974
Track material, turn-outs, bogies, crane,
freight-cars: 4pril/May 1974
3. Delivery
Track material:  December 1974/February 1975
Freight-car bogies: December 1974
Turn-outs: December 1974
Communications equipment: December 1974
Breakdown crane: April 1975
Timber box-cars: April/September 1975
Spare parts: July 1975
h. Construction/Installation,/Services
Japoma Bridge: July 1974/December 1976
Track renewal: January 1975/July 1976
Consultants: October 1974/December 1977
Source: Regifercam and appraisal mission.
May 1974.






CAMEROON RAILWAYS
Box Car Requirements
1973/74    1974/75    1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79    1979/80
1.  Number of box cars on stock                412        406        400         394        388        382        376
2. Utilization of cars (/%)                     90         90         90          91         91         92         92
3. Number of cars available                    371        365        360         355        349        344        338
4. Gross capacity of cars on stock
(000 tons)                               1332       130        129        127        125         123        121
5. Gross loading capacity of cars
available (000 tons)                      11.9       11.7       11.6        11.5       11.4       11.3       11.1
6. Average capacity of cars (t/car)             32.2       32.2       32.2        32.2       32.2       32.2       32.2
7. Number of journeys                           37         38         38.5        39.5       41         43         45
8. Gross transport capacity (000 tons)         440        445        447        454         467        486        500
9.  Load factor (0%) 2/                         74         74         74          75         75         75         75
10.  Net transport capacity (000 tons)          326        329        330         341        351        364        375
ll.  Transport demand (000 tons)                296        319        342         364        381        423        482
12. Surplus capacity (deficit)(000 tons),        30         10         (12)       (23)       (30)       (57)       (107)
13. Additional number of cars requiredY                                15          26         33         60        107
14. Additional cars available                                           25         25         25         50          50
15. Total number of cars on stock                                     425         419        413        437         431
16. Surplus number of cars (deficit)                                   10          (1)        (8)        15         (32)
1/ Available capacity utilized at peak season.
2/ Utilization as in line 2 and load factor as in line 9.
3/ Assuming 25 cars delivered in 1975/76 and further 50 new cars iin 1978/79.
I <O
CH



CAkÉEROON MAILWAYS
Fll,t Car tequirements
1972/73    1973/7)4   197V/75    1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79    1979/80
1. Net tons ('000)                        270         330         455         555         629          663         766         903
2. Net ton-km (million)                    94         115         170         222         253          272         322         384
3. Average load (tons)                     21D/        21          21      21( V0) /    21(60)      21(60)       21(60)      21(60)
4. Average distance (km)                  348         350         373         400         402          410         420         425
5. Number of journeys                    34.6        36.5        h1.5        45.6        45.6        45.6         45.6        45. 
6. Turnaround time                       lOo10         10         8.8         8.5         8.0          8o0         8.0         8.0
7. Number of flat c,ars3/                 490         481         >470        459         448         437          426         415
8. Cars available /a                      431         423         41h         404         394         386          375         365
9. Capacity available ('000 tons)         313         324         361         387         377          370         359         350
10  Capacity surplus  (1000 tons)          43          (6)        (94>l 168)              (252)       (293)       (407)       (553)
(deficit) 
11. Requirements, additional4/               -            3          43          69        103          120         167         226
12. Additional cars available/              -           -           -          100         100         100         200         200
13. Total-of cars on stock
(7 + 12)                            790         __          h70                      _ 9/  7 7/  _3
15. Surplus number of cars (deficit)         -          (3)         (43)         31         (4)         (22)         30         (30)
1/ Average load of existing cars is 21 tons.
g   Average load of new flat cars is 60 tons.
3   Decreasing by 9 units per year (5 cars converted and 4 cars lost by accidents).
Car utilization 88v.
i/' Assuming 100 new cars delivered in 1975/76 and a future 100 new cars in 1978/79.
i   One of new cars written off per year.
February 1974 h                                                                                                                       >
(D
19(D



Table 9
CAMEROON RAILWAYS
Inco1e Account 1963/64-1972/73
(CFAF Million)
1963/64         1964/65          1965/66          1966/67          1967/68          1961/69          196,/71J         1970/71          1971/72          1972/73
Operating Revenue
Passengers                                      308              319              347              391             412              476              57               689              684              593
Luggage, mail and parcels                        43               48               69               79              81               90              101              115               119             333
Freight                                        1277             1L47             1470            1495             1628             1617             1927             2168             2300             2399
Miscellaneous                                    93              136              132              149             264 1/           242 1/            129 1/            84 1/           156 1/           242 1/
Total Operating Revenue                        1721             1950             2018            2114             2385             2425             2732             3056             3259             3567
Operating Empenses
Staff costs                                     797              844              975             1014            1070             1189             1329              1366             1523            1650
Other                                           465              464              486              508             608               729              742              889             1052            1168
S/total cash outgoings                         1262             1308             1461             1522            1678             1918             2071              2255             2575            2818
Depreciation (estivale)                         232              247              250              254             269               298              542              607              663              744
Total Operating Expenses                       1494             1555             1711             1776            1947             2216             2613              2862             3238            3562
Net Operating Revenue                             227              395              307              338              438              209              119              194               21                5
Itterest charges                                -                 20               27               28              22               29               62               112             227              260
=Net   =rg_y_                                     ,,_              275              280_             310              416              _80               57               82
Transfer from Reserves                                                                                                                 195
Subsidies from Governmecr                                                                                                                                                                                  224
Available for appropriation                       227              375              280              310              416              375               57               82             (206)             (31)
Appropriations:
Transfer te reserves                            -                -                 12               22                6             -                 -                -                -                -
Supplementary proviisio  for depreciation    288                 353              138              151             271               254              157               62                6               93
Exchange Iss (profit) on devaluatios           -                -                -                -                -                101             (101)             -                _                 27
As,ortisation oi debt                            10               22              130              137              143               98               54               54
Adjustments                                     -                -                -                -                -                -                                   3                8              (11)
Total Appropriations                            298              375              280              310             420               453              110              119               14              109
Net surplus (loss) as shown in
Regifercam's books            (71)             -                -                -                 (4)             (78)             (53)             (37)            (220)            (140)
Working ratio                                       73%              67%              72%              72%             70%              79%               76%              74%              79%              79%
Operating ratio                                     87%             80%              85%              84%              82%              91%              96%              94%               99%            100%
Debt service:
Interest                                        -                 20               27               28               22               29               62              112              227              260
Repayment                                        10               22              130              137              143               98               54               54               35              153
Total                                            10               42              157              165              165              127              116              166              262              413
Interest coverage ratio                           -              19.7x            11.4x            12.lx            19.9x             7,2x             1.9x             1.7x             O.lx              -
Debt coverage ratio                             45.9x            15.3v             3.5v             3.6x             4.3x             4.0v             5.7x             4.8x             2.6x             1.8x
Average net fived assets in use                 5,254            5,425            6,142            6,564            6,575            6,842           10,682           15,324           16,631           18,144
Rate of return                                   4.3%             7.3%             5.0%             5.1             6.7%             3.1%             1.1%             1.3%             0.1%             -
1/  including hire charges for motive power and rolling stock loaned tl  Tramocameroon Extension construction
Source: Regifercam
January 1974



CAMEROON RAILWAYS
Summary Balance Sheets
as of June 30. 1964-1973
(in CFAF million)
Revised
1964   1965   1966   1967   1968   1969   1970   1971   1972   1973    1973 V
Fixed Assets
Gross fixed assets in service        9005   9999  11186  11698  12039  13123  20864  23411  24984   27852  27852
Less accumulated depreciation        3889   kg    4634   5123   5463   6014   6609   7260   7873    8675   8675
Net fixed assets in service          5116   5732 É         6575   6576   7109 1425 16151  17111   19177  19177
Works ln progress                     650     713     00      2    520   2826    242   1462   2087    1150  16682
Total net fixed assets               5766   6445   6852   687   7096   9935  I1797  17613  19197   20327  3gW9
Investments                              51      51     5i     51      51     51     51      51     51       66     66
Current Assets
Cash                                  343    319      56     34       5    (49)  216       77    106     162    162
Receivables                           176    222    217    229    282    360    344    654    713        715    715
Stores                                234    244    282    339    363    433    496    646    806        940    940
Suspense items (Net)                   12       5      1      (2)     5      4      4       1      6       5       5
Total current assets                  7M      790    5      6-0-0    U     7f    1060   1378   1631    itie   1B22
Less current liabilities              192    313    339    433    459    554    619    805   1458    1793   1793
Total net current assets              573    477    217    167   196    1914  -Z1    573          7       29      29
Total net assets                     6390   6973   7120   7105   7343  10180  14989  18237  19422   20422  35954
Long-term Debt                          743    977   1059    924    834   2301   4320   5476   6881    7302  11516
Equity Equivalent
Government contributions             2950   2950   2950   2950   2950   2950   2950   3145   3145    3145   5591
Subventions from develop3ent
institutions     2712   2867   2909   2987   3171   4715   7503   9385   9385   10105  18977
Reserves and revenue account balances(15)   179    202    244    388    214    216    231         il    (130)  (130)
Total equity equivalent              567   5996   6061   1I51   6509  7-79  10699  12761  125141   13120  2448
Total 697t xand Equity Eq2ivalent                  L7       1     Z      10180   V8Z  IL2L   1922   20h22 9
Ratio of current assets
to current liabilities    4.0    2.5    1.6    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.7    1.7    1.1         1.0    1.0
Ratio cf lilu-id assets
to current liabilities    2.7    1.7    0.8    o.6    o.6    0.6    0.9    0.9    o.6         0.5    0.5
Debt/Equity ratio                      12/88  14/86   15/85 13/87  11/89 23/77  29/71  30/70  35/65   36/64  32/68
/ Tro reflect completion of the Belabo-N'Oaoundere extension.
Source:  Regifercam.                                                                                                     H
January 1974.



CAMEROON RAILWAYS
Dbel  Positio  oso  loue 30, 1913
Terme                                                                                                                                              I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~onntst-ding
Total Anoon t           Annuel                                                                                                                        £0F151 A ...an            îi tdr-e               lepeid                         lune 30, 1973
Lender                         (mllontenrent                        RenPununt                                                            Poreus                                  (CFAF Million)         (CFAF Millilon)         (CFAF Millico)                    (CFAF Million)
CCCE Ni 2                   CFA? 100.0                3%             16 seni-ascoal eqo-l i-teljn-ts sterting 1-1-66                     Moulue p-cr aod rulling ,,on                   100                    100                    93                                    7
CCCE No 3                   CFAF 500.0                4.25%         2Ooe.i -annoal eqoal anoiti-s snt-ilg 6-30-73                        -alesed treiliro                               500                    500                    25                                 475
CCCE No 4                   (FAF 700.0                4.23%         20 sel-nna   qeeI ..oni ies- onrtlsg 12-31-73                        Rollnornae.d ureilîro                          700                    710                                                       700
CCCE lu 5                   CFA? 700.0                4.30%         10 o....el eq-1 sanitina oîartiog 12-31-77                           Luuu  us   lo  io   ulos700                                           700                                                       700
CCCE No 6                   CFAF 500.0                4.35%         16 seni-e.....l eqoal as-iuis strln  12-31-76                        L-oole,pneg rosr                               500                     274                                                      274
Lord1 Bonis Nu I            CEAI 130.0                5.25%         3 annuel equel ....lrti-  startisg 6-30-72                           Ir-u-h lion Edlik-IC-bi                        150                    150                     100                                50
Lor.1 Benks No 2            CFA? 200.0                5.25%          3 anue   quel ennuei-Ie  sterling je 1974/75                        Rail                                           200                    300                                                       200
USAID BN  I                 us79.2                    0,75%          10 yeano grese; 60 selena   qoal iislen
stantiog 0-17-74                                                  TEuuuenu   utension                          2 300                  2,300                                                     2,300
lIC/tIB lu 1                O.C. 1.4 1/               3%            6 y-ar  gra-e; 30  -ei-......l eqoal lsole
sterting 1-10-36                                                  Bssseo..nkîbcps eqîipec-                       386                    386                                                       386
KFWl                        DM 5.0                    3%             7 yeers gras.s; 28  -ei-......l equellselsse
stantisg 6-30-77                                                  Yeounde statise  eud fneight n4s 22                                   422                                                       422
IBID (Lues 687-CM)          us$5,2                    0%            5 years I.ran; 41 sun-con...el equal isale
starting 6-15-75                                                  Tra-kensl  bridge  onrnis
rollisg elosi                               1.300                  1,064                                                     1,064
COFACI                      CFAF 300.0                7.75%          10 sani-ess..al   qoa1  9nonn  seln    -30-73                       Loui oo    hounur-, rIlce300                                           220                                                       220
Totol Loes  i-nîodsd io Regiftrnon'n belone  hbast bu jon  30. 1872                                        67.îu  2
USAID Be 2                  US$12.0                   2.50%          10 ye.rs grena; 61 enni-......l equelenl     ien-
sterting 5-15-00                                                 Truunco   nEsolo-n                           3,000                                                                            3,000
EECIEIB No 2                uC  5.0 îi                1%             10 yn-rs grena; 60 esmi-e.....l eqoul loele
storrlng Is 1908/81                                              TEunnecsIteusion                             1,390                                                                            1.3980
Total edditio...  esini .e.con                                   4,390
G-ad Total Lea....îS
NOTIS:  Il  Uolle' de ropue - US71 belons deudloorios onFAF 378.
2/  DBffînresne  nitln-tn  debt sbhs le Begifernan n balenîn  bh-t or Jon. 30, 1773 Le CFAF 252 ulîliun   due Lu (i7edonn   te USA1D Bu I eod 1BRD 687-CM  ..ns on prenesa.. ehueng  nets of UB$l   CFAF 250  -sd (il) e1iesetios nI
~itlrdranl epplîaiessi  bcb.g po nd
bancs: Ingif-rnc
Jeooay 1074



TABLE 12
CAMEROON RAILWAYS
Financing of Transcameroon Extension Line
(CFAF Million)
Interest and    Yaounde-    Belabo-      Total ex-
repaynent       Belabo   N'Gaoundere  tension line
Loans
FED             1%; 10 yrs grace; 30 annuities      -         1,317        1,317
USAID No. 1  0.75%; 10 yrs grace; 30 annuities   2,554          -          5,452
USAID No. 2   2.5%; 10 yrs grace; 30 annuities      -         2,898)
Total Loans                                       2,554       4,215        6,769
Grants
FED                                               5,127       5,794       10,921
FAC                                                 774       3,077        3,851
Republic of Cameroon                                197       2,446         2,640
Total Grants                                      6,095      11,317       17,412
Contributions Regifercam                            210                      210
TOTAL             8,859      15,532        24,391



CAMEROON RAIIlWAY
Forecast Income Account 1 972/73 - 1 979/80
CFAF Million
Actual          ----------------------------------------------- Forecast ----------------------------------------------
1972/73          1973/7h         1974/75          1975/76          1976/77          1977/78          1978/79           1979/80
Operating Revenue
Passengers - present rates                     593              715              860              89c              910              940              970            1,010
Passengers - rate inrreases                   -                -                  43              1738             191              251              321              334
Mail, luggage and parcels                      333              340              350              360              370              380              390             L4O
Freight - present rates                      2,399            3,120            4,350            4,990            5,570            5,850            6,600            7,870
Freight - rate increases                      -                -                 326            1,178            2,167            3,089            3,960            5,352
Miscellaneous                                  242              140              120              125              130              135              140              145
Total Operating Revenue                    3,567            h,315            6,o49            7,681            9,338           10,648           12,381           15,111
Operating Expenses
Staff costs                                  1,650            1,900            2,500            3,020            3,770            4,o60            4,860            6,050
Other costs                                  1,075            1,500            2,150            2,610            3,o50            3,500            14,130           5,110
Taxes                                           93              112              157              200              243              277              322              409
Total cash outgoing                        2,818            3,512            4,807            5,830            7,063            7,837            9,292           11,569
Depreciation                                      74h              970            1,206            1,311            1,1409           1 ,450           1,537            1,652
Total Operating Expenses                   3,562            4,482            6,013            7,141            8,472            9,287           10,829           13,221
Net Operating Revenue                               5             (167)              36              540              866            1,361            1,552            1,890
Interest charges:  on lorg-term debt              207              348              416              623              805              882              938              978
on bank overdraft              53               37               2h               30               23                6             _                   O
Total interest charges                       260              385              440              653              828              888              938              978
Subsidies from Gomernment                         224              786
Net surplus (loss)                             ----1)              234          =      )         =     3)              38            =73                 614              912
Working ratio                                       79%             81%               79%             76%              76%               74%              75%              76%
Operating ratio                                    10c%            1014%             99%              93%              91%               87%              87%              87%
Times interest earned                                O             (0.4)            0.1              0.8              1.0               1.5              1 .7             1.9
Debt service coverage                             1.8               1.3              1.6             1.8              1.7               1.7              1.7              1.8
Average net fixed assets in service            18,144           26,911           35,719           37,892           39,091           38,770            40,102           42,082
Rate of return                                       O          (0.6%)              0.1%             1.               2.2%             3.5%              3.9%             4.5%
Sources: Regifercam and mission estimates
June 1974



1



Annex to Table 13
Page I
CAMEROON
SECOND RAILIWAY PROJECT
Assumptions Used to Forecast Income Account
I. Operating Rsvenue
1.        Passenger revenues are based on the traffic forecasts shown in
Table 4. Average revenue for passenger traffic is at present CFAF 3.86
per pass-km, and will increase as explained below.
2.        Freight revenues are based on the traffic forecasts given in Table 1.
The average revenue per ton-k:m based on tariffs as of March 30, is expected
to decrease from CFAF 8.5 in 1974 to CFAF 7.9 in 1980, as a result of longer
average hauls following opening of the Second Transcameroon Extension (Belabo-
N'Gaoundere) and the corresponding taper in the rate scale, combined with
an increased proportion of low-rated commodities.
3.        The tariff increases proposed are shown below.  They are likely to
be necessary to improveiegifercam's financial position, in the face of substantial
capital expenditure, expectation of moderate growth in productivity, and a
level of inflation which is likely to be at a rate significantly higher than
experienced in recent years. Inflation is assumed to be 9% per annum (compared
with 5 to 6% p.a. in recent years).
Jan. 1975   Jan. 1976   Jan. 1977   Jan. 1978   Jan. 1980
Freight             + 15%       + 15%        + 10%        + 10%       + 10%
Passengers          + 10%       + 10%                     + 10%
4.        These increases are considered feasible without significantly affecting
traffic levels. The rationale is as follows:
(a) Freight Traffic. The cumulative effect of the above increases
will be to make. tariffs in January 1980 some 76% higher than in December 1974.
This increase is somewhat greater than that expected for inflation over the
period (68%) but three factors suggest that this will not seriously affect
Regifercam'scompetitive position.
(i) Fuel price increases are likely to affect road transport
more seriously than rail;
(ii) the project should produce improvements in the quality of
rail service which are not quantified in the Plan of
Action; and
(iii) Regifercamhas a significant operational cost advantage over
road transport, even if vehicle size increases (Annex 10).
Making due allowance for the possibility of truckers relating
rates to marginal costs in thé short run, Regifercam should
still have some cost advantage.



Annex to Table 13
Page 2
5. Passengers
Regifercam's passenger traffic is expected to decline further on
the Douala-Yaounde line, under pressure from road transport. In order to
avoid exacerbating the position, proposed tariff increases have been kept to
the minimum consistent with continued operation of the services without cross-
subsidization.
6.        Revenues from mail, luggage, and parcels increased significantly
from 1971/72 to 1972/73 due to restructuring and increase of tariffs.  Experience
shows that for this sort of traffic, there exists no measurable elasticity
of demand in relation to price increases. Accordingly, a continuous light
growth of this traffic during the forecast period has been assumed. On the
other hand, it was also assumed that no further increase or restructuring of
these tariffs will take place during the forecast period.
7.        Miscellaneous revenues are decreasing as hiring of motive power and
rolling stock for construction of the Second Transcameroon Extension comes
to an end.
II. Operating Expenses
Staff Costs
8.        Detailed analysis shows that for the past ten years, there has been
a very strorg correlation between number of staff and traffic volume.  A computer
analysis resulted in the following regression equation:
x = 1,420 + 6.213 Y
which for practical reasons was used in the following form:
x = 1,420 + 6.2 Y.
In this equation, the dependent variable X is defined as number of staff employed,
and the independent variable Y as millions of traffic units, counting one passenger-
km for 1/3 of a ton-km. The correlation coefficient for the above equation
is r = 0.991 which is very high even if we acknowledge the fact that a certain
amount of auto-correlation is inevitable when comparing time series.
9.        Several nonlinear regression equations which were tested did not lead
to a significant improvement in the description of the empirical values. On
the other hand, they had the disadvantage of piving unrealistic results when
used for long-range forecasting, whereas the linear equation which was actually
used gives a realistic picture even in the case of an important growth of
traffic volume.
10.       Labor productivity will increase from 101,000 traffie units per man
and per year in 1972/73, to 131,000 in 1979/80 (3 passenger-lan being one traffic
unit). The fastest productivity increase (reaching 7% p.a.) will occur in
1974 and 1975. During these years, growth of total traffic volume will be
particularly high, and will be accompanied by better use of existing staff
capacities. After that time, from 1976 to 1980, growth of labor productivity
will be much slower since the spare capacity which now exists will be used
up by then, and since total traffic growth will slow down, particularly during
1975-78.



Annex to Table 13
Page 3
11.       For the average costsper man employed, we assumed an increase of
9% p.a. This figure contains a cost increase caused by re-grading of railway
staff, and aiso makes provision for a compensation for increased cost-of-living.
Other costs
12.       This includes all working expenses except staff costs (excluding
pensions which are included in other costs) and taxes which are shown separately.
A detailed analysis of the entire block of "other costs" showed that its
development in real terms depends upon the development of the following variables:
number of staff (34.2%); gross ton-km (24.1%); total mileage of locomotives
and rolling stock (36.2%). The figures shown in parentheses give the percentage
of dependence at the beginning of the forecast period, a final amount of 5.4%
being constant over time.
13.       The development of the abovementioned variables has been determined
on the basis of:
(i) the traffic forecasts given in Tables 1 and 4;
(ii) the development of the number of staff as determined in
paragraph 8 of this Annex;
(iii) the projected increase in rolling stock productivity given
in Table 8;
(iv) an assumed increase of 20% in the average length of freight
trains until the end of the forecast period;
(v) an increase of 20% in the percentage of freight cars to
be transported without load. This increase is caused by
the greater imbalance of traffic as exports grow much faster
than imports throughout the forecast period.
14        The result is shown in the following table in the form of indices:
1972/73  1973/74  1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80
Number of staff      100      110       128      141       153      160       175      200
Gross ton-km         100      118       147      169       184      196       216      254
Mileage of locomotives
and rolling stock   100       116       141      156       167      177       190      213
Constant            100       100       100      100       100      100       100      100
Total Other Costs   100       113       135      151       163      172       186      212
The result has been transformed into CFAF on the basis of the figure shown
in Regifercam's books for 1972/73. To these figures has been added the cost
increase caused by higher fuel prices: the impact of higher fuel prices has
been assessed by Regifercam to be CFAF 160 million in 1973/74 and CFAF 350 million



Annex to Table 13
Page 4
in 1974/75, thereafter increasing in proportion to traffic grawth. Beginning
with the year 1973/74, the result has been increased by 9% p.a. to allow for
cost price inflation.
15.       The proposed Loan includes consulting services in order to improve
Regifercam's administrative and operational practices in several fields.
The recommendations of the consultants, if implemented, should lead to reduced
operating costs as compared to this forecast. As it is not possible at
present to make a reasenable assumptien about the extent of that cest
reduction, if any, it has not been included in our forecast.
Taxes
16.       In the past, taxes have averaged about 2.6% of Regifercam's operating
revenue. It has been assumed that this percentage will remain constant through-
out the forecast period.
Depreciations
17.       Depreciations have been calculated on the following basis:
(i) the values of the different items of assets as shown in
Regifercam's books as of June 30, 1973;
(ii) the future developçent of fixed assets as given by Y
(a) the second section of the Transcameroon extension, and
(b) the investment plan for the forecast period (Table 13);
(iii) an assumed averaged service life of the different items of
assets as follows:
- earthworks and engineering: 100 years
- structures in concrete: 66 years
- structures in steel: 50 years
- culverts: 66 years
- ballast: 25 years
- track: 33 years
- buildings, stations, telecommunications: 50 years
- tools and maintenance equipment: 15 years
- office equipment: 10 years
- motive power: 25 years
- rolling stock: 33 years
- spare parts: 25 years
- road vehicles and similar: 5 years
- miscellaneous: 20 years
- management and head office Transcameroon extension: 50 years
- consulting services: 5 years
III. Interest Charges
18.       Interest charges on long-term debt are calculated on actual terms
for the existing debt as per Table 11, and on assumed terms for future debt
as detailed in Table 15.



Annex to Table 13
Page 5
19.       Interest charges on bank overdraft are calculated on the average
annual amount of overdraft as shown in Table 14 and at the same rate of
interest as in the past (7-8%).
IV. Subsidies
20.       Subsidization of Regifercam's current operation by Goverrnment
occurred for the first time in 1972/73 in the form of a waiver of taxes and
customs duties to the value of CFAF 224 million. This waiver will be
supplemented in 1973/74 by a cash payment of CFAF 200 million and the
reimbursement of all interest payments on long-term debt resulting in an
overall subsidy of CFAF 786 million. Corresponding to the Government's
official policy to replace further subsidies of Regifercam's operations by
tariff increases, we assumed that Regifercam will not receive any further
subsidies during the forecast period.






CAMEROON RAILWAY
Pro-forma Summary Balance Sheet 1973-1980
(as of June 30)
CFAF Million
Corrected
1973            1974            1975             1976             1977            1978             1979             1980
Fixed Assets
Gross fixed assets in service              27,852           44,290          47,644           51,153           52,761           53,371          58,411           60,521
Less accumulated depreciation               8,675            9,645          10,851           12,162           13,571          15,021           16,558 
Net fixed assets in service                19,177           34,645          36,793           38,991           39,190           38,350          41,853           42,311
Work in progress                           16,682            1,100           1,100            1,300            2,000            2,800           1,100            1,100
Total Net Fixed Assets                   35,859           35,745          37,893           40,291           41,1)0          41,150           42,953           43,411
Investments                                      66               66              66               66               66               66              66               66
Current Assets
Cash                                          162              190              250             302              377              611             538              681
Receivables                                   715              790              910           1,150            1,410            1,600           1,860            2,270
Stores                                        945            1,000            1,440           1,750            2,040            2,350           2,770            3.420
Total Current Assets                      1,822            1,980           2,600            3,202            3,827            4,561           5,168            6,371
Total_Assets                             37Ï=4=7          3===             4===9           =====             5O3==z7774,8                                      4==4
Current Liabilities
Creditors                                     876            1,050            1,390           1,690            1,980            2,270            2,670           3,310
Bank overdraft                                917              189              525             380              193                0                0               0
Total Current Liabilities                 1,793            1,239            1,815           2,070            2,173            2,270            2,670           3,310
Long-term Debt                               11,516           11,880           14,358          17,216           18,599           18,723           20,119          20,228
Equity Equivalent
Government ccntribution                     5,591            5,591            5,591           5,591            5,591            5,591            5,591           5,591
Subventions from development
institutions                               18,977           18,977           19,095          19,095           19,095           19,095           19,095          19,095
Reserves and revenue account
balance                                       (130)            104             (300)           (413)            (375)              98              712           1,624
Total Euity Equivalent                   25,438           24,672           24,386          24,273           25,311           24,784           25,398          26,310
Total Liabilitite                        37,747           37,791           40559                             5,083           45,777           58,187          49,848
Ratio of current assets to current
liabilities                                      1.0             1.6              1.4              1.5              1.8             2.0              1.9              1.9
Ratio of liquid assets to current
liabilities                                      0.5             0.8              o.6              0.7             o.8              1.0              0.9              0.9
Debt equity ratio                             32/68            33/67            37/63           bl/59            43/57            43/57            44/56            43/57
Sources:  Regifercam and mission estimate
June 1975






CAIIERCON RUDflù2B
Forecat Ln-str  Dtbt 1973/7[  1979/80
(tthbralale e.n-d RLeran
(Sn CFA! millon)
CCCE     CC0E       ccca   CCOE          0       -F local    IFW    EEC/EIG SAID   U U8AID   EEIB   CCCE       Lal        IBRD    S/total   ropoed                     L    CCCE                                       CCCE        /Ttal          d
No 2     No 3o No3 2      N.  &     _        Boko al            No 1      No 1      No 2    N  2      NoK  6   a Nr2 Ln 687-ON   Losao    Lpa         No 7      SCD  Bfkks No 3    ASDEB.    No 8           No 9       No 1S        Las       total
1973/74      A-out aototondig            7      475        700      700      27^       50    41?        'M6     '7?<)    3(r'O    1390      271        200      1082      11206                                                                                                     11206
Withdraoaîo                                                      80                                                             226                            306              185       l1u                                                                  295       6o0
Nepayoeat                   7        50        70                60       SO                                                                                   237                                                                                                       237
1974/75      ABount ootstaodiog                  425        630      700      2140            1422       306      2300      3000    1390     500        200      1062      11275              185      110                                                                  295      11570
Wtthdra-l1s                                                                                                                                          218       218    2338                                                  250                               2588      2806
Repayonot                            50        70                 60                                   67                                  66         15       328                                                                                                       328
1975/76      Aoont oitatoding                    375        560      700       18O             422       386      2233      3000    1390     500        134      1285      11165    2338      185      110                               250                               2883      14048
Withdraas                                                                                                                                                              1391                                      800       1050                               3241      3241
Repaynent                            50        70                 60                        10         60                                  66         32       356                         13                                                                            383
1976/77      A-ont outstnding                    325       490       700      120              422       376      2165     3001    1390    S5o)          68      1253      10809    3729      185       83                    800       1300                               6097      16906
Withdra,a..                                                                                                                                                             271                          100        1100                   390                    1861      1861
RNpay.nent                          50         70                 6O               15       21         70                        63        68         33       450                         28                                                                   28       478
1977/78      Aoont ootstatdig                    275       420      700        60              1,07      355      2095     3000    1390      137                 1220     10359    4000       185       55         100       1900       1300         390                   7930      18289
900                                                                 900
Roaepy..nt                          50         70      140        60              30        22         71                        62                  35        54o       78                27        9           131                                           236       776
1978/79      A-oont nitotaîding                  225       350      560                        377       333      2024      3»O    1390     375                 1105      9819    3922       185       28        1000       1769       1300         390                   8594      18.13
Withd,-Y&.
2300        2300       2300
ROpaonot                            5°         70      140                        30        22         72                       63                   38       415        83      18        28         69         142        79                                1419       90o4
1979/80      A-oont aotaotddig                   175       280      420                        317      311       1952      300(   1390      312                 1147      9334    3839       167                 931        1627      1221          390      2300        10475      19809
Withdraalo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1100         1100      1100
Nepaynent                           50        70       140                        30        23        73         54             62                   f1i       5413      91      19                   75         153        86          24                     448       991
Jane 30, 1980   Aroopt mototsading                  125       210      280                        317       288      1879      2916   1390      250                 1106       8791    374       11.8                 856       1.74      1135          366        3400      11127      19918
So-roo  ORgfrooo and rission .sti ot-
Jne 1974.






CAMEsROON RAILWAYS
State-ent of Soorces and Application of Fonds 1973/7l-1 979/80
ICEAF million)
Total 1913/lt
1973/7l      1971/75      1975/76      1976/77       1977/78      1978/79       1979/80          - 1979/80        %
Sources o! Pbndo
Operating revenue                              4,315         6,0h9        7,681        9,338        10,648        12,381       15,111
Cash outgoings on operating accou-t            3 512         4 807        5 830        7 063         7.837         9 292       1                1169
Cash ganeration from  operations                   03        1,2b         1,1          2,275         2,8112                                                      53
Decrease in working capital                        44                                                                                               44            0
,orrowing:
C0FACE                                           80
CCCE No. 6                                     226
IbRD Loan 687-CII                                            218
CCCE No 7                                       185
ECD                                             110
Africas Develop,ent Bank                                                  800         1,100
Local Banks No. 3                                                                      100           900
C0CE No 8/9/10                                               250        1,050          390                       2,300        1,100
Proposed IBD Loan                                          2 338        1 391           271
Total Borrosing                                  2,806    3,241 90                                        0 2300 1, 100                     1209             43
Subventions,  Fro- Gaos'rnaent                    786                                                                                              786            3
FAC                                              118                                                                                 118            0
Bank overdraft                                 _               236                                                                                 236            1
Total Funds Available                       2723t        EE05          5092        L7T7          3,711  5,389               E35!            29,60b          100
Application of Fus-ds
Increase in.  rking capital                                    220          250          260           210           280          420            1,6t0            5
Capital investanit:
(a) Ongoing projects
Lomotives and cosches                      320
Rerailing                                    30
I8RD Project 687-CM                                      218
N'Ga sndere depot                           185
Staff lodging                               110
Sobtotal                              645           218
(b) New projects
Train¶ng school                                          130
IBRD proposed projeot                                  2,766        2,539          228
Douala statios                                                        900        1,400         1,100
Motive poser asd rolling stock                                                     390                       2,750        1,490
bctension earhafling yard
Yaonde                                                                                                       250          250
Subtotal                                          2,896        3,439        2,018         1,100         3,000        1,740
(c) Small diacellaneous investeents             211          240          270          290           310           340          370
Total Capital Investeent               856        3.354        3.709         2.308        1,410         3.340        2,110           17.087           58
Debt service
Interest                                        385          44°          653          828           888           938           978           5,110
Repayaent                                       237          328           383          478           776          904           991           4 097
622                        1,06    6 1,396    9       lm           1,82         i=         9       207           31
Reduction of Bank overdraft                       728                         45          187           193                                      1,153             4
Total Fonds Applied                         2,206        4,342         5,040        4,061         3,477        5,462         4,499          29,087           98
Cash surplus for th. year                          28           60            52           75           234          (73)          143             519            2
Cash balance at Joun  30, 1973                    162
Cuaslative oash sorplus                           150          250          302          377           611           538           681
Working capital - Increa- e or (decraa)
Inoresse in stores                               55          440          310           290           310          420           650           2,475
Increane in receivables                          75          120           240          260           190          260           hiO           1 555
Less
Oncreane in creditors                           17M          34°          30W           290           290          400           640           2.t34
Net increase (decrease)                           (44)         220           250          260           210          280           420            1,596
So.ro.: Regifercam and mss-ion eotirates
Jupe 1974



Table 16
Page 2
CLMEROON RAILWAYS
Assumptions Used for Cash Flow Projections
A. Sources of Funds
1.        Net cash generation of funds from operations stems from the fore-
cast incorm accounts shown in Table 13.
2.        Borrowing results from:
(a) secured loans; details on expected withdrawals are given in
Table 15;
(b) expected loans on the following assumed terms and conditions:
(i) a CCCE No. 7 loan for construction of the N'Gaoundere
station, for an amount of CFAF 185 million, repayable
in 20 equal semi-annual annuities starting in 1978/79,
at an annual interest rate of 4.25%. These terms are
in line with those of previous CCCE loans;
(ii) a Banque de Developpement du Cameroun (BCD) loan for the
construction of staff lodging, for an amount of CFAF 110
million, repayable in four equal annual annuities starting
in 1975/76, at an annual interest rate of 7%;
(iii) an African Development Bank (AFDB) loan presently being
considered for construction of the Douala station, for an
amount of CFAF 1.9 billion, repayable in 12 years after a
grace period of two years, at an annual interest rate of 8%;
(iv) a local banks' No. 3 loan as additional financing, for
construction of the Douala station for an amount of
CFAF 1.0 billion, repayable in 12 years after a grace period
of two years, at an annual interest rate of 8%;
(v) a CCCE No. 8 loan for purchase of motive power for an amount
of CFAF 1,300 million to be drawn in 1974/75 and 1975/76,
repayable in 12 annuities after three years of grace at an
annual interest rate of 5.5%;
(vi) an IBRD loan of US$16.0 million, repayable in 25 years,
including three years of grace, at 7.25% annual interest
rate;
(vii) a CCCE No. 9 loan for purchase of motive power for an amount
of CFAF 390 million to be drawn in 1976/77, repayable on
the same terms and conditions as the CCCE No. 8 loan (see
(v) above); and
(viii) a CCCE No. 10 loan for purchase of motive power and rolling
stock for an amount of CFAF 3.4 billion, to be drawn in
1978/79 and 1979/80, repayable on th? same terms and condi-
tions as the CCCE No. 8 loan (see (y) above).



Table 16
Page 3
3.        A subsidy from Government for an amount of OFAF 786 million in
fiscal year 1973/74.
4.        A FAC subvention of CFAF 118 million, presently secured, will cover
most of the cost of the training school program.
5.        A slight increase of the existing bank overdraft is assumed in 1974/75.
B. Application of Funds
6.        Allowance is made for all ongoing projects, including construction
of the Japoma bridge, partly financed under IBRD Loan 687-CM.
7.        New projects cover:
(a) the training school program;
(b) the proposed IBRD project;
(c) the Douala station;
(d) the purchase of motive power and rolling stock; and
(e) extension of the marshalling yard at Yaounde.
The cost estimates for new pro'ject include substantial provisions for
inflation.
8.        A separation of replacement of wrn-outequipment and investment to
increase capacity has been made for future investment in moaive power and
rolling stock.  The figures in bracketsshown in the following table indicate
the number of locomotives or cars corresponding to the amounts shown in
CFAF million. It has been assumed that Regifercam wlll purchase in the future
the same sort of equipment as in the present project.
1976/77       1978/79        1979/80
Main line locomotives
Replacement                     (1) 295       (1) 335
Capacity increase                             (2) 670        (2) 720
Shunting locomotives
Replacement                     (1) 95        (2) 170
Capacity increase                             (3) 255
Timber cars
Replacement                                  (40) 624
Capacity increase                            (30) 468       (30) 505
Box cars
Replacement                                  (24) 228
Capacity increase                                           (26) 265
Total CFAF million                390           2,750          1,490



Table 16
Page 4
9.        Based on past experience, minor miscellaneous capital expenditure
is estimated at approximately CFAF 200 million in 1973/74, increasing progressive-
ly to CFA! 370 million in 1979/80, inflation being the main cau.. for this
increase.
10.       Debt service results from actual terms for existing loans, and
assumed terms for future loans, as per paragraph 2 above and Table 15.
il.       Present and future bank overdrafts are being reduced in  years with
a cash surplus, taking into account the requirements in cash and working
capital. In 1977/78 all of the bank overdraft will be paid back.
C. Cash
12.       Based on past experience, and starting as of 1973/714, cumulative
cash surplus at the end of each year is being kept at a minimum of 10% of
payroll.
D. Working Capital
13.       Stores are kept at an average level of two-thirds of working ex-
penses excluding staff costs and taxes, thus allowing the reasonable average
of an eight-month delay for replenishment of spares.
14.       Receivables are expected to be kept, as frmm 1974/75, at 15% of
gross operating revenue, a reasonable level which has until recently been
consistently attained.
15.       Creditors (excluding bank overdraft) are assuned to decrease to
60% of working expenses (excluding staff costs) as from 1974/75,which represents
an improvement in comparison to the present level of about 75%.



TABLE 17
CAMEROON RAIIGWAYS                                         Page 1
Improved Road Edea-Yaounde
Forecast Income Account 1975/76-1979/80
(CFAF million)
----------------------------------- Forecast ----------------------------______
1975/76           1976/77            1977/78            1978/79            1979/80
Operating Revenue
Passengers - present rates                   870                840                850                870                900
Passengers - rate increases                  135                176                20h                236                24
Mail, luggage and parcels
Freight - present rates                    4,590              4,780              4,920              5,470             6,630
Freight - rate increases                   1,005              1,683              2,327              2,900             3,.920
Miscellaneous                                125                130                135                140                145
Total Operating Revenue                7,085              7,979              8,816             10,006            12,239
Operating Expenses
Staff costs                                2,880              3,180              3,540             4,180              5,240
Other costs                                2,380              2,690              2,990             3,440              4,0oo
Taxes                                        184                207                229                260               318
Total Cash Outgoing                    5,444              6,077             6,759              7,880              9,958
Depreciation                               1,311              1,409              1,450             1,511              1,575
Total Operating Expenses               6,755              7,486              8,209             9,391             11,533
Net Operating Revenue                        330                493                607                615               706
Total Interest Charges                       653                828                904               979              1,028
Net Surplus (Loss}              ~~~(323)            (335)(27(34(2)
Working Ratio                                 77%                76%                77%               79%                81%
Operating Ratio                               95%                94%               93%                94%                94%
Times interest earned                        0.5                o.6                0.7               o.6                0.7
Debt Service Coverage                        1.6                1.5                1.2               1.1                1.1
Average Net Fixed Assets in
Service                                  37,892             39,091             38,770             39,405             39,944
Rate of Return                               0.9%               1.3%              1.6%               1.6%               1.8%
Source: Mission estimtes
June 1974



Table 17
Page 2
CAMEROON RAILWAYS
Assumptions used to forecast Income Accounts in Case
of Improvement of Edea-Yaounde Road
I. Operating Revenue
1.        Passenger and freight revenues are based on the traffic forecasts
given in Annex 6 (B), and on the tariff increases shown below which are lower
than those proposed i, the event the road will not be improved:
Jan. 75   Jan. 76   Jan. 77   Jan. 78   Jan. 80
Freight          +15%      +12%       +10%        +8%        +8%
Passenger        +10%       +10%       -          +5%         -
2.        The rationale is as follows:
Annex 6 (B) is based upon a situation in which relative costs of
road and rail transport are aitered from the existing situation only by the
ability of a paved road to carry heavier, more economical vehicles. Therefore
changes in relative tariffs over time are not taken into account. It thus
seems probable that if rail tariffs increased faster than road between
1974/75 and 1979/80, there would be further erosion of the railwa>s competitive
position. Thus the maximum rate of rail tariff increase for goods traffic
over the period with an upgraded road would be equal to inflation, with the
optimum timing early in the period before rond improvements have had time
to take effect. For passengers, a rate slightly less than in the unimproved
road situation is assumed.
3.        Revenues from mail, luggage, parcels, and miscellaneous are assumed
not to be influenced by an improvement of the road, and therefore remain
unchanged.
II. Operating Expenses and Interest Charges
4.        Staff and other costs and taxes are forecast on the same basis as
explained in Table 13. The reduction of these costs as compared to Table 13.
is, therefore, due to the reduced traffic and revenue volumes.
5.        If the Edea-Yaounde road is improved, further investment in motive
power and rolling stock from 1976/77 onwards will only be necessary to the
extent wern-out equipment has to be replaced (see Table 16, page 3). The
corresponding reduction of depreciation and interest charges as compared to
Table 13 has been taken into account.



CAMEROON RAILWAYS
FORECAST INCOME ACCOUNTS - 1974/75 - 1979/80
(Financial Sensitivity to Low Traffic Forecast)
(CFAF Million)
1974/75             1975/76              1976/77              1977/78              1978/79              1979/80
Operatlng Revenue
Passengers - present rates                     860                  890                  910                  940                  970                1,010
Passengers - rate increases                     43                  138                  191                  25>                  321                  334
Mail, Luggage, Parcels                         350                  360                  370                 380                   390                  400
Freight - present rates                      4,170                4,590                4,910               4,940                5,250                5,890
Freight - rate increases                       313                1,083                1,910                2,608                3,150                4,005
Miscellaneous                                  120                  125                  130                  135                  140                 1145
Total Operating Revenue                        5,856                7,186                8,421               9,257               10,221                11,784
Operating Expenses
Staff costs                                  2,440                2,850                3,270               3,600                 4,110                4,870
Other costs                                  2,090                2,440                2,790                3,080                3,480                4,130
Taxes                                          152                  187                  219                  241                  266                  306
Total Cash Outgoing                            4,682                5,477                6,279                6,921                7,856                9,306
Depreciation                                   1,206                1,311                1,401                1,434                1,473                1,514
Total Operating Expenses                       5,888                6,788                7,680                8,355                9,329               10,820
Net Operating Revenue                            (32)                 398                  741                  902                  892                  964
Interest charges                                 440                  653                  817                  867                  856                  806
Net Surplus (loss)                           __QhL2j_              ___L51(             =-L76.               ----.3- 3.                                    158
Working ratio                                     80%                  76%                  75%                  75%                  77%                  79%
Operating ratio                                  100%                  94%                  91%                  90%                  91%                  92%
Times interest earned                           (0.1)                 o.6                  0.9                  1.0                  1.0                  1.2
Debt service coverage                            1.5                  1.6                  1.7                  1.4                  1.3                  1.4
Average net fixed assets in use               35,719               37,892               38,911               38,380               38,337               38,197
Rate of return                                     0%                 1.1%                 1 .9%                2.4%                 2.3%                 2.5%
Source: Mission estimates
June 1974






CAMEROON                        Annex 1
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
The Third Railway Development Plan.1970/71-1975/76
US$
CFAF   equivalent
million    million  1/
(a) Equipment and existing lines works
(i)  Motive power and rolling stock                   5,570        20.0
(ii)  Japoma bridge reconstruction                        322        1.2
(iii)  Track relaying                                     470         1.7
(iv)  Construction of the new Douala Station              940        3.4
(v)  Miscellaneous additions and renewals             2,617         9.4
(vi)  Training school extension                          320         1.1
Sub-total           10,239       36.8
(b)  Consulting services                                       15        0.1
(c)  Line extensions and realigment
(i)  Completion of the Transcameroon extension       13,952        50.2
(ii)  Construction of the first section of the
Yaounde-Yokadouma proposed line                17,000        61.2
(iii)  Construction of the Douala-Victoria
proposed line                                   2,300         8.3
(iv)  Douala-Yaounde realignnent                       8,800        31.7
Sub-total           42,052       151.4
Grand Total                                 52,306       188.3
1/ Us$1 = CFAF 278
Source: Appraisal Report, First Railway Project (PTR-50a), May 12, 1970.



ANNEX 2
CA!EROON
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Analysis of Cost Estinates for First Railway Project
(CFYA  lion)                        (Us$ 'ooo)l/             < of
Io        Foreim      Total        Local      Foreiin     Total    Tota`
A. Items to be financed under
proposed loan
1. Track renevai
a. Track (52.5 km) laying                29          -          29          10h         -          104
b.  Rfai.ls                               -         192        192           -         691         691
c. Sleepore                              32          96        128          115        346         461
d.  Fasteninga                             -         29         29           -         104         104
e. Welding                                5          18         23           18         65          83
r.  Ballant                               9                     26                      61
Sub-Total         -                    f2          ET        -7          1 ;267     17 5~37
g.  Contingencies
(about 10%)                         8                                 29         126         155
TOTAL                    3i                   fi7O         299       1,393      1,692       7.9
2. IRolling stock
a.  Freight wagors                       37         526        563          133      1,894       2,027
(95 L + 90 X)
b. 6 trailers                             -          66         66           -         238         238
c. Spares                                 -          12         12           -
Sub-Total                                                      13.3
d.  Contingencies
(about 5S)                          2         1°           2                     108        11
TOrA:L                   39                   3i7-3     1     1       =02,23    2,M23      11.4
3. Construction of Japoma Bridge
a. Construction of the bridge
and tracl approaches               66         191        257          238        688         926
b. Contingencies
(about 25%)                                  -L8          65          61                    235
TOTAL                              239         322         2           82       1,161       f.
4. Conaulting services                        1          14         15            4          50         54      0.2
TOTAL                              = 1,27>I  51, ,5        7l2       E1,5       5,37       27.,
B. Other items
1.  Brought forvard frot 2nd plan
a.  Motive power and rolling stock       50       1 ,252     1,302          180      -4,507      .,687
b. Open lino vorks                      220         474                     9 72        06°         98
Sub-Total                   270      1 ,t26      1,996         972       6,21       7,i7       34.S
2.  Required ln project period
a.  Locomotivoe and ro3ling stock         -         950        950           -       3,420       3,420
b.  Contingenci.e  (10%)                                                               342         342
Sub-Total                            1,0@5                      -        3,762      3,762      17.7
3.  Ieconstruction os DouOi*S' 'taon        1C00        160        260          360        576         936      h.O
4. Trainit  achool                          320          _         320        1,152          -       1,152      .-
5. Miscellaneous vor      k     n and oquint                       617          925      1.296       2 221
to tal, other it9 s         1k9  t,239                       3,JTO    1 5797C
WRUD TOTAL PROZECT        1,153      4s,565     5,718        4,151     16,1.35     20,5FIe,   :.
Source:  Appraisal Report, First Railway Project
(PTR-50a), May 12, 1970
l/ US$1.00 = CFAF278



-ANNEX 3
Page 1
CANEROON
SECOND RAIIWAY PROJECT
Brief Description of Railway Property
Track (see Chart 2)
Prior to opening of the first section of the Transcameroon Extension,
Regifercam operated 546 main line km of railway. This vas increased to 839 km
when the extension to Belabo was opened in April 1969, and to 1,174 km after
completion of the section Belabo-N'Gaoundere in February 1974. The last exten-
sion work was financed by grants from FAC and FED, and by loans on concessionary
terms from USAID and EIB.
Al lines are meter-guage and single-track, except for short sections
of 10 km which are double-track. There are terrain difficulties on the northern
line from Loum to N'Kongsamba (120 m radius curves, and 2.10o maximum grade over
54 km), and on the central line from Eseka to Yaounde (curves ranging from 150 m
to 300 m radius, and 1.67Yo maximum grade).  On the central line from Douala to
Yaounde (308 km), the total length of curves is 136 km, of 34 bridges 1,991 m,
and of 4 tunnels 383 m. Regifercam has made great efforts to replace the ori-
ginally very light rails (20 and 27 kg/m), in particular on the Douala-Yaounde
ine; at present only sections totalling 42 km between Otele and Yaounde.are
left for reneval, and this work will be done under the present project.
Most of the track is continuously welded, and maintenance work on most
sections is well done by efficiently planned use of mechanical equipment. Among
the poorly maintained sections are the abovementioned 42 km which are now in an
extremely critical state of disrepair. The cost o? maintenance is high, as it
requires excessive man-labor (1.3 man/km on the center main line as against the
normal average of about 0.7 man/km), lubrication of rails in curves, permutation
of rails, replacement o? rails, etc. The excessive wvar of rails and the dif-
ficult profile of the line give rise to frequent derailments which are expensive
both in repair o? track material and rolling stock, and in claims paid to shippers,
not to mention disturbance of normal traffic flow.  Programs are now under way
to extend the length of sidings,and to strengthen and maintain bridges.
Signalling and Telecommunications
Regifercam ensures safety of operations without the aid of mechanical
or electrical signals. Instead, two simple systems are applied: an electric
token block on the Douala-Edea section where traffic is heavy, and a telephone
block system on the rest of the railway. Both these methods are adequate to
meet sa?ety requirements as long as train control regulations are strictly ob-
servéd, and an efficient dispatcher system maintained. The present means of
communications (an old open-vire pole Une and antiquated equipment in stations)
provide the voice circuits between stations (omnibus) and the dispatchers'
circuits. The omnibus line stilil works fairly well over the short distances
between stations; however, the dispatching lUnes are now generally overloaded
by the needs for communication of all the railway's services with no extra



ANNEX 3
Page 2
circuits available, and the dispatcher sometimes breaks down completely.
When this happens, stations are obliged to arrange train novements among
themselves, and the result is often a confusing traffic operation situation
along the entire line. However, because spares for the existing equipment
are no longer on the market, and because Regifercam was planning to replace
the entire system in the near future, no substantial renewal program was
carried out in recent years.
Under the proposed Second Railway Project, financing for telecom-
munications will be provided to help Regifercam: (i) carry out the necessary
repair and maintenance work on existing facilities; (ii) establish a radio
link (voice and telex) between eight major stations and the headquarters at
Douala; (iii) purchase and install telex equipment for these stations; (iv)
equip shunting locomotives with a radio link to the dispatcher's post in the
Douala area; and (v) maintain a back-up system to support dispatcher's lines
in the event of their failure.  The railway will use existing facilities of
the public telecommunications agency to make installations in its railway
stations along the line Douala-N'Gaoundere, and will share the cost of equip-
ment generating electricity.  The radio link can be put into operation within
one year after contracts are placed. By mid-1975, the new facilities will
have a considerable effect on train movements and punctuality, and on utiliza-
tion of rolling stock. Line capacity will be improved, as will communications
with customers on commercial matters. In case the realignment project of
Douala-Yaounde materializes, the railway stations will be maintained and other
equipment transferred to the new stations to serve as an emergency system for
the proposed new telecommunications systqm on that line.
Road-rail level crossings in the suburbs and industrial areas of
Douala have been equipped with automatic gates.  Existing level crossings in
Yaounde are proposed for elimination under the realignment project.
Motive Power and Rolling Stock
The locomotive fleet is fully dieselized, and is well maintained;
the composition of the fleet is shown on page 4 of this Annex. The limited
availability of some locomotive types in 1972/73 vas mainly due to severe
accidents. During 19721/72, four shunting engines of low power which were then
20 years old, were scrapped; they vere replaced by four locomotives of high
power provided by CCCE financing. Six main-line diesel (4B 3600) locomotives
and one rail-car which were also included in the First Railway Project, vere
financed by CCCE and delivered at end-1972.
Rolling stock is relatively modern and in good repair. Most passenger
traffic is carried by railcars and trailers which provide adequate service.
Technical problems with bogies limited utilization and capacity of railcars
in 1972/73; however, these problems have since been resolved with the assistance
of the manufacturer. Nearly all freight cars in the present fleet are bogie
vehicles of an average capacity of 30 tons.  New rolling stock will have capa-
city of 35-80 tons.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Other Property
Stations
Most of the stations were rebuilt over the period 1930-1950, and are
generally well maintained.  Because of construction of the Transcameroon
Extension, Yaounde station was rebuilt at the terminus of the new line, and is
connected to the terminus of the old line by a tunnel under the city. The
Douala station facilities are becoming increasingly insufficient to cope with
freight traffic growth, and the passenger traffic facilities have also become
obsolete.  However, the track facilities in the midst of a densely populated
area do not allow for extension, and construction of a new station at a new
location, including switching yard and freight depot, both with improved access
to the port, had been included in the First Railway Project. Detailed studies
for this construction (for which close coordination is required between railway,
port and road authorities) are only now underway, and the work is expected to
be carried out concurrently with execution of the proposed second project. The
new Douala Station will replace the existing stations at Douala, New Bell, and
Bassa-Ateliers. It will consist of a passenger station, a freight station with
adjacent marshalling yard, goods depot, platforms, and loading and unloading
sidings; road accesses will be provided to the city of Douala, the industrial
area, and the airport.  Total cost of construction (for which part financing
is expected from the African Development Bank) has been estimated at about
CFAF 3.4 billion.
Workshops and Sheds
Regifercam has a modern and well-equipped workshop in Bassa where all
motive power and rolling stock are repaired.  Running maintenance is carried
out in Bassa in separate sheds, and along the Central Line also in Yaounde,
Belabo, and N'Gaoundere. The Bassa workshops also include limited plant capa-
city for construction of freight cars, a sleeper impregnation plant, a foundry,
and an electric rail-welding plant.



ANNEX 3
CANEROON RAILWAYS                                                  Page 4
Composition of Motive Power
and Rolling Stock
(as of March 1, 1974)
A. Locomotives                          Number of Units
Main line
CEH-AGO 4B 3,600                         6
Alsthom-MaO CC 2,400                     5
Alsthom-MGO BB 1,200                    13
Alsthom-MGO BB 300/500                  17
Alsthom/Sulzer BB 200                    4
Total                              45
Shunting
CEM-MGO                                 32
B. Railcars
Billard-Soule MGO ZE 10                  8
CEM-MGO YE                               4
Total                              14
C. Passenger Cars                             95
C. Baggage and Mail Vans                      14
B. Freight Cars and Utilization
Type                       Flat Cars  Flat Cars    Flat Cars    Box Cars    Box Cars                       Others         Tank Cars       Special
Flat Cars    Special     Special       Special      General     Special      Gondolas    Regie  Private   Re          _Private   Private Cars
1. Loge                      486
2. Timber processed            20
3. Vehicles                                16 1/                      5
4. Containers                                           28
5. General cargo                                                                  412                     100 2/
6. Aluminum and Alumina                                                                                     24 3/                                           19 4/
7. Liveatock                                                                                   6 2/         8
8. Bananas                                                                                    95-
9. Other                                                                                                             2 5/    6 5/
10. Petroleum                                                                                                                            4       45
11. Gas/Bitumen                                                                                                                                               5
12. Wine                                                                                                                                                       h
13. Departmental traffic       _            _            _                          -          -            _       131
Total                  506           16           28           5            412        101          132           139             4       45          28
NOTES:
1/ Number increasing by 5 units per year by canverting log cars.
2/ In 1974, 14 units converted to box cars for livestock.
3/ West-bound traffic only.
4! East-bound traffic only.
§/ Refrigerated cars.



ANNEX h
Page 1
CAMEP0ON
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Summary of Operating Statistics, 1970/71 - 1972/73
1970/71                1971/72                 1972/73
I. Traffic
Pass-km (million)                    226.1                   220.8                  193.2
Ton-lm (million)                     284.9                   303.0                  326.2
Traffic units (ton-km +
pass-lcm) (million)                 511.0                   523.8                  519.4
II. Operations
Train mileage (km)
Passenger trains-/          1,534,641               1,524,967               1,515,575
Freight trains              1,326,117               1,334,864               1,310,032
Service trains                  11,639                 10,280                   6,975
Total                  2,B72,397               2,870,l1l              2,832,582
Mainline locomotive
mileage (km)                  2,484,400              2,559,192               2,573,439
Railcar mileage (km)             769,000                802,700                 855,378
Freight car mileage (km)    18,907,000               18,801,079              19,944,732
Passenger coach mileage (km) 5,625,372                5,581,725               6,072,305
Number of locomotives in
fleet (i) diesel loco-
motives (incl. shunters) 36                       36                      45
(ii) railcars                  11                      il                      1
Number of freight cars in
fleet 2/                            986                  1,318                   1,416
Nwnber cf passenger coaches
in fleet                             83                      82                     9h
Pass-krm per ka of line in
operation                       269,485                263,158                 231,227
Average mileage per passenger        118                     117                    117
Ton-lcm per kn of line in
operation                       339,115                361,193                 388,550
Average mileage per freight
car                              n.a.                     n.a.
Flat cars                                                                          34
Box cars                                                                           34
Gondolas                                                                           19
Average load of freight car        n.a.                    n.a.
Flat cars                                                                          21
Box cars                                                                           23.8
Gondolas                                                                           22
I/ Including suburban traffic and mixed trains.
2/ Including pi-.vate and departmental cars.
n.a. = not available.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
1970/71                1971/72                1972/73
Number of cars loaded            45,245                  43,237                 42,467
Ton-km per freight car train
km                                  170.6                  180.7                  249
Average daily mileage of motive
power
Type 4B 3,600                  -                       -                    274
Type CG 2,400                131                     177                    126
Type BB 1,200                264                     254                    222
Railcars                     191                     200                    195
Availability of motive power (%)
Type 4B 3,600                                                                81
Type CC 2,400                 54                      68                     51
Type BB 1,200                 86                      87.5                   62
Railcars                      71                      58                     61
Average train delay on central
line (minutes)
Passenger                     62                      81                     99
Freight                      221                     223                    493
Average turnaround of freight
cars (days) 1/
Box cars                       6.5                     6.8                    9.8
Gondolas                      12.1                    13.3                   19.2
Flat cars                      9.1                    10.8                   10
III. Staff
Number of employees                3,525                  3,596                   3,699
Instructors and
trainees                          101                     107                    112
Total                      3,626                   3,703                  3,811
Traffic units per employee      142,100                 142,400                134,400/2
Technical Assistance                  40                     38                      37
Nunber in fleet x 365 days
1/ Average turnaround       Number of cars loaded
2/ 39 in March 1974.



ANNEI S
Page 1
CMIEROON
SACOND RAIDWAY PROJECT
Operational Plan of Action
Regifercam has been concerned about the need for physical and financial
rehabilitation of the railway system. Accordingly, Regifercam intends to
implement measures with the objective of f.ulfilling its'- appropriate ecornomic role,
to complete its physical rehabilitation, and to achieve financial viability.
Operations
(a)     Regifercam will take all necessary steps to improve its operating
efficiency and to achive the following targets:
Ojctives
IMM          1973/74       1974/75      1975/76        197677
Availability of
motive pouer (%)
4B 3,600            81 1/         83           83            85            88
CC, 2,4OO           51            53           55            58            60
B 1.,200            62 2/         75           80            85            88
Railcars            61 3/         70           75            80            85
Utilization of freight
cars (%)
Flat cars           88            88           88            88            88
Box cars            88            90           90            90            91
Gondolas            90            90           91            91            91
Average daily mileage
of motive power (km)
hB 3,600           274           280          280           280           280 h/
CC 2,400           126           130          135           140           150
BB 1,200           222           250          270           290           300
Railcars           195           240          260           280           300
Average load of freight
cars (tons)
Flat cars           21            21           21            21(60) 5/     21(60)
Box cars            23.8          23.8         23.8          23.8          24.1
Gondolas            22            23           24            24            25
Average daily mileage
of freight cars (km)
Flat cars           34            ho           45            52            55
Box cars            34            4o           42            45            48
Gondolas            19            22           25            27            29
1/ One damaged locomotive under repair with manufacturer.
2/ Two damaged locomotives under repair in workshop.
§/ Four railcars with bogie problems being repaired.
'l/ Locomotives only in service on Douala-Yaounde section (diffïoult alignment with
speed restrictions).
5/ New 4-bogie timber cars.



ANNEXX
Page 2
Ac ua_                            ObJectives
1972T,3                      174J-/9775   '1975            9_76/.777
Productivity of
freight cars
(000 km per yr)
Flat cars     185            220           245            290           320
Box cars      180            200           230            290           270
Gondolas       85             96           107            118            130
Productivity of
staff
Total staff
(number) 1/     3,811          4,229         4,929          5.,450        5,896
Staff (number~ 2   ,699         4,107         44,797         5,308          5,717
Traffic units
(million) 3/      520            594           715            803           879
Traffie units
(000) per
exmployee         134            145           149            151            154
(b)     ROg±fteram viii àetab1iaah a system of. control to be agreed vith the
Bank that Vill pemit prompt evaluation Of progre88 in the physical rehabilitation
of the railwaya, and in attainnert of the targete specified above.
1/ Operation budget only.
2/ Excluding instructors and trainees.
3/ Traffie unit 1 ton-lm + 1 passenger-km.



ANNEX 6
Page 1
CAMEROON
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Traffie Forecasts
There are alternative sets of forecasts for both freight and
passenger traffie. Alternative A assumes that there will be no significant
improvement to the road between Douala and Yaounde. Alternative B assumes
that a major improvement will occur through upgrading the section Edea-Yaounde
to a level capable of supporting heavy freight trucks.
A.  Effect of No Improvement to Douala-Yaounde Road
Freight Traffîc
The principal factors determining the volume of freight traffic
carried by Regifercam are: (I) the potential demands upon the system in the
absence of constraints; and (II) the nature and incidence of constraints.
Freight traffic can be broadly classed under two headings:
(i) timber, and (ii) general cargo traffic - other exports and imports,
including petroleum.
I.   (i)  Timber
There are three sources of potential increase in the demand for
Cameroonian timber: world demand growth, diversion of demand from Ivory Coast
to Cameroon production assuming that the former either becomes statie or
declines, and diversion fromn other West African producers.
Economie Analysis and Projections Department has made projections
of demand and price for world broad-leaved (hardwood) timber exports from
1967-69 (average)to 1980 as follows:
Demand (Logs):+75%; Demand (Sain):+220C
The weighted total timber demand growth is about +90%.
Price (African average of 7 species) +50%
Price (Philippines) +24%
Although West African timber exports have tended in the past to
grow at below the world average rate, this was partly due to substitution
of Far East for %st African timber in Europe. As petroleum prices rise,
however, freight costs will tend to favor West African timber in this market.
Additionally, there is probably more scope for reverse substitution of timber
for petrochemical products in Europe than in Japan, source of the main world
demand growth over the past decade. Thus it is likely that West African
exports will rise at the world rate to 1980. Total Cameroonian production,
which stagnated at about 400,000 tons between 1968/69 and 1971/72, has been



ANNEX 6
Page 2
constrained by difficulties at Douala port, and also more recently by the
limitation of railway capacity. It is therefore reasonable to assume that
if these constraints had not been present, Cameroon would have had a greater
share of total West African exports (about 5.5 million tons) than the present
estimated 7%. If growth had been at the regional average rate since 1968,
Cameroon's share would have been about 9%.
The prospects for Ivory Coast timber have been analyzed. Although
there are virtually untouched reserves in the San Pedro area, these will
probably not be sufficient to compensate for declines elsewhere, and after
1975 even San Pedro exports are likely to grow only slowly at about 1% p.a.
to 1980. While there is scope for exploitation of secondary timbers, it
seems improbable these will be competitive with the products of the vir-
tually virgin forests of varied high quality species existing in Cameroon,
Gabon, CAR and Congo. It is therefore unlikely that Ivory Coast will be
able to contribute to the increased supply of timber required, and volume
exports may well decline0  Assuming Ivory Coast (which currently exports
about 50% of the regional total) has static exports, and Cameroon obtains
9% of the regional growth to 1980 (about 2.8 million tons), total Cameroon
exports would be 00+500 - 900 thousand tons.
The remaining 400,000 tons forecast is much more speculative.
There are two factors, either or both of which may work in Cameroonts favor:
(a) Ivory Coast volumes may in fact decline after 1975; and (b) allowing
for lead time in implementation of projects for transport improvement in
Gabon/Congo, Caameroon may obtain a slight advantage in timber export ex-
pansion up to 1980. 400,000 tons represents about 15% of current Ivory
Coast production. It is recognized that this further diversion is more
sensitive to transportation than raw material availability factors;
accordingly, the sensitivity analysis assumes total Cameroonian exports
reaching only 900,000 tons in 1980.
The main areas with potential for increased exploitation are
eastern and southern Cameroon. The eastern area is adjacent to Belabo, on
the Transcameroon railway extension, while timber from the south is just
as readily evacuated by road as by rail.
Thus it seems realistic to assume that with increased carrying
capacity per unit (the flat-cars proposed for purchase under the present
project have a capacity of 60 tons), the railway should obtain about 75%
of the incremental traffic giving the following distribution:



ANNEX 6
1980 Timber Export Forecasts      Page 3
(l000 tons)
Total
Total          Growth & Diversion        Other   Total         Regi-
Cameroon (Ivory Coast exports static)Diversion  Douala   (%  fercam   (%
1,300                900                 4oo     1,180      90  1,000     77
Note:- While some Cameroonian timber may be evacuated via Pointe Noire, this
should be fully compensated by some CAR timber passing through Cameroon.
(ii) Other Cargo
During the period 1962/63-1968/69, the most recent period before
the advent of the Transcameroon extension, total Regifercam freight traffic
grew at over 6% p.a., about 1.2 times the rate of GDP. Although statistics
of total timber traffic are not separately available, data on the main
species indicate a growth rate of under 6%; thus general cargo grew by at
least 6% p.a. During the years 1968/69 to 1972/73, railway general cargo
traffic increased by only 3% annually, a situation largely attributable to
railway capacity limitations arising from rolling stock shortages and
associated operational problems.
GDF is expected to increase by about 47% over 1972/73-1979/80
(about 5% p.a. from 1972/73 to 1975/76, and 6% p.a. thereafter). This may
be considered a minimum rate at which general cargo tonnage will increase.
At the other extreme, if the effect of the rail capacity limitations is
ignored by assuming a traffic growth of 1.2 times the GDP rate on the 1968/69
traffic base, the overall growth over the years 1972/73 to 1979/80 would be
78%. In view of the traffic still to be gained from the Transcameroon
extension, and the possibility that some of the traffie presumably lost to
road transport during 1968/69-1972/73 will be recovered, a midpoint fore-
cast of 62% between 1972/73 and 1979/80 seems reasonable. In view of the
general tendency for high-value import traffie to be particularly vulnerable
to road competition, a below average growth rate has been adopted for this
traffic; conversely, petroleum traffic is eminently suitable for rail
transport, and a higher rate of 82e/o is used.
Non-Timber Traffic
('000 tons)
Estimate               Actual                 Forecast
1962/63          1968/69       1972/73        1979/80
500              710            819          1,380
II.      There are two constraints upon the development of railway traffic:
(i) the speed with which rail services can be improved; and
(ii) port capacity.
Both these factors determine how quickly Regifercam's traffic will attain
the projected traffie trend line between 1972/73 and 1979/80, as well as
subsequent departures from it.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
Traffic volumes during 1973/74 and 1974/75 will be very
sensitive to the speed with which the components of the proposed Loan
can become effective. This is partly a question of availability, partly
of organization. The asumption employed is that adjustment will not
be jimmediate in 1973/74, but that by 1974/75 traffic will be close to
the latest consultant forecasts (see Graph on page 7 of this Annex).
In 1975/76 however, the effective limitation of the port of Douala will
be reached. This has two components, the facilities for general cargo
and those for timber. As a certain amount of timber traffic passes over
general cargo quays, the two are not entirely separate. However, while
a systematic analysis has been made of the capacity limitations likely
to be imposed upon general cargo operations (Table 5), those on timber
traffic are more empirically based. In both cases, the effect, making
full allowance for improved productivity, is to severely restrict the
potential rate of growth in the years 1975 to 1978.
For general cargo, the main problem is to determine when
congestion becomes excessive. For a port of Doualats size, this is at under
900* of theoretical capacity, but it is clear that a moderate excess demand
situation can be sustained for a short period of time, about one or
two years. Thus the assumption is that capacity utilization could rise
to a maximum of 92% in 1978. By the end of that year, it is assumed
that the proposed Douala port expansion will be completed and the capacity
constraint removed, thus enabling the forecast general cargo traffic for
the port, and therefore for the railway, to be attained in 1979/80.
As an undetermined amount of petroleum traffic also passes over
general cargo quays, the same constraint pattern has been adopted.  This
is a conservative assumption.
Log   traffic is constrained until the flat cars provided under
the proposed Loan are added to the existing capacity of Regifercam, which
is estimated as 450,000 tons. Shortly after this bottleneek is overcome,
the port capacity constraint is expected to appear. The existing port's
log capacity is estimated at 650,000 tons per annum; with investment in
handling equipment proposed by the Government, this should rise to
800,000 tons. Even allowing for some further capacity resulting from
early concentration on timber facilities under the proposed port project,
port timber handling capacity will restrict Regifercam's timber traffic
to under 750,000 tons until the first half of 1978/79.
The Graph on page 7 of this Annex shows total forecast rail
traffia volumes, as well as separate forecasts for timber, compared with
the latest consultantsi forecasts.
Passenger Traffic
There are three components of the forecast passenger traffic:
(i) traffic on lines existing before work began on the Transcameroon
extension, (ii) traffic on the Yaounde-Belabo part of the extension,
already built, and (iii) traffic on the Belabo-N'Gaoundere section which
was fully opened in February 1974.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
Increasing competition from road transport on the Douala-Yaounde
route is refleeted in a decline in traffie estimated at about 22 million
pass-km over the period 1971/72-1972/73. This was partly caused by
unreliable railway operations, and consequently the improvements which
would result from the proposed project are expected to slow the rate of
decline and stabilize traffic (though not the share of traffic) in
1976/77 at about 100 million pass-km.  Some further growth of traffic
between Yaounde and Belabo of about 796 p.a. is expected, but the main
potential lies in the Belabo-N'Gaoundere extension. Total traffic fore-
casts and their components are shown in Tables 3 and 4.
B. Effect of Improvements to Edea-Yaounde Road
The consultants have estimated the effect on freight and
passenger traffic of three sets of conditions:
(i)  no railwayimprovements and construction
of a heavy-duty trunk road;
(ii)  complete remodeling of the railway, and
maintenance of the present road; and
(iii)  complete remodeling of the railway, and
construction of a heavy-duty trunk road.
Since the proposed railway project is intermediate between situations
(i) and (iii) above, and since the greatest effect of road improve-
ment woauld be if a heavy-duty trunk road were constructed, the inter-
mediate effect was adopted. It was assumed, in the absence of any
information on the timing of road investment, that 50% of the effect
would be felt in 1975/76, 75% in 1976/77, and the complete effect
in 1977/78. The reductions in freight tonnages on the Douala-Yaoundé
railway are estimated as 25,23 and 22%/ reapsctiv.ly for 1977/78 through
1979/80.
Freight Traffic
The road effect was assumed to be similar for all types of traf-
fie, with differences in the reduction between commodity groups in ton-km
being a function of the differences forecast in the average haul,
and thus in the weighted effect of improvement in the 200 km Edea-
Yaounde road. The net effect for 1979/80 was a below average effect
on timber, an average effect on petroleum, and above average on
general cargo. As general cargo is shorter haul and of higher value,
it is inherently more susceptible to road competition. It is there-
fore possible that the above bias, though directionally correct, may
not be an adequate indicator of the effect on general cargo, and
therefore on railway revenues, if substantial road improvements were
made; but a more precise estimate cannot be made for lack of evidence
on commodity distribution between road and rail. The comparative
traffie volumes for the years affected, with and without the road,
are shown below.



ANNEI 6
Page 6
Freigpht Traffic
(in millions of ton-km)
1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80
Without Road
Timber (loge)     213       253        272       322       385
Petroleum           70       73         77        86       101
General            291      318        334       367       445
Total           574       644       683        775       931
With Road
Timber (logs)     194       221        227       271       332
Petroleum          62        61         60        68        82
General           260       266        278       297       360
Total          516       548       565        636       774
Passenger Traffic
Because passenger traffic on the Douala-Yaounde route is
Mch more locialod than freight, the effect of road improvement ij
less.  On the basis of the distribution ahown in Table 4, the
maximum redaction in pass-km is about 10%.  Coeparative traffic
volumes for 1975/76-1979/80 are shown belows
Passenger Traffic
(inmillions of pass-km)
1975/76   1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80
Without Road             229        235       242       248       260
With Road                223        217       218       223       234



Annex 6
CAMEROON                                Page 7
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Freight Traffic Forecasts
2400o-     -- -                                 '                          , 
(1)rConàmltantrbforecasts (total'traffic)
(2) Bank forecasts (total traffic)
2300 --f3 - Bank -orecasts with improve4 roed          -   -        A  --
(4) Consultant timber forecasts,
2   (5) Bank timber forecasts
2200. 1----------r- --              '                                         t
2100     -- -
2000L
200o;------ ---- --                     (1)   X                       7
190v--
1800k        .(2)                                                   ,                       -1100
1700                                                                - -.                     1000
16o0;                                                                                         900
150C  9                                                                //N800
1400                                                                                            _,,, 700
1300                ,60/0 t 
1200                                                                                          5 '
1100                                                                                          400X_   
1000                                                                                          300
w'
900                                                                                          2 200
E-4  o71/72   72/3     73/4   74/15    -75/6    76/7      7Và- -78/9






ANNEX 7
Page 1
CAMEROON
SECOND RA.IIWAY PROJECT
Construction of the New Japoma Bridge
The Japoma Bridge is a single-track steel girder bridge across the
Dibamba River, near Douala; it has two steel spans of 70 m each, and three
of 60 m, making a total length of 320 m. The bridge is of vital importance
in the railway systemn, as it carries all traffic to and from the capital
city of Yaoundé as well as northern Cameroon. The girders are in a poor
state of repair and require complete overhaul and strengthening. Moreover,
the stability of the whole bridge is imperiled by damage to its piers and
the sinking and tilting of one of them.  Reconstruction of the bridge is
therefore considered as being of high priority, and had been provided for
under the First Railway Project. However, when the possibility of recon-
structing it at the same site was investigated thoroughly, this was found
to prove both difficult and quite uneconomical; it was therefore decided to
build a new bridge 250 m upstream from the present site, and preliminary
engineering studies were carried out by the Office du Chemin de Fer Trans-
camerounais (OCFT), a government agency. OCFT was requested to conduet an
extensive campaign of soundings along the proposed new bridge site and its
vicinity; these tests revealed layers of mud 40 to 50 m deep which would cause
construction difficulties. The plan was therefore abandoned, and a suitable
site found about 150 m downstream from the existing bridge.
The cost of the project was estimated at CFAF 257 million (US$926,000
equivalent), of which CFAF 191 million (about 75%) in foreign exchange. To
allow for possible unforeseen difficulties in construction., this estimate was
increased by an unusually high physical contingency allowance of 20v, making
an estimated total cost of about CFAF 322 million (US$1.2 million).
Tender documents were prepared by Regifercamn, approved by the Bank,
and issued in March 1972. Bidders were requested to make proposals for:
(i) construction of a new bridge with steel deck; (ii) partial reconstruction
of the existing bridge over 130 m between the right bank abutment and pier
No. 2; and (iii) any alternative they considered to be appropriate. Offers
were received in the second half of 1972 for a steel bridge (CFAF 724 million),
a prestressed concrete type bridge (CFAF 550 million), and partial reconstrulction
of the existing bridge. These estimates were all considered too high, and were
rejected by Regifercam.  However, an alternative offer by one bidder to reconstruct
pier No. 1 of the existing bridge, at a cost of CFAF 329 million, received
attention. A soil mechanics expert was asked to advise on the technîcal validity
of this proposal; his opinion was that the type of construction proposed was
very delicate, and could cause the present pier to deconsolidate during the
process of driving new piles. At the same time, he suggested another possible
solution for reinforcement of pier No. 1.  Regifercam then requested the
Laboratoire des Ponts et Chaussées (France) to study both proposals in lieison
with experts on difficult foundations. The report from the Laboratoire has
recently been issued, and it suggests as a possible method for sustaining pier
No. 1 the technique of "Racine" piling which has been used successfully in



Page 2
similar cases. The cost involved was tentatively estimated at about CFAF 250
million. Both Regifercam and the Bank studied this proposal carefully, and
concluded that it still harbored too many uncertainties, and that reconstruc-
tion of a new bridge at a new site vas preferable.
The estimated cost of this new construction (using continuous girders
of pre-stressed concrete) is based on an offer from the proposed contractor
in the amount of CFAF 860 million, to which bas been added a 1096 physical
contingency and 28.30o price contingency, making a total o! CFAF 1,103 million
«US$4.85 million); of this CFAF 911 million (about 75%) is estimated as foreign
costs. As compared with the original estimate, this higher cost results from
all the abovementioned major changes in the bridge design and location, the
longer approaches o! the railvay link to the bridge, and increases since 1969
in the costs of labor and materials.



ANNEX 8
Page 1
CAMEROON
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Tentative Terms of Reference for Consulting Services
ObJective
1.        The objective of the consulting services is to assist Regifercam
in its policy of operating on sound business principles so that it may
play its proper role in the transport sector. Towards this objective, the
consulting services will concentrate on improving the efficiency of op-
erations and the financial situation of Regifercam by providing assis-
tance in the preparation of programs, the implementation of action, and
the training of personnel. The specific areas for consultants' assis-
tance are given below.
Operations
2.        The study of Regifercam's operations vill provide:
(a) a review of all aspects of present train operations,
including freight and passenger timetables, utilization
of motive power and rolling stock (with particular
attention to any variations in equipment productivity
between different commodities and periods of time),
shunting operations in stations, maintenance scheduling
and execution, adequacy of signalling and teleco-muni-
cations systems, control posts, safety probleus, and
staff training;
(b) an analysis of traffic flow characteristics sufficient
to enable identification of existing and potential con-
straints;
(c) recommendations and a program of implementation for
correcting deficiencies and improving operations; and
(d) recommendations for train achedules and personnel train-
ing to meet future requirements.
Costinz
3.        The costing study shall includes
(a) an analysis of the existing system of cost accounting
to establish an improved systex based on direct costing,
so that the contributions of traffic per line and com-
modity to overhead costs can be easily identified, and
an efficient system of budgeting and control imple-
mented;



ANNEX 8
Page 2
(b) recommendations for implementation of the new costing
system, including estimates of time and manpower re-
quired for the individual steps of implementation;
(c) recommendations for the appropriate structure and le-
vel of tariffs, fees, etc. for each of Regifercam's
services (including the manner and timing of intro-
ducing appropriate tariff changes), which would allow
Regifercam to meet its financial targets; and
(d) a preliminary analysis of co0ts per line and commodity
to provide recommendations for an appropriate structure
and level of the major tariffs for passengers and freight
until results of the new costing system are available.
Commercial
4.       TThe present commercial organization will be reviewed to pro-
vide:
(a) an identification of the commodities and geographical
areas in which Regifercam's competitive position is
strongest, currently and in the future, with particular
attention paid to developments in competing modes of
transport;
(b) an assesoment of the commodities and areas in which de-
mand for Regifercam's services are likely to be sensi-
tive to tariff changes;
(c) recommendations for the marketing services required to
establish and maintain contact between Regifercam and
its customers, to advise customers of the implioations
of the new costing system, and to ensure adjustment in
services to changing patterns of demande;
(d) a forecast of the future patterns and volumes of traf-
fic in sufficient detail to enable adequate short and
long-term financial planning to be undertaken; and
(e) recommendations for a program implementing improvements
in the commercial fields;
Management
5.        The present administration and its procedures shall be reviewed
to:
(a) establish a simple job analysis program, and numbers
of staff required by function and by department;



ANNEX 8
Page 3
(b) establish an improved systea for short and medium-term
corporate planning and control, including marketing,
pricing, operations, personnel, investment and finances; and
(c) provide recommendations for management training.
ImDplementation
6.        The consultants shall assist Regifercam in implementing the re-
commendations resulting from the foregoing, and in the training of per-
sonnel. The consulting services are expected to require about 120 man-
months of experts'time over a period of about 30 months. Regifercam will1
provide the consultants with all necessary data. It will also assign one
counterpart to each member of the consultants' teau, either on a full-time
basis or from time to time as required.






ANNEX 9
Page 1
CAMEROON
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Details of Economic Evaluation
A.  Track Reneval
Benefits
The benefits associated with renewal are the avoidance of costs due
to the following:
(a)  increased operating time as a result of broken rails;
(b)  derailments and associated probkems: danger to life;
damage to rolling stock; reduction in line capacity due
to temporary line closure; increased turn-around time
for rolling stock; and loss of passenger traffic to less
economical road transport; and
(c) additional maintenance on broken rails.
(a) Broken Rails
During 1971/72, the number of broken rails totalled 89, double the
level of the previous year. Most of the breaks occur on sections with 26 kg
rail laid in 1927. The number of these accidents is expected to increase
rapidly as the track deteriorates further; on Otele-Yaounde an estimated 150
accidents will occur in 1975, with increases of about 10% annually to 1981,
if present conditions are maintained.
Tbh del1y involWed as a resuit of on. *ccident in estiiated at 3
hours for the first train, and 1-1/2 hours for the second train.  However, given
the forecast traffic increases, the time of the average delay vill rise at a
rate averaging 1096 p.a., making due allowance for the effect of improved
telecommunications. The costs associated with these delays include:
(j)  additional working time for the crew whose salary is
valued at 180,000 CFAF/3 man_months;
(ii) crew repair unit whose cost is valued at 4,250 CFAF/occurrençe;
and
(iii)  utilization of a gang-car valued at 3,000 CFAF/occurrence.



(costs in CFAF million)
(i              (ii)            (iii)
Crew's           Repair
Time         salary            unit          Gang-car         Number
Number bro-        lost         180,000           4,250            3,000          wagons       Tbtal
Year         ken rails        (hours)       CFAF/ronth      CFAF/occur.      CFAF/occur.     per train  (i) - (iii)
1976            165             5.0           0.825            0.700            0.495            24           2.0
1977            182             5.5           1.000            0.775            0.545            26           2.4
1978             200            6.o           1.200            0.850            0.600            27           2.7
1979            220             6.6           1.450            0.935           o.660             29           3.0
1980             242            7.2           1.74o            1.030            0.725            29           3.5
1981             266            8.0           2.130            1.130            o.800            29           4.0
Ik 



ANNEX 9
Page 3
(b)      Derailments
In 1971/72, there were 105 derailments on Douala-Yaounde, half
of them caused at least partly by the condition of the track. It is es-
timated that on Otele-Yaounde, at least 26 derailments will occur in 1976,
and that this number will increase by an average of 10%6 each year there-
after.
The unit cost of a derailment is difficult to assess; however,
probability estimates show that the cost is about 4.50/o of the value of
the material involved (item (i)). Other costs involved in derailments
include:
(ii) increase in turnaround time for locomotives and rolling
stock;
(iii) the passengers lost to road transport when trains are
cancelled; assuming that 85%o of passengers on central
line travel through Otele Yaounde, 33 % are lost to road
which costs h.38 CFAF/km extra; and
(iv) the temporary line closure which might result on Otele-
Yaounde section, thereby reducing the capacity of the
line.
Assurning that 1 locomotive and 4 wagons are involved in 50%  of the ac-
cidents, the cost incurred from derailment is as follows:



(Costs in CFA' miillion)
WS)(i                                ii                      (iv)                (v)        (ari)II
Cost due to
Number                                        increasdai                         Annual   Cost
locomo-  Cost   Nunber                      turn-arozid   Number                 number    657    Sa-rings in    Total
Number   tives    of    wagons   Cost   Number  time of lcnomo- wagons    Cost of   passen- CFAF/            avoidance      (i)
derail-   in-    loco-    in-       of    trains   tives-16,560       per   wagons-350   gers   passen-  of capacity   thru
Year   ments  volved  motives volved wagons(freight)   CFAF/occir.   train   CFAF/occur. ('000)   gers              reduction    (viL
1976    25      12       54       48      7.6      12           5.2          24        2.6        942    14.9           4        88.3
1977    28       14      63       58      9.1      13           6.3          26        3.4        968    17.1          13       111.9
'yid   29       15       67.5    60       9.5      14           7.5          27        4.2        997    19.4         18        136.1
1979    33       16      72       66     10.4      15           9.3          29        5.7      1,037    22.1          68       187.5
1980    36       18      81       74     11.7      16          11.0          29        6.7      1,078    25.6          -        136.0
1981    43       21      94.5    86      13.5      19          13.6          29        8.3      1,122    29.3          -         159.2
1/  The assumptions are that:(i) obstruction occurs per 3/4 day, (ii) one section train and 2 service
trains are suppressed for 2 days,and (iii) two passenger trid:s are suppressed.
:JCl



ANNE 9
Page 5
(c)       Maintenance
A special maintenance team has been set-up to lubricate the rails
on a weekly basis.  The additional number of workers is estimated at 0.5
man/km.
Increase in Maintenance
Total Savings
Number of Workers/km                  Saving          (CFAF/million)
Year         Actual          Normal
1976           1.2              .7             *5                   8.3
1977           1.3              .7             .6                  9.8
1978           1.3              .7              .6                 9.8
1979           1.4              .7             .7                 11.3
1980           1.4              .7              .7                11.3
1981           1.5              .7             .8                 12.8
Assumptions:    Lengtht   42 km
Workers' Salarys   30,000 CFAF/month
1 Supervisors   60,000 CFAF/month
(d)       Cost/Benefit Analysis
The rate of return on the track renewal item amounts to over 120/o.
(CFAF million)
Benefit       Benefit        Benefit          Total
Cost          a)            (b)            (c)          Benefits
1976       76 W          2.0            88.3           8.3             98
1977         0           2.4           111.9           9.8            124
1978         O           2.7           136.1           9.8            149
1979         0           3.0           187.5          11.3            202
1980         02/         3.5           136.0          11.3            151
1981      -32e-          4.0           159.2          12.8            176
(e)       Sensitivity Analysis
Assuming a lower rate of growth of timber and general cargo traffic
(Annex 6), the rate of return is reduced to a still satisfactory 9-1/2%o.
1/ At 1973 prices.
2/ Residual value of rails.



ANNEX 9
Page 6
B. Breakdown Crane
The track realignment expected by end-1979 will reduce, but not
eliminate, the frequency of derailments. Consequently, there are benefits to
be obtained from provision of an additional breakdown crane. These comprise:
(a) reduction in delay to trains through a reduction in the average crane-
travelling time to the scene of an accident, (b) an increase in equipment
productivity through reduced idle-time resulting from derailment, (c) increased
line capacity resulting from an increase in the number of daily train movements.
No maintenance costs are shown in the cost stream as these will probably be small
enough to be fully offset by unquantified crane benefits, such as its potential
use for lifting heavy loads onto cars, etc. Benefits (a) and (b) will apply from
the time of introduction of the crane, i.e. from 1976 onward. However, benefit
(c) applies only to 1978 and 1979, years when the demand for line capacity will
exceed that available without the new breakdown crane, and before effective line
capacity is increased through realignment.
(a) The number of derailments in 1971/72 totalled 195, more than half of
them occurring on the main line between Douala and Yaounde. It has been esti-
mated that improvements to the Otele-Yaounde line will reduce the number of
derailments in 1976 by 26. With increased traffic, the number of derailments
on the main line (for reasons other than poor track between Otele and Yaounde)
is expected to reach 150. It is also assumed that:
(i)  50% of the derailments-would involve heavy locomotives
(CC 2,400 or 4B 3,600) or large wagons, and would there-
fore require the use of heavy-duty cranes;
(ii)  a Poisson distribution of derailments is used; and
(iii)  one of the two large cranes will be based in Douala
and the other in Yaounde.
Causes of Derailments
Traffic
Condition
TKm     %          of Track       Other      Total
Douala-Yaounde         400    71              20            90        110
Yaounde-Belabo         100    18               2            23         25
Belabo-Ngaoundere       60   il                1            14         15
The average distance to be travelled by the heavy-duty crane would
therefore be 184 kcm; if another crane is purchased and located in Douala, the
average distance would be reduced to 130 km. A crane travelling at an average
speed of 25 km/h would take 7-½ hours to reach the scene of the accident.
Moreover, it can be estimated that it takes on the average at least 10 hours
(in some cases, it can take several days) to clear the site. Traffic interrup-
tion might therefore last for about 18 hours.



ANNEX 9
Page 7
Using a Poisson distribution, the probability of having two major
derailments on the same day between Douala and Yaounde is 2%.
If a new crane is purchased, the time lost per derailment will be
reduced by about two hours. Trains circulating over a 24-hour period will be
affected by this reduction.
Savings
Year              Number daily trains              Savings
(in each direction)         (millions CFAF)
1976                      15                         1.5
1977                      16                         1.6
1978                      17                         1.7
1979                      19                         1.9
1980                      20                         2.0
1981-95                     22                         2.2
Assumptions
N'umber of derailments on Douala-Yaounde:  55
Time lost:  2 hours x 55 = 110 hours = 4.58 days;
Number of derailments on Yaounde-Ngaoundere:  20
Time lost: ½ (reduced traffic) x 2 hours x 20      .84 days;
Number of derailments occurring simultaneously: 2%
Time lost: 2< x 75 = 1.50 days
Total time lost: 4.58 + .84 + 1.50 = 6.92 days
Salary: Driver (80,000 CFAF/month); 2 crewmen (50,000 CFAF/month);
Total Salary per day: 180,000/25 = 7,200 CFAF/day
(b) In Equipment Tied Up
Number Wagons /
Year       Total Savin&s          per train           Total Savings
(Unit: 22,222                               (Unit: 467
CFAF/loco-day)                             CFAF/Car-day)
1976           4.61                    24                 2.33
1977           4.92                    26                 2.69
1978           5.23                    27                 2.97
1979           5.84                    29                 3.56
1980           6.15                    29                 3.75
1981-93          6.77                    29                 4.12
1/ Freight only.



ANNEX 9
Page à
(c) In line capacity
number of trains saved for every occurrence
From avoidance of
more than one derailment
Saving (i)                 Saving (ii)
1978      1979      Number derailments       (Poisson distribution)
Total  Percentage            (Percentage>
Jan.        1         1         5.6       10.2                   1.8
Feb.        1         1         5.6       10.2                   1.8
Mar.        -         1         14.8        8.8                  1
Apr.        -         1         4.8        8.8                   1
May         -         1         4.8        8.8                   1
June        -         1         4.8        8.8                   1
July        -         1         4.6        8.4                   1
Aug.        -         -         3.4        6.3                   0.5
Sept.       -         -         2.3        4.2                   0.2
Oct.        -         -         3.4        6.3                   0.5
Nov.        1         1         5.3        9.6                   1.5
Dec.        1         1         5.3        9.6                   1.5
number of trains saved
(i)  1978   26 trains x 672 tons/train x 300 km = 5.242 million TKm
1979   46 trains x 672 tons/train x 300 km - 9.275 million TKm
(ii)  Poisson distribution
1978   5 YJ trains x 672 tons/train x 300 km = 1.010 million TKm
1979   9 2  trains x 672 tons/train x 300 km = 1.815 million TKm
unit savings
cost of transport by truck:     14.27  CFAF/TKm
cost of transport by rail:       9.01  CFAF/TKm
75.26 CFAF/TKm
Total Savings
1978: 32.89 million CFAF
1979: 58.33 million CFAF
1/ o.36 x 14
É/0.55 x 16



hNNEX 9
Page 9
Cost/Benefit Analysis
(CFAF millions)
Benefit      Benefit      Benefit        Total
Cost        ()(b)                      (c)        Benefits
1975        1                         -
1976       -            1.5           6.9           _            8.4
1977         -          1.6           7.6           -            9.2
1978         _          1.7           8.2         32.9          42.8
-1979         -         1.8           9.4          58.3          69.5
1980         -          2.0           9.9           -           11.9
1981-93        -          2.2         10.9            _           13.1
The rate of return on the investment in a new crane will be about 24h%o.
C. Log Cars (Flat-Cars)
If railway capacity becomes inadequate for timber transport,
two alternative solutions exist:
(1) troasportation by road; or
(2) no production at all.
The cgst of road transport has been estimated by consultants
OCCR/Sofrerail?J in their recent study of realignment of the Douala-
Yaounde line. They consider that on a poor road the cost would be as
follows:
Type of              Percentage  Weighted cost with   Weighted cost with
truck   Unit Cost  of traffic  loan factor of 60%6  load factor of 80%9
(CFAF/TKm)                   (CFAF/TKm)            (CFAF/TKm)
800 kg     87.86         5°b              7.32                  _
4 T      29.02        25 6            12.09                 10.882/
8 T      21.02        70 $            24.752                18.39
73.94                29.27
However, this means an average transport cost of about 12,000 CFAF/ton
which would make any forest exploitation unprofitable, except for high
values species.
If the roads were improved, costs would be substantially lower,
and the consultants have produced the folloving estimates.
Type of                             Percentage          Weighted cost with
truick          Unit Cost          of traffic          load factor of 80%
(CFAF/TKm)                                  (CFAF/TKm)
12 T             12.57                200                     3.14
24 T              8.00                20e,                    1.98
28 T              7.41               60°h                     5.55
10.67
1/ At 1973 prices.
2/ OCCJ/Sofrerail:  Etude de l'Aménagement de' la Ligne Centrale Douala-
Yaounde (March 1973), pp. 129 and 142.
/ Assume % in traffic is 3096%



ÂNNEI 9
Page 10
Allowing for the costs per freight ton-km of road improvement, this increases
to approximately 14.7 CFAI/ton-km. This would represent an average coet of
about 5,850 CFAF/ton which would make timber production competitive.
Theoretically speaking, two different sets of figures should
be used in the cost/benefit analysis:
(1) the value added lost during the construction period of
a road axis for heavy traffic; and
(2) the differences in transport coste following such con-
struction.
It is extremely difficult to assesa the precise amount of value-
added which should be used both for timber and for other cargo, since there
has been no recent study which can provide a basis for this assessment. A
September 1972 study by the Bank's Permanent Mission in Western Africa ar-
rived at a value-added percentage of about 30%9 on low value species (e. g.
ayous), making a total of about 3,000-4,000 CFAF/ton.
In this analysis, however, only the comparative costs by rail
and by truck on a high-standard road were considered, thoereby reaching a
rate of return which can be considered au a minimum. The coste include
not only the investment cost of flat cars, but also the cost of the lo-
comotives needed to pull the trains.
unit cost of freight cars    10,000,000 CFAF
unit cost of locomotives    190,000,000 CFAF
A locomotive travels 100,000 km a year. Unit cost of a shunt-
ing locomotive is 60,000,000 CFAF.
A freight car will do 2 x 45 x 400 - 36,000 km; considering
trains of 25 flat cars, one locomotive is needed for 100.000 x 25 - 69 wagons -
34 wagons, as double traction is used.                36,000            2
If loge are transported by truck, transhipment charges are avoided;
these have been estimated at 700 CFAF/ton for a total of  x 700 = 1,1400
CFAF/ton.  The benefit per ton-km is equal to 14.7 - 9.0   5.7 CFAF/ton-km.
This gives a net annual benefit per fully utilized car of about 2.5 million CFAF.
Because the total number of flat-cars are not immediately required in 1976,
the full benefit does not appear until 1978.
Nurber of           Total Net
Investment Co0t       Cars Required          Benefit
(CFAF million)                           (CFAF million)
1976                 1,920                  71                  175
1977                     0                  95                  236
1978                     O                 100                  250
1979-94                    0                 100                  250
1995                 - 370                 100                  250
Regifercam's Annual Report and data.



ANNEX 9
Page 11
Locoiotives are assumed to have a life of 20 years, and freight cars a
life of 30 years (therefore residual value).
The rate of return on these cars is about 1390, which is acceptable
in view of the conservative assumption being made that there will be no
return load on the cars. Some construction material traffic may well be
carried.
À sensitivity analysis was carried out to take account of timber
traffic growing at only the long-term (1953-68) average rate. This re-
duoed the rate of return to 10*6 which is still acceptable.
D. Box Cars
The same type of analysis is applicable as for log cars. The
optimum truck size for general cargo traffic is probably lower than for
log cars, at about 12 tons. However, the load factor should be greater,
at 80/% , giving a unit cost of 15.7 CFAF/ton-km. Also, the transhipment
costs are lower, as most trains come directly into the port area. An
average of 1-1/2 movements instead of 2 has been employed giving a cost
per Journey of 1,050 CFAF. The cost of necessary motive power is also
included.
There are other factors which make the annual benefit per box
ear less than for log cars, i.e. lower capacity and seasonal variance in
usage. The net effect is that the annual benefit per car is about 1.9
million CFAF.
The motive power required is equivalent to about half a loco-
motivels annual output. Ail the boxcars are not required in 1976, but
they will be tully utilized in the following year.
Investment Cost      Number of Cars      Total Net Benefit
(CFAF million)         Required           (CFAF million)
1976               270                  15                    35
1977                                    25                    47
1978-94             -                   25                    47
1995               -50                  25                    47
The rate of return on these cars is 1996 which in satisfactory. A sensi-
tivity analysis assuming the traffic growth rate to be 20%» lover still
gives an acceptable rate of return of 140h.



ANNEX 9
Page 12
E. Freight-Car Bogies
Therefore, the economic Justification for purchase of the 100
bogies in the project depends upon whether this is the least cost solution
to the problem of.providing freight-carrying capacity.  The cost of recon-
ditioning is about $9,400 per car (bogies $7,050 and labor $2,350). Since
new cars would cost about $14,000 for box cars and $40,000 for flat cars,
rehabilitation of existing cars is therefore the least cost solution.
F. Radio-link and Single Turnouts
These items are considered necessary to ensure the operational
improvemonts forecast. The radio-link will supplement the existing commu-
nications system; the turnouts will improve operational flextbility. As
they account in total for only 40h of project costs, no separate rate of
return calculations w,ere possible.
G. Total ProJect
Tihe rate of return on the total project, excluding the Japoma Bridge
and the bogies, and including the cost of consulting services, in juat under 13%.



ANNEX 10
Page 1
CAMEROON
SECOND RAILWAY PROJECT
Economic Justification for Continued Operation of Regifercam
The economie justification for maintaining the Cameroon railway
system in operation, if necessary through subsidies or similar means, is
that for over 600/o of forecast freight traffic, the railway is clearly the
least-cost transport form. For the remaining traffic, the railway's
economic advantage is very sensitive to the standard of improvement of
the Edea-Yaounde road, the size of vehicle which could consequently operate
on it, and Government policy with respect to charges for road use. The
following c  Jculations are based on the consultants' analysis of road and
rail costs.îY
Situation 1 - No road improvement
The maximum vehicle capacity would remain 4 tons in the wet season
and 10 tons in the dry season, these being the maximum loads sustainable
without very rapid deterioration of the road.  The weighted average cost per
ton-km of such road transport is estimated in the range of 26-35 CFAF, depend-
ing on the load co-efficient (from 80 to 600co respectively). Short-run
marginal rail costs are estimated as 9 CFAF/ton-km; making allowance for
attribution of project and modal transfer costs to the incremental traffic
increases this cost to about 12 CFAF, thus leaving the railway the least-cost
transport mode by a substantial margin.
Situation 2 - Roadimproved to heavy-duty standard
If this occurred, much larger vehicles could be carried. Depending
upon the "mix" of vehicle sizes and the load co-efficient, vehicle costs
could be as low as Il COAF/ton-km, ranging up to about 17 CFAF/ton-km.
However, attribution of the cost of constructing and maintaining the road to
the incremental traffic adds about 5 CFAF/ton-km to the cost of road transport.
Thus, if these road costs are included in the overall cost of the alternative
solution of constructing a heavy-duty road, rail transport is still the least-
cost solution, though by a smaller margin than in Situation 1 above. The fact
that the capacity of the road would be substantially in excess of the demands
placed upon it by the incremental traffic is irrelevant.
Rail                       Road
(with project investment)  (Upgraded to heavy duty)
Costs per ton-km (C?ÂF) for
incremental traffic                    9 + 3 - 12               min. il + 5 = 16
max. 17 + 5 = 22
1  OCCRVSofrerail:  Etude de l'Ameiagement de la Ligne Centrale Douala-Yaoundé
(March 1973), pp. 129 and 142.



ANNEI 10
Page 2
The more general characteristics of the main commodity groups transported
are described below:
Timber
The existing road Douala-Yaoundé is inadequate to carry vehicles
heavier than 8 tons on average. Although transfer to rail involves costs
which do not apply to direct road vehicle services, the substantially greater
unit costs per ton-km by road (long-run marginal costs) make these services
theoretically uncompetitive beyond a distance of about 50 km. However, if
the Edea-Yaoundé road is improved to heavy-duty standard, the possible truck
size increases substantially. For this reason, competition from road ser-
vices is very sensitive to three factors: size of vehicle, utilization
factor, and extent of road vehicle contribution to road costs.
At one extreme, with a 28-ton vehicle fully utilized and making no
contribution to road costs, road traffic can undercut rail at all distances
(within the limits of suitable road conditions). At the other extreme, with
only 600o utilization and making full contribution to road capital costs at
10//o and also to maintenance costs, the competitive limit is about 150 km.
The most reasonable assumption is that 800/o utilization is achieved, and that
road charges reflMect only 500/o of total costs (the maintenance element). On
that basis, the break-even with 28-ton road vehicles occurs at 550 km. How-
ever, as the paved road system north of Yaoundé extends only for 170 km to
Nonga Eboko, it follows that heavy road vehicles can compete only over 470 km
of the railway route from Douala.
Only a small proportion of 1972/73 timber traffic originated beyond
470 km.  However, between one-third and one-half of the 1979/80 forecast
volume is expected to pass through Belabo (600 km). This would not be subject
to serious competition, and consequently would continue to require rail service
to Douala.  The remainder would be subject to competition, but as the main
railway timber loading point at Eseka is some distance from the,road, compe-
tition would be constrained.  Also, it is considered that only 70/o of road
vehicles for timber traffic would be of 28-ton capacity, thus 3096 would be
only marginally competitive. In view of this, the road is considered competi-
tive for only half this traffic (or one-third of total forecast timber traffic),
and the railwey is therefore not necessarily the least cost mode.
Cotton Traffic from North Cameroon and Transit Traffic from Chad
Road competition for this traffic between N'Gaoundere and Douals
is limited by four factors: (i) the gravel road north of Nanga Eboko is
not suitable for vehicles heavier than 8 tons; (ii) the traffic volume is
in any case insufficient to justify large vehicles; (iii) it is doubtful
if the expense is worthwhile of consolidating traffic at Yaounde where,
if the road vere improved, larger vehicles vould be available for the re-
maining journey to Douala; and (iv) the road between N'Gaoundere and
Yaounde is approxiuately 1-1/2 times the distance by rail (880 km against
600 km). Thus rall transport is clearly the least-co8t mode for this traf-
fic.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
Petroleua
The existing traffic flows between Douala and Yaounde, from
where it îs distributed by road.  It is thus uni-directional traffic, and
even if 28-ton road vehicles were employed, they would be unable to
achieve more than 5o°/o utilization. The savings that would accrue to
vehicles in avoiding double-tracking to areas between Yaounde and Douala
are insignificant; only 20% of petroleu discharged at Yaounde is thus
affected. As 40-ton tank-wagons are employed on the railway, and the
productivity (in ton-km per annum) of petroleum wagons is more than three
times the average for general cargo, the marginal costs of operation are
almost certainly lower than average.  This traffic is therefore unlikely
to be subject to significant road competition, even if the road is im-
proved.
Alumina
Alucam raw material (alunmina) traffie is carried on the company's
wagons which have a high productivity of about 700,000 ton-km per annum.
As these wagons operate in block trains between Douala and the factory at
Edea,and as the wagon capital cost is sunk, there is no likelihood of sub-
stitution of road for rail transport, either wlth or without road improve-
ment.
Other Traffic
Traffic from the above commodity groups accounts for three-
quarters of forecast total traffic (in ton-km) in 1979/80 (about 609b in
1972/73). The remaining traffic comprises miscellaneous imports, and ex-
ports of cocoa and small volume production. These commodity groups are
carried over average distances of about 300 km, largely to and from the
Yaounde area; they are therefore sensitive to road competition if the
road is improved. However, the volumes involved are unlikely to be suf-
ficiently high to justify the use of very large trucks - probably 12-ton
maximum. Thus road competition on the basis of identified costs would
be limited to 120 to 160 km (see line j of Graph attached).  However,
identified costs probably do not fully reflect costs of delay, which is
usually greater for rail than for road transport. Thus a longer break-
even distance for these high-value commodities is likely, and this leads
to the break-even probably being about 240 km (based upon European ex-
perience). Applied to Cameroon, this would indicate that for about 80%6
of Douala-Yaounde "other traffic", the railway would not provide a signi-
ficant saving in transport costs.
The table below shows the composition of railway traffic by
comodity, for which the railway is clearly the least cost transport mode.



ANNEX 10
Page 4
PercentaRe of Railway Freight Traffic by Columodity
Edea-Yaounde                        Chad and
road conditions  Timber  Petroleum   Cotton   Alucam  Other  TOTAL
1972/73      Existing        83       100        100      100      82     88
1979/80      Existing        89       100        100      100      80     90
1979/80      Improved        65       100        100      100      20     64
Trafffic tr Commodity as_Percenta&e of Total
1972/73                      29        13         14         3     41    100
1979/80                      46        il         16         2     25    100



ANWEX 10
Page c
Rail/Road Long-Run Variable Cost Comparisons-/
i (1)  Rail with 2 transfer ope4ations (timber traffic)           l
j,  (2) ,  "'~    "  .          .1  ,n _.(general var.o)                            -
-  (3) jRoad unimproved 8-ton tr4ck
k -  Q.)  Road  nmproved 12-ton tru.k,            _,
(5)  Road improved 28-ton truck (+12 ton trucklbeyond 470 km)
10000  `.
9000   --  ---  -   .    .         ,     `                (t5)/
goo
7000 /  .' 
4,            ~~~~~(3)
6000 
2000
1000
100    200        300    400        5o0    600       700     800       900
Distance (Ian)
1/ Based upon OCCR Report (Sept. 1973) and Regifercam data






CAMEROON RAILWAYS ORGANIZATION
| BOAROD
GENERAL MANAE
DIRECTOR                                D EPUTY                                                           DEPUTY
GENERAL MANAGER                                                  GENEJRAL   AAE
ADMINISTRATION AND FINANCE                  STU|IES, PLANNING,                                                                                   TRACK AND BUILDINGS
CrONUTOROL 0F BUD1GET
<41 1 , ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OI , SFE
STO|CK      T |POWR    COMMUNICATIONS     T          UD
WodId Bank - 8796






CAMEROON RAILWAYS
TRACK CHARACTERISTICS
KILOMETERS           RAILS KG        SLEEPERS       N KOF SLOEPERSIKm.    WELOING              BALLAST                                                                    NGAOUNDERE K- 935
WE LDIN 3
DOUALA-BELABO
0     Io 104             30          SIooI 30 Kg              1750             ConO,nuo,           5000
104    go  .49250          36          Concrete Rs             1357                 "               700
g4920O gO 17370            35          Conrege SIL             1357                                 700
173500    1Sd             36           Stee 3BKg               100                                  700
tS5    go 2 3             30           SmO 20 KgS              16500                                400                                                                NGAOUNDAL K.. 798
218    go 248200           76          CooegSL                 1357                                  700
243200 go 202              26          S-eel 26 Kg.            100                                   700
202    o. 266500           36          S-gî 26 Kg.             15000                                 700
266500 to 276              36          Conoge-e RS             1357                                  700
276    go 2S3              26          StO 26Kg                1500             Not 040drd 5         400
280     g  300             20          Ogeo 26 Kg.             1500              ogoog               70
306    go 491              30          Steel 30 Kg.            1500                                  9000
497    îo 703              30          Wood                    1500             42 A. -ogO î02       900                                                         MBITOM  Ko. 706
700     o 19 35            30          Steel 30 Kg.            1500             Co9t,ggous           000
OTELE-MBALMAYOt
o      go 357°0          26           Sel 26 Kg.                                - 1500  No, ggOIO  40u
DOUALA-NKONGSAMBA
0     go   1            3 30         SO 3  Kg                t1500            W.Id                 500
o      o  L              30           ceel30 Kg.              100             Wel40                500
11     g  I23200          20          Sgeeî 27.8 Kg.           1500             Nog oe0d.d           300
134300 g 3670             27.S        S-e 27. Kg.              15                                    300                                                  BELABO Km. 601
13d700 oo 160             20          S-el 27.8 Kg.           1500                                 300
MBANGA-KUMBA
o     go 97              27.         OgelI 3708 Kg.           0000             4Dm8. ,J            700A
NANGA.060KO Km. 477
NKONGSAMBA Km. 160
M8BANIJOCK Km. 406
. LEGEND
NLOHE Km. 115                                                                                                                                                                                20 Kg.  Germg  1800 T/km.
30 Kg. Standard 1500 T/km. St-el
KUMBA Km. 2R Renewal of 143 Km                                                                                                                      OBALA Km  344,500                                               30 Kg. Standard 1750 T/ko.
g    0-d 1978/O                                                                                                      27,8  Kg. Germ- 150û T/km.
M6ANGA Ko. 0                                                                                                                                                                               26 Kg, Frc           1500 T/km.
65                                                                   _             ~        \            X nYAOUNDE K.. 308
I | -              \AOIJNI36 Km.i,7J7! 3087EtKsfflr!dNf:>r ~36 Kg. R.   En EoblocSle,e   1357 T/ko,
Reo-WooI of 42 Km unde                                          36 Kg Rails oo36 Kg0 Slegpers 1560  T/ko.
\  |   MAKAK         <           Bank's 2od railway proiect=                                     36 Kg. Rol, on 26 Kg. Slegpers 1500 T/km.
/ Km. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~218.5û002/
0 tL EDEA Km. 84                                           .                    .:    MBALMAYO Km  37                                                36 Kg. Stagdard on mood  Sleepe 1500 T/km.
BONABERI K  1L
m.    .1 f 52.5 K.  -d.,                                               of f804 Km  fiESE    K Ad
Renemal of 52.5 Ko, under                                        from         fdc                                                                                       Wo,;1 Oa.,  7806 (2R)
to,'  -s I-îî,Y PgoJoCI                                      ro  oa  ud






I t _ VV-~~~~~~~~~~~ r ~~Z ___ _It    te  4(1fiOif  
2  I      4        ' X                    f                                        :  B;           0   a   ,t  1;  E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Çà                   q>              » \    c  u : R  v       M   i f f   f  f:I             | I l l m O               zm         i  x  ° ' S _ '
' ` s > tjv,_9 < b < ra n' l 9 s <$s ) ' X }~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
f 4    0    g X  |2 4 10    . " 9 o6 | <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
+/£Xxjg°X °(-/4 902 É t   \    O   ;n      y  ;  ; 
} n n:~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~ ~ 3;Ç  3  <   <\        \     é ;   : 2    2    r: t      ;   >:                0  : $    ; : ;: :       i     :
,, 2F.'j                                                 >    <    -    * -(;=i                                                  L              :   i
a ° I J!|s ~~~~~~~~~~~e- s,
5   ;   AV W;;                                                                                                     :  :   t i        
U oI3l$                          1 Â                                               )/          :J                       4  : L;     fi:     A   :



