Page  1
 CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2937-0 MAG
Development Credit Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated May 1, 1997
CREDIT NUMBER 2937-0 MAG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated May 1, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of the 
Association, adopted on June 26, 1996, the Board of Governors of  the Association has 
established an interim trust fund (Interim Fund) with funds contributed by certain 
members of the Association;
      (B) the Borrower and the Association, as administrator of the Interim Fund, have 
entered into an Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement (Structural Adjustment 
Credit) dated March 14, 1997 (the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement) for the 
purpose of providing support for a program of actions, objectives and policies 
referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement and designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the Program);
      (C) the Borrower has requested the Association to provide further assistance in 
support of the Program by providing an additional credit in an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 400,000); 
and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower by making a Credit in one 
tranche as hereinafter provided upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof 
set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
"'Project' means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Development 
Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.";
(b)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
(c)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the currency of the deposit 
account specified in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit Agreement." 
(d)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from the Credit Account the 
proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement and of these General Conditions.
(e)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(f)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“If (a) the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a 
continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Association determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the Credit will not be 
required to finance the Project's costs to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, or (c) at any time, the Association determines, with respect to any contract 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices 
were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit 
during the procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower having 
taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such contract 
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, or (d) at any time, the Association determines that the procurement of any 
contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit is inconsistent with the 
procedures set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement and 
establishes the amount of the expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (e) 
after the Closing Date, an amount of the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from the 
Credit Account, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such 
notice, such amount of the Credit shall be cancelled.”
(g)
Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the program 
referred to in the Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by 
the Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit."; and
(h)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
Page  3
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the 
Association the first request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter 
maintain in its central bank, a deposit account in dollars on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association.  All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be 
deposited by the Association into the Deposit Account.
(b)
Subject to the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, the Borrower 
shall be entitled to use the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account 
and deposited in the Deposit Account in support of the Program.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of 
the Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure excluded pursuant 
to the provisions of said Schedule 1, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Association, (i) deposit into the deposit account referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Association 
shall so request, refund such amount to the Association.  Amounts refunded to the 
Association upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for 
cancellation.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three\1efourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
February 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 2007 and ending February 15, 2037. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on February 15, 2017 shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by:
Page  4
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph 
(a) above falling six months or more after the date on which the Association notifies 
the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such 
repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest rate at an 
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program.
Section 3.02. Upon the Association's request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the deposit account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(b)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the date of the Association's request for such audit, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said deposit 
account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Page  5
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01 (b) of the General Conditions: namely, that all conditions precedent to the 
effectiveness of the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement have been fulfilled, 
and the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement has been declared effective.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Antananarivo 101
Madagascar
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINFIN
       22489
Antananarivo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
By /s/ Tantely Andrianarivo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  6
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance the following expenditures:
1.
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association shall have financed or agreed 
to finance under another loan; 
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated 
by the Association by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112            --
Alcoholic beverages
121
        --
Tobacco, unmanufactured, 
       tobacco refuse
122
        --
Tobacco, manufactured (whether
or not containing tobacco
substitutes)
525
        --
Radioactive and
associated materials
667
        --
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones, unworked 
or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and
parts thereof, fuel elements
(cartridges), nonirradiated 
for nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897 
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths' or 
silversmiths' wares (including 
set gems)
971
       --
Gold, nonmonetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party, and any other goods designated as environmentally 
hazardous by agreement between the Borrower and the Association); and
6.
in furtherance of the purposes of Section 5.01 of the General Conditions, 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank 
or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories, or (b) on 
Page  7
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.
