Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N012 MAG
Interim Fund 
Development Credit Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Credit)
between
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the interim trust fund established 
with funds contributed by certain members of International 
Development Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 of the 
Board of Governors of International Development Association
Dated March 14, 1997
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N012 MAG
INTERIM FUND 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 14, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) as administrator (the 
Administrator) of the interim trust fund (Interim Fund) established with funds 
contributed by certain members of the Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 
(the Interim Fund Resolution) of the Board of Governors of  the Association, adopted 
on June 26, 1996.
WHEREAS (A) by the Interim Fund Resolution the Interim Fund has been 
established, constituted of the funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association and administered by the Association acting as Administrator of the Interim 
Fund, in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution;
(B)
the Administrator has received a letter, dated November 12, 1996, from 
the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower's economy (hereinafter called the 
Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the Program, and 
requesting assistance from the Administrator in support of the Program during the 
execution thereof; and
(C)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Administrator has decided 
in support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making an 
Interim Fund Credit in one tranche as hereinafter provided;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof 
set forth below, (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(a)
The term “Association”, wherever used in the General Conditions means the 
International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Interim Fund 
referred to in the Preamble to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement;
(b)
The terms “Development Credit Agreement”, “Credit” and “Credit Account”, 
wherever used in the General Conditions, are amended to read “Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement”, “Interim Fund Credit” and “Interim Fund Credit Account”, 
respectively; 
(c)
Section 2.01, paragraph 9, shall be modified to read:
"'Project' means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Interim 
Fund 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Interim Fund Credit 
is made.";
(d)
A new paragraph, numbered 15, is added to Section 2.01 to read as 
follows:
“15.
“Participating Country” means any country that meets the 
requirements set 
forth in Section 5(e) of Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board 
of Governors of the 
Association, adopted on June 26, 1996, as 
determined by the Administrator as of the date on 
which the Interim Fund Credit was 
approved pursuant to Section 5(c) of said Resolution”; and 
“Participating Countries” 
means, collectively, all such countries”;
(e)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted;
(f)
Section 4.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Administrator and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, 
withdrawals from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account shall be made in the currency of 
the deposit account 
specified in Section 2.02 of the Interim Fund 
Development Credit Agreement." 
(g)
Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit in accordance with the provisions of 
the Interim Fund 
Development Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions."
(h)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(i)
In Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General Conditions, the term 
“Association” shall also mean the International Development Association acting in its 
own capacity;
(j)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Administrator.  If (a) the right of 
the Borrower  to make withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account shall have been 
suspended with 
respect to any amount of the Interim Fund Credit for a 
continuous period of thirty days, or 
(b) at any time, the Administrator determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an  amount of the Interim Fund Credit will 
not be required to finance the Project's costs to be  financed out of the proceeds of 
the Interim Fund Credit, or (c) at any time, the 
Administrator 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Page  3
Interim Fund Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Interim Fund Credit 
during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower 
having taken timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Administrator to 
remedy the situation, and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in 
respect of such contract which would otherwise 
have been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, or (d) at 
any time, the 
Administrator determines that the procurement of any contract to be financed 
out of 
the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth 
or referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement and establishes the 
amount 
of the expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise 
have been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, or 
(e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account, the Administrator may, 
by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the giving of such notice,  such amount 
of the Interim Fund Credit shall be cancelled.”
(k)
Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified to read:
"(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Administrator, the 
Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Administrator a report, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of 
the program referred to in the Preamble 
to the Interim Fund Development Credit 
Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the 
Administrator of their respective 
obligations under the Interim Fund Development Credit 
Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Interim Fund Credit."; and
(l)
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Interim Fund Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty eight million six hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 48,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the 
Administrator the first request for withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit Account, 
and thereafter maintain in its central bank, a deposit account in dollars on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Administrator.  All withdrawals from the Interim Fund 
Credit Account shall be deposited by the Administrator into the Deposit Account.
(b)
Subject to the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, the Borrower 
shall be entitled to use the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit withdrawn from the 
Interim Fund Credit Account and deposited in the Deposit Account in support of the 
Program.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit 
shall not be used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement. If the Administrator shall have determined at any time 
that any proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit shall have been used to make a payment 
for an expenditure excluded pursuant to the provisions of said Schedule 1, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Administrator, (i) deposit into the 
deposit account referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section an amount equal to the 
amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Administrator shall so request, refund such 
amount to the Administrator.  Amounts refunded to the Administrator upon such request 
shall be credited to the Interim Fund Credit Account for cancellation.
Page  4
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1997 or such later date as 
the Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit not withdrawn from time to time at 
a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the 
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Interim Fund Credit Account or cancelled; 
and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or 
at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph 
(a) above.  The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next 
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three\1efourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Interim Fund Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit in semi-annual installments 
payable on each February 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 2007 and ending 
February 15, 2037. Each installment to and including the installment payable on 
February 15, 2017 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each 
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Administrator may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Interim Fund Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to 
commence repayment of the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit as of the first 
semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Administrator notifies the Borrower that the events set 
out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Administrator may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest rate at an 
annual rate agreed with the Administrator on the principal amount of the Interim Fund 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of 
the Administrator, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Administrator may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Page  5
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower and the Administrator shall from time to time, 
at the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Administrator for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying 
out the Program, in such detail as the Administrator shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Administrator on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Interim Fund Credit which would have the effect of 
materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the 
Program.
Section 3.02. Upon the Administrator's request, the Borrower shall:
(a)
have the deposit account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
(b)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four months after the date of the Administrator's request for such audit, a 
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and
(c)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning said 
deposit account and the audit thereof as the Administrator shall have reasonably 
requested.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Designation of Administrator
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02.  In the event that the Executive Directors of the Association decide to 
terminate the functions of the Association as administrator of the Interim Fund 
pursuant to Section 7 of the Interim Fund Resolution, all of the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement shall be assumed by the 
Association in accordance with the Interim Fund Resolution and such decision of said 
Executive Directors, as of a date to be notified by the Administrator to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Page  6
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Antananarivo 101
Madagascar
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINFIN
22489
Antananarivo
For the Association and the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
By /s/ Tantely Andrianarivo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the interim trust fund established with
funds contributed by certain members of 
International Development Association pursuant to
Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of Governors of
International Development Association
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
Page  7
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Interim 
Fund Credit shall not be used to finance the following expenditures:
1.
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower;
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Administrator shall 
have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Administrator shall have financed or 
agreed to finance under another loan; 
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev. 3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or sub-groups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated 
by the Administrator by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112
  --
Alcoholic beverages
121
  --
Tobacco, unmanufactured, 
tobacco refuse
122
  --
Tobacco, manufactured (whether
or not containing tobacco
substitutes)
525
  --
Radioactive and
associated materials
667
  --
Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones, unworked 
or worked
718
718.7
Nuclear reactors, and
parts thereof, fuel elements
(cartridges), nonirradiated 
for nuclear reactors
728
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897 
897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths' or 
silversmiths' wares (including 
set gems)
971
  --
Gold, nonmonetary (excluding
gold ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or para-military purpose or for 
luxury consumption;
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods" means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party, and any other goods designated as environmentally 
hazardous by agreement between the Borrower and the Administrator); and
6.
in furtherance of the purposes of Section 5.01 of the General Conditions, 
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a Participating 
Country, or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories, or (b) 
on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such 
payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council 
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.
Page  8
