Dec_aent f
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6129b-HO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HONDURAS
THIRD INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
May 6, 1986
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    m    Lempira (L)
US$1.0         L L2.0
L1.0         US$0.5
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BCP             Central Bank of Honduras
CAAFIID         Central American Agreement on Fiscal Incentives to Industrial
Development
CACH            Central American Common Market
CDI             Center for Industrial Development
CEFEX           Export Promotion Certificate
CET             Common External Tariff
CONADI          National Industrial Developmenit Corporation
CONSUPLANE      National Planning Council
FIA             Agricultural and Industrial Finance Corporation
FONDEI          National Industrial Development Fund
IDB             Inter-American Development Bank
PFIs            Participating Financial Intermediaries
SMEs            Small and Medium Scale Enterprises
SSIs            Small Scale Industries
UNDP            United Nations Development Program
UNIDO           United Nations Industrial Development Organization
USAID           United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR omCAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HONDURAS
THIRD INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
1.    THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS .....      .............     1
The Industrial Sector ............ ....................      I
Structure and Growth ......1#.......  ..............     I
Existing Framework for Investment . ......2.......         2
Availability of Foreign Exchange ..................      2
Industrial Incentives ................. ...........      2
Export Incentives ......... ... .... O. ..               3
Government Objectives in the Sector...............         3
Financial Sector .............. . ................. .....    4
Institutional Setting ....................   .........     4
Central Bank of Honduras (BCE) . .................      4
Commercial Banking System .....  ..................      5
Deposit Rates and Resource Moblization    ..........     6
Lending Rates and Spreads .......... ...............         6
Prospects for Lower Interest Rates    ..............     7
Structure of Lending ... . ........ 4...........         7
Private Investment and Demand for Credit ....   ..........   7
Bank Lending in the Sector ..............  ,..........       8
Bank Strategy ..*...........99......99................     8
-I.   THE PROJECT ........* .............................               8
Objectives and Description    ...       ......               9
Credit Component ...9........... *  .........*...          9
Technical Assistance Component              .......        9
Participating Institutions ..........    10
FONDEI LO.. 9..........9.                          .       10
Center for Industrial Development (CDI)  ....              11
Participating Financial Intermediaries (PFIs) .11
Implementation Arrangements            . ..       .        12
Final Beneficaries and Sub-Project Selection .....         12
Cost and Financing ................. ....           .....    13
Relending Terms and Conditions.                              13
On-lending Terms. ......                       999.. 9    14
Maturities and Repayments            .....     .14
Procurement ......       . . . ........                       15
Disbursements                  .... ...                       15
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting. . .                       16
Benefits and Risks....   ..   16
III. RECOMMENDATIONS......                                    999.9  17
This report was prepared by Mr. Owaise Saadat, Ms. Aida Velarde, LCPI2 and
Mr. Fernan Ibanez, Consultant, following two missions to Honduras in
September and November 1985. Mr. Rene Jarquin, Consultant, assisted with the
preparation of the technical assistance component.
This documant ha a raeticted distribution and may bc used by recipients only in the perfomance
of their offlcil duties. Its contents may not otherwie be dihcsod without World Bank authorization.



LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex 1.  Technical Assistance Program
Attachment I- Estimated Cost and Man years for Technical Assistance
Program
Annex 2.  Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Industrial (FONDRI)
Annex 3.  Experience under Past Lending
Annex 4:  Supporting Tables and Chart
Organization
T-1   FONDEI's Organization Chart
Industrial Sector
T-2   Manufacturing Sector Value Added 1975-1985
T-3   Manufactured Exports by Product Group (1975-84)
T-4   Manufactured Imports by Product Group (1975-84)
Financial Sector
T-5   Consolidated Financial Statements Banking System
T-6   1984 Balance Sheets - Commercial Banks
T-7   1984 Balance Sheets Finance Companies and Public Banks
T-8   Interest Rate Components 1975-1984 - Commercial Banks
T-9   Banking Deposits - Maturities Classification
T-10  Destination of Banking System Credit to the Private Sector
T-11  Some Components of Commercial Banks Cost Structure
¶T-12 Financial System Interest Rates
T-13 Maximum Lending Rates and Commissions
Subproject Performance
T-14 Characteristics of Subprojects Approved Under Loan 1659-HO and
2075-H0
T-15 Subprojects Approved and Financing Structure
Disbursement
T-16 Cumulative Commitments under Bank Loans 1659-HO and 2075-HO
T-17 Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
FONDEI: Financial Projections
T-18 FONDEI's Projected Income Statements 1984-1989
T-19 FONDEI's Projected Balance Sheet 1984-1989
T-20 FONDEI's Projected Cash Flow 1985-1989
Project Costs
T-22 Project Costs and Financing Plan
Annex 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Annex 6: Selected Documents Available in the Project File
Map



HONPURAS
THIRD INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJE.CT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:            Republic of Honduras
BENEFICIARIES         Central Bank of Honduras (BCH); Borrowers Center for
Industrial Development, and Secretariats of Finance and
Public Credit and Economy and Commerce.
EXECUTING AGENCY:    The National Industrial Development Fund (FONDEI), a
semi-autonomous department of BCH.
AMOUNT:               US$37.4 million equivalent.
TERMS:                20 years with five years of grace, at the standard
variable rate.
RELENDING TERMS:      The Borrower would relend US$37.1 million of the loan
proceeds to BCH on the same terms as the Bank loan. BCH
would transfer US$36.5 million to FONDEI for technical
assistance and on-lending to industrial enterprises
through participating financial intermediaries (PFIs)
for investment in fixed assets, working capital, and
consulting services for technology development. PFIs
would bear the credit risk; FONDEI would bear the risk
of interest rate variation between fixed rate sub-loans
and the Bank's rate; BCH would bear the cross-currency
risk; final beneficiaries would bear the foreign
exchange risk under the dollar-deonominated sub-loan
option and BCHi would bear it for the rest of the loan.
PROJECT              The project would consist of credit for viable private
DESCRIPTION:          sector industrial enterprises and technical assistance.
The credit component would finance: (i) fixed assets
and associated permanent working capital;
(ii) free-standing permanent working capital for
FONDEI's previous sub-borrowers; and (iii) consulting
services to identify technological improvements to
increase the overall productivity of small- and
medium-scale enterprises. Technical assistance would be
provided for: (a) a study to streamline and expand the
scope of the temporary admission regime; (b) BCH to
strengthen its ability to monitor the performance of the
commercial banking system, and for studies to improve
understanding of the industrial sector; (c) FONDEI for
improvement of its information management system,
training to strengthen PFI's ability to appraise and
supervise industrial investments, and studies to
identify lending instruments to expand access to term
credit; and (d) CDI for strengthening its capacity to
provide technical and managerial extension services to
small-scale enterprises.



- ii -
PROJECT RISKS:       No special project implementation risks exist given the
good performance of PONDEI under the two earlier
projects. The unsettled situation in Central America
may cause some Investors, especially large-scale
enterprises, to defer investments. However, since the
majority (70 percent) of FODBI beneficiaries are small-
to medium-scale enterprises, the risk of delay is
minimized. The pace of project implementation will also
be sensitive to changes In the macro-economic
environment. Based on the existing pipeline of viable
sub-projects (about US$11.0 million) and the promotional
efforts envisaged under the project's technical
assistance component, however, the credit component is
expected to be committed rapidly.
ESTIMATED COST:                                     Local     Foreign      Total
(USVRll on)
Fixed Asset/Working
Capital Sub-loans           27.1       30.0        57.1
Working Capital Sub-loans      1.2         5.0        6.2
Technology Sub-loans           0.3         0.8        1.1
Technical Assistance           0.5        2.3         2.8
Total Project Cost         29.1        38.1       67.2
FINANCING PLAN:                                     Local     Foreign      Total
a                        -  ^
(US$ million)  -
Bank                                      37.4       37.4
UNDP                            -          0.7        0.7
FONDEI                        10.8          -        10.8
PFIs (minimum)                 6.3          -         6.3
Beneficiaries                 11.7          -        11.7
Government (for CDI)           0.3          -         0.3
Total                      29.1        38.1       X1.2
ESTIMATED BANK
DISBURSEMENTS:         (Based on Average Profile for IDF Bank Loans in Region)
- -- --    US$ million
PY:   1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
Annual           5.0    10.1    10.1      5.1     3.1     3.0      1.0
Cumulative      5.0    15.1    25.2    30.3    33.4    36.4    37.4
RATE OF RETURN:      Minimum PFR and ERR of sub-projects would be 12 percent.



I. THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
A. Industrial Sector
Structure and Growth
1.01      Honduras' manufacturing sector is relatively undeveloped:  It
accounts for about 13 percent of CDP, produces less than 15 of total
exports and employs loes than 8 percent of the econowically active
population. So-called "traditional' products, of which food and beverage
products, refined sugar and sugar by-products, textiles and garments, and
wood products are the most important, account for nearly 80 percent of
sectoral value added. Manufactured exports include consumer goods
(56 percent), of which the most important are processed foods (45 percent),
intermediate goods (41 percent), half of which are wood products, and a
small percentage of consumer durables (3 percent) (Annex 4, Tablt 3).
Available data on the size distribution of the sector's establishments
portray a clear picture of an atomized, traditional manufacturing sector.
Reportedly, about 37,000 enterprises, including some 30,000 self-employed
artisans, employ fever than five people; about 1,100 firms employ between 5
and 100 employees; and fewer than 90 firms could be classified as
large-scale, employing more than 100 persons.
1.02      Import-substitution policies have been pursued in Honduras,
though not as aggressively as in other countries in Central America. As a
result, Honduran manufacturing is relatively efficient (i.e. moat
industries produce at or near international prices), though with
considerable intrasectoral variability. A recent study shows that about 59
percent of Honduras' industrial output Is concentrated in sub-sectors in
which the country has a medium-term comparative advantage, about 28 percent
in sub-sectors in which its comparative advantage is 'questionable', and
only 13 percent of the output comes from subsectors in which the country
has no comparative advantage.
1.03      The manufacturing sector grew at an average annual rate of nearly
9 percent in the second half of the 19709, as a result of the belated but
rapid expansion of Honduran industries into the sheltered Central American
Common Market (CACM) (para. 1.07). This buoyant trend was brought to an
abrupt halt in the early 1980s, when the world recession triggered a sharp
contraction in the domestic and regional markets for manufactured goods.
The recession, with the associated drying up of external commercial bank
financing and capital flight induced by political uncertainties in the
region, also caused a foreign exchange shortage, restricting access to
imported inputs and curtailing production. Devaluation of other regional
currencies led to loss of competitiveness of exportable manufactures in
regional markets, and quantitative Import restrictions by regional trading
partners attempting to curb balance of payments disequflibris contributed
to the collapse of established trading patterns withi - the CACM, leaving
idle those plants established to cater to the regional market. Overall,
manufactured exports dropped by nearly one third in current terms between
1980 and 1982.



- 2 -
1.04      Manufacturing output recovered slightly (2.2 percent) in 1984,
but stagnated in 1985. At year-end 1985, sectoral output was still
9 percent below its peak level of 1981, with an 11 percent loss of
employment. The mild recovery in 1984 can be attributed largely to the
demand for manufactured goods generated by a high level of public
investment and the modest price recovery of some exports, which led to
increased domestic consumption. However, sustained growth of the sector
must depend Increasingly on expansion of exports to third countries.
Existing Framework for Investment
1.05      Factors affecting investment derive both from elements of the
macro-economic policy framework, such as the availability of foreign
exchange and import rationing, export promotion policies, and from
elements specific to the manufacturing sector, of which the most important
are the links with the Central American Common Market (CACM). The major
features of these elements are summarized below.
1.06      Availability of Foreign Exchange.  In the early 1980s the
Government was faced with an accelerating demand for foreign exchange, a
drying-up of external commercial bank credit, and little interest on the
part of foreign investors. Having decided not to resort to devaluation of
the Lempira, the Government turned to non-market rationing of imports.
Procedures followed under the rationing system, in effect since 1981, led
to long delays between application for and receipt of foreign exchange for
inputs and for machinery, equipment, and spare parts. Purchases financed
from foreign sources, including FONDEI's line of credit, are exempt from
import rationing. The proposed project includes technical assistance to
help the Government and BCH evaluate the system of allocating foreign
exchange and recommend measures for alleviating any constraints in such
system (para. 2.04). A second factor limiting investment in the sector has
been a dearth of term credit (para. 1.21 below), especially in foreign
exchange. The line of credit financed by the Bank through FONDEI has
helped to fill the need for both term credit and foreign exchange. In
1984-1985, a line of credit financed by the IDB provided short-term credit
in foreign exchange for working capital needs, with preference given to
export industries.
1.07      Industrial Incentives.  Although Honduras is not formally a
member of the CACM it has maintained close ties with it since 1975. This
has resulted in Honduras' partial adoption of the CACM Common External
Tariff (CET) and its full adherence to the Central American Agreement on
Fiscal Incentives to Industrial Development (CAAFIID). Honduras' tariff
schedule, originally fairly simple in design and intended as a revenue
instrument, has evolved into a complex system including long lists of
specific exemptions and surcharges, with both specific and ad valorem
rates. The Governr,nt is preparing to convert all specific taxes to their
ad valorem equivalents and to convert its current tariff classification
system (unique to the CACM) to the adapted version of the Brussels
Nomenclature recently adopted by CACM. A tariff reform and the abolition
of CAAFIID were implemented by the CACM countries in January 1986, and the



-3-
Government will need to consider proposed reforms to its own system in the
light of those undertaken by its trading partners if it decides to continue
its informal links with the CACH. In .valuating reform proposals and in
deciding on its future relationship with the CACM, the Government will also
need to re-examine the levels and dispersion of effective protection rates
and consider the extent to which the capital-intensive, anti-export bias
created under the old CACM arrangements can be avoided. A study to help
the Government analyze these issues is underway with UNDP assistance.
During negotiations, it was agreed that the results of the study would be
discussed with the Lank, with a view to assisting the Government in
formulating a plan of action.
1.08      Export Incentives.  In 1984, an export-promotion law introducing
new incentives for production of non-traditional exports was passed. The
centerpiece of this law is a tax rebate on non-traditional exports
(CEFEX). Although the law is a step in the right direction, the procedures
followed under it are complex and cumbersome to administer, weakening the
effectiveness of the new incentives. In an effort to overcome the
anti-export bias created primarily by import-substitution incentives under
the CACH, a temporary admission regime (TAR), under which export industries
producing for third market countries are allowed access to imported inputs
at international prices, was introduced in 1985. The TAR system is a
marked improvement over the previous duty drawback system, but its
effectiveness is hampered by the fact that exporters taking advantage of
the TAR are denied access to CEFEX benefits, excessive paperwork and
zomplicated authorization procedures, and the unwarranted rigid
interpretation of eligibility criteria that results in the exclusion of raw
materials. The Government has recognized the problems that weaken these
incentive measures. Technical assistance provided under the project
(para. 2.04) would help the Government to streamline and expand the scope
of the system along the lines discussed above.
Government Objectives in the Sector
1.09      The Government's objectives for the industrial sector are to
expand production, employment, and exports, particularly to third
countries, since prospects for growth within the CACM are limited due to
its small size and uncertain outlook. Production for third markets will
not only require substantial investment in retooling and upgrading of
existing plants, and construction of new ones, but also a considerable
marketing effort. Since the Government's strategy to achieve these goals
is to encourage private sector investment, it has recently established a
private institution (Foundation for Enterpreneurial Research and
Development) to provide exporters technical assistance and market
development services. The recent measures outlined above represent
important steps to provide such encouragement. In addition to the
improvements in export-incentive measures (paras. 1.07-1.08), the
Government intends to promote increased production and employment in which
the small- and medium-scale industries which may be most responsive to
incentives at this time, since they are less sensitive to perceived
political and other non-market risk than are large industries. A number of



-4-
programs have been initiated to provide both financial and technical
assistance to this sub-sector, including a Small Business Development
Project assisted by USAID and the technical and financial assistance
components under the ongoing and proposed Bank-assisted projects.
B. Financial Sector
Institutional Setting
1.10      The Honduran financial sector comprises the Central Bank (BCR),
15 private commercial banks, two state-owned development banks (BANAnESA
and BANMA), the National Investment Corporation (CONADI), and 8 specialized
credit and savings institutions, mainly housing-mortgage banks. Other
institutions that play a visible, though less active role in providing
financial services are the insurance companies, savings and loan
cooperatives, and public social security institutes. In addition to the
above institutional system, there are about 1,600 registered moneylenders
and an unknown number of unregistered moneylenders, whose role is estimated
to be extremely important as a primary source of credit for small
borrowers.
1.11      Central Bank of Honduras (BCH).  BCH has played a key role in
guiding and stimulating the development of the financial sector, especially
commercial banking. Of particular importance, has been its provision of
lines of credit for specific on-lending purposes (its 'rediscountw lines),
which have supported the emergence and rapid growth of new banks over the
past 15 years. This is illustrated by the proportion of new loans
rediscounted by such lines: of the L193 million net increase in
credit to the private sector in 1984, 61 percent was financed through the
rediscount lines. Of the 15 such lines currently offered by BCH, 3 are
earmarked for industrial credit: (a) a fund in local currency for
free-standing working capital loans with maturities less than one year;
(b) an Industrial Reactivation Program (PRI) financed by IDB for working
capital loans with maturities up to 24 months; and (c) the program
administered by FONDEI for investment credit and associated working capital
financed partly with Bank funds.
1.12      The rates charged by BCH to financial intermediaries for use of
its various rediscount lines range from 6 percent for basic grains
production credit to 14 percent (for the largest industrial borrowers under
FONDEI (Annex 4, Table 13). The longer maturity of most rediscount lines
make them an attractive source of funds, particularly for the newer banks,
whose deposit rates average over 10 percent (para. 1.16), and which have
difficulty attracting sufficient funds even at the higher rates. In
contrast, the larger and more established banks can attract deposits at
lower rates, and they prefer to lend their own resources, since the
rediscount lines entail higher administrative costs for appraisal and
supervision and are subject to lower lending rate ceilings and close
supervision by BCH, making it difficult for the banks to charge additional
fees (which are prohibited for all loans but are common practice).



1.13      Through its Superintendency of Banks, BCH has also played a major
role ln maintaining the viability of the banking system. This role became
increasingly important in the early 1980s when there was a sharp rise in
arrears and bad loans, reflecting the difficulties encountered by
businesses during the recent recession. Total overdue loans in the
commercial barking system rose from 13 percent of total outstanding loans
in 1981 to 22 percent in 1984; 1985 showed an improvement, with overdue
loans falling to 16 percent of total portfolio. A time distribution of
overdue loans is not available; the totals include loan. with payments from
one day overdue to uncollectible loans. Following the failure of one bank
in 1980 the Superintendency of Banks tightened control to avert a crisis.
Consultations are held with each bank every 18 months to reevaluate the
classification of their loans by four categories: normal, qualified,
doubtful, and uncollectible. BCH prescribes an overall provision to be
written against income, based on the proportion of a bank's portfolio
falling in each of the four categories. In addition to these measures to
improve provision for arrears and bad debts, the Superintendency has
increased reserve requirements for some weaker banks (the overall
debt/equity ratio for the commercial banking sub-sector is currently
10:1). In spite of these improvements, however, further strengthening is
needed, particularly with regard to banks' credit administration and
portfolio analysis. Moreover, the effectiveness of the Superintendency's
supervision is reduced by the fact that its recommendations are not always
immediately enforced, nor does it impose a time limit for writing off bad
loans. The proposed project would include technical assistance to
st-engthen the Superintendency's ability to regalate this aspect of the
banking system (para. 2.04).
1.14      Commercial Banking System.  The 15 commercial banks form the most
important part of the financial system in Honduras. They hold 60 percent
of the system's assets, nearly 75 percent of its deposits, and more than
70 percent of the system's short-term external liabilities. The commercial
banking network expanded from only two banks (Atlantida and Honduras) in
1950 to 15 banks by the early 1980s. After 1980, tne banks rapidly
expanded their branch networks, and by early 1985, the 15 banks operated
232 branch offices with nearly 4,000 employees. In spite of thie rapid
expansion, assets are still highly concentrated within four banks
(Atlantida, BANCAHSA, Ahorro; and Occidente), which together account for 49
perceut of total commercial bank assets and 47 percent of the sub-sector's
total loans. Moreover, a few of the larger banks cooperate closely with
each other and form economic groups with some large industrialists,
reducing the scope for effective competition. Nevertheless, the
competitive pressure within the system has been building in recent years,
reflecting the rapid growth of some smaller banks. Between 1980 and 1984,
the collective share of the five largest banks in total deposits in the
subsector fell from 75 to 58 percent, and in value of loans granted from 63
to 55 percent.
1.15      According to aggregate data compiled by BC!!, commercial banking
is quite profitable in Honduras. After-tax profits totalled 17.7 percent
of capital and reserves in 1980 and 1981 and 21.1 percent in 1984. Profits



-6-
were more modest in 1982 and 1983. There Is considerable variation among
banks, with some of the established and more efficient banks earning
profits up to 50 percent of their capital and reserves. These figures
should be interpreted cautiously, however, in light of the arrearage
situation discussed above (para. 1.13): because some banks made inadequate
provision for bad loans in the past, their profits on paper may appear
larger thaA they really were. BCH's stricter re~quirements for provision
for bad debts should correct this anomaly in the future.
1.16      Deposit Rates and Resource Mobilization.  Commercial bank assets
are composed of private sector deposits (73 percent), funds rediscounted
by BCH (12 percent), and equity and other sources (15 percent). Deposit
r&aas were freed from BCH control in mid-1981. The most established (and
generally more conservative) banks offer 7 to 11 percent for savlngs
deposits, while the newer, more aggressive banks pay 10 to 11 percent. The
average rates for the sector are 7 to 8 percent. Time deposits with fixed
maturities pay 11 to 13 percent. Government bonds pay 10 percent; though
they have 10-year maturities, some are redeemable on demand with BCH.
Although Government bonds are not strictly competitive with commercial
bank time deposits, the bond rate does tend to set a guidepost,
discouraging a downward adjustment in rates In response to lowered
expectations of inflation.
1.17      With inflation dropping steadily in the early 1980s, (from 18
percent in 1980 to less than 4 percent in 1985), real deposit rates have
become highly positive, and have been partly responsible for greater
resource mobilization by the financial system, as reflected in an expansion
of holdings of financial assets relative to the level of economic
activity. Time deposits grew from less than 23 percent of GDP in 1970 to
nearly 35 percent in 1984, in spite of the uncertaln macro-economic
environment of the 1980s.
Lending Rates and Spreads
1.18      In view of the limited effective competition In the banking
sector, BCH imposes ceilings on interest rates. for commercial bank loans,
according to the source of loaned funds and the type and aturity tf
loans (Annex 4, Table 12). In practice, the banks treat the ceilingn an
fixed rates, except for loans to their preferred clients. For induntriol
loans rediscounted with FONOEI, the ceiling Is 17 piercent; for loan0 from
banks' own funds, it is 19 percent. At current rateD of Inflation, the
above ceilings result in real interest rates to thif borrowers under iPOPJ1ET
rediscount lines of 13 percent, and of 15 percent fur the portion of loano
financed from banks' own funds.  FONDER  estimates tlnt eommlinnloho, eltouitq
costs, special-taxes, and other expensen ansociated with ohtnain£nir  a 2in
add another 2.0 to 2.5 points to the real cost of the loan.
1.19      Taking into consideration the cost of different: oUrCef tot fitlo
discussed above, the above lending rates result in sprends(i of pl ti' S
percent for funds rediscounted wlth FON0IW1 and 6 t-o )  porerlr*t f.l 1Frninl'
own funds, and administrative surchargeto add 1.O toi )-5 piotwitri. AJte&r



rising sharply between 1979 and 1982, commercial banks' spreads have
remained stable. However, commercial banks' administrative costs rose from
3.8 to 5.4 percent of total assets between 1979 and 1984, resulting in
declining nominal profit margins. Administrative costs are defined to
include, inter alia, personnel costs, non-personnel security costs, and
provision for bad debts.  The last item has grown in response to the
Superintendency of Banks' more stringent requirements in the last few
years, and is expected to grow further as the regulatory body's
recommendations are adhered to more closely (para. 1.13).
1.20      Prospects for Lower Interest Rates.   BCH has recognized that the
tendency of lending rates to remain i.igh in spite of lower inflation may be
discouraging both investment and more efficient utilization of installed
capacity. In view of the objective to encourage increased competition from
the faster-growing smaller banks, whose costs are higher (para. 41 above),
however, BCH has taken a cautious approach in lowering the lending rate
ceilings or taking other measures to reduce spreads; until arrears can be
brought down, such measures could endanger the smaller banks. In addition,
BCH authorities feel that, given time, increased participation by newer
banks will improve competition in the banking system and force rates down,
making a ceiling unnecessary. At the same time, they recognize that the 10
percent rate on Government bonds pushes up both deposit and lending rates,
and that a reduction in the bond rate may help allow a downward adjustment
to occur. The proposed project would support the movement toward more
flexible, market-determined rates by permitting flexibility in the
on-lending rate (paras. 2.15-2.16 below).
1.21      Structure of Lending.  The fact that the bulk of loanable
resources in the commercial banking system is derived from short-term
deposits leads to a dearth of term credit in Honduras. Aggregate figures
as of July 1985 show that 65 percent of outstanding loans (excluding
rediscounted loans) had terms of less than 18 months; only 15 percent had
maturities over 5 years (Annex 4, Table 9). The bulk of longer-term loans
were to banks' preferred clients--generally large-scale industries that
they consider low-risk. In general, other industrial borrowers' only
access to term credit is through the use of FONDEI's rediscount line,
representing 20 percent of total commercial bank loans to the industrial
sector, but over 80 percent of term credit for industrial investment.
FONDEI's credit funds have been wholly responsible for giving access to
Institutional term credit to small- and medium-scale industries (Annex 4,
Table 14).
Private Investment and Demand for Credit
1.22      After a decline in the early 1980s that paralleled the stagnation
in sectoral output (paras. 1.03-1.04), industrial investment has begun to
recover, particularly in the small- to medium-scale sub-sector, which
represents the majority of FONDEI beneficiaries (para. 2.06). (PONDEI's
existing pipeline of projects, totalling about L21 million, illustrates the
recovery of this sub-sector). Assuming a continued modest growth rate for
induserial investment of 1.5 percent a year, average annual investment in



- 8 -
the sector would be L112 million from 1986-1989. Based on previous
experience, about half of this amount can be assumed to represent
investment in fixed assets, of which about 20 percent would be financed by
large firms from their own resources and with commercial bank loans from
banks' own funds. Of the remainder (L44.8 million), FONDEI would provide
financing for about 80 percent (L36 million), using Bank loan funds for
about 53 percent or L24 million (US$12 million) a year. This estimate is
consistent with FONDEI's past commitment rate and its existing pipeline
mentioned above.
Bank Lending in the Sector
1.23      Past Bank lending for industrial development in Honduras has
focussed on providing medium- and long-term resources through the
commercial banking system to economically viable industrial enterprises,
particularly small- and medium-scale firms. To this end, the
Bank has approved two industrial credit projects: the Industrial Credit
Project (Loan 1659-HO) of March 1979 for US$15.0 million, and the Second
Industrial Credit Project (Loan 2075-HO) of May 1982 for US$30.0 million.
Experience with execution of the two projects has been good; implementation
proceeded in line with appraisal expectations, allocation of resources wa.q
economically efficient, and most institutional development objectives were
achieved. A detailed analysis of the experience under previous FONDEI
loans is contained in Annex 3, but the principal lessons derived from the
first two projects are: (a) financial intermediaries should assume greater
responsibility for appraising and supervising sub-projects, and, in order
to do so, require technical assistance to strengthen their capabilities in
these areas; and (b) coordination of and improved definition of
responsibility for technical assistance activities would help ensure the
effectiveness of such assistance.
1.24      Bank Strategy.  In line with Government objectives (para. 1.09),
Bank strategy in the manufacturing sector has been to support private
investment in export-producing industries and those producing efficiently
for local markets. Particular emphasis has been placed on identifying
industries in areas of comparative advantage for Honduras as well as
supporting small-and medium scale lab(r-intensive industries. The proposed
project would continue to pursue this strategy, while taking a broader
focus by: (a) strengthening institutions in the financial sector and
exploring new lending instruments; and (b) contributing to the Bank's
macro-economic and sectoral policy dialogue by improving the data base and
analysis of key issues affecting sectoral development.
II. THE PROJECT
2.01     The proposed project was prepared between May and August 1985 by
FONDEI with assistance from the Bank. Bank appraisal was completed in
December 1985. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from April 21 to
25, 1986. The Government delegation was led by Dr. Lizzeth de Paz, Legal



- 9 -
Counsel, Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit, on behalf of the
Borrower, and Mr. Arturo Corleto, Director of FONDEI, on behalf of the
Central Bank.
Objectives and Description
2.02     The proposed project would: (a) support private investment in both
export-oriented and efficient import-competitive industries through the
provision of term credit; (b) improve performance in the financial sector
through technical assistance to strengthen the monitoring functions of the
Superintendency of Banks and upgrade the capacity of participating
financial intermediaries (PFIs) to undertake appraisal and supervision of
investment projects; (c) provide financial and technical assistance to the
small- and medium-scale industrial sub-sector, whose growth has been
constrained in the past by inadequate support services, and which shows the
greatest potential for expansion in the short-term; and (d) improve
understanding of the potential of and constraints affecting growth of the
industrial sector through specific studies as well as the initiation of the
industrial census. The proposed loan of US$37.4 million would provide
(a) credit for fixed assets and associated permanent working capital,
free-standing permanent working capital, and consulting services for
technology and product development, and (b) technical assistance to the
Government, BCe, FONDEI, the Center for Industrial Development (CDI)and
PFIs.
2.03      Credit Component.  A total of US$52.7 million, including US$35.8
million of loan funds and US$16.9 million from FONDEI and PFIs, would be
on-lent to final sub-borrowers. At least US$30.0 million of the proposed
Bank loan would be used for sub-loans for fixed assets (purchase and
installation or repair of machinery and equipment or replacement parts and
const'uction of buildings and related infrastructure) and associated
permanent working capital.  Up to US$5.0 million of loen funds could be
used for free-standing permanent working capital sub-loans to prior FONDEI
sub-borrowers seeking to expand utilization of installed capacity. The
remaining US$0.8 million in loan funds for the credit component would be
used for sub-loans to finance technical assistance for technological
improvements and product development and design.
2.04      Technical Assistance Component.  The technical assistance
component would consist of consulting services for:
(a) continued strengthening of FONDEI's institutional
capabilities, including improvements to its management
information system. To support this work, financing would
also be provided for the purchase of equipment, including
several micro-computers and related software;
(b) improvement of PFIs' appraisal and supervision capabilities,
including assistance to selected PFIs for the establishment
and initial operation of project units. Most training would
be carried out through seminars conducted by FONDEI with
several months of full-time consulting assistance;



- 10 -
(c) training for staff of the Superintendency of Banks to improve
its ability to monitor financial performance of commercial
banks and to undertake diagnostic studies of banks in
especially serious financial condition. Funds would also be
provided for the pur hase of micro-computers and related
software to assist in database management and analytical work
related to the Superintendency's monitoring functions;
(d) strengthening of CDI through: (i) training its extension
service staff in areas of enterprise management, production
processes, including selection of appropriate technologies,
and production control; (Ii) carrying out pre-investment
studies of industrial activities suitable for small-scale
enterprises; and (iII) training its credit administration
staff in project evaluation and supervision. Funds would
also be provided for the purchase of training aids, mobile
training units, and micro-computers and related software for
loan administration;
(e) assistance to BCH in initiating an industrial census and
conducting studies to (i) identify constraints to investment;
and (ii) evaluate the system of allocating foreign exchange
and recommending measures for alleviating any constraints in
the system (para. 1.06);
(f) carrying out studies, under BCH/FONDEI supervision, to
determine the legal and institutional feasibility of
introducing adjustable-rate lending instruments for
industrial investment credit and identify mechanisms to
provide lending to small-scale enterprises by commercial
banks; and
(g) assistance to the Government in carrying out a study to
develop mechanisms to expand the scope of and streamline its
TAR system (para. 1.08).
The results of the studies mentioned in (e), (f) and (g) above would be
discussed with the Bank, and the Government woud formulate a plan of action
and an appropriate timetable for carrying out its plan. The total cost of
technical assistance is estimated at US$2.8 million, of which US$1.6
million (US$0.1 million to Government, US$0.7 million to FONDEI US$0.6
million to BCH and US$0.2 million to CDI) would be provided by the Bank
Loan. A breakdown of technical assistance costs and a description of its
components is in Annex 1.
Participating Institutions
2.05      FONDEI.  FONDEI functions semi-autonomously under BCH as a
second-tier rediscounting institution in accordance with its "Statement of
Oparating Policies and Industrial Regulations' (FONDEI's Regulations),
which have been revised to include the provisions of the proposed project.



- 11 -
Ratification of FONDEI's revised Regulations by its Executive Committee
vould be a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 3.02). FONDEI's
director, who is responsible for managing day-to-day operations, reports
to an Executive Committee chaired by the President of BCH and including
representatives of the Minister of Economy and the commercial banking
system. Since its establishment in 1978, FONPEI has developed into an
efficient organization with an adequate number of a well-qualified staff.
Details on FONDEI's operations are presented in Annex 2.
2.06      As of September 1985, FONDEI's portfolio consisted of some 400
sub-loans with a total investment cost of about US$92 million equivalent,
of which FONDEI financed about US$51 million, including Bank resources of
about US$42 million, averaging 46 percent of investment cost. About 68
percent of subloans, representing 21 percent of loan funds, were to small-
to medium-scale industries, compared with the agreed target of 20 percent.
FONDEI intends to maintain this emphasis under the proposed project.
FONDEI has negligible arrears in PFI repayments, since BCH automatically
debits PFIs' accounts for amounts due to FONDEI. With a debt/equity ratio
of 2.1:1, FONDEI's capital structure is satisfactory. For 1984, its
operating income permitted a 6.9 percent return to equity in real terms; at
projected rates of inflation, this performance is expected to improve
further. FONDEI enjoys a good liquidity position, which results from the
shorter repayment period of sub-loans compared with repayments to the Bank;
it has sufficient liquidity to provide all of its own counterpart
requirements under the proposed project (para. 2.13).
2.07      Center for Industrial Development (CDI).  CDI is a public
institution with responsibility for providing technical, managerial, and
financial support to very small-scale enterprises. Though better equipped
for its first two functions than as a financial intermediary, CDI is
virtually the only source of institutional credit for small industrial
borrowers; commercial banks are still reluctant to lend to the very small
borrowers, even though they have access to FONDEI's rediscount line. Under
the technical assistance component of the proposed project, a mechanism
would be developed to promote commercial bank lending to small-scale
enterprises. It is envisioned that the banks could rely on CDI to prepare,
evaluate and supervise sub-projects and to continue providing technical
assistance to the enterprises to assure their success and reduce the credit
risk. Technical assistance would also be used to strengthen CDI's capacity
to provide such services (para. 2.04).
2.08      Participating Financial Intermediaries (PFIs).  According to the
eligibility criteria specified in FONDEI's Regulations, a PFI may be CDI,
the Industrial and Agricultural Finance Corporation (FIA), and any
commercial bank that, inter alia, maintains a satisfactory financial
condition, including control and provision for payment arrears, and employs
adequate numbers of staff capable of undertaking sub-project appraisal and
supervision. Overall, PFIs took less responsibility for appraisal and
supervision of sub-projects than expected at appraisal of the last project;
the proposed project would provide incentives for PFIs to accept more
responsibility in these areas and technical support for those that do so



- 12 -
(para. 2.04). All commercial banks participated under the previous project
and are expected to continue under the proposed project. Sub-loan recovery
by PFFs has been good: only 7 of some 390 sub-projects have failed, and
another 11 have had sub-loans restructured by the concerned PFI with FONDEI
assistance. These 18 "problem" projects represent total sub-loans of
US$2.0 million equivalent, or 3.2 percent of PFIs' total portfolio
rediscounted with FONDEI.
Implementation Arrangements
2.09      FONDEI would have principal responsibility for implementation of
both the credit and technical assistance components. To ensure adequate
coordination of all technical assistance under the project, FONDEI would,
as a condition of effectiveness, establish a Technical Assistance Unit and
appoint a qualified Unit Chief (para. 3.02). Technical assistance for CDI
would be provided by UNIDO, under the overall responsibility of FONDEI. In
order to assure adequate coordination of CDI's technical assistance with
the rest of the project, UNIDO's work program would be reviewed in annual
meetings among representatives of the Bank, UNIDO, FONDEI, and CDI.
Progress would be reviewed quarterly by UNIDO, FONDEI, and CDI. These
arrangements have been included in the UNDP Project Execution Document, and
the Bank's legal documents (para. 3.01). The study of the TAR (para. 1.08)
would be carried out jointly by the Secretariats of Finance and Public
Credit, and Economy and Commerce.
2.10     All PFIs would sign participation agreements with FONDEI that
would specify, inter alia, the lending and repayment terms, procurement and
disbursement priocedures, the PFI's acceptance of responsibility for
appraisal and supervision of sub-projects, and its agreement to provide at
least 10 percent of the value of each sub-project from its own resources,
report to FONDEI any sub-loan repayment that becomes 60 days overdue, and
participate in any staff training programs provided by FONDEI for PFI's.
Participation agreements would be renewable annually, subject to a review
by FONDEI of the PFI's continued adherence to all eligibility criteria and
compliance with the participation agreement (para. 2.08). FONDEI would
promptly advise the Bank of the renewal of agreements and any changes in
the list of PFIs. Signature of participation agreements with at least
three PFIs is a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 3.02).
2.11      Final Beneficiaries and Sub-Project Selection.  Beneficiaries
would be classified in three categories: very small-scale industries
(SSIs), having total fixed assets, excluding land and buildings, but
including the value of the proposed investment, worth less than US$50,000;
small- and mediur-scale industries (SMEs), with total assets between
US$50,000 and US$200,000; and other firms, with assets worth more than
US$200,000. The methodology for evaluation of investments would depend on
the size of the sub-loan. For FONDEI financing over US$250,000, both
economic and financial rates of return would be calculated; for financing
between US$50,000 and US$ 250,000, a financial rate of return would be
calculated. All approved sub-projects would have rates of return of at
least 12 percent. In addition, an evaluation of market potential as well



- 13 -
as the technical and managerial capacity of enterprises in these two
categories would have to be carried out. For FONDEI financing of less than
US$50,000, a streamlined cash-flow analysis of the enterprise would be
undertaken, and the past performance of the entrepreneur would be
consldered, where applicable. The sub-loan evaluation criteria mentioned
above were agreed upon during negotiations (pars. 3.01).
2.12      Appraisals would be carried out by PFIs and reviewed and approved
by FONDEI. Selected PFIs that establish project units and demonstrate
satisfactory application of guidelines would be authorized to approve
sub-loans under US$50,000 equivalent. In view of FONDEIts demonstrated
ability to select sound investments, it would have authority to approve
sub-loans under US$800,000; sub-loans exceeding this amount would require
Bank review and approval. Prior Bank review is expected to be required for
some 20 sub-projects, accounting for about half of the loan amount.
FONDEI's maximum financing for any one enterprise would be US$2.0 million
equivalent, including any outstanding amounts from previous sub-loans, and
US$500,000 for free-standing permanent working capital sub-loans. Minimum
FONDEI financing would be US$5,000 equivalent.
Cost and Financing
2.13     Total project cost is estimated at US$67.2 million, of which about
56 percent represents foreign exchange. The proposed Bank loan of US$37.4
million would finance about 98 percent of foreign exchange requirements;
the remainder would be financed by a UNDP grant of US$0.7 million. The
total estimated cost of the credit component would be financed by US$35.8
million of Bank loan funds (56 percent), US$10.6 million of FONDEI funds
(16 percent), at least US$6.3 million from PFIs' own resources (10
percent), and about US$11.7 of sub-borrowers' funds (18 percent). Tthe
total cost of technical assistance (US$2.8 million) would be financed by
the Bank loan (US$1.6 million), UNDP (US$0.7 million), FONDEI (US$0.2
million), and the Government (US$0.3 million). The detailed project costs
and financing plan are given in Annex 4, Table 21.
Relending Terms and Conditions
2.14     The Government would relend US$37.1 million of the proposed loan
to BCH on the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan, in accordance
with a subsidiary loan agreement to be signed by the Government and BCH.
Execution of the subsidiary loan agreement would be a condition of loan
effectiveness (para. 3.02).   BCH would bear the foreign exchange risk
except on the amount on-lent to sub-borrowers under the dollar-denominated
sub-loan option (para. 2.16 below); it would bear the cross-currency risk
on the entire loan amount. BCH would retain about US$640,000 for technical
assistance and studies, and transfer about US$36.5 million of loan proceeds
to FONDEI, which would bear the risk of variation between the Bank's
standard variable rate and the fixed on-lending rates to PFIs (para. 2.17
below). The Government would retain Uf.300,000 of loan funds for technical
assistance, of which it would make available US$200,000 to CDI on a grant
basis. Assurances have been obtained at negotiations, regarding the
above-mentioned re-lending arrangements (para. 3.01).



- 14 -
2.15     On-Lending Terms.  FONDEI would relend US$35.8 million of loan
funds to PFIs for on-lending to sub-borrowers through sub-loans denominated
in either Lempiras or dollars, at rates determined by the currency
denomination of the sub-loans and the total assets of the beneficiary
(para. 2.11). For Lempira-denominated sub-loans (which are expected to
represent the bulk of sub-loans), FONDEI would lend to PFIs at:
(a) 12 percent for sub-loans to SSIs;
(b) 13 percent for sub-loans to SMEs; and
(c) 14 percent for sub-loans to larger firms.
Based on the current Bank rate (8.5 percent), these rates would allow
FONDEI a spread of 2 percent per annum on all sub-loans to cover its risk
and administrative cost and a residual of 1.5 to 3.5 percent, which FONDEI
would pay to BCH for its foreign exchange and cross-currency risk fund.
PFIs would be free to charge rates in line with their estimate of the
creditworthiness of each sub-borrower and administrative cost of the
corresponding sub-loan, subject to the ceiling imposed by BCH (currently 17
percent). Portions of sub-loans financed with PFIs' own funds are subject
to BCH's ceiling of 19 percent (para. 1.18).
2.16     The dollar-denominated sub-loan option is expected to be exercised
mainly by exporters and larger firms, which are accustomed to foreign
currency movements. Under this option, and based on the current Bank rate,
FONDEI's rates to PFIs would be:
(a) for SSIs, 9.5 percent. FONDEI would retain a spread of 0.5
percent, and pay BCH 0.5 percent;
(b) for SMEs, 10.0 percent. FONDEI would retain a spread of 1.0
percent, and pay BCH 0.5 percent; and
(c) for larger firms, 10.5 percent. FONDEI would retain a spread of
1.0 percent and pay BCH 1.0 percent.
Rates paid by sub-borrowers under this option would be subject to ceilings
of 12.5 percent, allowing PFIs maximum spreads of 3.0, 2.5, and 2.0
percent, respectively, for sub-loans to SSIs, SMEs, and others.
Dolla:-denominated sub-loans would be disbursed in dollars and repayable in
Lempiras, using the official exchange rate at the due date of each
repayment, thus passing the exchange risk to the sub-borrower.
2.17     As in the past, rates on sub-loans would be fixed for the life of
the sub-loan. The on-lending rates and spreads provided under the project
would be adequate to cover all intermediation costs and would be positive
in real terms, at projected rates of inflation. FONDEI and the Bank would
review the rates twice a year to assure that they remain adequate by the
above criteria (para. 3.01). In addition, BCH/FONDEI would be assisted
under the project in exploring the possibility of adjustable-rate
instruments (para. 2.04). The on-lending terms to sub-borrowers discussed
above were agreed upon during negotiations, and are incorporated in the
legal documents (para. 3.01).
2.18     Maturities and Repayments.  The maturity of each sub-loan would be
determined by PFIs and approved by FONDEI on the basis of cash-flow projec-
tions for the corresponding sub-borrower. Sub-loans for fixed assets and



- 15 -
associated working capital would have maximum maturities of 15 years,
including up to three years grace; free-standing permanent working capital
sub-loans would have maximum maturities of three years, including up to one
year of grace. The portion of sub-loans financed from PFIs' own resources
would have the same maturities as the portion rediscounted with FONDEI.
Sub-loans for technology development would have maximum maturities of five
years, including up to two years of grace. Repayment by each PFI to FONDEI
would be based on a composite amortization schedule calculated as the sum
of the repayment schedules of all the sub-loans in the PFI's portfolio.
The roll-over of repayments to FONDEI over repayments due to the Bank would
be used to provide FONDEI's counterpart funds and for continued on-lending
for purposes similar to those of the project. The above regulations
relating to terms and conditions of sub-loans, as well as the calculation
of PFI repayment of rediscounted funds to FONDEI, would be contained in
each PFI's participation agreement (para. 2.10).
Procurement
2.19     Procedures for procurement of goods and services purchased with
sub-loan funds under the project would be specified in each sub-loan
proposal appraised by PFIs. For items over US$100,000, at least three
quotations would be obtained. For items of lesser value, PFIs would assure
that sub-borrowers had canvassed the main sources of supply and were
purchasing from advantageous sources. PFI appraisals would discuss
procurement procedures used, responses received and prices quoted, and
criteria for selection of suppliers, and PFIs would maintain records of the
procurement process during sub-project implementation. FONDEI would be
responsible for ensuring that all PFIs comply with the above guidelines; it
has had extensive experience in applying Bank procurement requirements
satisfactorily. All consulting services, including services paid for under
technology development sub-loans, would be open to international recruit-
ment according to the Bank's Guidelines for the use of consultants.
Disbursements
2.20     The final date for submission of sub-loan proposals for the Bank's
approval would be December 31, 1989. The closing date for disbursements
would be December 31, 1992, in accordance with the average profile for IDF
loans in the region. However, faster disbursement is possible, if
experience under the previous two loans is repeated. For sub-loans for
fixed assets and permanent working capital, the Bank would disburse:
(a) for SSIs, 75 percent of FONDEI's financing of the sub-loans; and (b)
for SMEs and larger firms, 100 percent of direct foreign expenditures, 70
percent of expenditures for locally procured imported goods, 50 percent of
ex-factory price for locally produced goods, and 35 percent of expenditures
for buildinges and related civil works. For sub-loans for technology and
product development, the Bank would disburse 100 percent of total
expenditures. For technical assistance, the Bank would disburse for 100
percent of total expenditures. Since the two-tier system involving FONDEI
and PFIs requires a longer period between expenditure by the sub-borrower
and disbursement by FONDEI than is normal for non-IDF projects, the Bank



- 16 -
would disburse for expenditures incurred up to 180 days prior to the
receipt of a disbursement request from FONDEI. Retroactive financing would
be permitted for up to US$3.0 million for expenditures made after December
1, 1985 for sub-loans for fixed assets and associated permanent working
capital.
2.21     To expedite disbursements under the proposed loan, a special
account would be established by the Government and managed by FONDEI. The
Bank would make an initial deposit of US$3.0 million, representing about
four months of disbursement requirements. It is a covenant of the proposed
loan that FONDEI establish a special account in a commercial bank
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.03).
Accounts, Auditing, and Reporting
2.22     As with the previous projects, FONDEI would maintain separate
accounts for all parts of the project except for technical assistance for
CDI. FONDEI would retain independent auditors acceptable to the Bank to
conduct annual audits of all project accounts, including the special
account. Audit reports, to be submitted no later than four months
following the end of each of FONDRI's fiscal years, would include an
opinion regarding the adequacy of supporting documentation for disbursement
of Bank loan funds based on statements of expenditures. Under the previous
projects, the audits were carried out by a qualified external audit firm,
which issued reports on a timely basis, with no reservations. The Govern-
ment would ensure that CDI maintains separate project accounts on the same
guidelines as FONDEI and that the accounts are audited and reports
submitted according to the same standards. FONDEI would submit to the Bank
monthly reports of transactions relating to the special account; quarterly
reports on the status of its portfolio and the collections of PFI subloans;
and semi-annual reports on its overall financial situation and operations
(pars. 3.01).
Benefits and Risks
2.23     FONDEI is the single most important source of term financing for
industrial investment in Honduras. It is expected that the proposed
project would provide financing for some 180 investment projects, costing a
total of about US$65 million and generating about 2,500 new jobs. Both the
expected employment generation and the emphasis on promoting investments by
small-scale entrepreneurs would contribute to poverty alleviation. The
average cost per new job created would be about US$23,000, which is
slightly below the average for similar projects in Latin America. At least
US$16.9 million of the investment costs would be financed with funds
mobilized from within the banking system (FONDEI and PFIs), and about
US$11.7 million would be the beneficiaries' own funds. The project would
also have strong institution-building impact, not only on FONDRI, but also
on CDI and PFIs. This would result in improved and more efficient
provision of technical and financial services to the industrial sector,
which would be of particular benefit to SSIs and SMEs, as well as continued
development of financial discipline, through both strengthened monitoring
of the commercial banks by BCH and improved credit administration by PFIs
resulting from better appraisal and supervision of sub-projects. The



- 17 -
project would also contribute to the development of increased flexibility
in the lending rate structure by not fixing final on-lending rates, by
permitting sub-borrowers to take lower Interest rates if they assume the
foreign exchange risk, and by studying the possibility of introducing
adjustable-rate lending instruments for final borrowers.
2.24     The fact that FONDEI has developed into a mature and relatively
efficient institution reduces both overall implementation risks and the
risks related to financial and economic efficiency of resource allocation.
The unsettled situation in Central America Introduces an element of
uncertainty, however, which may lead some potential investors to defer
investments. Nevertheless, this concern is particularly applicable to
larger-scale investors, which are expected to make up only 30 percent of
FONDEI's beneficiaries. The majority of FONDEI's borrowers would be SSIs
and SMEs, whose investment decisions are generally less sensitive to
political changes. Demand for investment would also be sensitive to
changes in the macro-economic environment. At present, however, FONDEI's
large pipeline of investment proposals (totalling about US$11.0 million)
indicates that current investment demand is strong. Technical assistance
under the project would include services to inform potential sub-borrowers
of the technical and financial services provided under the project,
increasing the likelihood that demand for credit will remain at leevt at
its current level.
III. Recommendations
3.01      During negotiations, agreements were reached with the Government
of Honduras, Banco Central and FONDEI on:
(a) the project's objectives and description (paras. 2.02);
(b) the loan amount, financing plan including counterpart
resource and contribution by PFIs (para. 2.13) as well as
arrangements for channeling the resources to project
beneficiaries and repayment of the Bank loan (para. 2.14);
(c) on-lending interest rates, spreads maturities and grace
periods for subloans (paras. 2.15-2.18);
(d) implementation arrangements for credit and technical
assistance components (paras. 2.09 and 2.10);
(e) procurement and disbursement procedures (paras. 2.19-2.20);
(f) accounting, auditing and reporting arrangements (pars. 2.22);
3.02      Conditions of loan effectiveness are that: (a) the Government of
Honduras and BCH would duly execute a subsidiary loan agreement,
satisfactory to the Bank, outlining the terms and conditions for the
transfer of the proceeds of the loan (para. 2.14); (b) FONDEI's Executive
Committee would approve its revised Statement of Operating Policies and
Industrial Regulations (para. 2.05); (c) FONDEI will be sign participating
agreements with three PFIs (para. 2.10); (d) FONDEI will establish a
technical assistance unit, and appoint a chief for the unit (para. 2.09).
3.03      Satisfactory agreements were reached during negotiations on the
above, and the Project is considered suitable for a Bank loan of US$37.4
million.



- 18 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 4
HONDURAS
THIRD INDUSTRIAL CREPIT PROJECT
Technical Assistance
I.         The technical assistance component of the proposed project would
be a program to increase the effectiveness of FONDEI, PFI's (mainly
commercial banks) and CDI operations directly, as well as to strengthen the
monitoring role of the Superintendency of Banks. The estimated total cost of
the technical assistance would be about US$2.8 million, of which about US$0.7
million is expected to be covered by UNDP through grant financing and the
balance by the Government using US$1.6 million of Bank resources and US$0.5
million of local costs. Detailed costs by technical assistance activity are
given in the attached table, and the main components are discussed in the
following paragraphs.
Technical Assistance to FONDEI and PFI's.
2.         The main part of the proposed technical assistance is intended to
further FONDEI's role as a second-tier bank by strengthening the quality of
its financial services provided through the PFIs. Assistance under this
program would be provided through the use of consultant services
to: (a) strengthen and broaden FONDEI's training program for its own staff,
and especially for commercial bank personnel, in areas of project
preparation, appraisal and supervision, with particular emphasis upon
engineering/technology assessment, marketing, and enterpreneurial/management
assessment; (b) establish specialized project appraisal/supervision units in
selected banks; 'c) further improve FONDEI's internal financial planning and
management information systems, this would require, among other things,
strengthening and expansion of FONDEI's ongoing computerization program and
financing for the purchase of additional microcomputers and other office
equipment; (d) design and implement a promotion program for FONDEI's
activities, which would include the building up of a data base of target
companies and close interaction with relevant chambers of commerce and
industrial associations, (e) study the legal framework and prepare procedures
for introducing variable interest rates at the subproject level and
mechanisms to provide increased commercial bank lending to small-scale
enterprises; and (f) conduct a study on the long-term financing needs of the
industrial sector, which includes studies analyzing the need and feasibility
of developing new lending instruments including equity, and leasing.
3.        The training programs under the FONDEI and PFI technical assistance
program would include short study visits and fellowships for FONDEI and PFI
staff to successful DFC-type institutions so they gain practical exposure to
development banking operations. On project evaluation aspects, the ex-post
review of selected subprojects revealed some shortcomuings in the project
evaluation techniques, but more so in the provision of adequate background
Information to enable a good risk analysis of the proposed investments (See
Annex 3 para 4). Consequently the training programs for the PFI and FONDEI



- 19 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 4
staff would be reoriented from the general seminars and workshop on project
evaluation to more specific on the job training in all aspects of project
preparation, with special emphasis on assessing market potential, and issues
of technical choice (i.e. for example the type of machinery selected),
management capacity and last but not least, the likely impact of logistic
problems and administrative bottlenecks on implementation pace.
Assistance for the Superintendency of Banks
4.    The technical assistance package (costing US$500,000) for strengthening
the monitoring role of the Superintendency would include three types of
assistance: staff traiaing, procedural review, and provision for computer
equipment and related software. Training funds would finance specialized
seminars by banking and finance experts, and short-term overseas study tours
for Superintendency staff to gain practical on-the-job experience in areas
related to monitoring commercial bank performance. Training programs would
concentrate on upgrading the capacity of existing staff in better credit and
financial analysis of commurcial banks and the overall bank review
procedures. In the course of carrying out training, BCH personnel will be
identified who could carry out similar training courses in future as part of
a permanent training program.  Consultant s_rvices would be obtained by BCH
to help the Superintendency to review and revise, where necessary, the
following; (1) financial data and reports required from commercial banks; (2)
standardization of reports prepared by BCH examiners and analysts and in
their distribution and use within BCH; (3) procedures and criteria for
establishing reserves for doubtful accounts and also procedures for
classifying loans and banks by financial condition. On the basis of the data
needs of the Superintendency, appropriate computer equipment and software
would be identified and financing provided for its procurement. The
development of an appropriate computerized information system will give
priority to generating data for reporting to BCH management, and selected
information to the public.
Improved Information Base and Analysis of Key Sector Issues
5.         Industrial lending by FONDEI and the financial intermediaries is
somewhat curtailed by the severe lack of sector information. The last
industrial census, for example, dates to 1975; similarly, there is no
reliable source for estimating economic parameters for assessing the
viability of projects from a socio-economic angle. Consequently, key
Information on existing installed capacities, structure and size of
enterprises is missing. The Government is aware of these shortcomings and
seeks improvements by initiating a new industrial census and by undertaking
detailed industrial s-zbsector studies. UNDP and USAID are expected to assist
in financing the overall cost of an industrial census, to be carried out
under a joint effort by BCE (through its Economic Studies and Industrial
Research Departments) and the National Statistics Bureau. The project would
provide funding for the initial development of the Census framework and
methodology base. It iP expected that the other two agencies (most probably
UNDP would finance the overall census). The proposed project would also
include an amount of US$140,000 for consultants to assist the Central Bank



- 20 -
ANN'EXI/>
Page 3 of 4
in developing an Industrial census framework; cai-ying out dlaAgrootc otudleb
for selected subsectors which would be defined jolntly by !CH, F(rpEJT and the
Bank; and, developing mechanisms for variable interest rates, and fncreaied
lending for SSIs. In addition, another US$0.1 millJon hae been provided for
the Government to undertake a study on how to enlarge the ficpe 0f the
Temporary Admission Regime so it covers indirect exportero, and alon permSto
imports of capital goods under the scheme. The implementation timetable for
the above studies was agreed during negotiations (see Annex 5).
Assistance to SSIs through CDI.
6.        The technial assistance program In CDI Is expected to coOt Vn5s0.f
million, equivalent to be jointly financed by UNDP, through a grast of 1150f0.N
million, by US$0.2 million from the loan proceeds, and by US$O.* mflli4sn
equivalent, as a Government incremental budgetary allocation to COIi. WTis
component is considr red to be particularly Important in v5ew of the poaEoible
positive impact CDI activitles would have on the smnll sctale indofitria)
sector, which it serves.  From FONDEP's point of view fmalll icalfo Iloldfiurnies
(SSIs) are not only important sources of income and *'ip)oyment in t1e rwct.sr,
but constitute potentially the largest clientAle for VCJONJRI and the
commercial banking bystem.  Their accesn to formal financial Credit fsirtrctu
is severely limited, however, by their Inability to prepare tieir prolveto
and by insufficient technical capabilities to Improve 1tbetr pFrodtUct.int tod(
management. Technical assistance to nueh enterprineD wan theretorfe
originally defined as one of the main objectives of Crl lust, tovet tfim, fit"i
activity was relegated to a lower priority by CDI'o lend1nit opernisirso.
Under the proposed project's CDI would he asolsted to reemj4vnriigr to tin
role in providing technical and managerial ooPiataneo to ilTo Antil tD
confining Its financial assistance to tihe very small enterproest.
Accordingly, CDI's technlea) assistannce Amrponent honr heen Otefl11fit-d to
Include: (a) trainlng for enterprenetro tit improve thelr
managerial/administrativs ei.-pabilities; (b) otuti- thoJ*1 atiolOot oto 1(I
enterprises in prodtiction  nr.d technology; (c) asnnintanct ro    eof$terpJ4eistt In
the promotion and implementation (Si new enterprinen and In 1.rlriarttgf
investment projects.  To enable CDI it. 1wrform  ito misplfrI f,rwiinni ro;itf
effectively, the project woulld aosist Cli i  fn obtoininp formsn)  tvoilslntl
programs for Its own staff in orvsat oiwl, t   jins protect Idesit sf *iattiso. tiiod
appraisal and promotion ot new btunoinvtq, Irt icui.rlVltly oti Snleri'loi  niu0
CDI's institutional reinS orcenment, *u,n:nd sd or' itieltash 1tet 1t11l,11l Oflte  4 tit.
loan portfolio management, finatcie.1 planoutig r tudl foS lur te loluti0  Si-ut mltouss
to tl,e very swall enterprises.  In thit reistdrd1, t1w pl'ittoct wrdldfil *it11. 4
consul tants to Improve        i1w1'st i- i.sici 4    Iiitit    1viiieiii lid i ol4Otit ll .1 11,0§k-ti'
which would include ciamputer Intioa n IItof It  I(soaft vitlopti t f t ts tmul t'.t iuvs tv
systems.
7.        Unider  the, uiro tid  J t     r1t sil     cv 'st  ii1  p- 1 1  t 1t,    l't41  *.Il  h-!.iu
Jolnt ly financed 't.whneie1 aI rd ass-u' us lt li;lJ     I M i   rued 4 N  wI. twJL



- 21 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 4
autlng as the executing agency for the CDI component. Experience with
Implementation has shown that the linkage between FONDEI's overall
development programs and CDI's technical assistance activities was somewhat
tenuous, and tttat the quality of CDIs technical and managerial support to
85Ba we less than satisfactory, given the greater emphasis it provided to
lending operations. Since CDI's operations have an important bearing upon
the development of the SSIs in general- and that is also one of FONDEI's
objectives- it Is Important to ensure that aside from managing its own
teewtneal asaistance program FONDEI provides a substantive input into the
des1gn and implementation of CDI's overall technical assistance program.
IJnder the proposed project, therefore, a special technical assistance unit
wntl)d he set up in FONDEI with responsibility for coordinating and monitoring
the overall Implementation of the technical assistance program. The terms of
reference of FONDEI's technical assistancd unit and the role of its
croordinator have been reviewed and are available in the Project File. It was
ogretPd with UNDP that, walle UNIDO would be the executing agency for the CDI
cr.¶1ronentL, itn annual technical assistance program would be jointly reviewed
J4Y tlie 8ank, FONDET, UNIDO and CDI. In addition, quarterly tripartite
i.lemeintation reviewv  would be held between UNIDO, FONDEI and CDI.  The
f;repoinpg arrangemente would be discussed with UNDP, before negotiations with
.1')), MrI4 wvld be foriualued In the UNDP/UNIDO Project Execution document.
'IN-101(ifl f,i Appitnc  Prga  Pirte
Wbille the detailed timetable for the implementation of the
fwliktdfhil irtuinotance program vould be prepared by FONDEI's technical
3ifi"tr3inrr tiullt aeid disecused annually with the Bank (para 6), the following
!i VMtAt1e   wutiild receive priority in the design of the work program.  For
1JhktI,'.1j,$ )tirprifien the Implementation Indicators and probable dates of key
ol1tivit-f itti "'t, In Annex 5,
Tols t'ri.trity would he attached to the objective of transferring
pttiater h*wn processing responsibilities to the PFI's.  For this
1,14ollo#t in thet first oix months FONDEI would identify three
f('PFPThr{3 lhankfi Jkn Which project sections are to be set up, and
wit helir co&laboratlon prepare detailed staff training programs
tkv flt'tom1tiwr )9!6.  Srimultaneoualy, terms of reference for the
feflttrif tt)4'slliOrtt"tt ennulting services for the above task would be
wil l}t hlvci ltfh1s priority to Initiating the study to further
i0 lt, it(1til(hl miangement Information system; arrangements
@bd )'t~ tlrt!14' tit Vllttlg i QoviLtltlng services to help streamline and
t tII'*~.it'  the(I Otifigp, dxtitn bane indluding that needed for
# *ilrlrif.)s  l.(ifli fifs  11t1z}  1 roJecr iof .
Vil'14 t1idi 0l0&l'lV withi UNl) in preparing the detailed
t\|sti$t'tV Ii')48Minil;it %ati )'lti'irni for CD1'e technical assistance
PK"e VevFteVvvA Anintly by the Rank, UNDP and
IJ at t Irefs al;eeq"'O tImplm,tentltion.



- 22 -
HSo                                                   AN I
m DJSMIL aREl   PRiEcr - WMEE                                        Attachint I
Fa0e I of 2
lstiuted ost ad Man Yeam for lTmcal M tane Pomg
(Ikaget for 3 Yeffe)
PAIRT                                                                           US           U$       USS
ihtiul mJ for-Tmhstria Deve n  (FWmEI)                 onmaltant       Locl                Eternal       Local      Tal
Objectives:                                            H/MM                     lbtal       0,st        QDSt      fbst
a) Stnrgtbn FGVE aud tm PFIS current                    24.0           14.0      38.0       258.8      20.5       279.3
catsity in  lEojects evwami
ad s.upariaim, a  all as to ssat tim es-
tablsh Project Unrts.
b) Sawgth;gIwnRW 's tisecmtercpr amz both               18.5            2.0      20,5        54.8      19.0       73.8
trmuh slmwrs an project procesxW and
azlysa ard study viatI to otber &wvlqix
uims  th eqmriaica in  secu tier qperti.
c) lWie   EWEI's eldstaing !wgent Informticn             6.0           11.0      17.0        64.0       16.0      AD.0
&ysen imcwUrE igts Iur&a  to KW so that both
can  tablah an integrateal MM.
d) F0 pEIprmc1eale ctivitiesInclulog pibica-             2.5           10.0      12.5        25.0      82.5       107.5
ti   , sulna san buldrg of data bar an
Idstries.
e) lbT aia   DEE tecial  asalstence wlt in               12.0          36.0      48.0       136.9      45.0       181.9
the overaUl coordinati  ad ip] _ tatie
of tin techcal  alatance pecgram.
f) Tb assist FNEI in the acquisitle  of                   -              -         -        320.5       2.0       322.5
offica equipint, inlcuxi  microc.puters, wmd
,nasau, vidole  and othar.
VJL  PCNE  TA.A6.                                                   '         7.5        b6.        8.       ,4.
PAR Il
.itraTCtrJ eWuras (DO
Objectves:
a) iqrove tlm bxal_e  of tim izitrial sector             12.5          10.0      22.5       100.0       15.00     115.0
tb   seeto sdle ar inetgatos.
b) Stresgtm the supervisory capablitis  of the          -              -         -          500.0      10.0      610.0
&V fntmkrcy of Obtral Bw*, iumir
puz~uAse of atavo-mputers, aid other supporting
c) Develop sadieia  for adjustable interest rat          2.0            4.0       6.0        20.0       8.6       28.6
d) Evim tle Otal Bahils acTent swante                     2.0           2.0       4.0        20.0       2.7        22.7
program for mall sce industrial laiW
In oder to wakeit n- useful for the FIs.
1VDL B1                                              16.5           16.0      32.5       640.0      36.3      776.3



- 23 -
Anne 1
Wm iu                                                                                                 Attachaunt I
(isuettt of lbWas                                                                                                     Page 2 of 2
syto         scope ofTAR and                              -              -         -           100.0      -          -
strealine fuxtiordr of sytem
int  4Z1                                                  -              -      _               11.         
PAC IV
Oite for 1In    of Industries ((DI)
Objecdye:
a) lb train (Dl staff in areas of providing better        72.0          28.0       360.0       24S.5      312.0      557.5
_msemant. prodoctid teclo1ca atice to
SSIE  Ihia ta,  be achieved through abDrt
sar5rs and on the job trainn.
b) To stregthen 0)1's capacity tD unlertake pre-          35.0          216.0      251.0       132.2      273.3      405.5
iwveshUn stuians 4iU  wil assist Its ben-
ficlarles in project pepratim arnd  ranon.
c) lb streth   DI's orrent apacityInpro             -                   324.0      324.0          -       324.0      324.0
ject prepwatimx aw evabuatiun and to assis
the beasficiaries in teir ajproject 1q,1ern-
tation, whIch wmId ra  (DI's fisoi  asistance
mae effective.
d) lb lnwve aacty in sibproject  pervision                 2.5           180.0     182.5        25.0      180.0      205.0
e) Tb straqthanI's personnel's capcity in                  3.0             -          3.0       32.9        -         32.9
project alysis and wys to deal adxi help the SSI;
both through 0)1's petwmnul participatg in art
swsnas and by visitiqg other  untries with
aqeie    In thse ntters.
f) ()I's share in the ost of the Tecmical Asitanoe         6.0           18.0         24.0      37.50      31.50      69.00
Ceordisi  Udt.
g) lb assit CDI in the aoqutsitim of saoe eqipnot suah       -              -          -        226.9        -        226.9
as micOcxte, aalovisusl sets, vcdles for
prawtiAmal and aSpervision activities and other office
equipent.
1WMAL (DI T.A.                                        118.5        1,026.0    1,144.5      700.C0  1,120.8a   1,820.8
a/ Frm thds awuat oly US$0.3 ,lllian equi*valmn w,Md  be the additional cost, by IOI, therefore, total iscrrtl T.A. local cats
8m~znt to USS0.5 milliM.
L(1I2
may 1''sb



- 24 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 6
HONDURAS
THIRD INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Industrial (FONDEI)
Background
1.        Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Industrial (FONDI).  Founded in
December 1978 under the First Bank Industrial Credit Project for Honduras,
FONDEI operates as a semi-autonomous department of BCH, with its own
staffing, financial resources and separate accounting.  As a second-tier
institution FONDEI, has, to date, administered three Bank loans (two for
industry and one for tourism) and has evolved into a well established and
efficiently managed organization. FONDEI is today the only source of
long-term financing for private sector manufacturing enterprises in Honduras
and has become an important source of technical assistance, in project
financing, to the participating commercial banks, for which it has developed
detailed guidelines for project design evaluation and supervision. Since
FONDEI has demonstrated its basic institutional capacities in performing
satisfactorily under the two previous Bank projects, this section focuses
mainly upon areas requiring further improvements and the related proposals
under the proposed project.
Organizational Structure and Staffing
2.    FONDEI's highest decision-making body is the Executive Committee, which
decides upon all matters of policy, reviews annual financial plans and
budgets and approves credit operations over US$100,000 equivalent; loans
under this limit are approved by FONDEI's in-house credit committee. The
day-to-day operations of FONDEI are managed by its Executive Director, who is
appointed by the Executive Committee. FONDEI has about 36 professional
staff, who are well qualified and respected by the private sector and the
commercial banks. FONDEI's staff salaries and benefits are generally
attractive, but the limited career growth opportunities through promotions
makes it difficult for FONDEI to retain its staff. Under the proposed
project, therefore, FONDEI plans to offer some additional Incentives to its
staff by developing attractive formal training programs, including short
overseas professional courses and study visits to countries having successful
industrial credit operations (Annex 1, para. 3).
3.        FONDEI's current organizational structure was adjusted in 1983,
within the establishment of three departments: Projects, San Pedro Sula
Regional Office, and Administration and Financing. This structure needs
minor adjustments to allow differentiation between FONDEI's operational
activities at both its Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula area offices, and its
support and coordination activities (financial management, information
processing, and technical assistance including promotion) which are more
centralized. At present the Central-South operations are an integral part of
the headquarter operations but FONDEI is designating a separate office to



- 25 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 6
cover operations in those regions.  More importantly, this office would
operate on par with the San Pedro Sula regional office which currently enjoys
reasonable autonomy in loan processing and supervision matters for
subprojects in the country's Northern region. The two Regional offices would
have a fair degree of operational autonomy and are expected to enhance
FONDEI's effort toward a broader geographical dispersal of its assistance and
more rapid loan processing (para 7). To maintain good coordination and
quality control over the regional operations, however, it is proposed that,
in the future, the project subdirectorate at headquarters be deputed to
monitor all field operations centrally.
Management Information System
4.        During the execution of the Second Industrial Credit, FONDEI
established the basis of a good management information system with monthly
and quarterly reports covering commitments, disbursements, arrears,
recove-ies, and project pipeline. In spite of the ground already covered,
there is room for improvement; while the basic data are available, much of
the Information analysis, including financial planning and control, is still
being handled manually and on an ad-hoc basis. Besides, the existing
information does not allow for a comprehensive and decision-oriented
evaluation of operations: important planning data such as financial
projections, structure of assets and liabilities must be produced as a
recurring and standard feature of operations in order to facilitate
management decision-making. FONDEI recognizes the need for improvement and
has agreed that, under the technical assistance program further measures
would be taken to help streamline the existing information gathering,
processing and analyzing procedures. The centerpiece of the improved
Management Information System (MIS) would, however, be the computerization
(with the help of micro-computers) of basic management data including data,
on the status of subloans, key enterprises, ongoing and projected loan
commitments and disbursements, and resource re;uirements.
Quality of Project Work
5.        Over the years, and particularly during execution of the Second
Industrial Credit Project, FONDEI developed a business system that met
requirements appropriately. The main elements of the business
system--subproject appraisal and supervision and technical assistance to
financial intermediaries-have, so far, been designed to support FONDEI'srole
as a largely passive second-tier rediscounting mechanism of long-term
financing. In the future, a growing demand for more efficient procedures,
and for improved delegation of responsibilities to the financial
intermediaries would require adjustments and improvements in FONDEI's project
work, which would need to place increased emphasis upon its support and
promotional role vis-a-vis the PFIs and potential borrowers.
6.        Subproject Preparation and Appraisal.  FONDEI has established
detailed guidelines for enabling PFIs to prepare and review subprojects of
different sizes. Additionally about 120 commercial bank professionals have
been exposed to the essentials of project preparation and project appraisal



- 26 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 6
through PONDEI's training seminars. Overall, FONDEI's process of project
preparation and appraisal is well developed and meets the Bank's standard
requirements. During appraisal, the question of lengthy and time-consuming
evaluation requirements of FONDEI came up as an issue with FONDEI's customers
and some commercial banks. A review of the subloan preparation and approval
process, both at the FONDEI and commercial-bank level, showed that, on
average, it takes two months before loan approval. However FONDEI approves
subprojects within two weeks after they are processed by the PFIs. While the
overall subloan processing time is comparable to that of commercial banks
elsewhere and in Honduras, there is scope for reducing the time further.
7.        Accordingly, the proposed loan incorporates the following measures
to expedite subloan processing: (a) setting up of special project units in
selected commercial banks (b) reduction in the information and analysis
requirements for the smaller companies (c) greater responsibility for
processing and appraistng subloan applications to PFIs which would have a
free limit for approval of subloans up to US$50,000. The selected PFIs
would, however, agree to receive FONDEI's technical assistance in those areas
of project preparation and appraisal where further improvement is needed, and
FONDEI would also reserve the right to cancel ex-post any subloan found to be
ineligible or not to be in accordance with its operating regulations. At the
FONDEI level, it is proposed to cut down subloan processing time by
increasing the loan approval authority of FONDEI's internal committee to
subloans of up to US$250,000, and allowing FONDEI's two regional offices to
approve subloans of up to US$30,000. Loans above US$250,000 equivalent would
be approved by FONDEI's Executive Committee (para. 2).
8.        Subproject Supervision.  Over the years, FONDEI's supervision
procedures have improved substantially and, at present, they meet Bank
requirements for DFCs. Currently, FONDEI's portfolio comprises 385
subprojects for which periodic supervision reports are prepared for
management review. In the earlier stages of its operations, FONDEI
supervised the subprojects intensively, which was not only time consuming,
but to some extent was unnecessary given that the credit risk is fully borne
by the commercial banks. FONDEI's management does not subscribe to this
view however, and feels that, as a development Institution it is obliged to
closely monitor the implementation of the subprojects that its finances, in
order to ensure their success and development impact. Nevertheless, it
recognizes the need for a more selective supervision approach in the future
and plans a closer collaboration with PFIs in supervising subloans, which
would enable it to concentrate mainly upon reviewing problem projects. Thus,
in the future, FONDEI and the PFIs would periodically review repayment
capabilities of problem projects and put in place remedial measures,
including rescheduling and/or additional financing. For companies with minor
financial problems, the emphasis would be upon reviewing their management
abilities and identifying technical assistance needs. To implement the
foregoing strategy, FONDEI would need to streamline and enforce more rigidly
its existing participation agreements with PFIs which require periodic
submission, by them, of financial statements for each subloan beneficiary.
Besides, additional improvements in timely identification of problem projects
is expected to be achieved with the introduction of better MIS proposed under
the project (para 4).



- 27 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 6
Promotion and Training.
9.        Because PONDEI operates only as a second-tier institution its
results depend, to a large extent upon the quality and extent of services
provided by the PFIs. Consequently, its training activities have been
directed mainly toward commercial bank persotnel. Under the proposed
project, FONDEI's training programs would still fall upon financial
intermediaries, but emphasis would be upon a more direct participation by
FONDEI's professional's in preparing the seminars and foreign consultants
would be used only to compliment the on-the-job training planned for the
commercial banks. Under the project, a special unit to coordinate technical
assistance and training would be established within FONDEI tc implement the
program more effectively and to institutionalize this function in FONDEI's
organizational structure. FONDEI's promotional activities have not been very
strong and have, so far, been limited to a few descriptive meetings with bank
personnel at a working level, and to disculssions concerning FONDEI's programs
with the participants in training seminars. FONDEI's management plans to
step up its promotion activities under the proposed project, so that an
additional impulse is provided to the promotion of institutional activities
through wider diffusion of FONDEI'e existing and future credit programs. For
this purpose, there would be a specially designed campaign to reach not only
banks but also entrepreneurs, local consultants and potential foreign
investors interested in joint ventures.
Past Financial Performance
10.       Profitability.  FONDEI's financial performance has been
satisfactory, and it has maintained a sound financial structure. Even
allowing for inflation, operating profits have increased steadily over the
years. Net income at year's end 1984 was US$798,000 and represented 6.9%
over its equity, with retained earnings reaching US$2.52 million and
representing 22% of total equity. The main reason for the good performance
is the favorable interest rate structure in FONDEI's balance sheet. FONDEI's
liabilities are essentially constituted by low-cost fixed-rate previous bank
loans. FONDEI has been gaining additional income as a result of putting its
available cash resources, obtained from the recoveries of previous Bank
loans, into short term deposits, within the local banking system. Ano:her
reason for good profitability has been FONDEI's success in maintaining its
administrative expenses at a low level, which during the last years has not
gone over 20% of total income and has remained at around 1.8-2.0% of
Interest-bearing assets.
11.       Structure of Assets and Liabilities.  After an initial strong
growth fro~m1979 through 1981, FONDEI's portfolio expansion does not show an
important increase. As a result of slow disbursement of subloans, in
1983-1984, and of very short repayment periods imposed upon earlier subloans
(under the First Industrial Loan), FONDEI's outstanding portfolio remained,
through 1983-1984 at about US$20 million equivalent. Liquid assets, however,
increased from US$10.1 million, equivalent in December 1983 to US$15.3
million at the end of 1984 and to about US$18.0 milliou, equivalent, in



- 28 -
AM=EX 2
Page 5 of 6
August 1985. The rapid build up of FONDEI's liquid assets which resulted
from early repayments from previous loans, is being used by FONDEI for a new
working capital loan facility and to meet the entire local counterpart funds
neededunder the proposed project. In addition starting in 1986 the annual
debt service obligations of FONDEI on the two loans, would take up a large
part of its available liquidity. Finally, since maturities and subloans
under the Second Industrial Credit Project were relatively longer, the lIquid
assets/portfolio ratio should tend to decrease in the future. On the
liabilities side, the paid-in capital of FONDEI was increased by BCH, during
the Second Industrial Credit Project, to US$9.1 million, which, when added to
US$2.6 million of retained earnings provided a total equity to FONDMI, as of
December 1984, of US$11.6 million or 321 of total assets and debt/equity
ratio of 2.1 to 1. Funding through Bank projects is still the main source of
financing of FONDEI representing, at year's end 1984, 54X of total assets.
12.       Arrears.  Since participating commercial banks bear the full credit
risk and are reqUired to repay FONDEI for principal and interests on due
dates, through their clearing accounts with BCH, FONDEI has minimal arrear
possibilities and does not show, in its accounts, any provisions for possible
losses. As part of its supervision procedures, FONDEI recives periodic
reports on status of arrears from the financial intermediaries. In 1984,
FONDEI prepared an elaborate annual report on the status of each subloan in
arrears, including an examination of the main causes for such arrears. The
arrears report for FONDEI subloans shows an improvement in thearreare
position between the First ard Second Bank loans. Arrears under Loan 1659-HO
amount to 161 of that loan's portfolio, while arrears under the second loan
(2075-HO) are a mere 2.4X of the outstanding portfolio and 1.52 of total
FONDEI disbursements. Furthermore, arrears under the First Loan represents
80 of total arrears under both loans. The main reason for arrears under the
first loan were the unrealistically short repayment schedules allowed to
subprojects (an average of four to five years, maturity, with six months to
one year of grace). Since only 12 enterprises out of 375 subprojects
financed by FONDEI accounted for nearly 60% of its total arrears, it was easy
for FONDRI and the concerned commercal banks to prepare and implement, some
cases, detailed recovery plans. Overall, FONDEI is increasingly refocusing
Its supervision toward analysis of repayment capabilities of affected firms,
reviewing their repayment calendars and rescheduling a few subloans under the
first project. In some cases, FONDEI is also providing incremental working
capital in Lempiras for its existingelients. Finally, commercial banks with
high arrears under the first loan have been required by FONDEI to tighten
appraisal/supervision procedures and their training programs would be
reoriented under the proposed project to improve project evaluation (Annex
1).
Accounting Procedures and Audit Reports
13. FONDEI maintains an adequate internal accounting control system and is
carrying out improvements In Its portfolio control and information system,
using technical assistance funds under Loan 2085-HO. In line with Bank
requirements, FONDEI accounts have been audited audited by a firm of outside
auditors. For the past three years FONDEI accounts have been audited by
Price Waterhouse Inc, and their reports were unqualified.



- 29 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 6
Future Operations and Financial Projections
14.       Projected commitments.  FONDEI is projecting an important increase
in its lending portfolio: from US$20 million in 1984 to US$66.1 million in
1989, all of which, except for US$2.5 million of outstanding subloans under
the tourism Bank project, will be for industry. The sharp increase is
explained by: (a) an increased demand for subloans supported by FONDEI's
current pipeline and demand projections; (b) the increasing use of IONDEI's
current and projected liquid assets into new lines of credit in local
currency for working capital; and (c) a deceleration in the pace of recovery
of the outstanding portfolio due to longer maturities of subloans under the
Second Industrial Credit. To cover the above projected commitments, in
1986-1989, FONDEI's main sources of funds would be: (a) Dank resources at
a rate of about US$17 million average p.a. which would cover the total
foreign resources requirements; and (b) FONDDI's own internally generated
resources (portfolio recovery, accummulated earnings, etc.) amounting to
about US$12 million equivalent average p.a. Under the proposed project no
additional capital contribution would be required from the Government. By
year-end 1989 the tourism project (1673-H0) would have been completely
repayed and the outstanding borrowing from the Bank's three industrial loans
would amount to US$63.5 million and represent about 71X of FONDEX's total
assets. FONDEI's own capital and reserves would represent 21% of its total
assets. FONDEI would be, throughout the period, in a healthy debt/equity
situation and could,if needed consider a diversification of its external
sources of financing.
15.       Projected financial results.  According to FONDEI projections
discussed with the mission, Its expected profits for the period 1986-1989
would amount to about US$1.5 million equivalent average per annum. Income
from interest-bearing assets (loan portfolio and short-term deposits) would
cover the financial expenses as well as the administration costs of FONDEI.
The latter would be kept at a healthy 2.01 of interest-bearing assets while
at the same time FONDEI 'ould try to maintain competitive remuneration for
its personnel. As a result of the preceding projections, FONDRI's projected
spread of 2% for Bank resources under the proposed project is considered
adequate. Projected surpluses, if they materialize, would further increase
FONDEI's capital. Taking into account all the above-mentioned aspects,
FONDEI's current and projected financial situation and results appear
satisfactory.



- 30 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
HONDURAS
THIRD INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Experience Under Past Lending
1.        The Bank has made two loans to FONDEI.  The first two FONDEI loans
(US$15 million, 1979; US$30 million, 1981) helped to set up FONDEI and
establish basic project evaluation capabilities within the institution. Bank
funds available under these loans were allocated to sound siboprojects
(according to the draft PCR on the first loan proposed by FONDEI), and bad a
substantial foreign exchange and employment impact. Improving the project
appraisal capabilities of participating financial intermedieries, however,
turned out to be more difficult than expected. As a result, the current
project has been designed not only to provide scarce long-term resources for
industrial investment, but to focus on improving the project preparation and
appraisal capabilities of the PFI's. The experience under the previous
loans is discussed in the following paragraphs, while discussion of FONDEI's
institutional development is in Annex 2.
Lending Profile
2.       The major characteristics and performance of subprojects under the
previous two loans are shown in Annex 4, Table 14 and 15. Overall, FONDEI's
lending operations expanded considerably during the period 1981-1985. Of the
387 subprojects financed by FONDEI by December 1985, 68X were for the small
and medium scale project with an average subloan size of about US$132,700
equivalent; and the average investment cost of US$236,947 equivalent. FONDEI
has also supported a rather high number of new enterprises which accounted
for 34Z of the total enterprises financed to date. The 38} subprojects
financed involved L 183.4 million in total costs and L 102.7 million in
FONDEI financing (Annex 4, Table 15). FONDEI has continued to distribute its
resources widely in several subsectors. The four most important subsectors
were food and beverages (32Z), metal-mechanic (162), chemicals (152), and
textiles and apparel (13%). FONDEI's lending operations have also
contributed to balanced regional development with subprojects in the Cortes
region (mainly In San Pedro Sula) and the Central part (mainly in
Tegucigalpa) accounting for 49% and 29%, respectively, of the FONDEI's total
project financing.
SubproJect Performance
3.        During project preparation, FONDEI estimated ex post financial and
economic rates of return for a sample of 40 subprojects, covering the two
Bank-assisted credit operations. These projects have been in operat4on for
two years or more. The ex post financial rate of return (FRR) showed t.iat 13
of the sampled subprojects had FRR's of between 10 and 15X, while the rest
has projected FRR's of more than 15%. The economic rate of return (ERR) was
calculated for only seven of the relatively large sized subprojects; of
these, five had ERRs of 15% and above, and only two had ERRS of between 10
and 152. Compared to ex-ante average rates of return of 202 for FRR and 302



- 31 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
for ERR, the subprojects have not fared as well as projected at appraisal,
though the projects are viable. The employment effects of the subprojects
are also likely to be substantial, but since most investments were for
expansion projects, the direct employment effects of the project are likely
to be less favorable than those originally forecast. Based upon an
extrapolation of the sampled subprojects in the 387 subprojects approved by
the Bank for the two industrial credit projects, some 6,000 new direct jobs
are expected to have been created at an average fixed investment cost per Job
of about US$14,000 (in constant 1978 US Dollars).
4.      The mission investigated the origin of the differences between the
project's actual and forecasted results. It was noted that most of the
sampled subprojects were prepared and approved during 1979-80 a period when
the economy was buoyant. The implementation period (1980-84), for the
subprojects particularly 1981-83 was characterized by a deep economic
recession, and slump in domestic demand, so that most subprojects analyzed
had actual sales less than projected. Problems were further exacerbated,
with the shrinkage of the regional CACM which was the main demand source for
the larger export oriented subprojects analyzed. Aside from the exogenous
fsctors, the mission observed that there were areas where subproject
evaluation criteria also needed improvement. This is particularly true for
the calculation of ERR's, for which refined and updated efficiency parameters
are still lacking.
5.        The technical assistance component under the proposed project is
expected to modify FONDEI and PFI training programs (Annex 1 para 3) to
concentrate in improving appraisal capacity. At the sametime, the Central
Bank research department would initiate some useful diagnostic studies on
selected sector issues. These should assist PONDEI and the Bank, to identify
policy areas where improvement is needed, to ensure successful project
implementation.
Commitment and Disbursement Speed
6.       'While the previous FONDEI loans have met most of their
institutional and socio-economic objectives, their commitment and
disbursement performance has been uneven. The first FONDEI loan became
effective on June 5, 1979, and was fully commited by December 31, 1982, i.e.
one year after the original termination date for the submission of the
subprojects. This was mainly due to FONDEI's newness to a credit operation
which, among other things, required developing appraisal procedures and
guidelines for the PFIs. In addition, the US$3.0 million component for the
CORDEFOR (the industrial forestry development agency) moved very slowly and
eventually had to be reallocated to the credit (FONDEI) component. Overall,
the loan took five years to disburse against an appraisal estimate of four
years, with 50% of the loan disbursed in the last year. The Second
Industrial Project (Loan 2075-HO), became effective in August 1982, a period
when the economy was experiencing a severe recession and the political crisis
in Central America had accentuated. These factors and the acute foreign
exchange shortage arising from the drop in world coffee and banana prices
adversely affected the country's overall investment rate including the demand
for industrial financing. Consequently, by April 1983, disbursements were



- 32 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
only 30X of appraisal estimates. Thereafter the situation began to Improve
considerably due to the following measures introduced at the behest of the
Bank supervision missions: a) the Central Bank agreed to grant Import permits
to FONDEI clients on a priority basis; b) FONDEI began to use more frequently
the Bankts direct supplier payment procedure; and c) most important wes the
setting up of the special account with an initial deposit of US$2.5 million
from the Bank loan. Disbursements accelerated and by June 1986 almost
equalled levels estimated at appraisal. The loan was fully committed in
January 1986, and is likely to be completely disbursed by June 1986, in line
wit appraisal estimates.
7.      The disbursement profile of the proposed project, has been based on
the average profile for LAC industrial finance projects. FONDEI already has
a very healthy pipeline of projects (US$11.0 million), and commitments are
expected to move quite rapidly. However, to ensure an equally smooth
disbursement performance, the proposed project includes the setting up of a
special account, and emphasis is placed under the project's technical
assistance program on FONDEI's credit promotion activities (Annex 1,
para. 2). The inclusion of free standing working capital financing, another
attractive features, is expected to move relatively faster than the other
components. Above all, the project's investment package has been designed to
meet anticipated credit demand over two and a half year period, which should
be easily forthcoming, given the dearth of term credit in Honduras.



-33 -                                     UANNMI  4
T-1
HONDURAS
THIRD INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
FONDEI Oigonlatton Chad
lEC-0OFE                   EECt_____-.
eVLUT               PLAtANG &                :APINS                            lB;
& UWAO l            9PROGR                    ......         &  PNUUNCE       ASSMXNMAE ON
= t--- - - - - - -                             - - - a - - - - -- - -- - - - - - - -
e | |  -! |*                                           l       i.      l       t
EVMIJAIKXsN       PLANNING   L       LOA4N    I         EVALUATION   l       .OA>N   x
L   &         r                     MINISTRA1ION   J         & su L _ m
S~~~~~~_                                                           S



Tnblp 2: ftfv.v%frrf  fkt,,v                  VrsT.s  M1dt    VjY;      I  1~',;'
A.  TDrrl I FNW                 WS                                )5I.f,                 Af7.'         %., ;'-   J'.1)    21   I          +           hi
Meat an #at reaWrati a1,                                                   j,7    2.7            ,,'..e                                         U.*            I
FIt  Pr   bt:s                                                                                                                      lot          I ? ,  , ,i  1,1.  ihi  Js
9ga    Proutio    w           fX  1fintflg                    146 U}         ?           IE,                                      V,,,,? IX*@   tj.}1t  1tj0  1/11.1
oXher F        8*1Uf1s                                                   ItQ1   1./.     I        4t  '  ),)   1t      4-,/ /     1.* ", ;3,'.u             t,'
ts'+ {  'fl fs    'rj {f ;o', 4       4f,(J     ki64       f itf'       /figt        tt
Tobacm}                                                        14.(}     /,f,       fAl,l       XfOr fA      §!,¢       *sf        f.*&         ftif         t ,1
fbibIz W rmi~c                                                14.0       1/.II    *4 I.    I~.               P.1  J     C,1 ~      .I          PS
CUMyidcai  .1ir'                                                                     < t         90 n, -n'Lo,                      f;,L t31.  f/,A,
'thea   r k s    Leatf*r       A.,                                         I,                      / .                              ,   * *  .                  f
aeather Fbotwa                                                 ;Q!         tx,        /wf         'ff        ;,         1'          i'          $f           l
,Jo  taif   Wx    R      uJrtnw                               14. Io      3I.,(       t', 3.     f            1  ,,     j,        3            JI,          It./
Wx: t   urni      '1H, ,- -tlarre                                          I,t                                                                              t t
othr  WmfatusfW   Ndwitt}( .                        {            5lef; ;  1 "i  'I  I./U $X
t!MA&ril 'iAtXZ                                                           I o:)  ii .0          I to       i . 8.       ^e w                       t( 
Num-wwIttltfef Wwrsl' i                                                   ivjtt*'t  f.   I t'      5          tI        i;.'       t .             
V ~~S                          ~        '        *   -'.- '  'S
!4                         (t1 



i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Z9t
in-                                                                                                                                      0   7
XJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ' ,
a. ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     .
.  .. ......  _
T.*  3c*-a     2100*       21-         -6.5         3               268              o
-  a              -   a'                 '-c.             "~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a ~ , 
J~~                                       ~ ~        ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~~ .  a. .            4J                 a ,   ,,,_,
-at--                                          a-         a           a          a           *                     a.> 
--   ~ ~ ~~==%-            :S;=       ccas0.9W=xmom
or                                                * 7-:.
;   .--'-  ...a'-                                             .           .'          *          *2.2   D                                      
Ta--   *    -                                                    a'        a                      - -;t  :
*  _-                                               4-      .a           a*          -    -        ,a         1t                          $1          1 .1
-~~~ a*                       *                                           :'>         -          0.1;               .1          -s.
f.   n +.  r ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~-                        -                       -           _                     _-     - ^      + 2.4         0?  ;.8 . ,1
-a- -                        __                                     e.                                                            26R.8   ,¶(D.O  2 
_                                         r--         ;.        *,          t $i r.t
_  ^  _~+                    -.          _          .<<         ,>d        1.1         t.4              O?  01
,*   _   :,t   _      O.t               r).t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:



VWMII  =IE'RI  GIT HEDr
Tble 4: Panufactmed Imorts by Product Group (175-19B4)
(in  Iliors of c    )t t)
AvEaS P.A.  %                                                 M=  P.A.   %
1y15-1g19          19BD   1981    19B       1983    19EW      19BD-1984
Traitial Czsur Goods                fi7.7    17.3    145.2  154.6   160.7   129.3   134.3          144.8     19.2
Pnr  I foods                        35.2     6.9      60.9   62.8    44.4    56.4    54.5          55.8       7.4
&Wmv_                                4.0     1.0       5.3    6.5      4.5     3.8     5.5          5.1       0.7
Tobcoo                              A04      0.1      0.2    0.2       0.1     0.0      0.0         1.2       0.0
Clo*Avg                              3.7     0.8      7.4    9.1       4.0     0.3      2.6         4.7       0.6
Intbwr                               2.3     0.5      3.3    4.5       3.4     2.3      2.3         3.2       0.4
urtwe                             1.9      0.4      3.8    3.0      1.7      1.0     100          2.1      0.3
Pri=tzg                              2.9     0.6      53.6   62.3    97.3    61.4    63.5          68.6       9.1
Qinlca                              3792     7.2
Intuuinate Goods                   WT.6    40.5    335.2  379.2   352.1   361.2   3X3.2            35.6      468
TexthIs                             31.4     602      35.9   38.7    28.1    31 0    34.2           34.2      4.5
Iadtr                               0.5     0.1       0.1    0.1      0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0      0.0
Wood                                32.3     6.3      55.4   58.6    48.5    49.0    54.0           53.1      7.1
8bdo                                62.4    12o1     VW2  1V5.        82.5   111.2   1w9o          101.      135.  
lsawry PrOdcto                      19.3     3.8      41.7   82.6   134.9    63.8
Ruliusr                             11.6     2.3      18.9   17.4    116       8.2    Z.1           17.6      2.3
Plmtlaa                              3.3     0.6       6.6    7.7      2.1     4.6      5.2          5.2      0.7
li-mtaf1a 1i3a                     15.6     3.0      24.4   2D.0    15.3    12.9    22.0           18.9      2.5
1s  ftf                             31.1     6.1      49.0   48.3     3.8      D)4     37.3         42.8      5.7
bPISo Goods and-
_l__i_r    1                     216.9    42.3    359.6  291.3   195.3   167.2    45.5           255a      34.0
Atal PiaVdUob                       aDsO     3.8      31.1    2.5    35.1    26.7    36.3           52.1 -    4.
iblzw  (In.¢ elect.)               i2D.6    23.6    216.2  173.9    93.9   113.5   148.5           149.2     19.8
Tiw.pwrt Eupmmt                     69.9    11.9      a8    66.0    41.3    31.5    44.8            54.5      7.2
i,utioit                             6.0     1.2       8.9    9.3    12.4      7.2      6.3          8.8      1.2
Other PZaduos                        9.3     1.8      14.6   13.7      9.6     82       9.5         11.1      t.5
Total Nufwtouiir                   512.3   100.1    840.0  825.1  7lJ.1   677.7   714.9            753.1    1O0.0
a/ PNovembe 
,o~e  935



- 37 -
ANNEX 4
T-5
HONDURAS
THIRD INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table 5: Banking System: Consolidated Financial Statements
(Balances in million current Lempiras)
1982   1983           1984       1985
June    Dec.   June
I.   Int'l Assets                  495.2   280.0   328.6    310.0   310.9
II.  Credits & Invest.           2,235.4  2,685.7  2,780.6  2,959.2  2,977.6
Public Sector                462.5   719.5   722.3    781.4   666.3
(Net Private Sector)      1,772.9  1,966.2  2,058.3  2,177.8  2,311.3
III. Other Assets (Net)           -982.5  -934.5 -1,009.1  -1,007.8 -1,046.4
Capital & Reserves          -642.7  -719.1  -786.0   -788.9  -874.4
Other'                      -339.8  -215.4  -223.1   -218.9  -172.0
ASSETS - LIAB.              1,748.1  2,031.2  2,100.1  2,261.4  2,242.1
IV.  Monetary Liabilities          609.3   799.2   755.0    832.0   745.4
V.   Quasi-Money                 1,048.8  1,232.0  1,345.1  1,429.4  1,496.7
Savings & Term Deposits      749.9   917.9  1,006.0  1,030.4  1,088.1
Other Deposits                116.5   103.3   120.0    t57.7   146.6
Bonds and Mortgages           67.0    74.5    80.0       88.9   103.6
Specialized Savings           52.5    53.7    60.7        60.3    61.4
Other Obligations             62.9    77.6    77.4        92.1    97.0
1/ Preliminary figures
Source: Banco Central de Honduras
LCPI2
November 1985



Thble 6: 1984 - 9nI      - Cin la br&u
(In WM= of mment Lp1x)
. . -        ]          ? ---- ue;  - - -S  a    a:I- '                              -
C=l   71AU  hUARO        M   IAUMRA   1OR        ARM~  JADOE    OM 9E~0 ZJ         DM   MM~ BAW~M           TM      U3WW!  WMA        1
,a. boai,b1, 00mw        11.4   32.5    35.2      15.6    42.2      40.5    34.4   2B.9    42.2      32.1   50.6  65        77.4    129.5    26.0     641      2
tam ad D1anta            3D.5   69.5    73.5      41.4    41.4      44.6    36.4   96.1    77.5      95.0  122.4  134.0    1S2.5    212.1    51.5    .39.0 o   57
Piml Ageb.                1.1    2.5      2.2      4.0     4.0       1.4     2.1    4-3     6.5       5.9    6.2  1o0       10.8     24.1     36       82.1     4
0ote                     -I:L    9.2      2.6     12.1    12.       2.9      4.8    5.6     9.7      27.8   355   27.9      7.9      44.7  ,           230.9   10
D_ D t                   12.2   27.4    27.0      3D.7    35.6      41.4    33.9   24-5    35.0      25.3   55.0  65.3      78.7    t67.1      .1      69.2    )
u      -so 10.7 r                 2T    -9a      -;       3.       40.4      5.   -4       -2        -7   -5       634      754.5    14;5  3t16 6     W   9   -
Pardo D 5MW               0.9    1.1      0.9      0.9     0.7       1.0     0.2    0.7     0.6       0.6    2.1   1.4       4.1     19.6     3.NS     3.3    2       w
Pondo  Bake               0.6    3.2      0.9       -      1-7       -       -      3.-    32.4       -      1.9   0.5       0.1      -        -       12.0
bmDtsp                   19.0   62.0      L6      18.8    37.8      32.2    32.2   61.8      -       63.3  103.2  119.0    t22.7    158.5    32.2      q63.7   42
toi om1                  1m  -=   -w    1w   35.   W7   3ra  -r  -w    -Ur  1T.0 nWT   iis7  l94   32.  -VW  -K
Jbnl40.uzm                0.1    0.6      0.4      0.8     1.0      2.3      0.8    3.7      4.1      1.2    2.2   2.9       7.5      6.1     0.2      N3.9    2
Qmtzol lWxk               6.5    7.7      1.6     1l.9     0.2       -       1.1   14.1      6.0     40.8   25.4   6.6      10.8     12.7     0.4      145.     6
Da tio Dwm                 -      2.7      -       5.2      -        _        -     9_ 0     -       13.6    7.5   5.0       4.3     14.0     1.1      62.4    3
Od   ridabliesh1          3.4    5,9      8.0     16.0    16.9      10.6     6.3    5.9    44.1       2.6    9.2   9.2      31.0     34.8     7.5      211.4    9
Iob10  maw 12tI          41.1  105.7   105.2       2.6    90.5      8.0    73.5  115.3   117.5    145.6  200.3  25.1       Z5.1     37.1    76.5   2417.5   qD
3wtuy                     7.4    8.0      8.3     20.2       2      5.4      4.2   19.6    18.4      13.2   17.4  19.0      19.0     23.3    139       M.6   10
UA1daMl1t¶w  + Hpdty   48.5  113.7   113.5    1M8    99.7           e9.4    77.7  134.9   135.9    19.   217.1  24.1    247.5    410.4    90.4   2.2L1   teo
Qmt1ipt L1ablUt          11.3   34.6    13.5      t7.2   109.3      34.    165.7  15&6    316.6      43.5   67.5  26.1      21.1    111.1    9D.4   1.3S2.5  9.
L1aM.3iti*WUpstl          5.6   13.2    13.1       4.2     9.8      15.6    17.5    6.0      6.5     11.2   11.5  10.8      11.8     16.6     5.5       10.0
tt1wg.L1/Port$oUo         0.4    0.5      0.2      0.2     2.6      0.8      5.2    1.7      5.0      0.5    0.6   0.2       0.2      0.5      1.8       1.0
oa_zw to                  1.0    1.2      1.3      0.5     1.2_  1.0         1.0    1.2      1.2      1.3    1.0   1.0       1.0      0.8     0.7        1.0
love*  19B



HMMAS
Table 7: 1984 - Blane Smoeete Pemwe CacuuL and Pblic Bzks
(in mtfioi of  anent Laqir)
mgm-      CSkvrivin               IA              IA      !EJNIuIA
Pmta   DnA    PIA   SIMA   M1M   VIVT    FIVI (O           IA   AM)  tAD  BAA              ITOTAL   %
assh, Reevables, Otber    1.2    0.2   1.1    2.9    6.7    6.2    0.5           7.1       4.4   104.1   35.1    164.5  11
lam and Disomta           5.1    2.1    8.6   14.5   33.4   41.9   89.1         56.5      67.7   161.4  232.5      762.8  52
ixaed Asats               0.1      -     0.2    1.9    0.5      2.0    0.9       3.3       1.9      1.4   17.5      29.7   2
Other AsMta               0.3      -     0.7    3.5    1.4    3.1    32.6    16.5         3D.0   176.6  299.0    523.7   5
otal Assets               6.7    2.3   10.6   22.8   42.0   53.2   123.1    83.4    104.0   443.5  589.1   1,480.7 100
DalDepoeit                0.3      -     0.5    1.4    3.4    3.5    9.7         4.4       9.1     66.0   72.2    170.5  12
local unre                 0;      -     0.5   TI         4    -3;       7 f     4;                  2    74.5    13D.3 
Fore  oCu                  -       -      -       -      -       -      0.6      0.1        _      12.5    0.6      13.8   1
Fo .i.aPanka               -       -      -       -       _      _       _        _         _      25.3    1.1      26.4   2
TermDeposits              4.2    1.2   6.3   16*5    25.9   33.6         -      54.8      10.3      -      65.0    217.8  15
Toal Curre                4.1     1.2   -9.      11      5.7I   33.4     -      -         ai;6- 1i;                 16.1  1W
ForeP   Cuir y            0.1      -     0.2    0.3    0.2    0.2        -       0.3        -       -      0.4       1.7  -
C0watr. LRek               -       -    0.9       -     3.4    0.9   23.3        8.0       1.0      -    251.0    2Z.5  19
Doae to                    -      0.4   1.6    2.6    3.5    9.0   74.7    13*1           24.0    317.0  24.8    470.7  32
Otbhr LIablitiee          0.1      -      -       -      3.3   1i4      3.7       -        5.0      2.5    88       24.8   2
Total I4abLUiities        4.6    1.6   9.3   2D.5   39.5   48.4  i1114          80.3      49.4     35.5  421ua    1172.3  SD
iWt                       2.t   .0*7    i*3    2.3    205    4*8   11.7          3.1      54.6      5B.0  167.3   -3M4   rD
T        L ialbttes + Wti1Br   6.7    2.3   10.6   22.8   42.0   53.2  123.1   8.4      1O04.     443.5  99.t   1D.4.7 1OD
CoutLient LiabtUities     14       -    0.6   20.6    2.9   19.2   16.9    35.1           13.8    222.3   52.7      ".5  26
SMRCE: Bmnco Central de HIkuse
lovember 1985



mAS
THIRDISTRIL CrEDIT MOM
8: Iter8st Rate Coqxnuts 1975/1984 - 0C±a1 Bam.
(as psre,uta  or total reeoes)
1915   1976   1977   1918    1979    1980   1981   19E2   1983   1984
P±d interests                     4.57    4.78    5.16    5.52    5.95    6.69    7.56    7.85    7.24    7.19
Ahzistion Costs                   3.77    3.73    342    3.23    3.8     4.40    5.78    6.09    5.21    5.2
Profit                            1.77    1.96    2.00    1.75    1.57    1.53    1.71    1.14    1.14    1.61
10.11   10.41   10.98   10.5D   11.32    12.62   15.05   15.0   13.99   14.22
Reserve BRquiremt                 1.74    1.77    2.00    2.32    2.73   3.13    3a6    4.06    3.9)   3.61
Interest Pate Ixing              1123   12.24   12.5B   12.W   14.05    15.75   18.91   19.15   17.09   17.83
Min. Ber  Req.                    1.74    1.77    2.00   2.32    2.73    3.13    3.6    4.06    3.90    3.61
cash0.|) 00                                      0.31    0.29    0.33    0.43   0.51    0.43    0.32    0.34
Depwstft B                        0.57    0.58   0.71    0.8    1.00    0.90    1.00    1.06    0.56    0.59
4%3 2x                            02?    0.91    1 08    1.22    1.40     1.80    2.35    2.57    2.26    2.3
10C1s                             -       -      -       -       -       -       -       -      0.36    045
Etfective Rewere Req.             B.06   26.71   29.30   31.79   32.26    32.19   3D.43   31.07   32.14   35.41        co
Effective Barzosig Rate           6.3    6.64    7.13    7.62    8.15    9.P7   10.55   10.76   10.42   10.19
Soe: Centml Bezk of HIlas
November 1985



- 41 -
ANNEX 4
T-9
HONDURAS
THIRD INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table 9: Banking Deposits
Maturities Classification (Current Loans)
December 1984       July 148
Xi-.. sMill.L.%
Commercial Banks
Prom 1 to 18 months                          661,362    63      708,028    65
From 1-1/2 to 4 years                        168,080    16      156,860    15
From 4 to 5 years                             59,728     6       52,568      5
More than 5 years                            165,542    16      163,784    15
Subtotal                                   1,054,712   100    1,081,240   100
DevelopentBn
Friom I to 18 months                         111,100    25      118,662    27
From 1-1/2 to 4 years                         40,789     9       41,362      9
From 4 to 5 years                            100,202    23      104,318    24
More than 5 years                            187,194    43      172,124    39
Subtotal                                     439,285   100      436,466   100
Other
From I to 18 months                           15,045     9       23,961    14
Front 1-1/2 to 4 years                        10,719     7       12,990     8
From 4 to 5 years                              4,503     3        5,467     3
More than 5 years                            129,826    81      126,180    75
Subtotal                                     160,093   100      168,598   100
TOTAL                                     *1,654,090    -     1,686,304    -
SOURCE: Superintendency of Banks
LCPI2
November 1985



ANNEX 4
- 42 -                    T-10
HONDURAS
THIRD INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table 10: Destination of Banking System Credit to the Private Sector 1/
(in millions of Lempiras)
1980       1982       198%
Total 1/                                    1,290.7    1,576.4    1,954.8
Agriculture                                   261.8      271.2      370.7
Coffee                                     (79.9)     (83.6)    (110.0)
Cotton                                     (24.2)     (19.8)     (25.7)
Basic Grains                               (52.0)     (44.2)     (58-3)
Other                                     (105.7)    (123.6)    (176.7)
Livestock                                      79.2       97.4      150.3
Fishing                                        19.8       15.3       12.8
Mining                                          1.3        1.4        1.3
Manufacturing                                 256.9      406.8      504.0
Transportation and Communications              42.1       39.5       42.6
Other Services                                 79.7       90.0       59.2
Construction and Real Estate                  260.7      353.3      379.8
Commerce                                      220.4      218.7      335.1
Consumption                                    50.4       55.1       66.2
Unclassified                                   18.4       27.7       32.8
(as percentage of Total)
Agriculture                                    20.3       17.2       19.0
Coffee                                      (6.2)      (5.3)      (5.6)
Cotton                                      (1.9)      (1-3)      (1.4)
Basic Grains                                (4.0)      (2.8)      (3-0)
Other                                       (8.2)      (7.8)      (9.0)
Livestock                                       6.1        6.2        7.6
Fishing                                         1.5        1.0        0.7
Mining                                          0.1        0.1        0.1
Manufacturing                                  19.9       25.8       25.9
Transportation and Communications               3.3        2.5        2.1
Other Services                                  6.2        5.7        3.0
Construction and Real Estate                   20.2       22.4       19.4
Commerce                                       17.1       13.9       17.1
Consumption                                     3.9        3.5        3-4
Unclassified                                    1.4        1.7        1.7
Source: Central Bank of Honduras
1/ Includes only loans and discounts and therefore, the total figure
differs from the total credit to the private sector which appears in
the consolidated banking system accounts.
LCPI2
November 1985



-43 -
ANNEX 4
HONDURAS
THIRD INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table 11: Some Components of Commercial Banks Cost Structure
Selected Years
1976    1978    1980    1982    1984
Number Personnel                       2,510   3,199   3,833   3,948   3,592
Number Bank Offices                      172     190      219     222     220
Pers./Offices                             15       17      18      18       16
Deposits                                 609     933   1,024   1,306   1,717
Dep. + Loans                           1,357   1,951   2,180   2,655   3,667
BCH/Loans                                  8       7       13      13       12
CPI/WPI (1)                             87.3      100   125.6   150.2   164.0
Dep. Million 1978 L.                     697     933      815     870   1,047
Dep. + Loans Million 78 L.             1,554   1,951   1,736   1,768   2,236
Personnel/Dep. Mill. 78 L.               3.6     3.4      4.7     4.5     3.4
Pers/Dep.+ Loans Mill 78 L.              1.6      1.6     2.2     2.2     1.6
Average Salary-Banking
Industry 1978 L.                      9,411   9,369  11,187   9,475  10,226
Adm.Costs /Overall Res.                  3.7     3.2      4.4     6.1     5.4
Util/Overall Res.                        2.0      1.8     1.5     1.1      1.6
TOTAL INTERMEDIATION COST                5.7     5.0      5.9     7.2     7.0
(1) CPI 1976/78 - WPI 1978/84
SOURCE: Central Bank
LCPI2
November 1985



- 44 -
T-1 2
u1ble 112 Fi.wal ste Itrst Rates.!/
(1972 - 1985)
Feb. 1M      kbr.-Sp    Sn  1974   18.  1w.  MSP. V- -iw. O-s  No 195n
Wic. 1974    19W4        D. 1918   Stg. 1979   Na. 198D B  1wMI   to date
t.   Rattes
-ZMi  lamep tow  year
Up? to L 1,0D 21                   7.0           8.0         8.5       8.5         8.5         9.5    9.0
ower L 1,0 and up to L 2,5)D 2     6.0           7.0         7.5       7.5         8.5         9.5    9.0
Other lam 3/ 5/
Up to L 1,00                       12.0         14.0        16.0       16*0       16.0         19.0   19.00
Oer L 1,0W and up to L 2,5)      10.0         12.0        13.5       4.0        16.0         19.0   19.0
Over L 2,000                       9.0           9.0        11.0       14.0       16.0         tgMo    19.0
Speca  Pates
predlot=n srices,   uportati=.
o nioat.Lrs& rel estate 3/         9.0          9.0        11.0       14*0       16.0         19.0   11-1% 6/
Cmmroa o3/                         Free         Fre         13.0       14.0       16.0         19.0   11-17%
Hstg bin(itr 14,000))
up to 10 YGM4                      10.0         10.0        10.0       10.0       10.0         12.0    15%
Nore  in 10d up to 15 yam          10.0         10.0        11.0       11.0       11.0         13.0    15%
IbKem   m 15 yeas                  11.0         11.0        12.0       12.0       12.0         14.0    15%
2. Fadsosi Rates                                                        we TaS  14
3.  epot Fate
Ss1p depoaitz                       4.0           4.0         6.0       7.0         7.0         8.0     hee
Tim & aertif. of deposit 41                                            1F          FM          Free     Free
Under 3 mnthe                       4.0          6.0         7.0    8.0-11.0     8.0-11.0    8.0-14.0  Free
Fum 3 mmth to unider 6             4.0           7.0         7.5                               n "
Pram 6 r ftsto under 12            7.0           7.0         8.0   a         n
Fns 12 enat to uer 18               7.0          7.0         8.5
Frn 18 mnthe and amer               7.0          7.0         9.0
F,m 24 autihnd over                7.0           7.0         9.5
Over 6 mmths and a ii-n ofU
L 5,a00: Ftee 4/                    -          8.0-10.0    8.0-10.0
4. Pixed Rent T.tle                   7.0-8.5        8.5         8.5        8.5        8.5         10.0    10.0
Source: 0estral b    of Handus.
1/ 1xir  autmrizde&
(oy cme cateor "up to L 5,OOOP stetlM  fe Yabrch 1990. "up to L. 10.000" stirg Septmber 1982.
3f Fran Oetoer 25, 1979 until Novber 3, 1981 to date la  ftureed with forip  u d e m alesd a -zlrnappre! of 3.5%
above the ertenal raete ontrwted. After Novuibr 193 thwy er a.loUmd a free laftg  rate.
4/ urn Mm t subject to llits th  ratem abosn _ep- st 1 le actel sWs of variatim.
For specific rates see Mble 14 a intewt rates   of Jime 1985.
Nomber 19S5



- 45 -
HONDURAS                        ANNEX 4
T-1 3
THIRD INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table 13: Maximum Lending dates and Commissions
I.   LENDING PATES
Installment 1oans, up to one year less than L. 10,000 I/         9 %
All other loans with domestic financing 2/                       19 X
Rediscount& 2/                                                  19 2
All loans with foreign funds directly procured by banks         Free
Special rates:
FONDEl                                                        17 2
Industrial Reactivation (PRI), working capital                17 %
Agricultural Development Fund                                  16 2
Housing (loans for houses of less than L. 40.000 cost)        15 2
Construction Industry Fund                                    14 2
(a) Basic Grains                                                11 2
(b) Production, Agricultural, Marketing, Exports Financing    15 2
II. COMMISSIONS
Credit renewal/overdrafts                                        1.0
Discount of Documents                                           0.5
Letters of Credit                                                1.0
Guarantee Commission for Loans Using the Guaranteed Fund         1.0
Commitment Fee, FONEI Loans                                     0.75
III. REDISCOUNT RATES (BCH)
General:
(a) Basic grains                                                 6X
(b) Production, in general                                      11 %
(c) Agricultural marketing and export financing                 11 X
Special Funds:
(a) Housing construction                                        10 %
(b) Transport                                                    72
(c) Small industry                                              11 2
(d) Advances under the Agricultural Credit Project              11 2
(e) Working Capital for Industry                                11 %
(f) Reactivate Construction Industry                            10 
(g) FONDEI                                                12 to 14%
Advances for illiquidity                                  10 to 24 2
IV. DEPOSIT RATES
All deposits, including those in Savings and Loan Assn.        Free 3/
Savings in Fixed Rent Titles                                    lO 2
I/ Advanced payment of interests and compensatory deposits (minimum
interest 42) are allowed for these loans.
2/ All these loans cannot be surcharged with commissions, commitment
fees, or compensatory deposits. Delinquency surcharge arrears is 22.
3/ Observed average has been 8-102 for savings deposits and 8-142 for
time deposits.
LCPI2
March 1986



- 46 -
HR^S                                                         AMlR 4
TIMD   WC9T REAL M       gWI'                                           TLft4
Tile 14: Qcimmeriast1  of ibpoject Appovd Under la  16994. 1      d 2x1541
(in -s  of I)1xa)
-69)11                                   sLo t6 1D                                     TM
si*  of          Man                 lbeir o' ofoanm                          Tmnbr  wf '       bow
8zblw   %       Amount    %          86blam     %   n mt                       ablom   %        mamnt £
BAX03is  OCUAILE               51  25       9,745   27             30     17       10,84    16               8t    21      33,999  20
Bh  sND)B                      41  20       6,Sr    19             13      7        2,423     4              54    14       9, XD   9
BiCAI                          2512         4,794  13              aD     II        8,COt    12              45    12      12,795 t2
BJwAmTM                        15   7       3,842   11             8       4        3,033     5              23     6       6,115   7
s 3   IZ LCKIO                 1g   9       3,018    8              5      3        2,137     3              24     6       5,1R;   5
BAQ  D] AM                      6   3         417    1             17      9        7,663    12              23     6       8,09   8.
FICN                            5   2       1,126    3              9      5        6,313    10              14     4       7,439   7
BA    IZI{1ShELTAIM             3   1       1,337    4              7      4        3,26i     5              10     3       4,603   4
RUM mrrmn                       3  1         6B5    2               4      2        1,542     2               7     2       2,227   2
BEO CIP A'IC                    3  1         85    2                2      1          302     -               5      1      1,107   i
B3    LMIWAL                    2   1         556    2             33     18       15,816    24              35     9      16,32  16
BM  ICO    H3Ew                 I   -        265    1               t      1        1,268     2               2      1      i,533  1
D  tE LAS FUA AM S              I   -        256    1              4       2        1,266     2               5     1       1,522   t
C.D.I.                         3   14        924    3              25     14        1,059     2              55    14       1,19B    2
oWa.                            I   -       1,9      4                                                        1     -       1 ,     I
at8EKR                          I   -        274    1                                                         1     -        274   -
BA0&FE                                                              2      t        1,333     2               2      I t    i,      I
¶,hL                       237 10t       36,421  10             181D   103       66,276   1O              3T7   10t    1M,697 1O
B LY SlJlli SIZE
U-T -wl ,                      98  47       4, 7311                60     33        2,786     4             1958   41       6,89  7
8D,OOI TO 2aD.000              57  28       7,894   22             48     27        6,599    10             105    27      t4,495  14
200X1t T D9,00D                39  19      12,863   35             37     21       13,86    20               76   23       25,949  25
TRW 50DODIt X                  13   6      11,591   32             35     19       43,8D5    66              48    12    -55,7 8   54
TOTA~hL                     207 1OD      36,421  ItOD           180    10        66,276  10              37    1OD   102,6WT 100
C. N SUNWAN TE
UP TO 511A                    130  63      12,349   34             45     28        5,31D    2D             15    45       17,729  17
5 TO 7 IM                      955  27     12,337  34              79     41       20,193    26             134    35      32,5W   32
7 M1 10 S                      21  10      10,235   28             53     18       3,251    52               74    19      48,486  47
QB   m 10     IR                1   -       1 500    4              3      2        2 452     2               4      1      3 952   4
TOM                 Mr-    ,-r -m                       TM  -u   *-   TM                                  -    -*' -i
D. Nr GRlS  IOD
0yer                            9   4         235    1              -      -            -     -               9     2         235   -
0.5 y39  19                                 2,928    8              3      5          218     -              39    10       7,146   3
1 year                        140  68      26,22D   72             57    102       24,30B    37             242    63      9D,5Z8  4q
1t.5 Y                          2  1        1,13     3              1      1        1,291     2               2     1       2,421   2
2 ysr                          16   8       5,513  15              34     62       32,276    49              18    23      37,789  37
2-5                             - _ _r-                             -      2        1,840     2                             I _    1,840   2
3  .ea                          1   -         393    1              4      8        6,343    10               t    _                7
ML                           207 10t      36,421  1OO            103    18W       66,276   1OD             327   10D    VV,69T  10
-,  ,,         -     -              -     _            -       -                        



- 47 -
tM4
T-14
NM 2
Ian 16F94                                  lam 2075-W                                      1'MrAL
NOW   o          Sublo'n       c        mbfr of           MI=                     WOm1  of   9       b1le   ---
Sibloem   %      Am&t    I1bloz                          AmsMt                       b lhl   'I    Awmt 
F. VI mg OF W100I&L WDVIVM
Food and bu   We                52 25        10, 8 29                 48      27       23,(   325                1W      PA      3 1,1) N32
QodaE PIX&Ct                    25  12        6,176   17              20      II        QJ297,   14               45;   tS       1f.T I,M t-,
Te=iw and apha1re               37  18        5,3*    15              29      16        7,493    11               66    17       1?F*I  -,
ibbtlliC pImXIUCIw     Z        2    13       4,359   12              55      19       12,121  18                 62    IC       16,Mfl  16
Nm-ft ~    P1Xdimts             21  10        4,036   11              19      11        6,399    10               40    10       W,N   10
NWbod ard vood FD&x-O27  13                   3,179    9              It       6         1,361     2              I      1(      4.%M    4
laper arA prntiM               t1t   5        2,411    7              14       8        5,818    (4               29      6,      P.,2Z   P
Odsar manifactaririg             7   3          784    2               4       ?           75f     1              t       ? 2     1,4    I
TODL                           37 10W       36,421   1C0            180    1CO        6,276   10                 37    i cr    1w,cq7  lm
ea~~ -c _                                                                             =s              - ,
F. B! GCEGBAHC WCATICO
Depto. de soree                 99  48       20,239   56              89      49       40,673    61               1eR    48      fi,412  £j4
Depo. de F      r c1adoRf       56  27       11,057   3               55      31       17,533      6              1tt     q      Pp'lr)  P
Dspio. de Atlanta                16   8       2,034    6               8       4         1,437     2              74      4       %471    I
Dapto. de IA Ez                  1   -           40    -               -       -                -                  6                 40
Dpto. de Copn                    4   2          293    1               2       1          163      -               9      I         4     -
Depto. de Cc=Ws                  6   3          379    1               3       ?          1aR                     1t      2         4P1
Dpto. de ValUe                   6   3          321    1               5       3         1,5<f     2                      2       1,(1(   2
Dspto. deO azdho                 7   3          181    -               _       _            _      _               4      2         tr
Depto.de El Paso                 2   1        1.059    3               1       1           53                             I       1,11?    I
Dspto. lobat.c                   4   2          255    1               5       3        3,"        Cl              4      1       A,F44    4
Dept. de S9nt rta                I   -            9    -               4       2          167      -       r              I        171
Depto.de Colm                    2   1          169    -               _          _                -                      1
Dept de Yor                      3    1           5    1               7       4          678      1              10             ¶tV t
Depto. de Is. de   i             -   -            -    -               1       1          2()      ,               1      ,
,OML                          207  1W       36,421   1O)            1&0    10O        66,716   1ir,              1? tt    (1(,(c'v  Ion
G. B! AM SW OF CIV
Up tD IOD.0                     51   25       1,672    4              (0     33         3,UP41     f'            tt1 tt          4        I
10,0,W  to 2,O                  52   25       3,995   11              24      13        3  a, 44   5                             ',. ¶(f,    7
0,(I to 30,X0                   21    I       2,490    7              24    1t          4+F4ct     7              4c    I        9,(mW    7
300,001, tw 90,00               20   tO       3,6P1   1O              19g     I I,,42             t In4    t i                            if
50D,01 to 1,DC                  as   13       8,316   23              16       9        'f,4r4    11              44   *I    1tt   r     t
1,OM,W    to t,SO,0              9    4       2,84    8                7      4         f6,4%     1h              ¶1      4      I,, ;'+    I.
retiw 213 1,5,0                 26   13    13,563                      5      17         W-QI    .1,              (if  __      -4  4 d a,L
TMRL                          207  1W0    36,421   1(;              1ff¶    (f()      ((*,.lX    r                t'tfi f
-m _                                                                          e  -   r-    cS    ,,s-  rrw 
R. BY TPE tOF E21E
NeM                             65   31    14,718   40                67      'i       ,                                 '#A    At.   #.
b1t   i~ llft                  142   69    1,7.    10                113      63       4(Y>*    _ft       f I            i      f!' l   to
TOM                            M7  IOD    36,421   1X)               ¶O      ICD 4,;'16    1Ct.                    i   i'I      t i,fw )  (.1,
Nov   -        -mb r  Z   -                                                              - _- cZm
Nor t1



+       *
z 
e S *0 w s > 0
u F * - -s b su
> 2 S 4 - v v
s . } ' . ' t
.: . s ; ; . _ _ > , _ 
- b . . .. . . ;' _ 
v _ XL , s !, _,F, , 4 s ,
_' ' W ... 's _ . <. . . _ . . __ __ . ,
.     _  _s  _          _          C  . t          >.         _    .                 n ._ . -                                               _                                                   - w._.>,-
_' '.>s,', . , ._, + , ''. , ,,^4. , S t . _. _
_j_ ',,, :s} _ s _ . d ^ ., _ . S , ... ... . ' . _ , . - 
'9'iNL                      ..                       ''"'-                   -:>X:i.' +;',;_t*' *'     ';                                                                               '      _
*. _ +. t 't ' > * _ , w ,
w < x 
;8i_ v _ , * w _*3M s . _ ' . _ it
*g p;> ZW 4 L*t =;g * _ * iho- _ * t *1 * v * J ¢
*    ;                   _;?;o4                  ' w t<it ' *              * -;k*> *       z           # 1 _   i .    w .                                   =
t ¢;; 9.J _++>r '* > *_ _ ** _ _s '9_W _ riS4. e ou. _ ' i to
_r
fi .4
t s s 4 s v * 9 r = i >Y Mb , *_is - *_
J it8 _ B + ta m * _ w6 _ s
a vw_ 4 *3_;; A Xo _ > . Ws
a * sz X *_svs _ Wi - 9'4 '+t __ _ s ** _ _ _ D' * . .. .) _s .
t: tp     W-'s ' t       _ z       _ iL. b          u --    !W +  4 _ .      *
D +L ho qi w_.t X + w t X * s _ _ 
2t s * _ r v k W * -S kS X s _ _ _ - _ _ . Ls w v 3 w _ _ _ - M _l . e iE ,_.
,* @ 4, t + s ** *' _ , w , 
- - -                    ..    *                               . t P  .   .    _e o___ . - .           . ^ __ ., S w_ w . _ _ *,, .. .. __ ............. .. s _ - r _  _ _  _
ili wa i 3L M-4 i,;=44 z;; e W; __ 
43; ve  ;, *s;; t r a*,. _ + * 9 ^ < _
, . . t . ._
s 4__e > =LL o ;_ 1 =                              _ *__e-Sv < sc- -r -
. + r .  4t. ttr 



i*                                                                                     AWH*? 4
E                    i i      ! I'*'
. .   s           ¢ %            ~            it 



- 50 -
ANNEX 4
HONDURAS                                  T-17
THIRD INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table 17: Estimated Schedule of Disbursements for the Proposed Loan
(in millions of US$)
18RV Flical Year                                                       Disbursements
nud Qujrter                                              By Quarter             Cumulative
FYR7
March 31, 19R7                                                 2.0
*June 30, 1987                                                 3.0                   5.0
FY88
September 30, 1987                                             3.0                   1.4
lestember 31, 1987                                             2.0                   2.6
Marcb 31, 1988                                                 3.0                   4.6
June 30, 1988                                                 2.1                   15.1
Y 89
Septmbher 20, 1988J                                            3.0                  10.0
lecember 31, 1988                                            2.0                   13.0
11arc,h 31, 1989                                               3.0                  15.8
Ju,np I4(J, 1989                                              2.1                   25.2
vy90
fif-fF.stInVir40, 194h9                                     1.5                  21.7
jiq,u;mbtpr '41, 19H9                                          1.5                  24.4
M1tircli ,1, 1 490                                             1.0                  26.9
JIque 30t, 1 99Ii0                                             1.1                  30.3
1i10'et f'eFp '411, .1 jq1)f                                   1.0                  30.4
lJ*s tidefj,ts+  '$1, *  tit                                   0.1                  32.2
-lbr 3I1t 1J, 1 "iiJ                                          1.0                  33.2
,*%~s*+, (1   1 t*3                                         ,)10                   33.4
I tlit pt'lf 't I1,   (JI()                                    1.0                  35.1
$,) t-o (  t n,( is1 , 1IX tllI.0                                                   35 .9
tKilF   1 i, I 09;                                             (1,5                 36.2
J14114, Iiij  ,I                                              0.5                   36.4
f'oot tlllt.t     t§I                                          0.5                  36.8
Pro t'st-ii  41     lt'lfy                                    0 5                   37,4
It P 1(
I1r)v J t



- Sl -
ANNEX 4
T-18
HONDURAS
THIRD INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table 18: FONDEt' Projected Income Statements 1984-1989
(in thousands of Lempiras)
19841/     1985        198-62/   19872/    19882/    1989'/
A. INCOME
1.  Interest and Commission    4,649        7,010      10,852    14,156      15,831    16,967
Loans
2.  Interest on Short-Term      2,607       3,300       3,066     2,334       2,122      3,016
Deposits
3.  Other Income                   61         220         250       403         376        472
TOTAL INCOME                         7,317     10,530      14,168    16,893      18,329      20,455
B. EXPENSES
1.  Interest and Commissions    4,396        5,943       9,198    11,397      12,154      13,604
on Loans
2.  Administrative Expenses      1,269       2,122       2,333     2,566       2,823       3,082
3.  Other Expenses                  49         156         175        197        223         234
TOTAL EXPENSES                     5,714      8,221       11,706   14,160      15,200      16,920
C.  NET INCOME                       1,603      2,309        2,462    2,733       3,129       3,535
1/ Audited.
1   FONDEI proJections.
Source: FONDEt
LCPI2
November 1985



-52-
ANNEX 4
T-19
HO3tlRAS
THIRD INDUSTRIAL CR3 IT PROJECT
Table 19: FoN)DI's Projected Balance Sheets 1984-1989
(in thousands of LepirLas)
1984a/    1943k/   1986b1  W98b/   198b/    1989b/
A. ASSETS
1. Current                        30,626    36,426   33,405   28,919   31,762    38,314
2.  Industrial Loans              12,873     7,593   4,296    1,892       795      -
(1659-HO)
3. Industrial Loans               16,308   43,095   57,360   49,505   41,998    35,297
(2075-HO)
4.  Third Industrial Loan           -          -     12,500   32,719   52,709    71,343
5. Tourism Loan                   10,268    10,696    9,253   7,850    6,444      5,077
6. Other Loans c/                   -          8t7  14,000   19,418   19,785    19,977
7. Advances d/                      -          123    1,586      525      618       600
8.  Total Portfolio               39,449    62,382   98,995  111,909  122,349   132,294
9. Net Fixed Assets                   99       itk    199        183      122        61
10. Other Assets e/                 1,990    6,048    3,700    8,000    8,000      8,000
TOTAL ASSETS                   72,164   105,008  136,299  149,011  162,233   178,669
B. LIABILITIES
1. Current                          1,793     5,918    4,987    5,466    5,659     6,052
2.  Loan IBM) 1659-HO              26,310   24,310   22,326   20,326   18,326    16,326
3.  Loan IBRD 2075-HO              10,901    31,901   57,400   55,400  51,400   47,400
4. Third IBRD Loan                   -          -      8,800   24,900  43,400   63,350
5. Loan IBRD 1673-HO                9,832     9,242    ,642    4,042    1,442        -
6. Total IBRD                      47,043   65,453   95,168  104,668  114,568   127,076
7. Other Obligations cl               -       8,000    8,000    8,000   8,000      8,000
8. Capital and Reserves            23,328    25,637   28,144   30,877  34,006    37,541
TOTAL LIABILITIES + CAPITAL           72,164   105,008  136,299  149,011  162,233   178,669
a/ Audited.
b/ FONDEI Projections.
c/ New Programs of FONDEI with own resources and loan recoveries-
d/ Advances to Financial Intermediaries
e/ Includes resources for F.I.A.
Source: FONDEI
LCPI2
November 1985



- 53 -
ANNEX 4
T-2 0
B01l)DURAS
THIRD INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table 20: FONDEI's Projected Cash Flow 1985-1989
(in thousands of Lempiras)
1985        1986       1987       1988      1989
A.  SOURCES
Initial Cash                   30,626     36,426      33,405    28,919   31,762
Portfolio Recovery 1,          10,628      15,210     27,670    33,742   36,208
IBKD                           23,010     34,299      16,100    18,500   19,950
Interest & commission 2/       10,310     13,918      16,490    17,953   19,983
Other  /                        8,220         250        403        449      472
TOTAL                          82,794    100,103      94,068    99,563   108,375
B.  USES
Administrative Expenses         2,122       2,333      2,566      2,823     3,082
Disbursements 1/               33,929      52,199     44,884    44,182    46,153
Interest Commission             4*820      7,393      10,918    12,034    13,211
Repayment IBIRD                 4,600      4,600       6,600      8,600     7,442
Other                             897         173        181        162       173
TOTAL                           46,368      66,698     65,149    67,801      70,061
Available Next Year             36,426      33,405     28,919    31,762      38,314
1/  Include advances to financial intermediaries and disbursement to FIA
7/ Interest on short-term deposits
3/ Resources for FIA trust Fund.
Source: FONDEI
LCPI2
November 1985



- 54 -
ANNEX 4
T-21
HONDURAS
THIRD INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Table 21: Project Costs and Financing Plan
(Amounts in US$ million equivalent)
Local      Foreign      Total
Costs       Costs       Costs          X
Amount       Amount       Amount
Estimated Cost:
Fixed Asset Subloams           27.1        30.0         57.1        85.0
Working Capital Subloans        1.2         5.0          6.2         9.2
Technology                      0.3         0.8          1.1         1.6
Technical Assistance            0.5         2.3          2.8         4.2
Total Project Costs         29.1        38.1        67.2        100.0
Percentage of Total Costs      43.3        56.7        100.0
Financing Plan:
Bank                             -         37.4         37.4
UJNDP                            -          0.7          0.7
FONDEI                         10.8          -          10.8
PFIs (minimum)                  6.3          -           6.3
Beneficiaries                  11.7          -          11.7
CDI (through GOH)               0.3          -          0.3
Total                       29.1        38.1         67.2
LCPI2
Hay 1986



- 55 -
ANNEX S
Page 1 of 3
HONDURAS
THIRD INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Key Indicators for Project Implementation
A. To enable the Bank to monitor the fulfillment of the project objectives
(main text, para. 2.02), during project implementation, FONDEI would prepare the
following minimum information.
- Subproject Lending Performance (annually):
* Number of subprojects and their Financial Composition
* Total Investment Costs (Projected and Actual)
* Sales (Projected and Actual)
* Implementation Delays
4 Current Project t1peline (quarterly)
* Status of Loans Outstanding (quarterly)
- Socio-economic Impact (annually): Commitments and Disbursements by
w Loan Type and Size of Enterprise
e Sector
 Region
* Financial Intermediary
* Incremental Jobs Created and Cost per Job
-  Technical Assistance Program
 Prepare and/or agree to annual work program for all agencies: FONDEI,
CDI and BCH
* Progress on computerization of data at FONDEI and PFI level
(annual)
* Progress on studies by BCH (semi-annually)
* Progress report on CDI's technical assistance activities (quarterly).



- 56 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 3
B.   For monitoring purposes the following indicators would apply:
By end     By Mid-    By Mid-    By Hid-
1986       1987        1988       1989
1.  Financial Operations
Loan Commitments *                  15%          351        75Z         100%
Number of Subloans                  27           62        134          179
2. Subproject Performance
* Jobs created                     418         943        2023        2698
3.  Institutional Development
* Establishment of Project
Evaluation units in PFIs                  4 banks    5 banks    2 banks
*  System Development              Design      1st Phase  Full Im-
execution  plementation   -
completed at FONDRI and
PFI level
4.  Staff Training                     Plan         Implement- Completed
Prepared    ation
* Number Trained                                   50          60
C.  The following timetable for the studies described in Annex 1 (Technical
Assistance Program) was agreed with the Government and Central Bank:
Government of Honduras
(i) The Government's Secretariats of Finance and Public Credit, and Economy and
Commerce would jointly carry out a study of the Temporary Admission Regime
for exporters. The study will be completed by June 1987, and the results
of the study would be discussed with the Bank by September 1987.
Thereafter based on the results of the study and taking into consideration
the comments of the Bank, the Government would prepare a plan action for
extending the scope and streamlining the system.
(ii) The results of the ongoing study on existing tariffs and proposals for
tariff reform would be made available to the Bank by December 31, 1986, and
Government would discuss the results of this study and the Banks comments
thereon by June 30, 1987. Based on these discussions, the Government will
prepare a plan of action.
* Cumulative



- 57 -
AMNEX 5
Page 3 of 3
Central lank of fondurse
The Central Bank would have direct responsibility for completing the below
mentioned studies, for which it (DCR) would indicate to the Bank by September
1986 the department/unit which will be responsible for undertaking and/or
initiating the studies:
By end       By mid-       By mid-
1986         1987          1988
Studies
(a)  Framework for                              TOR        Complete         -
Industrial Census
(b)  Constraints to Investment                   -           TOR         Complete
(c)  Adjustable Interest Rate                  TOR         Complete
Instruments                                           Initiate
(d)  Mechanisms to Increase                                  TOR          Complete
Commercial Bank Lending to S8Is.



- 58 -
ANNEX 6
HONDURAS
THIRD INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in Project File
A.  On the Indust ial and Financial Sector
1. Plan Nacioaial de Desarrollo, Sector Industrial
2.   Strategy of Industrial Sector Development - CONSUPLANE
3.   Papel de Industrias Pequena y Artesia - CDI
4.   Small Business Development Project - USAID
5.   Ley de Fomento a las Exportaciones
6. The Policy Framework for Export Development in Honduras -
Arthur D. Little, Nay 1984
7.   Promoting New Manufactured Exports - International Parke Inc.,
May 1984
8.  Lay del Banco Central de Honduras
9.   Working Paper on Financial Sector
10.   Quantitive and Qualitative Analysis of Industrial Sector Behavior
During 1984 February 1985 - Central Bank - April 1985
B.   On FONDEI
Operating Regulations
Audited Report for FY1989
Management Information Report 1984
Analysis de Cartera - Detailed Diagnostic Study on Subloan Status
1984-1985
Manual for Project Formulation and Evaluation
Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance Unit



i      B  ~~E  lI Z E
L  -_  O     m ; -~                        t I 1'IJnfo 4                                tA C/BA    NAev(
U A T E M A L                                                                                                                                     4* J_:Wb
C NVPRO,
/                                                          -.                -COYOtE5*I
.*   Mo:iEe, zc;  o                             PROOCr  W               -
(~~~P<4 V9 2A-e;;Sqr I    2\ ,(+     
t  <   /    'oseQ.~~~joe-r-cd        O2iJ  fst9              .                        u
/ C(; A> - -+ i 2 t-     -~ 30MW                                              2  MW                               ,<- -  ¢                    630
OF COr'AN         23MW4CNAVRA                                      29 M
t A                                                          C
'DE      23MK'Lgd-  ~ ~ ~~TEGCIG                                                                           R6'                      E
./O si tA-' AS                                 P                                         >; \ Srur *edcr rto VeeCos  Aou -
E                                                                                                                                          \- *,'op;  .o..  vrl*-Wf , X sMa 9> SnJorttNrs
Lq_                  P            Eoclu~~   i              zffX                     Crg S A L V D O R\ -           -S \ -                        ja gtoRo   dLo F    n.n;
< ; '; - ;i- i _ ,, %...6   '                                                         -
+7 / S~~~~~~~~~~-'r '..y,o                              ,      :    OAgUJ-Df<lO9i.nscIogu              To- r O0)s'ARA;p   
,ap .as            ,.e', prepad  ;y ..A                                                     SM W. J Cor 4s         deG     o ,so
Bank  staff e,ck.Sore4 to' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~Sn
nven,enee~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ $f th5-e ,eader to'                                  \rVZO,prOLA           jcioo                              _         ~ ,qN
tnon,i,-,at,oos~r _rer andw the                                                    .~  \t ,;3<{                     \     ^                     q
jnk ad ,t    *  -                                                             Leeno0 -
05Sf oe tne toga.' status of
>                                 t~~~~~~~~~~~ ; >         0     <        @                 /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~%    t  aCrs d
mrentOn or any  .atorsensentor>er_X 
eptneofiatn vs0e e.rndar',e    -                                                                                                                      Irs(rn(,, ,-f .     Vco.  _  e
ar8e9 shown r8n Ib8s nnap   -                                                                        ^        _      s)concep on denAo          er e
(n PIv on tha part cf Ille    .    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~   ~~ i _ 1po
Banlrads stb/affe- sml to,                                                                                  Cdn°                 
rnvew o f the le aldsats of                                                                                                             No °~
8antrr  , andd iftdob's 'nvrn                                                                               Cedenr o
eptence of such bounr arws                                                                                                                       .    rrrrer.rr f Vcs3



..  .                                                '¢ -1             MARCH 1
AO/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S
RUJILLO  J60ROCI)    -o----1$POM
E-  -_                                                                                       -.-
!   In0 \ -                          a
GRACIAS               ~~~~~Puerto
'   '  /   P^510                                                                          teinp  .,
Son Esteban                                               A      DIOS
ic,DIce No'b'e d C                                                                           CABO E
-'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~                                                                      GRACIA
//u                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~A DKC
,sco de     /                                 A- /'j
f ronc-sSCO
becermo.              
HONDURAS
POWER SYSTEM                       TRANSPORTATION NETWORK
UNDER
EXISTING CONSTRUCTION fUtURE                        BITUMINOUS SURFACED ROADS
TRANSMSSION              GRAVEL / EARTH SURFACED ROADS
> _                   -__ _ 138 KV                  UNDER CONSTRUCTION (SELECTED ROADS)
-                           659 KV           -      RAILROADS
35 KV
35   MAIN PORTS                              N
POWER PLANTS             MAIN AIRPORTS
_         FAABl           iHYDRO                   RIVERS
A         A                DIESEL            °    DEPARTMENI BOUNDARIES
*   °               SUf SlAtlONSGAS        INTERNATIONAt BOUNDARIES
¢SUBSTATIONS
86'                                                                              f4



