Documrent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
, AT,rZ)c3- /4Q
Report No. P-4316-HO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$37.4 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR A
THIRD INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
MAY 8, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance or
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =    Lempira (L)
US$1.0         L2.0
L1.0    =    US$0.5
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BANADESA         National Agricultural Development Bank
BANMA           Autonomous Municipal Bank
BCH              Central Bank of Honduras
CAAFIID          Central American Agreement on Fiscal Incentives to Industrial
Development
CACM             Central American Common Market
CDI             Center for Industrial Development
CEFEX           Export Promotion Certificate
CET              Common External Tariff
CONADI           National Industrial Development Corporation
CONSUPLANE      National Planning Council
FIA             Agricultural and Industrial Finance Corporation
FIDE            Foundation for Entrepreneurial Research and Development
FONDEI          National Industrial Development Fund
IDB              Inter-American Development Bank
PFIs             Participating Financial Intermediaries
SMEs            Small and Medium Scale Enterprises
SSIs             Small Scale Industries
UNDP             United Nations Development Program
UNIDO            United Nations Industrial Development Organization
USAID           United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
HDNDURAS
THIRD INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:             Republic of Honduras
BENEFICIARIES         Central Bank of Honduras (BCH), Borrower's Center for
Industrial Development (CDI) and Secretariats of Finance
and Public Credit, and Economy and Commerce.
EXECUrTING AGENCY:    The National Industrial Development Fund (FONDEI), a
semi-autonomous department of BCH.
AMOUNT:               US$37.4 million equivalent.
TERMS:                20 years with five years of grace, at the standard
variable rate.
RELENDING TERMS:      The Borrower would relend US$37.1 million of the loan
proceeds to BCH on the same terms as the Bank loan. BCH
would transfer US$36.5 million to FONDEI for technical
assistance and on-lending to industrial enterprises
through participating financial intermediaries (PFIs)
for investment in fixed assets, working capital, and
consulting services for technology development. PFIs
would bear the credit risk; FONDEI would bear the risk
of interest rate variation between fixed rate sub-loans
and the Bank's rate; BCH would bear the cross-currency
risk; final beneficiaries would bear the foreign
exchange risk under the dollar-denominated sub-loan
option, and BCH would bear it for the rest of the loan.
PROJECT               The project would consist of credit for viable private
DESCRIPTION:          sector industrial enterprises and technical assistance.
The credit component would finance:  (i) fixed assets
and associated permanent working capital;
(ii) free-standing permanent working capital for
FONDEI's previous sub-borrowers; and (iii) consulting
services to identify technological improvements to
iacrease the overall productivity of small- and
medium-scale enterprises. Technical assistance would be
provided to: (a) the Borrower for a study to streamline
and expand the scope of the temporary admission regime;
(b) BCH to strengthen its ability to monitor the
performance of the commercial banking system, and for
studies to improve understanding of the industrial
sector; (c) FONDEI for improvement of its information
management system, training to strengthen PFI's ability
to appraise and supervise industrial investments, and
studies to identify lending instruments to expand access
to term credit; and (d) CDI for strengthening its
capacity to provide technical and managerial extension
services to small-scale enterprises.
Ths document ha a restricted distribution and may be uwd by recipients only in the performance
of their ofcial duties Its contents may not otherwe be disclked without World Bank authonrztion.



- ii -
PROJECT RISKS:        No special project implementation risks exist given the
good performance of FONDEI under the two earlier
projects. The unsettled situation in Central America
may cause some investors, especially large-scale
enterprises, to defer investments. However, since the
majority (70 percent) of FONDEI beneficiaries are small-
to medium-scale enterprises, the risk of delay is
minimized. The pace of project implementation will also
be sensitive to changes in the macro-economic
environment. Based on the existing pipeline of viable
sub-projects (about US$11.0 million) and the promotional
efforts envisaged under the project's technical
assistance component, however, the credit component is
expected to be committed rapidly.
ESTIKAIED COST:                                     Local     Foreign      Total
-   (US$ million) -
Fixed Asset/Working
Capital Sub-loans           27.1       30.0        57.1
Working Capital Sub-loans      1.2        5.0         6.2
Technology Sub-loans           0.3        0.8         1.1
Technical Assistance           0.5        2.3         2.8
Total Project Cost         29.1       38.1        67.2
FINANCING PLAN:                                     Local     Foreign      Total
- ===  (US$ million)  -
Bank                            -        37.4        37.4
UNDP                            -          0.7        0.7
FONDEI                        10.8         -         10.8
PFIs (minimum)                 6.3          -         6.3
Beneficiaries                 11.7         -         11.7
Government (for CDI)           0.3         -          0.3
Total                      29.1       38.1        67.2
ESTIMATED BANK
DISBURSEMIETS:         (Based on Average Profile for IDF Bank Loans in Region)
US$ million
FY:   1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
Annual          5.0    10.1    10.1      5.1      3.1     3.0      1.0
Cumulative      5.0    15.1    25.2    30.3    33.4    36.4    37.4
RATE OF RETURN:      Minimum FRR and ERR of sub-projects would be 12 percent.
APPRAISAL REPORT:    No. 6129b-HO, dated May 6, 1986.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR A THIRD INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan of US$37.4 million to the Republic of Honduras for a Third Industrial
Credit Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years, including 5 years
of grace, at the standard variable interest rate. The Government would
retain US$0.3 million for studies and for technical assistance for the
Center for Industrial Development (CDI) and would relend US$37.1 million of
the proceeds on the same terms as the Bank loan, to the Central Bank of
Honduras (BCH), which would transfer US$36.5 million to its National
Industrial Development Fund (FONDEI). The remaining US$0.6 million of loan
proceeds would be used for consulting services and studies to be carried
out by BCH departments other than FONDEI.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled 'Current Economic Memorandum on Honduras"
(3312-HO) was distributed to the Executive Directors on July 29, 1981.
A Bank mission visited Honduras during September 1985 to review recent
economic performance, and a draft Current Economic Memorandum is expected
to be sent to the Government in June 1986. The main findings of the
economic mission are summarized below. Country data sheets are attached as
Annex I.
Economic Structure
3.        Honduras' per capita GNP was about US$670 in 1984, making it the
second poorest country in the Western Hemisphere. Agriculture is the most
important sector, employing over half the economically active population,
accounting for slightly more than one fourth of GDP, and generating over
three fourths of merchandise exports (agro-industrial exports generated
another 10 percent of exports). The manufacturing sector employs about 8
percent of the economcially active population, accounts for about 13
percent of GDP, and generates less than 15 percent of exports. The service
sectors employ about 30 percent of the economically active population, and
account for about 42 percent of GDP.
4.        Agricultural Sector.   Only about 15 percent of Honduras' total
land area of 112,000 kmz is suitable for cropping. An additional 50
percent has potential for extensive livestock production or forestry, both
of which have begun to be exploited. Crops, of which the most important
are bananas, coffee, corn, and sugarcane, account for two thirds of
sectoral value added; livestock and forestry account for about 15 percent
each, and other sub-sectors, including fisheries and beekeeping, account
for about 3 percent. Sectoral output grew at an average rate of over
2 percent during 1970-1984, and the value of major agricultural exports
grew at 3 percent a year. Output growth in 1985 is estimated at about



-. 2 -
4 percent; the sector's major exports grew by about 12 percent. The sector
has good potential for diversification into exportable fruits, vegetables,
and timber.
5.        Industrial Sector.  Still in an embryonic stage, development of
the manufacturing sector holds promise as a source of growth of the economy
in the medium term. Honduras is not formally a member of the Central
America Common Market (CACM), but has participated in the CACH arrangement
since the mid-1970s. Import-substitution policies have been pursued under
the shelter of the common market, but not as aggressively as in other
countries in the region. Therefore, most industries produce at or near
international prices and are in sub-sectors in which Honduras is estimated
to have a comparative advantage. The manufacturing sector is predominantly
traditional, with many small artisans and fewer than 90 enterprises that
can be characterized as large-scale (i.e. with more than 100 employees).
6.        Financial Sector.  The financial system is relatively simple in
Honduras, in line with the level of economic development. The system,
especially the commercial banling system, has grown rapidly in the past 15
years, and has played an increasingly important role in the development of
private sector investment in both the industrial and agricultural sectors.
The industrial and financial sectors are discussed in more detail in
Part III of this report.
7.        Social Conditions.  The population of 4.3 million is growing
rapidly, at 3.4 percent a year, straining available resources, and
aggravating the unemployment problem (unemployment is estimated at about
25 percent of the work force). The Government is showing increased
awareness of population problems. Family planning information and services
are provided at Government health clinics and by the Honduran Family
Planning Association to anyone requesting them. The United Nations, USAID
and private organizations provide external assistance to the family
planning programs.
8.        Malnutrition is severe (it is estimated that in 1984, 30 percent
of the population could not afford a diet satisfying minimum caloric
requirements), and infant mortality is about 9 percent of live births.
About half of the population is without safe water, one quarter has no
access to health services, and three quarters of the households are without
access to sanitary waste disposal. Significant improvements in public
health have been achieved since 1982, with a substantial increase in the
proportion of the population immunized against measles and polio, and sharp
drops in malaria cases and infant mortality due to diarrhea. The
Government continues to stress preventive care, public health education,
basic sanitation, and healthy conditions in the workplace as the primary
means to achieve its goals of reducing morbiditiy and mortality rates. It
is also continuing its program to gradually extend health services to the
urban and rural poor.
9.        With an illiteracy rate of 42 percent, the Government has
emphasized primary education and adult literacy campaigns. To achieve its
target of eliminating illiteracy by thc. year 2000, the Government is facing
the challenge of both expanding the primary education system and improving



-3-
the efficiency of the system, while tapping private sector resources as
much as possible for financing the secondary and higher education needs.
In addition, the private sector plays an especially important role in
vocational and technical training.
10.       About two thirds of the population is inadequately housed, with
an accumulated deficit of about 500,000 units, growing at 5 percent a
year. The Government is in the process of formulating a coherent sectoral
policy and examining measures to coordinate actions by the many
institutions that participate in the sector.
Recent Developments
11.       In the 1970s, the Honduran economy grew rapidly, propelled by
Government spending, growth of exports in the CACI, and private
investment, assisted by the availability of external financing. In
1980-1983, economic conditions worsened due to the combination of a sharp
reversal in the terms of trade, the drying up of external private bank
lendings and the marked deterioration of the regional political climate.
The slump in demand and political uncertainty undoubtedly affected private
investment, which fell by half over the period. The country's external
position also deteriorated and the current account deficit of the balance
of payments amounted to US$300 million (12 percent of GDP) in 1980-1981.
The financial position of the Central Government weakened because of rising
current expenditures, an ambitious public investment program and the large
additional burden created by assuming the National Investment Corporation's
(CONADI) obligations with private foreign banks (para. 15). Consequently,
the overall deficit of the Central Government remained high and reached
10.2 percent of GDP in 1983.
12.       Real GDP recovered slightly in 1984 and grew by 3 percent in
i985. Private investment remained depressed while public investment fell
to 10 percent of GDP in 1985 following completion of the El Cajon
hydroelectric project. Conseq-ently, fixed investment fell to 17.5 percent
of GDP in 1985 (compared with its 1980 level of 25 percent). Export
performance remained weak, though the balance of payments current account
deficit dropped to 6.5 percent of GDP in 1985 as compared with 9.6 percent
in 1984. This improvement largely reflects the higher levels of bilateral
grants. In mid-1984 the Government undertook .o improve its financial
position by raising taxes and by controlling expenditures more tightly.
The overall deficit of the Central Government fell to 8.3 percent of GDP in
1985 as compared with 10.8 percent in 1984. The bulk of that deficit was
finaaced with external resources, and net use of domestic financing by the
public sector in 1985 declined to 11.2% of GDP compared with 12.4% in
1984. This alleviated the pressure on the strained balance of payments
position and allowed a build up of gross reserves for the first time since
1980. Honduras has maintained a fixed parity of two lempiras to the dollar
since 1918; since 1979 a parallel market for foreign exchange has
developed. Inflation trends are moderate and in 1985 the CPI rose by an
estimated 3%.



-4-
Development Prospects
13.       The modest recovery initiated in 1984 continued in 1985, and the
prospects for 1986 are favorable because of the twin impact of the decline
in petroleum prices and the increase in coffee prices. The following
factors will also contribute to stabilize the balance of payments situation
during 1986: (i) completion of the El Cajon hydroelectric project will
reduce fuel imports (currently one fifth of total imports); (ii) the
overall Central Government deficit is budgeteS. to decline to about 6
percent of GDP, and should be fully covered by external financing. In
addition, the Government is expected to finalize a rescheduling agreement
with the commercial banks on the CONADI debt (para. 15).
14.       The medium-term prospects are manageable, assuming no serious
deterioration in the regional political environment, and provided that the
Government initiates an aggressive export-oriented strategy, which will
require reform of the investment incentives and tariff protection systems
and of the temporary admission regime. These measures should be
accompanied by a strengthening of public finances, which in turn would
further increase private sector confidence. The new Authorities have
indicated their recognition of the importance of these issues, and have
initiated the process of formulating an approach to addressing them
(paras. 31-34).
External Financing
15.       In 1985, Honduras' disbursed public external debt repayable in
foreign currency amounted to US$1.8 billion, or 187 percent of exports of
goods and non-factor services; US$2.5 billion if undisbursed commitments
are included. In the past, Honduras has managed to keep its external debt
service ratio fairly low, because foreign loans to the non-financial public
sector were almost all on concessionary terms. The debt service ratio in
1981 was 14 percent and is projected to increase to 22 percent in 1986.
In December 1984, the Government reached an agreement with the foreign
commercial banks to refinance the debts of CONADI and a few other public
agencies. About 12 percent of the disbursed external public debt at the
end of 1984 (about US$220 million) will be refinanced. Under the terms of
the agreement, US$117 million of principal repayments due from 1981 to 1984
plus US$31 million due in 1985 are to be rolled over until June 1986. At
that time, the situation will be reassessed in the light of the country's
dialogue with the IMF, and a nine-year refinancing will be considered.
16.       At the end of 1984, the Bank Group held about 21.5 percent of the
disbursed public debt outstanding and repayable in foreign currency;
excluding IDA, the Bank's share is about 17 percent. These shares are not
expected to increase significantly in the next few years. One fifth of the
Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) total loans disbursed and outstanding
are repayable in local currency; IDB's share of the disbursed public debt
repayable in foreign currency is 19.3 percent. The Central American Bank
for Economic Integration (CABEI) accounts for 8.2 percent, privately held
debt for 23.2 percent, and others for 8.5 percent. In addition, since
1983, the U.S. Government has provided substantial grant financing.



17.       During 1970-83 external sources committed some US$2.9 billion of
which the Bank Group provided 20 percent, IDB 16 percent, CABEI 10 percent,
the US Agency for International Development (USAID) 11 percent, private
banks 17 percent and others 26 percent. IDB has concentrated on industry,
power, transport, water and sewerage; CABEI on transport and power and
USAID on agriculture and education.
18.       With the favorable effects of coffee and petroleum prices, the
coamitment of large official development assistance on concessionary terms,
and the expected continuation of growth in output in 1986, the country's
short-term difficulties are eased. Based on cautiously optiuistic
assumptions with regard to the external environment and economic
management, the medium-term outlook is also positive, and maintenance of a
prudent borrowing policy will help keep the balance of payments situation
manageable. On this basis, Honduras is creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
19.       Since 1955, Honduras has received 31 Bank loans totalling
US$501.6 million and 12 IDA credits totalling US$85.0 million, both net of
cancellations. Of the Bank Group's total lending to Honduras, 20.0 percent
has been for highways, 5.2 percent for ports, 40.8 percent for the energy
sector, 17.6 percent for agricultural credit and regional development, 10
percent for industrial credit and tourism, 1.9 percent for education, 3.3
percent for water supply and drainage, and 1.2 percent for municipal
development. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA
credits, and IFC investments as of March 31, 1986. As of that date, a
total of US$69.4 million remained to be disbursed on 8 Bank Group-assisted
operations.
20.       overall, execution of projects has been satisfactory, with few
overruns in either time or cost, and with principal project objectives
achieved. Speed of disbursements in Honduras has varied considerably by
sector, with power projects generally the quickest disbursing, as well as
accounting for the largest share. In FY85, disbursements reached US$48.3
million, of which nearly half was accounted for by El Cajon, a major
hydroelectric project. Agricultural and industrial credit projects have
also been relatively fast disbursing, accounting for about 40 percent of
all disbursements in FY85.
21.       Bank Group lending initially concentrated on developing basic
infrastructure in transport and power, where inadequate facilities hampered
the development of the country. In the last decade, it has been
increasingly diversified to provide support for the expansion of productive
capacity in agriculture, industry, and tourism, while addressing major
needs in education and water supply. Future lending to Honduras would be
directed mainly at developing the productive and social sectors, in support
of the Government's main objective of expanding employment and exports and
improving living standards of the poor. In this context, a third education
project is under preparation, and a second water supply project is
planned. Further lending for agricultural credit is also envisioned. In
addition, we will continue to support infrastructure development, albeit on



a much smaller scale than in the past. A power transmission/distribution
project is currently under preparation, and a telecommunications project is
being identified. One of the primary objectives of the latter project
would be to improve efficiency in the sector, while permitting an increased
transfer of revenues from the telecommunications company to the Central
Government. The level and focus of our financing will continue to be
partly determined by the activities of other major lenders such as USAID
and the IDB, in view of the low level of absorptive capacity of the country
relative to the availability of financial assistance.
22.       As our dialogue with the new Government on economic policy
objectives progresses, we plan to support Government's efforts to improve
management and investment planning in the public sector, promote private
sector management in several areas currently managed by the G vernment, and
improve macro-economic and specific investment incentives to producers in
both the agriculture and industrial sectors.
23.       The proposed project would support both increased production and
generation .1 employment by supplying a scarce resource-medium-term
credit. By focussing on small- to medium-scale enterprises, the project
would achieve a wide distribution of benefits, thus contributing to
alleviation of poverty in the country. Technical assistance under the
project would strengthen institutions in the financial sector and improve
technical support for private sector industrial enterprises.
24.        It is expected that the Bank's share of total external public
debt disbursed and outstanding will remain close to its current level of
20 percent through the late 1980s. Annual interest and amortization on
Bank loans currently represent about 15 percent of total public external
debt service and is projected to increase to above 20 percent by the late
1980s.
25.       IFC's activities in Honduras include a 1964 loan and equity
investment, of US$295,000 and US$55,000, respectively, in a tannery,
Empresa de Curtidos Centroamericana, S.A. In 1966 an additional equity
investment of US$27,500 was made in this company. In 1968 and 1970 equity
investments totalling US$75,000 were made in a pilot company, Compania Pino
Celulosa de Centro America, S.A. In 1978 IFC approved a loan of US$9.0
million and an equity investment of US$1.0 million in Textiles Rio Lindo,
S.A. de C.V., a locally owned textile company, to help finance an expansion
and diversification project. In February 1986, IFC's Board approved a
US$575,000 equity investment in Granjas Marinas, S.A. for Phase I of a
shrimp farming project. IFC continues to look for investment opportunities
in Honduras.



- 7 -
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
A. Industrial Sector
Structure and Growth
26.       Honduras' manufacturing sector is relatively undeveloped:  it
accounts for about 13 percent of GDP, produces less than 15 percent of
total exports, and employs less than 8 percent of the economically active
population.  So-called "traditional" products, of which food and beverage
products, refined sugar and sugar by-products, textiles and garments, and
wood products are the most important, account for nearly 80 percent of
sectoral value added. Manufactured exports include consumer goods
(56 percent), of which the most important are processed foods (45 percent),
intermediate goods (41 percent), half of which are wood products, and a
small percentage of consumer durables (3 percent). Available data on the
size distribution of the sector's establishments portray a clear picture of
an atomized, traditional manufacturing sector. Reportedly, about 37,000
enterprises, including some 30,000 self employed artisans, employ fewer
than five people; about 1,100 firms employ between 5 and 100 employees; and
fewer than 90 firms could be classified as large-scale, employing mDre than
100 persons.
27.       Import-substitution policies have been pursued in Honduras,
though not as aggressively as in other countries in Central America. As a
result, Honduran manufacturing is relatively efficient (i.e. most
industries produce at or near international prices), though with
considerable intrasectoral variability. A recent study shows that about 59
percent of Honduras' industrial output is concentrated in sub-sectors in
which the country has a medium-term comparative advantage, about 28 percent
in sub-sectors in which its comparative advantage is 'questionable", and
only 13 percent of the output comes from sub-sectors in which the country
has no comparative advantage.
28.       The manufacturing sector grew at an average annual rate of nearly
9 percent in the second half of the 1970s, as a result of the belated but
rapid expansion of Hondtran industries into the sheltered Central American
Common Market (CACM) (para. 32). This buoyant trend was brought to an
abrupt halt in the early 1980s, when the world recession triggered a sharp
contraction in the domestic and regional markets for manufactured goods.
The recession, with the associated drying up of external commercial bank
financing and capital flight 'nduced by political uncertainties in the
region, also caused a foreign exchange shortage, restricting access to
imported inputs and curtailing production. Devaluation of other regional
currencies led to loss of competitiveness of exportable manufactures in
regional markets, and quantitative import restrictions by regional trading
partners attempting to curb balance of payments disequilibria contributed
to the collapse of established trading patterns within the CACH, leaving
idle those plants established to cater to the regional market. Overall,
manufactured exports dropped by nearly one third in current terms between
1980 and 1982.



- 8 -
29.       Manufacturing output recovered slightly (2.2 percent) in 1984,
but stagnated in 1985. At year-end 1985, sectoral output was still 9
percent below its peak level of 1981, with an 11 percent loss of
employment. The mild recovery in 1984 can be attributed largely to the
demand for manufactured goods generated by a high level of public
investment and the modest price recovery of some exports, which led to
increased domestic consumption. However, sustained growth of the sector
must depend increasingly on expansion of exports to third countries.
Existing Framework for Investment
30.       Factors affecting investment derive both from elements of the
macro-economic policy framework, such as the availability of foreign
exchange and import rationing, export promotion policies, and from elements
specific to the manufacturing sector, of which the most important are the
links with the Central American Common Market (CACK). The major features
of these elements are summarized below.
31.       Availability of Foreign Exchange.  In the early 1980s the
Government was faced with an accelerating demand for foreign exchange, a
drying-up of external commercial bank credit, and little interest on the
part of foreign investors. Having decided not to resort to devaluation of
the Lempira, the Government turned to non-market rationing of imports.
Procedures followed under the rationing system in effect since 1981 lead to
long delays between application for and receipt of foreign exchange for
inputs and for machinery, equipment, and spare parts. Purchases financed
from foreign sources, including FONDEI's line of credit, are exempt from
import rationing. The proposed project would include technical assistance
to help the Government evaluate the system for allocating foreign exchange
and recommend measures for alleviating any constraints in the system
(para. 53). A second factor limiting investment in the sector has been a
dearth of term credit (para. 46 below), especially in foreign exchange.
The line of credit financed by the Bank through FONDEI has helped to fill
the need for both term credit and foreign exchange. In 1984-1985, a line
of credit financed by the IDB provided short-term credit in foreign
exchange for working capital needs, with preference given to export
industries.
32.       Industrial Incentives.  Although 'onduras is not formally a
member of the CACM, it has maintained close ties with it since 1975. This
has resulted in Honduras' partial adoption of the CACM Common External
Tariff (CET) and its full adherence to the Central American Agreement on
Fiscal Incentives to Industrial Development (CAAFIID). Honduras' tariff
schedule, originally fairly simple in design and intended as a revenue
instrument, has evolved into a complex system including long lists of
specific exemptions and surcharges, with both specific and ad valorem
rates. The Government is preparing to convert all specific taxes to their
ad valorem equivalents and to convert its current tariff classification
system (unique to the CACM) to the adapted version of the Brussels
Nomenclature recently adopted by CACM. A cariff reform and the abolition
of CAAFIID were implemented by the CACH countries in January 1986, and the
Government will need to consider proposed reforms to its own system in the
light of those undertaken by its tr3ding partners if it decides to continue



-9-
its informal links with the CACM. In evaluating reform proposals and in
deciding on its future relationship with the CACM, the Government will also
need to re-examine the levels and dispersion of effective protection rates
and consider the extent to which the capital-intensive, anti-export bias
created under the old CACM arrangements can be avoided. A study to help
the Government analyze these issues is underway with UNDP assistance.
Under the proposed project, the study would be discussed with the Bank,
with a view to assisting the Government in formulating a plan of action.
33.       Export Incentives.  In 1984, an export-promotion law introducing
new incentives for production of non-traditional exports was passed. The
centerpiece of this law is a tax rebate on non-traditional exports
(CEFEX). Although the law is a step in the right direction, the procedures
followed under it are complex and cumbersome to administer, weakening the
effectiveness of the new incentives. In an effort to overcome the
anti-export bias created primarily by imnort-substitution incentives under
the CACM, a temporary admission regime (TAR), under which export industries
producing for third market countries are allowed access to imported inputs
at international prices, was introduced in 1985. The TAR system is a
marked improvement over the previous duty drawback system, but its
effectiveness is hampered by the fact that exporters taking advantage of
the TAR are denied access to CEFEX benefits, excessive paperwork and
complicated authorization procedures, and the unwarranted rigid
interpretation of eligibility criteria that results in the exclusion of raw
materials. The Government has recognized the problems that weaken these
incentive measures. Technical assistance provided under the project would
help the Government to streamline and expand the scope of the system along
the lines discussed above (para. 53).
Government Objectives in the Sector
34.       The Government's objectives for the industrial sector are to
expand production, employment, and exports, particularly to third
countries, since prospects for growth within the CACM are limited due to
its small size and uncertain outlook. Production for third markets will
require not only substantial investment in retooling and upgrading of
existing plants and construction of new ones but also a considerable
marketing effort. Its strategy to achieve these goals is to encourage
private sector investment. The recent measures outlined above represent
important steps to provide such encouragement. To assist private companies
in identifying markets in third countries, the Government has recently
established a private institution, the Foundation for Entrepreneurial
Research and Development (FIDE), to provide technical assistance and market
development services. In addition to the improvements in export-incentive
measures (paras. 32-33), the Government intends to promote increased
production and employment in the small- and medium-scale industries, which
may be most responsive to incentives at this time, since they are less
sensitive to perceived political and other non-market risk than are large
industries. A number of programs have been initiated to provide both
financial and technical assistance to this sub-sector, including a Small
Business Development Project assisted by USAID and the technical and
financial assistance components under the ongoing and proposed
Bank-assisted projects.



- 10 -
B. Financial Sector
Institutional Setting
35.       The Honduran financial sector comprises the Central Bank (BCH),
15 private commercial banks, two state-owned development banks (BANADESA
and BANMA), the National Investment Corporation (CONADI), and 8 specialized
credit and savings institutions, mainly housing-mortgage banks. Other
institutions that play a visible, though less active role in providing
financial services are the insurance companies, savings and loan
cooperatives, and public social security institutes. In addition to the
above institutional system, there are about 1,600 registered moneylenders
and an unknown number of unregistered moneylenders, whose role is estimated
to be extremely important as a primary source of credit for small
borrowers.
36.       Central Bank of Honduras (BCH).  BCH has played a key role in
guiding and stimulating the development of the financial sector, especially
commercial banking. Of particular importance, has been its provision of
lines of credit for specific on-lending purposes (its 'rediscount' lines),
which have supported the emergence and rapid growth of new banks over the
past 15 years. This is illustrated by the proportion of new loans
rediscounted by such lines: of the L193 million net increase in
credit to the private sector in 1984, 61 percent was financed through the
rediscount lines. Of the 15 such lines currently offered by BCH, 3 are
earmarked for industrial credit: (a) a fund in local currency for
free-standing working capital loans with maturities less than one year;
(b) an Industrial Reactivation Program (PRI) financed by IDB for working
capital loans with maturities up to 24 months; and (c) the program
administered by FONDEI for investment credit and associated working capital
financed partly with Bank funds.
37.       The rates charged by BCH to financial intermediaries for use of
its various rediscount lines range from 6 percent (for basic grains
production credit) to 14 percent (for the largest industrial borrowers
under FONDEI). The longer maturity of most rediscount lines make them an
attractive source of funds, particularly for the newer banks, whose deposit
rates average over 10 percent (para. 41), and which have difficulty
attracting sufficient funds even at the higher rates. In contrast, the
larger and more established banks can attract deposits at lower rates, and
they prefer to lend their own resources, since the rediscount lines entail
higher administrative costs for appraisal and supervision and are subject
to lower lending rate ceilings and close supervision by BCH, making it
difficult for the banks to charge additional fees (which are prohibited for
all loans but are common practice).
38.       Through its Superintendency of Banks, BCH has also played a major
role in maintaining the viability of the banking system. This role became
increasingly important in the early 1980s when there wa& a sharp rise in
arrears and bad loans, reflecting the difficulties encountered by
businesses during the recent recession. Total overdue loans in the
commercial banking system rose from 13 percent of total outstanding loans
in 1981 to 22 percent in 1984; 1985 showed an improvement, with overdue



- 11 -
loans falling to 16 percent of total portfolio. A time distribution of
overdue loans is not available; the totals include loans with payments from
one day overdue to uncollectible loans. Following the failure of one bank
in 1980 the Superintendency of Banks tightened control to avert a crisis.
Consultations are held with each bank every 18 months to reevaluate the
classification of their loans by four categories: normal, qualified,
doubtful, and uncollectible. BCH prescribes an overall provision to be
written against income, based on the proportion of a bank's portfolio
falling in each of the four categories. In addition to these measures to
improve provision for arrears and bad debts, the Superintendency has
increased reserve requirements for some weaker banks (the overall
debt/equity ratio for the commercial benking sub-sector is currently
10:1). In spite of these improvements, however, further strengtheni.ng is
needed, particularly with regard to banks' credit administration and
portfolio analysis. Moreover, the effectiveness of the Superintendency's
supervision is reduced by the fact that its recommendations are not always
immediately enforced, nor does it impose a time limit for writing off bad
loans. The proposed project would include technical assistance to
strengthen the Superintendency's ability to regulate this aspect of the
banking system (para. 53).
39.       Commercial Banking System.  The 15 commercial banks form the most
important part of the financial system in Honduras. They hold 60 percent
of the system's assets, nearly 75 percent of its deposits, and more than
70 percent of the system's short-term external liabilities. The commercial
banking network expanded from only two banks (Atlantida and Honduras) in
1950 to 15 banks by the early 1980s. After 1980, the banks rapidly
expanded their branch networks, and by early 1985, the 15 banks operated
232 branch offices with nearly 4,000 employees. In spite of the rapid
expansion, assets are still highly concentrated within four banks
(Atlantida, BANCAHSA, Ahorro, and Occidente), which together account for 49
percent of total commercial bank assets and 47 percent of the sub-sector's
total loans. Moreover, a few of the larger banks cooperate closely with
each other and form economic groups with some large industrialists,
reducing the scope for effective competition. Nevertheless, the
competitive pressure within the system has been building in recent years,
reflecting the rapid growth of some smaller banks. Between 1980 and 1984,
the collective share of the five largest banks in total deposits in the
sub-sector fell from 75 to 58 percent, and in value of loans granted from
63 to 55 percent.
40.       According to aggregate data compiled by BCH, commercial banking
is quite profitable in Honduras. After-tax profits totalled 17.7 percent
of capital and reserves in 1930 and 1981 and 21.1 percent in 1984. Profits
were more modest in 1982 and 1983. There is considerable variation among
banks, with some of the established and more efficient banks earning
profits up to 50 percent of their capital and reserves. These figures
should be interpreted cautiously, however, in light of the arrearage
situation discussed above (para. 38); because some banks made inadequate
provision for bad loans in the past, their profits on paper may appear
larger than they really were. BCH's stricter requirements for provision
for bad debts should correct this anomaly in the future.



- 12 -
Deposit Rates and Resource Mobilization
41.       Commercial bank assets are composed of private sector deposits
(73 percent), funds rediscounted by BCH (12 percent), and equity and other
sources (15 percent). Deposit rates were freed from BCH control in
mid-1981. The most established (and generally more conservative) banks
offer 7 to 11 percent for savings deposits, while the newer, more
aggressive banks pay 10 to 11 percent. The average rates for the sector
are 7 to 8 percent. Time deposits with fixed maturities pay 11 to 13
percent. Government bonds pay 10 percent; though they have 10-year
maturities, some are redeemable on demand with BCH. Although Government
bonds are not strictly competitive with commercial bank time deposits, the
bond rate does tend to set a guidepost, discouraging a downward adjustment
in rates in response to lowered expectations of inflation.
42.       With inflation dropping steadily in the early 1980s, (from 18
percent in 1980 to less than 4 percent in 1985), real deposit rates have
become highly positive, and have been partly responsible for greater
resource mobilization by the financial system, as reflected in an expansion
of holdings of financial assets relative to the level of economic
activity. Time deposits grew from less than 23 percent of GDP in 1970 to
nearly 35 percent in 1984, in spite of the uncertain macro-economic
environment of the 1980s.
Lending Rates and Spreads
43.       In view of the limited effective competition in the banking
sector, BCH imposes ceilings on interest rates for commercial bank loans,
according to the source of loaned funds and the type and maturity of
loans. In practice, the banks treat the ceilings as fixed rates, except
for loans to their preferred clients. For industrial loans rediscounted
with FONDEI, the ceiling is 17 percent; for loans from banks' own funds, it
is 19 percent.  At current rates of inflation, the above ceilings result in
real interest rates to the borrowers under FONDEI rediscount lines of 13
percent, and of 15 percent for the portion of loans financed from banks'
own funds. FONDEI estimates that commissions, closing costs, special
taxes, and other expenses associated with obtaining a loan add another 2.0
to 2.5 points to the real cost of the loan.
44.       Taking into consideration the cost of different sources of funds
discussed above, the above lending rates result in spreads of up to 5
percent for funds rediscounted with FONDEI and 6 to 12 percent for banks'
own funds; administrative surcharges add 1.0 to 1.5 points. After rising
sharply between 1979 and 1982, commercial banks' spreads have remained
stable. However, the banks' administrative costs rose from 3.8 to 5.4
percent of total assets between 1979 and 1984, resulting in declining
nominal profit margins. Administrative costs are defined to include, inter
alia, personnel costs, non-personnel security costs, and provision for bad
deibts. The last item has grown in response to the Superintendency of
Banks' more stringent requirements in the last few years, and is expected
to grow further as the regulatory body's recommendations are adhered to
mwre closely (para. 38).



- 13 -
45.       Prospects for Lower Interest Rates.   BCH has recognized that the
tendency of lending rates to remain high in spite of lower inflation may be
discouraging both investment and more efficient utilization of installed
capacity. In view of the objective to encourage increased competition from
the faster-growing smaller banks, whose costs are higher (para. 41 above),
BCH has taken a cautious approach to lowering the lending rate ceilings or
takirg other measures to reduce spreads; until arrears can be brought down,
such measures could endanger the smaller banks. In addition, BCH
authorities feel that, given time, increased participation by newer banks
will improve competition in the banking system and force rates down, making
a ceiling unnecessary. At the same time, they recognize that the 10
percent rate on Government bonds pushes up both deposit and lending rates,
and that a reduction in the bond rate may help allow a downward adjustment
to occur. The proposed project would support the movement toward more
flexible, market-determined rates by permitting flexibility in the
on-lending rate (paras. 64-65, below).
Structure of Lending
46.       The fact that the bulk of loanable resources in the commercial
banking system is derived from short-term deposits leads to a dearth of
term credit in Honduras. Aggregate figures as of July 1985 show that 65
percent of outstanding loans (excluding rediscounted loans) had terms of
less than 18 months; only 15 percent had maturities over 5 years. The bulk
of longer-term loans were to banks' preferred clients--generally
large-scale industries that they consider low-risk. In general, other
industrial borrowers' only access to term credit is through the use of
FONDEI's rediscount line, representing 20 percent of total commercial bank
loans to the industrial sector, but over 80 percent of term credit for
industrial investment. FONDEI's credit funds have been wholly responsible
for giving small- and medium-scale industries access to institutional term
credit.
Private Investment and Demand for Credit
47.       After a decline in the early 1980s that paralleled the stagnation
in sectoral output (para. 28), industrial investment has begun to recover,
particularly in the small- to medium-scale sub-sector, which represents the
majority of FONDEI beneficiaries (para. 55). (FONDEI's existing pipeline
of projects, totalling about 121 million, illustrates the recovery of this
sub-sector). Assuming a continued modest growth rate for industrial
investment of 1.5 percent a year, average annual investment in the sector
would be L112 million from 1986-1989. Based on previous experience, about
half of this amount can be assumed to represent investment in fixed assets,
of which about 20 percent would be financed by large firms from their own
resources and with commercial bank loans from banks' own funds. Of the
remainder (L44.8 million), FONDEI would provide financing for about 80
percent (L36 million), using Bank loan funds for about 53 percent or L24
million (US$12 million) a year. This estimate is consistent with FONDEI's
past commitment rate and its existing pipeline mentioned above.



- 14 -
Bank Lending in the Sector
48.       Past Bank lending for industrial development in Honduras has
focussed on providing medium- and long-term resources through the
commercial banking system to economically viable industrial enterprises,
particularly small- and medium-scale firms. To this end, the Bank has
approved two industrial credit projects: the Industrial Credit Project
(Loan 1659-HO) of March 1979 for US$15.0 million, and the Second Industrial
Credit Project (Loan 2075-HO) of May 1982 for US$30.0 million. Experience
with execution of the two projects has been good; implementation proceeded
in line with appraisal expectations, allocation of resources was
economically efficient, and most institutional development objectives were
achieved (paras. 54-55, 57). The principal lessons derived from the first
two projects are: (a) financial intermediaries should assume greater
responsibility for appraising and supervising sub-projects, and, in order
to do so, require technical assistance to strengthen their capabilities in
these areas; and (b) coordination of and improved definition of
responsibility for technical assistance activities would help ensure the
effectivenes of such assistance.
49.       Bank Strategy.  In line with Goverment objectives (para. 34),
Bank strategy in the manufacturing sector has been to support private
investment in export-producing industries and those producing efficiently
for local markets. Particular emphasis has been placed on identifying
industries in areas of comparative advantage for Honduras as well as
supporting labor-intensive small-and medium-scale enterprises. The
proposed project would continue to pursue this strategy, while taking a
broader focus by: (a) strengthening institutions in the financial sector
and exploring new lending instruments; and (b) contributing to the Bank's
macro-economic and sectoral policy dialogue by improving the data base and
analysis of key issues affecting sectoral development.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
50.      The proposed project was prepared between May and August 1985 by
FONDEI with assistance from the Bank. Bank appraisal was completed in
December 1985; a Staff Appraisal Report entitled -Honduras: Third
Industrial Credit Project,  (Report No.6129b-HO) is being distributed
separately. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from April 21 to
25, 1986. The Government delegation was led by Dr. Lizzeth de Paz, Legal
Counsel, Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit, on behalf of the
Borrower, and Mr. Arturo Corleto, Director of FONDEI, on behalf of the
Central Bank. Supplementary data are contained in Annex III.
Objectives and Description
51.      The proposed project would: (a) support private investment in both
export-oriented and efficient Import-competitive industries through the
provision of term credit; (b) improve performance in the financial sector
through technical assistance to strengthen the monitoring functions of the
Superintendency of Banks and upgrade the capacity of participating
financial intermediaries (PFIs) to undertake appraisal and supervision of



- 15 -
investment projects; (c) provide financial and technical assistance to the
small- and medium-scale industrial sub-sector, whose growth has been
constrained in the past by inadequate support services, and which shows the
greatest potential for expansion in the short-term; and (d) improve
understanding of the potential of and constraints affecting growth of the
industrial sector through specific studies as well as the initiation of the
industrial census. The proposed loan of US$37.4 million would provide
(a) credit for fixed assets and associated permanent working capital,
free-standing permanent working capital, and consulting services for
technology and product development, and (b) technical assistance to the
Borrower, BCH, FONDEI, the Center for Industrial Development (CDI), and
PFIs.
52.       Credit Component.  A total of US$52.7 million, including US$35.8
million of loan funds and US$16.9 million from FONDEI and PFIs, would be
on-lent to final sub-borrowers. At least US$30.0 million of the proposed
Bank loan would be used for sub-loans for fixed assets (purchase and
installation or repair of machinery and equipment or replacement parts and
construction of buildings and related infrastructure) and associated
permanent working capital. Up to US$5.0 million of loan funds could be
used for free-standing permanent working capital sub-loans to prior PONDEI
sub-borrowers seeking to expand utilization of installed capacity. The
remaining US$0.8 million in loan funds for the credit component would be
used for sub-loans to finance technical assistance for technological
improvements and product development and design.
53.       Technical Assistance Component.  The technical assistance
component would consist of consulting services for:
(a) continued strengthening of FONDEI's institutional capabilities,
including improvements to its management information system. To
support this work, financing would also be provided for the
purchase of equipment, including several micro-computers and
related software;
(b) improvement of PFIs' appraisal and supervision capabilities,
including assistance to selected PFIs for the establishment and
initial operation of project units. Most training would be
carried out through seminars conducted by FONDEI with
consultants' assistance; PFIs with project units would be
provided with several months of full-time consulting assistance;
(c) training for staff of the Superintendency of Banks to improve its
ability to monitor financial performance of commercial banks and
to undertake diagnostic studies of banks in especially serious
financial condition. Funds would also be provided for the
purchase of micro-computers and related software to assist in
database management and analytical work related to the
Superintendency's monitoring functions;
(d) strengthening of CDI through: (i) training its extension service
staff in areas of enterprise management, production processes,
including selection of appropriate technologies, and production



- 16 -
control; (ii) carrying out pre-investment studies of industrial
activities suitable for small-scale enterprises; (iii) training
its credit administration staff in project evaluation and
supervision. Funds would also be provided for the purchase of
training aids, mobile training units, and micro-computers and
related software for loan administration;
(e) assistance to BCH in initiating an industrial census and
conducting studies to (i) identify constraints to investment,
and (ii) evaluate the system of allocating foreign exchange and
recommend meacures for alleviating any constraints in the system
(para. 31);
(f)  assistance to BCH/FONDEI in carrying out studies to determine the
legal and institutional feasibility of introducing
adjustable-rate lending instruments for industrial investment
credit and identify mechanisms to encourage lending to
small-scale enterprises by commercial banks; and
(g) assistance to the Government in carrying out a study to develop
mechanisms for expanding the scope of and streamlining its TAR
system (para. 33).
The results of the studies described under (e), (f) and (g) above would be
reviewed with The Bank, and the Government would formulate a plan of action
and an appropriate timetable for carrying out its plan. The total cost of
technical assistance is estimated at US$2.8 million, of which US$1.6
million (US$0.1 million to the Government, US$0.7 million to FONDEI, US$0.6
million to BCH, and US$0.2 million to CDI) would be provided by the Bank
Loan.
Participating Institutions
54.       FONDEI.  FONDEI functions semi-autonomously under BCH as a
second-tier rediscounting institution in accordance with its 'Statement of
Operating Policies and Industrial Regulations' (FONDEI's Regulations),
which have been revised to include the provisions of the proposed project.
Ratification of FONDEI's revised Regulations by its Executive Committee
would be a condition of loan effectiveness. FONDEI's director, who is
responsible for managing day-to-day operations, reports to an Executive
Committee chaired by the President of BCH and including representatives of
the Minister of Economy and the commercial banking system. Since its
establishment in 1978, FONDEI has developed into an efficient organization
with an adequate number of well-qualified staff.
55.       As of September 1985, FONDEI's portfolio consisted of some 400
sub-loans with a total investment cost of about US$92 million equivalent,
of which FONDEI financed about US$51 million, including Bank resources of
about US$42 million, averaging 46 percent of investment cost. About 68
percent of sub-loans, representing 21 percent of loan funds, were to small-
to medium-scale industries, compared with the agreed target of 20 percent.
FONDEI intends to maintain this emphasis under the proposed project.
FONDEI has negligible arrears in PFI repayments, since BCH automatically



- 17 -
debits PFIs' accounts for amounts due to FONDEI. With a debt/equity ratio
of 2.1:1, FONDEI's capital structure is satisfactory. For 1984, its
operating income permitted a 6.9 percent return to equity in real terms; at
projected rates of inflation, this performance is expected to improve
further. FONDEI enjoys a good liquidity position, which results from the
shorter repayment period of sub-loans compared with repayments to the Bank;
it has sufficient liquidity to provide all of its own counterpart
requirements under the proposed project.
56.       Center for Industrial Development (CDI).  CDI is a public
institution with responsibility for providing technical, managerial, and
financial support to very small-scale enterprises. Though better equipped
for its first two functions than as a financial intermediary, CDI is
virtually the only source of institutional credit for small industrial
borrowers; commercial banks are still reluctant to lend to the very small
borrowers, even though they have access to FONDEI's rediscount line. Under
the technical assistance component of the proposed project, a mechanism
would be developed to promote commercial bank lending to small-scale
enterprises. It is envisioned that the banks could rely on CDI to prepare,
evaluate and supervise sub-projects and to continue providing technical
assistance to the enterprises to assure their success and reduce the credit
risk. Technical assistance would also be used to strengthen CDI's capacity
to provide such services (para. 53).
57.       Participating Financial Intermediaries (PFIs).  According to the
eligibility criteria specified in FONDEI's Regulations, a PFI may be CDI,
the Industrial and Agricultural Finance Corporation (FIA), and any
commercial bank that, inter alia, maintains a satisfactory financial
condition, including control and provision for payment arrears, and employs
adequate numbers of staff capable of undertaking sub-project appraisal and
supervision. Overall, PFIs took less responsibility for appraisal and
supervision of sub-projects than expected at appraisal of the last project;
the proposed project would provide incentives for PFIs to accept more
responsibility in these areas and technical support for those that do so
(paras. 53, 61). All commercial banks participated under the previous
project and are expected to continue under the proposed project. Sub-loan
recovery by PFIs has been good: only 7 of some 390 sub-projects have
failed, and another 11 have had sub-loans restructured by the concerned PFI
with FONDEI assistance. These 18 -problem' projects represent total
sub-loans of US$2.0 million equivalent, or 3.2 percent of PFIs' total
portfolio rediscounted with FONDEI.
Implementation Arrangements
58.       FONDEI would have principal responsibility for implementation of
both the credit and technical assistance components. To ensure adequate
coordination of all technical assistance under the project, FONDEI would,
as a condition of effectiveness, establish a Technical Assistance Unit and
appoint a qualified Unit Chief. Technical assistance for CDI -would be
provided by UNIDO, under the overall responsibility of FONDEI. In order to
assure adequate coordination of CDI's technical assistance with the rest of
the project, UNIDO's work program would be reviewed in annual meetings
among representatives of the Bank, UNIDO, FONDEI, and CDI. Progress would



- 18 -
be reviewed quarterly by UNIDO, FONDEI, and CDI. The study of the TAR
(para. 53 (g)) would be carried out jointly by the Secretariats of Finance
and Public Credit, and Economy and Commerce.
59.      All PFIs would sign participation agreements with FONDEI that
would specify, inter alia, the lending and repayment terms, procurement and
disbursement procedures, the PFI's acceptance of responsibility for
appraisal and supervision of sub-projects, and its agreement to provide at
least 10 percent of the value of each sub-project from its own resources,
report to FONDEI any sub-loan repayment that becomes 60 days overdue, and
participate in any staff training programs provided by FONDEI for PFIs.
Participation agreements would be renewable annually, subject to a review
by FONDEI of the PFI's continued adherence to all eligibility criteria
(para. 57) and compliance with the participation agreement. FONDEI would
promptly advise the Bank of the renewal of agreements and any changes in
the list of PFIs. Signature of participation agreements with at least
three PFIs would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
60.       Final Beneficiaries and Sub-Project Selection.  Beneficiaries
would be classified in three categories: very small-scale industries
(SSIs), having total fixed assets, excluding land and buildings, but
including the value of the proposed investment, worth less than US$50,000;
small- and medium-scale industries (SMEs), with total assets between
US$50,000 and US$200,000; and other firms, with assets worth more than
US$200,000. The methodology for evaluation of investments would depend on
the size of the sub-loan. For FONDEI financing over US$250,000, both
economic and financial rates of return would be calculated; for financing
between US$50,000 and US$ 250,000, a financial rate of return would be
calculated. All approved sub-projects would have rates of return of at
least 12 percent. In addition, an evaluation of market potential as well
as the technical and managerial capacity of enterprises in these two
categories would have to be carried out.  For FONDEI financing of less than
US$50,000, a streamlined cash-flow analysis of the enterprise would be
undertaken, and the past performance of the entrepreneur would be
considered, where applicable.
61.       Appraisals would be carried out by PFIs and reviewed and approved
by FONDEI. Selected PFIs that establish project units and demons;trate
satisfactory application of guidelines would be authorized to approve
sub-loans under US$50,000 equivalent. In view of FONDEI's demonstrated
ability to select sound investments, it would have authority to approve
sub-loans under US$800,000; sub-loans exceeding this amount would require
Bank review arnd approval. Prior Bank review is expected to be required for
some 20 sub-projects, accounting for about half of the loan amount.
FONDEI's maximum financing for any one enterprise would be US$2.0 million
equivalent, including any outstanding amounts from previous sub-loans, and
US$500,000 for free-standing permanent working capital sub-loans.  minimum
FONDEI financing would be US$5,000 equivalent.
Cost and Financing
62.      Total project cost is estimated at US$67.2 million, of which about
56 percent represents foreign exchange. The proposed Bank loan of US$37.4
million would finance about 98 percent of foreign exchange requirements;



- 19 -
the remainder would be financed by a UNDP grant of US$0.7 million.  The
total estimated cost of the credit component would be financed by US$35.8
million of Bank loan funds (56 percent), US$10.6 million of FONDEI funds
(16 percent), at least US$6.3 million from PFIs' own resources (10
percent), and about US$11.7 of sub-borrowers' funds (18 percent). The
total cost of technical assistance (US$2.8 million) would be financed by
the Bank loan (US$1.6 million), UNDP (US$0.7 million), FONDEI (US$0.2
million), and the Government (US$0.3 million).
Relending Terms and Conditions
63.      The Government would relend US$37.1 million of the proposed loan
to BCH on the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan, in accordance
with a subsidiary loan agreement to be signed by the Government and BCH.
Execution of the subsidiary loan agreement would be a condition of loan
effectiveness.   BCH would bear the foreign exchange risk except on the
amount on-lent to sub-borrowers under the dollar-denominated sub-loan
option (para. 65); it would bear the cross-currency risk on the entire loan
amount. BCH would retain about US$600,000 for technical assistance and
studies, and transfer US$36.5 million of loan proceeds to FONDEI, which
would bear the risk of variation between the Bank's standard variable rate
and the fixed on-lending rates to PFIs (para. 66). The Government would
retain US$300,000 of loan funds for technical assistance, of which it would
make available US$200,000 to CDI on a grant basis.
64.      On-Lending Terms.  FONDEI would use US$0.7 million for technical
assistance and relend US$35.8 million of loan funds to PFIs for on-lending
to sub-borrowers through sub-loans denominated in either Lempiras or
dollars, at rates determined by the currency denomination of the sub-loans
and the total assets of the beneficiary (para. 60). For
Lempira-denominated sub-loans (which are expected to represent the bulk of
sub-loans), FONDEI would lend to PFIs at:
(a) 12 percent for sub-loans to SSIs;
(b) 13 percent for sub-loans to SMEs; and
(c) 14 percent for sub-loans to larger firms.
Based on the current Bank rate (8.5 percent), these rates would allow
FONDEI a spread of 2 percent per annum on all sub-loans to cover its risk
and administrative cost and a residual of 1.5 to 3.5 percent, which FONDEI
would pay to BCH for its foreign exchange and cross-currency risk fund.
PFIs would be free to charge rates in line with their estimate of the
creditworthiness of each sub-borrower and administrative cost of the
corresponding sub-loan, subject to the ceiling imposed by BCE (currently 17
percent). Portions of sub-loans financed with PFIs' own funds are subject
to BCH's ceiling of 19 percent (para. 43).
65.      The dollar-denominated sub-loan option is expected to be exercised
mainly by exporters and larger firms, which are accustomed to foreign
currency movements. Under this option, and based on the current Bank rate,
FONDEI's rates to PFIs would be:



- 20 -
(a) for SSIs, 9.5 percent. FONDEI would retain a spread of 0.5
percent, and pay BCH 0.5 percent;
(b) for SMEs, 10.0 percent. FONDEI would retain a spread of 1.0
percent, and pay BCH 0.5 percent; and
(c) for larger firms, 10.5 percent. FONDEI would retain a spread of
1.0 percent and pay BCH 1.0 percent.
Rates paid by sub-borrowers under this option would be subject to ceilings
of 12.5 percent, allowing PFIs maximum spreads of 3.0, 2.5, and 2.0
percent, respectively, for sub-loans to SSIs, SMEs, and others.
Dollar-denominated sub-loans would be disbursed in dollars and repayable in
Lempiras, using the official exchange rate at the due date of each
repayment, thus passing the exchange risk to the sub-borrower.
66.      As in the past, rates on sub-loans would be fixed for the life of
the sub-loan. The on-lending rates and spreads provided under the project
would be adequate to cover all intermediation costs and would be positive
in real terms, at projected rates of inflation. FONDEI and the Bank would
review the rates twice a year to assure that they remain adequate by the
above criteria. In addition, BCHIFONDEI would be assisted under the
project in exploring the possibility of adjustable-rate instruments
(para. 53).
67.      Maturities and Repayments.  The maturity of each sub-loan would be
determined by PFIs and approved by FONDEI on the basis of cash-flow projec-
tions for the corresponding sub-borrower. Sub-loans for fixed assets and
associated working capital would have maximum maturities of 15 years,
including up to three years grace; free-standing permanent working capital
sub-loans would have maximum maturities of three years, including up to one
year of grace. The portion of sub-loans financed from PFIs' own resources
would have the same maturities as the portion rediscounted with FONDEI.
Sub-loans for technology development would have maximum maturities of five
years, including up to two years of grace. Repayment by each PFI to FONDEI
would be based on a composite amortization schedule calculated as the sum
of the repayment schedules of all the sub-loans in the PFI's portfolio.
The roll-over of repayments to FONDEI over repayments due to the Bank would
be used to provide FONDEI's counterpart funds and for continued on-lending
for purposes similar to those of the project. The above regulations
relating to terms and conditions of sub-loans, as well as the calculation
of PFI repayment of rediscounted funds to FONDEI, would be contained in
each PFI's participation agreement (para. 59).
Procurement
68.      Procedures for procurement of goods and services purchased with
sub-loan funds under the project would be specified in each sub-loan
proposal appraised by PFIs. For items over US$100,000, at least three
quotations would be obtained. For items of lesser value, PFIs would assure
that sub-borrowers had canvassed the main sources of supply and were
purchasing from advantageous sources. PFI appraisals would discuss
procurement procedures used, responses received and prices quoted, and



- 21 -
criteria for selection of suppliers, and PFIs would maintain records of the
procurement process during sub-project implementation. FONDEI would be
responsible for ensuring that all PFIs comply with the above guidelines; it
has had extensive experience in applying Bank procurement requirements
satisfactorily. All consulting services, including services paid for under
technology development sub-loans, would be open to international recruit-
ment according to the Bank's Guidelines for the use of consultants.
Disbursements
69.      The final date for submission of sub-loan proposals for the Bank's
approval would be December 31, 1989. The closing date for disbursements
would be December 31, 1992, in accordance with the average profile for IDF
loans in the region. However, faster disbursement is possible, if
experience under the previous two loans is repeated. For sub-loans for
fixed assets and permanent working capital, the Bank would disburse: (a)
for SSIs, 75 percent of FONDEI's financing of the sub-loans; and (b) for
SHEs and larger firms, 100 percent of direct foreign expenditures, 70
percent of expenditures for locally procured imported goods, 50 percent of
ex-factory price for locally produced goods, and 35 percent of expenditures
for buildings and related civil works. For sub-loans for technology and
product development, the Bank would disburse 100 percent of total
expenditures. For technical assistance, the Bank would disburse for 100
percent of total expenditures. Since the two-tier system involving FONDEI
and PFIs requires a longer period between expenditure by the sub-borrower
and disbursement by FONDEI than is normal for non-IDF projects, the Bank
would disburse for expenditures incurred up to 180 days prior to the
receipt of a disbursement request from FONDEI. Retroactive financing would
be permitted for up to US$3.0 million for expenditures made after December
1, 1985 for sub-loans for fixed assets and associated permanent working
capital.
70.      To expedite disbursements under the proposed loan, a special
account would be established by the Government and managed by FONDEI. The
Bank would make an initial deposit of US$3.0 million, representing about
four months of disbursement requirements.
Accounts, Auditing, and Reporting
71.      As with the previous projects, FONDEI would maintain separate
accounts for all parts of the project except for technical assistance for
CDI. FONDEI would retain independent auditors acceptab'e to the Bank to
conduct annual audits of all project accounts, including the special
account.  Audit reports, to be submitted no later than four months
following the end of each of FONDEI's fiscal years, would include an
opinion regarding the adequacy of supporting documentation for disbursement
of Bank loan funds based on statements of expenditures. Under the previous
projects, the audits were carried out by a qualified external audit firm,
which issued reports on a timely basis, with no reservations. The Govern-
ment would ensure that CDI maintains separate project accounts on the same
guidelines as FONDEI and that the accounts are audited and reports
submitted according to the saie standards.  FONDEI would submit to the Bank
monthly reports of transactions relating to the special account; quarterly



- 22 -
reports on the status of its portfolio and the collections of PFI
sub-loans; and semi-annual reports on its overall financial situation and
operations.
Benefits and Risks
72.      FONDEI is the single most Important source of term financing for
industrial investment in Honduras. It is expected that the proposed
project would provide financing for some 180 investment projects, costing a
total of about US$65 million and generating about 2,500 new jobs. Both the
expected employment generation and the emphasis on promoting investments by
small-scale entrepreneurs would contribute to alleviation of poverty. The
average cost per new job created would be about US$23,000, which is
slightly below the average for similar projects in Latin America. At least
US$16.9 million of the investment costs would be financed with funds
mobilized from within the banking system (FONDEI and PFIs), and about
US$11.7 million would be the beneficiaries' own funds. The project would
also have a strong institution-building impact, not only on FONDEI, but
also on CDI and PFIs. This would result in improved and more efficient
provision of technical and financial services to the industrial sector,
which would be of particular benefit to SSIs and SMEs, as well as continued
development of financial discipline, through both strengthened monitoring
of the commercial banks by BCH and improved credit administration by PFIs
resulting from better appraisal and supervision of sub-projects. The
project would also contribute to the development of increased flexibility
in the lending rate structure by not fixing final on-lending rates, by
permitting sub-borrowers to take lower interest rates if they assune the
foreign exchange risk, and by studying the possibility of introducing
adjustable-rate lending instruments for final borrowers.
73.      The fact that FONDEI has developed into a mature and relatively
efficient institution reduces both overall implementation risks and the
risks related to financial and economic efficiency of resource allocation.
The unsettled situation in Central America introduces an element of
uncertainty, however, which may lead some potential investors to defer
investments. Nevertheless, this concern is particularly applicable to
larger-scale investors, which are expected to make up only 30 percent of
FONDEI's beneficiaries. The majority of FONDEI's borrowers would be SSIs
and SMEs, vhose investment decisions are generally less sensitive to
political changes. Demand for investment would also be sensitive to
changes in the macro-economic environment. At present, however, FONDEI's
large pipeline of investment proposals (totalling about US$11 million)
indicates that current investment demand is strong. Technical assistance
under the project would include services to inform potential sub-borrowers
of the technical and financial services provided under the project,
increasing the likelihood that demand for credit will remain at least at
its current level.



- 23 -
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreenent of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 8, 1986
Washington, D.C.



-24                                         Annex!
BOCIAL I                       ~~Paste  I of  6
P4H5T                    (IB(S? BUCKET cSITUATE 
PLC1  T          Y?IDDLK INCOME          MIDLM   A M
MTIMIATELk     LAT. AMEICPA & CAR            U509
tau cwsulmuia IQ. a)
TOTAL                              131.1       112.1       112.l
AGSICULTURAL                        4.6         49.4        51.7
OH NIL CZt O SUN)                       ..          ..        *7U.0           1i75.v                     2144.3
IT  Cl_CTSOIMI R  CAPIT
(KILOISA  orF OIL muwauNt)         101.0       190.0       206.0             993.6                    11.H
POPMh   D A      u. SA       6
POPULATION.111-TBA1 CTHMUAmDS3   1945.0       2639.0      4093.U
URI POPULATION ( OF mAL)            22.6        21.9       31.3               67.7                      *7.1
POPULATIONC PROCOUN
POPULATION 1N TIM 2000 CHILL)                              0.7
STATIONARY PULATION CHILL)                                11.0
POPULATION 1CNIK                                           2.0
POPULATION KSNITT
tA so. M.                         17.3        23.5        36.5              46.0                      04.7
PER 50. IN. AGRI. LAND            39.0        53.4        76.3              91.1                     1".9
POPULATION SAE STICTUML (5)
0-14 YRU                         45.4        47.4        *7.1              36.3                      31.2
33-04  RSI                        52.2        "0.1       50.0               57.1                     61.3
65 AtD AHOVl                       2.1         2.4         2.7               '.2                       7.2
POPULATlON C0O51  NATL CZ)
TOTAL                              3.3         3.1         3.4               2.4                       1.t
UN                                 5.6         5.5         5.5               3.6                       J.7
CHUDE USIXT  RATE ft1 THOUs)        51.1        49.3        44.0              30.9                      23.4
CIIUON OEATN NA71 (Pt  THOUS)       16.6        14.8         9.6               8.0                       m.9
0aOS  ERPOUOICTION RATE              3.5         3.6         3.2               2.0                       1.5
}AIILY PLAFUIC
ACCErTOES. ANNUAL (TROU8)          ..         12.7
USCRS (X OF MARIED VWas)           ..          ..         27.0              43.3
moo AlD nin
INID OP FO00 PLOD. P9 CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       33.0        97.0       75.0              109.0                     109.1
PEX CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (2 oF RF4U!IS CnE)       92.0        96.0        95.0             113.2                     131.5
MTEINS (GRtAMS 7RR OAY)           55.0        56.0        56.0              69.4                      92.4
OF 1WIC01 MIIAL AND PULSE        22.0        20.0        18.0 Ic           34.2                      34.5
C11W  (tAGS 1-4) DCATH PATE         26.4        19.6        8.0                4.6                       4.7
HEIATH
LIFE fEXCK. AT  11RT1t CEARS)       46.5        52.5        59.9              64.8                      D7.2
tWANT M&PT. SATE (PER T0S)         145.0       117.5       81.0               59.7                     53.3
ACCESS TO SAPE VATlR (VWc)
TOTAL                             12.1        34.0        44.0 /d           65.3                      70.2
ORSA1                             42.9         ..         50.0 7i           76.5                      bv.4
RUHAL                              2.7         ..         40.0 7            44.2                      57.u
ACCESS TO ERCIXTA DISPUSAL
CR or PopuIATIUN)
TOTAL                              ..         24.0        33.0 /d           5b.3                      59.e
IIU1                               ..         64.0       49.0 o7d           73.4                      63.9
RUIAL                              ..          9.0        26.0 7ir          25.5                      47.6
POPULATION PE  PHTSICIAN         12620.0      3790.0      3120.0 /a         1909.7                    1070 5
POP. PER NURSuING LElSON          3110.0      1130.0       700.0 7W          808.2                     769.5
POP. PEt HOSPITAL ED
tOTAe 620.0                                  360.0       740.0 it          362.0                     328.3
USI                                ..          ..          ..              422.0                     201.9
RURA*L                             ..          ..          ..             2718.7                    4511.7
ADKISSIONS Pm  HOSPITAL SEC          ..         19.6        29.1 /c           27.5                      20.0
MOOC
AVERSE SIZE OF HOUWLHOLO
TOTAL                              5.7         ..
laN                                5.5
RIJLuL                             5.7         ..
AVERS;E No. OF PERSOPSIROO'I
TOTAL                              2.4         ..
UBAN                               1.b         .. b
RURAL 5..7                                     ..
PERCENTAGE OF DWELLINGS WITH ELECT.
TOTAL                             14.0        25.0         .
URBS3*                            56.7        67.1         ..
kLeIL                              1.9         5.5         .



- 25 -                                Annex I
HtNDURAS               - SOCIAL INOICATORS DATA SHEET         Pige  2  of  6
HUONDUA                              KEERENCE GROUPS (WLOtTED AVERAES) /a
FOST                     (IUJST RECENT ISTLIATE) lb R
RCCUNT           MIDDLE INCOME           rIDDLE INCOME
196A       19701! ESTDIATSIb        LAT. 4TERICA & CASt           EUROPE
DICAT2ON
ADJUSTED CNROLIRENT RATIOS
PRIIARTi  TOTAL                   67.0        87.0        99.0              10.7                     101.9
HALE                   6A.0        87.0       100.0              10h.5                     106.2
FrmeALE                *7.0        88.0        98.0              104.6                      97.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                   8.0        14.0        32.0               44.2                      57.5
HALE                    E.0        14.0        28.0               42.7                      64.Y
FRIALE                  7.0        13.0        36.0               44.9                      50.U
VOCATIONAL (2 oF SECONMDAR)         23.8        17.0        23.6               13.3                      21.u
PUPIL-TEACKER RATIO
PRIXANT                           32.0        35.0        37.0               29.9                      25.1
HECONDART                         10.0         ..         28.U              1.7                       19.1
CONUMPTION
PASSENGER CARSITHOUSAND POP          2.8         4.8         6.4 lb            46.0                      54.2
RADIO RECEIVERSITHOUSAND POP        64.3        55.7        48.0              324.3                     170.7
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP            0.7         8.3        1Z.6              112.4                     149.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY CENERAL
INTERrST") CIRWLATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION             19.2 I     41.5        60.7               81.1                      97.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATIENDANCE/CAPITA      ..          ..          ..                 2.4                       2.7
LABE FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)         to17.0       793.0      1189.0                         -
FEMLE (PERCENT)                   12.3        12.7        14.3               23.6                      36.3
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)             70.2        66.5        62.5 /d            31.4                      40.8
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                10.6        12.5        19.6 7;r           24.3                      23.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              31.8       30.0        29.0               33.5                      43.1
MAIZ                              55.3        52.3        49.7               51.3                      55.1
FEMALE                             7.9         7.7         6.2               15.9                      31.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCE RATIO            1.5         1.7         1.7                1.3                       0.9
1WOS DISTRUITIOU
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCCHE
RECEIVED BY
HICHEST 5S OF HOUSEHOLDS
IGHEST 2U07 o HOUSEHOLDS           ..         67.8 t
LOWEST 20Z OF HOUSEOLDS            ..          2.3. 
LOWS,T 402 OF HOUSEHOLDS           .           7.3 4       *
-01'T TAT CROUPS
ESTlMATED ABSOLUTE POWE! INCME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
UREAN                              ..          ..        255.0 If          2ZU.3
RURAL                              ..          ..        180.0 T            185.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POWEM  INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URJAN                                                    251.0 If           519.8
RIIRAL                             ...                    800o.o 7?         359.7
ESTIMATED POP. BELO ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (Z)
URMN                                                      14.0 /f
RURAL                              ..          .4 5.9 T.
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
NO T E S
I   The group averas for each indestor are pooulttoewatgbtad aritmatic mane.  Covecrge of countries
among the indicacors dependo -n aei2ability of data and Is not unform.
/b   Unlear othenoite noted, "ODat for 1960" retor to any year beween 1959 and 19e1; "Data for 197t' becteen
1969 and 1971; end data for "HMot Recent ECtimate betwn  1981 and 1983.
Ic   1977;  Id 1980; Ie 1979;  /f 1978; AL 1974; Ih 1976; /I 19b2; _l  1967.
JUNE. IS8S



-26-                                       Annex I
Page 3 of 6
DWNOfd OF SOCAL INDICATOS
Not Although tdo data ae dwaw ftrom asm numayjudgsd be most autsiorative and Cliah1. it should also be notd dtbt tky ay not be iaumuannly
ambwe beas  f ab lac_ of auadwdiad delwn1mids mud concepls usdc by diffrnt contm   collecting Me da. The daa am nonre_m   uul to
dieribe odeos    Mitui. tmdi   mda,and cham uriaain major dilfr la betwe counmue.
Tbe iter gpeuse it) tbhemsne =onr POup of the subjt couty nd (2) a counta goup with somewhat higher aaemav income than the country
rp of the msbjet oomhsy (es - for 'Hiab Incomt Oil Exporurs' pop wbere'Middk Ineome Noth Afna nd Middle Ea  is dmnen because of strgr
mxickiun allinl. lo yh re adusce pop tdatal avwfc  amt popultio weighted a_ihuc muns for each indicator and hwn only when rnalonty
ofthe comti* agoupedatafortl iito  Since m    oeefcounnuisnong the indimrsdendson the aablity ofdot n i not uniforn.
cution rast beezecied in ungaea ofoe indicator to anotkr. Tbeae rvaicin are ony usful in compem the valuef onc indicator at a time among
the ontry and clm  dl_s.
A A (touand sq.km.)                                             Cras   hl Rte (per t)h-m,Ndj-Number of live births in the year
Td--Toal surfae ama comprmiang land arot and inland warers      per thousand of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960 1970 and 1983 dataL                                        Crud Dmb Rote (per rhemud)-Number or deaths in the year
haftwaF-Estimat of agricutural arot  used temporardy or         per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
permaently for crope. patures market and kitebn gardens or to   Grat R JpreAwsla. Ratr-Average number ordaughters a woman
lie fallow, 1960.1970 and 1982 data.                            will bear in her nonrml reproductive penod if she experiences
pent age-pecific fertility rates usually five-year average ending
GNI PER CAPITA (USS)-NP per capita estimates at current         in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market pnces. caculad by sane conversion method as World        Fmssiiy PIaraia-Accepews. A _ (th bnaifr)-Annual num-
Bank Atlas (198183 basis): 1913 data.                           ber of acceptors of birth-control devics under aimpices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAP1I1A-Annual apparent                  family panning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.     FaUdny Pl q-Uz    (prrea .f -wied  .sum)-'he Peen-
petroleum  naural ps and hydro-. macar and geothermal elec-     tage of married women of child-bearing age who are praacting or
tricty) in kilogams of oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970. and  whos husbuads ae practicing any form of contraception. Womcn
1982 data.                                                      of child-bearing age are genelly women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraoeptive usage is measured for other age
POPUIATION AND VITAL STATSTICS                                  groups.
TsvailhIu. Mid-Yaw (thmadsr)--As ofJuly 1:1960.1970.            FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1963 data.
L&&=  opoiwn (prgw o swd-Rati of uban o tIn ho&  ofh.dPbwhedem Per Cdpisa (1i60-71 - IN)-lndex of per
poip  hpudtie  (ef        f     Ratio  of urban to total        capita annual production or all food commodities. Production
poptylofia diffeonntcdenin esio1s6of urban area may3 data. roP   xcludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
ability of data among countniec: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.     include prmary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
hPO_du.Pljedow                                                 which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Popdarwni   yew 2Ot -The projction of population for 2000,     excluded) they comprise cercals root crops. pulse  oil seeds.
mAe for each ecnomy separtely. Starting with information on     vgetabls, fruits. outs. sugrcane and sugar bets, livestock, and
total population by age and sex, fertility rates, mortality rates, and  ivstock producs Aggrcpte production of each country is based
intrational migration in the bae year 1980. tbe  parameters     on national average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
were projeted at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 dataL
aswumptions until the population became stationary.             hr Capia S b f Clorks (p-cent qfreqwem)--Comput-
Srauwuay popuamaiom-Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from caloric equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not dcanged over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies compris domestic produc-
fertility rates havc simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion, imports less exports and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net mproduction rate-1). In such a population. the birth rate is  cxclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate, the age structure is also  food processing. and losss in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nornal activity
sire was estimated on the basis of the projected characterstics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of dedine of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacemt lved.                                         waste at household level 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Pbpudalsou nMonsengtun-Is the tCndency for population growth to  Per Capt Supply of Pfwein (grav per day)-Protein content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-lewel fertility has been  per capita nat supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is, even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ukimate stionary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of wbich 10 grams
the yar r. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. Tbese standards are lower than those of
ment level from year i onward, 198S data.                       75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
hpuleim Densi,y                                                 aveagc for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per iq.mr.-Mid-year popaion per squar kilometer (100 hec-       Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1932 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.               Phrr Capita Pnrein S ipply Fres A   _d ad PilLe-Protein supply
Per sqJkm. agrictwa land-Computed as above for agricultural     of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day; 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                           1970 and 1977 data.
Abp.ki.u Age Snucsm (percew)-Childzen (0-14 years). work-       CAN(qes 1-4) Deaw. Raw (per thusmad)-Number of deaths of
ing ag (15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as pecntage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year popuation; 1960, 1970. and 1983 data.               group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Pbp.fatieu Grneth Rate (percsen-tatal-Annual growth rates of    from life tabes: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.    HEALTH
P.puaieu Growt Rae (percact)-wa-Annual growth rates              We Expectany at Birth (yrs)-Number of years a newborn
of urban popuLation for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.     infant would livc if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



-27-                                     Anex I
Page 4 of 6
at the time of of its birth wee to stay the -  throughout its fife;  PtpU-teachrr Ratio - prumy. aud scrdarjy-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                     rolled in primary and seconday kvls divided by numbm  of
lWow M..t    RAte (p  tliassind)-Number of infants who die     tehen in the con ponding klvls
befon reaching one year of a  per thond live births ina given
ypear 1960. 1970 and 1983 det                                  CONSUMPIrION
Ace= to SO  WaW (pwcm  of fpweWill, _it. ad                    Phswrw Cmr (pfr hMs.ad p.p.IadauJ-Passenger cas com-
,m'd-Number of people (total, urban, and runl) with resnble    prise motor can seating kl  than eight pesons; excludes nbul-
aws  to sfe water supply (icudes treated uface wats or  aon. hears  and military vehicls.
untreated but unco.  jiase wateric sue   that fromn protected  RAE. ReceIver (pm tkmausad popslerian. -All types of recevers
borhol.   ing and sanitr wls) as peroent    of tbhr    =-     for radio broadcast to peneral public per thousand of populaion;
tive populaions In an urban area a public fountsin or sIdpod   excudes un-licensed rceivers in countries and in years when
bcated not mor tn 200 meters from a hoon my be       end       registrion of rdio set was in eflec data for recent yer may
as beig within reasonable acre  of that house. In rural areas  not be comparable since most countries abolished licensing.
reasnable scn. would imply that the bouswife or iembers of the
houslold do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  TVReCd  s (pm ehssiodpqpli&mJ-TV mcvers for brdcast
in fething the famiy's water needs                            to geeal public per tbousnd populabon; exdudes unliced TV
A.czu tv Eurce Dkiessi_ (yfcsst of j v ^   ,l esetoo, *-||.    receivers in countries and in yer  when registration of TV se wa
&W mel-Number of people (totaL urban, and rural) sermed by    in elfect.
exceta dispol as pacentag  of their respectve populations.     NewF" QCi       iiin (pm the.smdp mg   w)-Shows the aver-
Excreta dispal may include the colection and disposal, with or  age ckculation of 'daily Seneral intest newspar" defdind a a
without ttment. of human excreta and wastewater by water-      pericpl  iction devoted primaily to eodig agenl news.
borne systeis or the use of pit privies and similar insllations  It is consideed to be day'u if it appes at l    four time a week.
Pepa_de pg Pky9cio-IPopulation divided by number of prac       CIam Amd AnGAHE per Capra pm  YeKr-Based on the
tsing physcians qualified from a medical school at unive vty   number of tidcke   old during the year. induding admission to
PJppmd  per IV Nwsag P-obpulation divided by number of         drive-in cinnem   and mobile unitL
pracicing male and female graduate nurse  asstant nurse.
practical nurse and nursi  auxliri.                             ABOR FORCE
I"            oie  B -          in, an,d r  d  Popu      rtToa Lab  Foce (thmisoods)-Economically active persons in-
(totaL urban and rural) divided by their respective number of  cluding armed forccs and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hospit beds availabe in pubeicand private genaldei  ald        students etc-. coveing population of all ages Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are  sblihments  vanou counes am not comparable: 1960.1970 and 1983 data.
permanently staffed by at lt one physicin Establimts prov-    iFmw  (jffemrr-Fimale labor force as percentage of total labor
iig prncpaly cutodial cae are not included. Rural hospital     force.
howevix icude bealth and medial centers not perman.'ntdy saffed  Aric.hwe (jarregr-Labor force in farming foresry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant, nurs, midwife, etc.)  and fisbing as percentage of total labor force; 1960, 1970 and 1910
which offer in-patt accommodati   and provide a limited range  data.
of medical ficilities.                                         hsru7 (prceaw)-Labor force in mining, consruion, manu-
Adldziae per espiad Bed-Total number of admission to or        facring and electicity, water and gas as perccntage of total labor
discharge from hospitals divided by the number of beds         force: 1960, 1970 and 1980 dat
Phiak lde.RA   (per    J-wtA mld, indfionde-Participation
HOUSING                                                        or activity ratesarecomputedastota  le, andfemale laborfome
A   q Sre of HoiNsM (pe. pm-                       mi_.,       as permeages of totaL male and fem    population of all ages
amdrrl-A, household consiss ofa group ofindividuals who share  respectively; 1960, 1970, and 1983 data. These are basd on ILO's
living quartes and their min mcals. A boarder or lodger may or  partcipation rates rlecting age-  structe of the population and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes  long time trend. A few estimates are frm natonal sources.
Averee NwAe of Pers, pfr Roam-earaf, wmA, ed rweL-             Eca.xmc Dwpedecy REerie-Ratio of population under 15. and
Avragc number of persons per room in all urban, and rural      65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings. respectively. Dwelings exlude
non-permianent structu   and unocupied parts.                  INCOME DISIRIBUTION
Perceauage of DuWs with Ficirp-1e14 w*=. ad mel-               Pemm e of TaI Dhposablr Lcme (hah in cash mod kiud)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quartes as percen-  Acaruing to percenti groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of totaL urban, and rural dwellings respetively.          hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGECI GROUPS
A4Wte EAearle,                                                 The foowing estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
rmmy sdwool - torai. .ml ad fmGr   totat. mae and             kves. and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrolment of al ages at the primary level as percntages of  Esrimerd Ab_hs e Poverty Iancawr   Id f(    per capura)-i_a_
repectiv primary school-a  populaions. Whi many counties       and rrdL-Absolute poverty income level is that income klve
consiw   primary school age to be 6-11 years, otbhrs do noL The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differnces in country practc  in the ages and duratiox of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are redleted in the ratios gin For some countries with universal  Esimred Re e hoew i Lqc.ae Lweel (USS,p' cepia)-rban
educmon, gms enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some      ad rwrl-Rural rdative poverty income levd is one-third of
pupils ae below or above the country's standard prinmary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
ag.                                                            derived from the rurale kvel with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary school - total, mak and femal-Computed as above:    living in urban ars.
secondary education requires at klat four years of approved pi-  Eariaed P.plsie. Belw AXhe Povery I i.co1   Lev,d per-
mary instuctiowu provides generaL vocational, or teacher trining  cad mel- enrcent of population (urban and ruali
instrucons for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age correspond-  who ar -absolute poor.-
ence coures are generally exluded.
Vocatonal EDvo n (percent of secandaryj-Vocational institu-              Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions indude technicaL industrial. or other progms which operate      Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or as departnents of secondary institutions                              June 1985



-28 -                                             ANNEX  I
Page 5 of 6
HDIUIRAS - EIWW)C INDIClAORS
Population:     4.09 (1983 - nillens)
CUP per Capita: US$670 (1983)    _
A-ot
Indicator                 (million USS             Share of GDO at terket Prices (2)                 Average Annual Increase (S)
at current price)                (at currant pri)                               (at constant prices)
1985          19O    1970   19E0   1984(p) 1985(p)               1960-70  1970-75   1975-80  1980-85
NATIOKAL ACCOUNTS
Gross doastic productt           .3,359         100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0                      4.7      2.3       7.3       0.7
Agriculture                      803          33.8   29.4   25.3   24.2    23.9                      4.6     -0.9       6.7       2.2
Industry                        737           17.1   20.2   22.9   22.8    21.9                      5.0      3.9       8.2      -0.8
Services                       1,419          39.5   40.8   40.7   41.7    42.2                      4.7      3.8       6.5       0.3
Canmuption                        2.939          87.7   85.7   81.8   87.3    87.4                      5.1      2.7       7.4       0.7
Gross Investment                   655           13.9   20.9   26.1   20.1    19.5                      8.5      0.8       12.5     -5.6
Exports of CNFS                    924           21.4   27.3   37.3   26.3    27.5                      8.9     -0.3       9.2       0.3
imports of CHFS                   1,159         23.0   33.9   45.4   33.6    34.4                      11.0      1.2      11.7      -5.1
Grass National Savings              423.5        14.8   12.5   13.5   10.5    12.6                      0.4     -1.2       3.3       0.9
1975     1976     1977      1978     1979      1980     1981      1982     1983      1984     1985P/
PRICES
GDP Deflator                       100.0    108.4    123.0    131.5    141.4    156.6    164.4    176.6    187.2    194.8    201.8
wchauge Rate                        2.0       2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0      2.0       2.0
Export Price Index                 100.0    118.1    143.5    144.7    148.4    178.3    162.8    161.2    157.8    163.5    170.0
Import Price Index                100.0    107.1    109.2    111.7    128.5    146.8    157.4    166.8    178.2    186.3    195.6
Ter s of trade Index               100.0    110.3    131.3    129.6    115.5    121.4    103.4    96.7         88.6     87.7      86.9
a_pomdicoo of  lerchaise Trade (Z)                                Average Annual Increase (Z)
(at current prices)                                            (at costant prices)
1960    1970    1975    1980   1984    1985(p)                    1960-7a  1970-75   1975-80  1980-5(b)
Eaports                        1OD.0   100.0   100.0   100.0  100.0   100.0                        12.5     -0.5       11.6     -1.6"/
Primary                       94.6    79.5    74.1    76.2   78.3    79.0                         8.6     -1.1       11.3     -l.6bI
Manufactures and Others        5.4    20.5    25.9    23.8   21.7    21.0                        34.2      1.9       12.4     -
Imports                        100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0  100.0   100.0                        16.2     -3.1       8.5      -7.1
Food                          21.9     6.4    11.0      8.5   10.3    10.3                       -9.0      8.5       6.9      -4.3
Petroleum                      8.2     6.6    16.7    16.8   20.0    18.5                        31.5    -11.4      -0.9      -4.3
Capital Goods                 19.6    29.9    27.0    27.9   19.5    21.1                        19.2      0.6       10.5    -12.5
Others                        50.3    57.1    45.3    46.8   50.2    50.1                        16.5     -2.6       10.3     -5.8
As Z of GDP
1960   1970   1975   1980  1981  1982   1983   1984   1985P/
PUBLIC FI1NANCEc/
Currenr Revemaes                                        10.9   13.1   13.7   15.3  14.0  13.8    13.2  15.1   15.6
Currenc Ebpenditrues                                     9.5   10.9   12.9   14.6  15.6  15.4    16.6  16.8   17.1
Surplus (4) or Deficit (-)                               1.4    2.2    0.8    0.7  -1.6  -1.6    -3.4  -1.7   -1.4
Capital Expenditures                                     2.5    4.5    6.1    5.3   5.5   5.8         6.9   9.0    6.9
Foreign Financing (Net)                                  1.1    0.9    3.9    2.5   3.5   4.0         5.5   8.2    h.2
1960-70      1970-75      1975-80      1980-84
OnTER INDICAlRS
GNP Growth Rate (Z)                                        4.7           3.1           5.9            0.3
GNP Per Capita Growth Rate (Z)                             1.5          -0.1          2.5           -3.1
Electricity Oasumption Grovth Rste (Z)                    14.9          13.8          11.7           11.8
ICOR                                                       3.6           9.9          3.8
Import Elmsicity                                           2.3           1.6          1.4           -0.6
a/ At market prices. cponenta are acrressad at factor cost
and will not add due to the exclusion of indirect ax tad aubsidies.
b/ 1974-1984
cl Central Government only.
pl Prelimnary.
AprIl 1986



-29-                                 A1     I
Pae 6 of 6
_OURAS - BMAWL 0F PAYMUW. ERNAL CAPrTL AND B
(minilons of US$ at current prices)
PopulatIon:      4.09 (1983 - millions)
Q1P per Capita: IES670 (1983)
Inllcator                                                                  Actual
1970     1975     1980      1981     1982      1983      1984     1985(p)
ALANCX OF PAYENS
cports of goods and services                   199      351      967       903      768        802      858      951
of wich: Merchandise f.o.b.                  178      310      850       784      673        698      745      835
Imports of goods ind services                 269       481    1,306     1,233      014        914     1062     1149
of iiich: Merchndise f.o.b.                  203      372      954       899      681        756      879      954
Net transfers                                    6       17       22        28       26         44       80      173
Current Acco,nt Balance                       -64      -113     -317      -302      220        219    -302      -218
Private direct investment                        8        7        6        -4       -3         17       20       27
MLT loas (net)                                  26       93      241       208       159       166      272      236
Official                                      27       88      131      .175       139       201      314      258
Private                                      -1         5      110        33       20       -35       -42      -22
otber capital                                   21       67       16        26      -42         18        3       10
Cboe  n reserves (- 1ncreases)                   9      -54       54        72       106        18        7      -55
3R\UL CAPrL AND DeBT
Gross Diabs                                     29      112      276       276      279        311      386
officIal grants                               -        13       14        19       22         44       80
Oxuaeso-1 loans                               17       17       62        73      112        56        74
DC                                          7       12       18        33       67        50        67
OPIE Special Fund                          -         -        -         -        2         L         6
'IDA                                       2         2       18        13        3         2         1
Otber                                      8         3       26        29       40         -        -
No__c.uceusiona  los                          12       82      200       184      145       211       232
Official exports credits                   -        22       12        40       13        25       30
BIED                                       10       13       24        30       47        58       60
Other  ultilateral                         2        39       53        27       10        79       116
Private                                    -         8      111        87       30        49       26
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbured                90       267      991     1,232    1,390       1609     1840     1863
Official                                  86      247       709       858    1,003      1185      1412     1615
Private                                    4        20      282       374      387       424       428      230
Udinlsbursed debt                             54      125      734       755      701       831       662      349
Debt service
Total service payments                         6       17       98       121      149        121      134
Interesr                                   3        10       59        77       97        83       80
Payments as 2 exports                          2.8      4       10.8      13.8    19.4       15.0      15.6
Average Interest Rate on New loans (1)           4.1      5        7.0      10.4      6.7        5.8      8.8
Average Maturity of New Ioans (yr.)             29.6    19        23.8      19.3    24.2        25.1     19.1
(p) PrelmInary.
April 1986



- 30 -
Annex II
Page 1 of 2
THE STAIUS OF BAN GROUP OPERATIONS IN HONDURAS
A.  STA(ENNT OF BANR LOS A   IDA  IDTS a/   (Net of cancedlations)
(As of March 31, 1986)
Loan or
Credit  Year        Borrower             Purpose            Bank    MDA    Undisbursed
No.                                                               (US$ millions)
Twenty-three loans and twelve credits fully disbursed.  250.6   85.0
1673   1979  Government               Tourism              13.5      -          3.2
(1805    1980   Emp.Nacional de     )  Eighth Power
(                Energia Electrica )    (El Cajon)         105.0    -            1.9
g 989*  1980   Government          )                         -      20.0*        -
1861    1980   Government             Petroleum
Exploration
Promotion          3.0    -            0.4
1901   1980   Governmnt               Eighth Highway       28.0    -            5.6
2075    1981   GDvernment              Second Industrial
Credit            30.0    -            5.2
2284    1983   Goverment              Third Agricultural
Credit            45.0    -           28.9
2421    1984   Government             Water Supply          19.6    -          18.6
2583    1985   Government             Miaicipal
Development        6.9    -            5.6
Total                                             501.6   85.0          -
of which has been repaid                         75.3    3.6
Amomt sold                          4.5
of which has been repaid          4.5             -       -
Total now held by Bank and ID& a/                 426.3   81.4          -
Total undisbursed                                  69.4    -           69.4
Total now outstanding                             356.9   81.4          -
a/    Incbzding exchange adjustment.
*      Fully disbursed credit which was part of loan packages still under execution,
itemized for clarity. However, it is included in the twelve fully disbursed
credits totalling US$85.0 million.



- 31 -
Annex II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTHENTS
(As of March 31, 1986)
Loan Equity Total
Year                  Obligor                 Type of Business      Loa     S milliotal
1964/66    Enp. de Curtidos Centro-             Tannery               0.30    0.08    0.38
americana S.A. (ECCASA)
1969/70    Cia. Pino Celulosa de                Pulp and Paper        -       0.08    0.08
Centroamerica (COPINO)
1978       Textiles Rio Lindo, S.A.             Textiles & Fibers    9.00    1.00   10.00
de C.V.
Total gross cammitments                                   9.30    1.16   10.46
less cancellations,
terminations, repayments
and sales                                               6.90    0.16    7.06
Total now held by IFC                                     2.40    1.00    3.40
Total undisbursed                                          -        -       -



- 32 -                        ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
HONDURAS
THIRD INDUSTRIAL CREDIT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:   Timetable and Key Events
(a)  Project Preparation:  April through August 1985
(b)  Project Prepared by:  PONDEI
(c) Pre-appraisal Mission Departure: September 1985
(d) Appraisal Mission Departure: December 1985
(e) Negotiations Completed: April 25, 1986
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: July 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None                                         -
Section III:  Special Conditions
(a) conditions of effectiveness for the loan would be: (i) that
a subsidiary loan agreement acceptable to the Bank had been
executed by the Government and BCH (para. 63), (ii) that
FONDEI's revised "Statement of Operating Policies and
Industrial Regulations had been approved by FONDEI's
Executive Committee (para. 54), (iii) that FONDEI's Technical
Assistance Unit had been established and a Unit Chief
satisfactory to the Bank had been appointed (para. 58); and
(iv) that participation agreements between FONDEI and at
least three PFIs had been signed (para. 59);
(b) retroactive financing of up to US$ 3.0 million would be
permitted to cover expenditures incurred after December 1,
1985 (para. 69); and
(c) FONDEI would ensure that all PFIs comply with eligibility
criteria and with FONDEI's Regulations by carrying out annual
reviews of each PFI's performance and financial condition as
a basis for renewal of its participation agreement and would
promptly advise the Bank of any changes in PFIs' eligibility
(para. 59).



|       E L I Z                       *E         on5 0i
G X.               /                             ,r |1
B       E  I Z     /                   ,   . b  o    ,l rk_
-'I~~~~~~~~0
E       INTIBUCA~~~~~~A6
FR.t_  t  SA P A Z                     <          <         i              HONDURAS
A                  v >;:            ~    ~ ~       ~~/  >  /  j'       FOER SYSTEI          TRANSP/ORTATiON NETWJRK
T                     XUCA  MOR
;r ; H ,\S sSs ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*                                               1        0*51.         OEP.IIM NI DwOIl1
Poc A    cec;-   r                   ...e_                                                                                                -
x _ .E        PIR






