Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15527
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
IGDIR-AKSU-EREGLI-ERCIS (IAEE) IRRIGATION PROJECT
LOAN 2433-TU
March 28, 1996
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Turkish Lira (TL)
Value of US$ 1.00 in TL
1987  =   1,021
1988  =   1,815
1989  =   2,314
1990  =   2,930
1991  =   5,080
1992  =   8,564
1993  =  14,473
1994  =  38,726
March 1995
US$ 1.00                  TL 42,000
TL 1,000           =       US$ 0.0238
TL 1,000,000       =       US$ 23.8
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I kilogram (kg)               =       2.20 pounds
I metric ton                          1,000 kilograms, 0.98 long ton
I hectare (ha)                =      2.47 acres
I decare                      =      0.1 ha
I square kilometre (kiM2)     =      0.386 square mile
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
Government of Turkey                  January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIA            Actual Irrigated Area
DOFDP          Drainage and On-Farm Development Project
DSI            General Directorate of State Hydraulic Works
FAO            Food and Agriculture Organization of the UN
GDAPD          General Directorate of Agricultural Production and Development
GDRS           General Directorate of Rural Services
GOT            Government of Turkey
GIA            Gross Irrigable Area
IAEE           Igdir-Aksu-Eregli-Ercis
IR            Irrigation Ratio
I&D            Irrigation and Drainage
LB             Left Bank
MAVA           Ministry of Agriculture and Village Affairs
MPWS           Ministry of Public Works and Settlement
NIA            Net Irrigable Area
OFD            On-Farm Developments
OFWM           On-Farm Water Management
O&M            Operation and Maintenance
RB             Right Bank
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SMS            Subject Matter Specialists
TCZB           Agricultural Bank of Turkey
VGC            Village Group Centre
WUO            Water Users Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
IGDIR-AKSU-EREGLI-ERCIS (IAEE) IRRIGATION PROJECT
LOAN 2433-TU
Table of Contents
Preface
Evaluation Summary . ....................................... i-iv
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT   ...............    1
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives  ............................    1
B. Achievement of Objectives  ...........                      ......................    1
Igdir Subproject ....................................... 2
Aksu Subproject ....................................... 3
Eregli Subproject .         ....................................    4
Ercis Subproject ....................................... 5
Equipment and Vehicles ...........                     ......................    6
Extension  ..........................................                                          6
Training   ..........................................                                          6
Irrigation Investment Master Plan (IMP) Study  ...................    7
Agricultural Credit .....................................  7
Economic and Financial Objectives  ..........................    7
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project ............................    8
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control ...............    8
Factors GeneraUy Subject to Government Control  .................    9
Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control  ....                     .......   9
D. Project Sustainability .....................                                                        9
E. Bank Performance ....................................... 11
F. Borrower's Performance .              ..................................   12
G. Assessment of Outcome .............. .. ...................   12
H. Future Operation  .......................................   13
I. Key Lessons Learnt .           .....................................   13
dWs document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (cont'd)
Table  1      Summary of Assessments ............................  14
Table 2:      Related Bank Loans/Credits  ..........................  15
Table 3:      Project Timetable  ................................  16
Table 4:      Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .....  17
Table 5:      Key Indicators for Project Implementation   ...............  18-20
Table 6:      Key Indicators for Project Operation   ....................  21
Table 7:      Studies Included in Project   ..........................  21
Table 8A:    Project Costs  ...................................  22
Table 8B:    Project Financing   ................................  22
Table 9:      Economic Costs and Benefits  .........................  23
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants  .........................  24-27
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements  .............  28
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .........................  28
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions   ..........................  29
APPENDICES
A.    Mission's Aide Memoire
B.    Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
C.    Economic Re-evaluation
D.    Borrower's Comments on Draft ICR
E.    Maps I to 5



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
IGDIR-AKSU-EREGLI-ERCIS (IAEE) IRRIGATION PROJECT
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the IAEE Irrigation Project
in Turkey, for which Loan 2433-TU in the amount of US$115.3 million equivalent was
approved on June 5, 1984 and made effective on October 29, 1984.
The loan was closed on June 30, 1992, three years after the original closing date of
June 30, 1989. Final disbursement took place on August 18, 1992. Due to discrepancies in
the Special Account, the undisbursed balance of US$4.9 million was cancelled in two steps:
US$4.8 million on October 31, 1992 and US$0.1 million on September 29, 1994. The loan
account was finally closed on September 30, 1994. Funding from Loan 2663-TU, amounting
to US$56.9 million, was provided to complete the balance of the works remaining at loan
closing.
This ICR was prepared by a mission from the FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Programme1 on behalf of the Agriculture and Environment Operations Division, Country
Department I of the Europe and Central Asia Region of the World Bank. Preparation of this
ICR started with the mission's visit to Turkey from March 27 to April 12, 1995. The report
is based on material gathered from the project files, supervision reports, as well as on
findings from field investigations and discussions with Bank and Government of Turkey staff
associated with the project. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by
arranging field visits and meetings, providing implementation data, and providing substantive
comments during the preparation of the mission's Aide Memoire.
1/ Messrs. R. Suppa (Economist, Mission Leader), H. Laeyendecker (Irrigation Engineer, Consultant,
part-time), and R. Hasan (Irrigation Engineer, Consultant).



e*.-



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
IGDIR-AKSU-EREGLI-ERCIS (IAEE) IRRIGATION PROJECT
(Loan 2433-TU)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
i.    The LkEE project was appraised in September 1982 and approved by the Bank's
Board on June 5, 1984. The project was estimated to cost US$292.0 million towards which
the Bank provided a loan of US$115.3 million equivalent. The Borrower was the Republic
of Turkey. The main implementing agencies were the General Directorate of State Hydraulic
Works (DSI), the General Directorate of Rural Services (GDRS) and the General Directorate
of Agricultural Production and Development (GDAPD). The original closing date was June
30, 1989, about five years after the date of effectiveness of October 29, 1984. The closing
date was exteinded three times, one year at a time, to June 30, 1992. To help Turkey
overcome the negative balance of payments caused by the Gulf crisis, the disbursement
percentages were increased (on average from 50% to 80%) in FY91. An amount of
US$110.4 million, or 96% of the total, was disbursed as of August 18, 1992. Out of the
undisbursed balance of US$4.9 million, US$4.8 million was cancelled on October 31, 1992.
The remaining US$0.1 million was only cancelled on September 29, 1994, after
reconciliation of discrepancies in the project special account, which took time. The loan
account was finally closed on September 30, 1994. Beginning October 1992, with Bank
agreement to the Borrower's request, the completion of remaining works was funded under
the Bank-financed Drainage and On-farm Development (DOFD) project (Loan 2663-TU).
Disbursement under Loan 2663 amounted to US$56.9 million. Total Bank disbursement for
the IAEE works thus amounted to US$167.3 million, against which the actual implementation
cost was US$270.3 million (US$189.1 million till loan closing and US$81.2 million for
completion of balance of the works).
ii.   The main objectives of the project were to increase agricultural production and
incomes, expand rural employment opportunities, and to prepare a rational long-term
investment program for irrigation development in Turkey. These objectives were to be
achieved by implementing four subprojects for completing the infrastructure in the area
remaining to be irrigated and upgrading the works completed earlier at four existing
irrigation schemes (Igdir, Aksu, Eregli and Ercis), benefiting about 25,400 farm families.
The infrastructure component of the project included: (i) construction of additional irrigation
and drainage (I&D) systems; (ii) rehabilitation and improvement of existing I&D systems;
(iii) provision of on-farm developments (OFD) for land levelling, surface and sub-surface
drainage, correction of salinity and alkalinity problems and construction or upgrading of



- ii -
feeder roads. The project also included an extension component as well as the preparation of
an Irrigation Investment Master Plan (IMP). The IMP preparation was subsequently, with
Bank concurrence, transferred to and implemented under the DOFD project (loan 2663-TU).
Implementation Experience and Results
iii.   Project Preparation and Appraisal: The project was designed to complete work in
four existing large irrigation schemes, covering a total of about 119,000 ha gross (112,700
ha net). The project was developed on the basis of information provided on individual
suDprojects' feasibility reports prepared by DSI; it included constructing new and
rehabilitating existing irrigation and drainage systems, promoting on-farm development
works, strengthening extension services, and establishing a program of institutional
development. Based on the implementing agencies further survey of the project sites and
cost scrutiny after Board approval, the project scope and cost were modified in mid-1984.
Under the modified situation, the project scope was enlarged to a gross area of 135,506 ha
and a net area of 125,041; details are shown in Appendix C, Table 1.
iv.   Implementation record: The progress on the implementation of works was affected
by various adverse factors. Problems arose in the selection and award of works, including
the cancellation of contracts and replacement of one main contractor at Igdir. Unexpected
geotechnical problems were encountered at Ercis. Delays also occurred in procurement of
machinery and equipment for land reclamation. By the end of March 1995, about 20% of
the works in Part IV of Igdir subproject and the entire OFD at Ercis still remained to be
completed. Both DSI, which implements the irrigation component, and GDRS, which
implements the OFD component, have plans to complete the remaining works at Igdir and
Ercis by the end of 1996 and 1997 respectively. Despite these problems, project
implementation can be considered satisfactory in terms of achieving the appraisal's physical
targets. Up to Loan closing date, under the four subprojects, the gross irrigated area reached
135,506 ha (14% more than appraisal target), and the net irrigated area reached 103,200 ha
(about 8% lower than appraisal target). Other project components such as extension, training
and procurement of equipment and vehicles were implemented satisfactorily, although delays
were experienced in the selection of machinery to lay drainage pipes.
v.    Project results: At loan closing, the net irrigable area (NIA) and the actual irrigated
area (AIA) under the four subprojects were 103,200 ha and 63,700 ha respectively. In 1983,
without project, the corresponding figures were 81,500 ha and 47,400 ha. The project thus
achieved (by loan closing) an increase of 27% in NIA and, more significant, an increase of
34% in AIA. The completion of the remaining works (after loan closing) under GOT
funding and disbursements under loan 2663-TU (which closed on June 30, 1995) will raise
NIA to 125,000 ha; but AIA (due to time lag in full development of irrigation) might reach
about 90,000 ha only, still an increase of about 90% over the 'without project' situation. As
regards the individual subprojects, Ercis has achieved the maximum project impact, followed
by Igdir. The performance at Eregli, where only OFD works were carried out, is currently
affected by water shortage, and will improve significantly when sufficient ground water



- iii -
becomes available to supplement surface water for the entire NIA of about 32,300 ha. The
development of benefits at Aksu, where less than 50% of the irrigation infrastructure is being
used because of socioeconomic changes (para 9), will remain uncertain till economically
viable alternatives are found to use the available infrastructure. The training component was
implemented satisfactorily with 60 DSI staff and 35 GDRS staff having participated in two-
to four-week study and training courses abroad. The extension component was successfully
implemented by GDAPD and achieved all its targets for training and strengthening with
buildings, equipment and vehicles. Economic returns, although generally satisfactory, are
below Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) estimates. The project as a whole generated an
Economic Rate of Return of about 10% (SAR 20.3%). Overall, about 28,000 farm families
have benefitted under the project, well above the appraisal estimate of 25,400. This has
probably helped in reducing the migration of people from rural areas to cities.
vi.   Key factors affecting project achievements: The most important factors which
affected implementation were: (i) at Ercis, inadequate site investigation at Kockopru dam (not
funded under the project), which supplies water to the subproject; (ii) major changes in
socioeconomic conditions at Aksu, located near a center of major growth of tourism; (iii)
overestimation of water availability at Eregli; (iv) over-optimistic appraisal of project
implementation capacities of DSI and GDRS; and (v) lack of coordination between the three
implementing agencies -- DSI, GDRS and the GDAPD. Other factors which affected project
progress were: (a) delays in obtaining agreement with Iran about the use of international
river waters for the Igdir subproject; (b) delays at the start of the project in arriving at a
mutually acceptable LCB document by Bank and DSI, resulting in late award of local
contracts; (c) rescinding of the main contractor's contract and replacement by two new
contractors at Igdir, the biggest of the four subprojects; and (d) late arrival of OFD
machinery and equipment.
vii.  Sustainability: The project's sustainability is uncertain. Although the farmers
accepted and welcomed the O&M transfer, the sustainability will depend on how far the new
Water User Organizations (WUOs) will succeed in scheme management, including O&M,
monitoring of water use, and O&M cost recovery (the present average recovery rate of 63%
at three subprojects is higher than the national average of 57%). Eregli is facing scarcity of
water, however, initiatives have been taken to mitigate this problem through ground water
development. The sustainability of Aksu subproject, however, is in question due to a variety
of socioeconomic factors, irrigated agriculture is being abandoned, leaving over 50% of the
irrigation infrastructure unused (para 9). The project sustainability seems to be improving in
view of DSI strong commitment to the transfer of I&D schemes management to the WUOs,
operation and maintenance of the irrigation would become the responsibility of the water
users, except for the dams and the main canals of bigger schemes.
viii. Bank and Borrower perfornance: The Bank's performance during project
preparation and appraisal was poor. This is reflected in an overoptimistic implementation
schedule, failure to address important institutional issues and failure to address the
international waters problems which postponed Board presentation by one year. It was



- iv -
satisfactory in supervision, disbursement and in its liaison with the Borrower. The
performance of the Borrower (DSI) was acceptable on the basis of the overall physical
implementation despite several problems. However, closer coordination between the
implementing agencies would have expedited project completion. Also, DSI and GDRS
over-estimated their implementing capacities.
Key Lemons Learned
ix.   The key lessons learnt are:
-     investment projects that are heavily focused on physical components, fail to
address the root causes of the problems facing the sector. Greater focus on
institutional and policy issues when these stand in the way of efficiency is
warranted:
-     the use (now mandatory) of country and sector-specific disbursement profiles
would result in a more realistic implementation period for any irrigation
project;
-     the availability and reliability of water supply has to be critically assessed at
appraisal and the command area sized acc&rdingly, to avoid situations similar
to Eregli;
-     delays in project implementation can be curtailed by closer cooperation and
coordination between participating agencies, but this requires developing
appropriate arrangements during preparation;
-     establishment of WUOs and maldng them responsible for management, is a
major positive step for assuring the sustainability of an irrigation project;
-     creation of a Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) unit in DSI and expansion of
its existing Environmental Unit would contribute substantially to a quality
analysis of the impact and to the planning of irrigation schemes;
the measurement of irrigation efficiencies is vital to assess the performance of
irrigation schemes;
there is need for a detailed, more formalized approach to project preparation
and detailed design, implementation details, operation and maintenance plans
and other mechanisms appropriate for the successful implementation of the
project, including time-bound schedule of performance activities and
management warning systems; in this regard the present practice of requiring
Implementation Plans to be developed is a step in the right direction.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TURKEY
IGDIR-AKSU-EREGLI-ERCIS (AEE) IRRIGATION PROJECT
LOAN 2433-TU
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
1.    The objectives of the project were to increase agricultural production and incomes,
expand rural employment opportunities, and to prepare a rational long-term investment
prog,am for irrigation development. These objectives were to be achieved through the
construction of new and rehabilitation of the existing irrigation and drainage systems, the
provision of on-farm development works, the strengthening of extension services, the
establishment of a clear program of institutional development. The works were considered to
be executed under the command area of four large existing irrigation schemes (Igdir, Aksu,
Eregli, and Ercis) covering a total of about 119,00 ha gross (112,700 ha net) and benefiting
about 25,400 farm families. The infrastructure under the subprojects included: (i)
construction of additional irrigation and drainage (I&D) systems; (ii) rehabilitation and
improvement of existing I&D systems; (iii) provision of on-farm development (OFD) in the
form of land levelling, surface and sub-surface drainage, correction of salinity and alkalinity
problems and construction or upgrading of feeder roads. The subprojects also included
training of the beneficiaries and the staff and strengthening of the extension services through
provision of equipment, vehicles, and buildings. An Irrigation Strategy Review component,
which aimed at developing an Investment Master Plan (IMP) for irrigation was included in
the project but was subsequently financed and implemented, with Bank concurrence, under
the Bank-financed Drainage and On-Farm Development (DOFD) project (Ln. 2663-TU).
2.    The Government of Turkey (GOT) was, at project formulation, giving emphasis to the
completion of infrastructure works and rehabilitation of existing irrigation schemes and
reducing the time lag in construction of on-farm works (OFD) in areas which were already
served by major infrastructure. In this context, the project was relevant to the country and
the sector. Although the project had ownership (DSI and GDRS) from its inception, a
number of factors affected its implementation progress and achievements.
B. Achievement of Objectives
3.    The achievement of physical targets is considered satisfactory, despite the delays in
the construction of the main irrigation and drainage infrastructure, mainly due to contractors'
failure to meet construction schedules. The project had three extensions of the closing date,
one year at a time. The Loan disbursement percentages for works were increased during the
Gulf crisis (on average from 50% to 80%) to help Turkey overcome the negative balance of
payments impact that the crisis caused. Disbursement against the Loan reached US$110.4
million, with the last payment on August 18, 1992, although some of the works were still



- 2 -
incomplete, specially at Igdir and Aksu subprojects. Out of the undisbursed balance of
US$4.9 million, US$4.8 million was cancelled on October 31, 1992. The remaining US$0.1
million was cancelled on September 29, 1994, after a reconciliation of discrepancies in the
project special account, which was inordinately delayed. The Loan account was only finally
closed on September 30, 1994. Beginning October 1992, with Bank agreement to the
Borrower's request, the completion of the remaining works at the two subprojects was
funded under Loan 2663-TU. Disbursement under Loan 2663-TU amounted to US$56.9
million against an investment cost of US$81.2 million. Total Bank disbursement for IAEE
project thus amounted to US$$167.3 million, the total implementation cost being US$270.3
million. The project was prepared on the basis of information provided on individual
subproject's feasibility reports, prepared by DSI. The preparation report, however, was not
based on detailed study and design of individual subprojects. Based on the implementing
agencies further survey of the project sites and unit cost of work scrutiny, the project scope
and cost was modified in mid-1984, after Board presentation. Under the modified situation,
the project scope was enlarged to cover a gross area of 135,506 ha and a net area of 125,041
ha (details are shown in Appendix C, Table 1).
4.   In 1983, without project, the net irrigable area (NIA) and the actual irrigated area
(AIA) under the four schemes were 81,500 ha and 47,400 ha respectively. At loan closing,
the corresponding figures were 103,200 ha and 63,700 ha -- an increase of 27% in NIA and,
more importantly, 34% in AIA. After the loan closing, NIA and AIA increased further with
execution of the balance works, with funding under loan 2663-TU. By 1996, when DSI and
GDRS expect to complete the remaining works, NIA will reach the planned target of
125,000 ha. At the same time, AIA might reach only 90,000 ha due to the time lag between
the development of irrigated crops and the completion of I&D works -- still an increase of
about 90% over the 'without project' situation. As regards the outcome of the three
subprojects involving major I&D works, Ercis has shown maximum project impact, followed
by Igdir, where development of about 12,000 ha (Part IV) is scheduled to be completed by
DSI in 1996. The development of benefits at Aksu, where less than 50% of the irrigation
infrastructure is being used because of socio-economic changes in the area (para. 9), is
unsatisfactory and will remain uncertain till economically viable alternatives are found to use
the available facilities. The performance at Eregli, where only OFD works were carried out,
is good and will improve further when irrigation water becomes available to serve the entire
NIA of about 32,300 ha. The implementation of individual subprojects and other activities is
described below.
Igdir Subproject
5.   Implementation status: Part I of the subproject (area already under irrigation in West
Igdir), required only rehabilitation, which has been completed. Parts II, III and IV needed
substantial improvement and upgrading, and new infrastructure. As of April 1995, the works
in Parts II and III were fully implemented. The works in Part IV (new area) requiring most
of the funding under DOFD, were also nearly complete. The progress achieved by GDRS
on the main OFD components was 74% for sub-surface drainage, 84% for land levelling,



- 3 -
100% for feeder roads, but only 20% for land reclamation, which was due to late delivery of
machinery. GDRS expected to complete about 4,000 ha of gypsum treatment in 1995 and a
further 4,000 ha in 1996. About 176,000 tonnes of gypsum were available in the subproject
area for this purpose. Both DSI and GDRS have plans to complete the remaining I&D and
OFD works from their own financial resources by 1996. Lack of adequate funds, however,
could postpone their plan as during FY95 the Government provided only a fraction, less than
10%, of the actual need.
6.    According to the SAR, pre-project GIA of 56,600 included 10,000 ha of government
owned lands. It was part of the project's legal covenants (Table 10, section 3.05(b)), that
the Government would make plans for distributing its land to the farmers in Igdir. Although
some steps, such as making the General Directorate of Agrarian Reforms responsible for the
distribution, have been taken, the Government has yet to privatize the land and comply with
this legal covenant.
7.    Project impact on irrigable area: As the project developed, NIA increased from
30,000, in the without project situation, to about 51,700 ha in 1994; however, AIA merely
increased from 22,900 to about 31,000 ha, because about 8,000 still required land levelling
and a further 6,000 ha remained to be treated for salinity and alkalinity problems. At full
development, NIA and AIA are expected to be 66,920 ha and 63,750 ha respectively. The
GIA, NA, and AIA under each part are given in Appendix C, Table 1, and shown on maps
in Appendix E.
Aksu Subproject
8.   Implementation status: Except for the rehabilitation of 10 km of main canal, the
irrigation components were fully implemented by 1992. The remaining works were
completed by 1994 with funding under DOFD. The flood protection subcomponent was not
implemented since the Bank agreed with DSI that the completion of the Karacaoran Dam in
1985 significantly reduced the risk of flooding from the upper Aksu basin and flood dikes
and other river channel improvement works would not be necessary (Supervision Mission
Report of June 1991). The land levelling component of the OFD works was revised from
the SAR estimate of 17,000 ha to 5,000 ha but actual land levelling was carried out on 4,200
ha (84% of the revised target). The subsurface drainage and feeder roads were fully
implemented. Cotton growers were reluctant to allow land levelling on their fields and
demanded compensation for loss of crops and this was the main cause for reducing the area
for land levelling.
9.    Project impact on irrigable area: NIA at Aksu was 14,529 ha without project (GIA
15,457). With project, NIA has increased to 22,250 ha and GIA to 23,667 ha. The
project's AIA, however, experienced reduction. In spite of its almost full completion in
1992, the project's AIA gradually reduced from its 10,552 ha, under the situation of without
project, to 10,394, with project, in 1994. DSI attributed this steady decline to: (i) the
demand for cotton, the dominant crop, having fallen in the area and the farmers generally



- 4 -
preferring rainfed to irrigated crops because of marketing problems; (ii) the number of
greenhouses (units of 1,300 m3 each) in the area having increased from 700 in 1984 to 3,900
in 1994 attracting labor from the farm lands; and (iii) many young farmers takdng up jobs in
the Antalya region's lucrative tourist industry in summer and some of them giving up
farming altogether. DSI is unable to forecast if the socio-economic trends in the region
would change in the short or long term. Also, GDAPD has observed that farmers are
reluctant to adopt alternative cropping patterns, e.g. introducing rainfed wheat or winter
fodder crops while waiting to go back to cotton if prices would adequately increase.
However, with world market price for cotton higher than ever, these arguments make little
sense.
10.  It is doubtful that anybody could have anticipated at the time of appraisal the
explosive growth of mass tourism in the Antalya region that started in the late 1980's.
Tourism now provides well-paid work during the hot weather period when cheap labor is
required for the proverbially disagreeable work in the cotton fields. Once the project in a
traditional cotton growing area got underway, it was impossible for DSI to ascertain whether
the decrease in cotton cultivation constituted a permanent trend rather than a short term
fluctuation. The Bank supervision missions cannot be blamed either for not identifying the
true socio-economic reasons until it was too late.
Eregli Subproject
11.  Implementation status: The subproject included only the OFD work, which was
fully implemented by 1992, except for the subsurface drainage which was omitted in the final
design. The Ivriz dam and appurtenant works and other irrigation infrastructure, which were
under construction at the time of appraisal, continued to be implemented by DSI under their
own funds, and did not form part of the subproject.
12.   Project impact on irrigable area: Prior to the construction of Ivriz dam, GIA was
31,860 ha, NIA about 30,270 ha, AIA 14,000 ha. With the completion of the Ivriz dam and
irrigation facilities in 1985, GIA increased to 37,649 ha, NIA to 32,294 ha and AIA to
26,004 ha. The distribution of the GIA and NIA along the Ivriz River is shown in the maps
in Appendix E, and tabulated in Appendix C, Table 1.
13.   The NAI and AIA are not likely to rise further due to shortage of water, in spite of
Ivriz storage. With an active storage of 80 x 106 m3, a mean annual inflow of 234 x 106 m3
and a regulation ratio of 85%, the dam can irrigate 20,000-25,0000 ha, depending on the
cropping pattern and the overall irrigation efficiency. In order to augment irrigation water
supplies, DSI has installed 60 tubewells in the LB area and 15 tubewells (out of 40 planned)
in the RB area. When all the 100 wells are in operation, yielding about 36 x 106 m3 per
year, an additional area of 4,000-5,000 ha could be irrigated. With the combined supplies
from the dam and the wells, a maximum of about 30,000 ha could be irrigated, for which
irrigation infrastructure is available. In 1994, 160 x 106 m3 (dam 132 x 106 m3+wells 28 x



- 5 -
106 m3) irrigated an area of about 25,000 ha. DSI practice for the design of the irrigation
schemes is reported to assure water availability for at least 90% of NIA.
14.   Apart from sinking additional wells in such a case of scarcity, it might have been
useful to introduce different water saving technologies, such as (i) detailed monitoring of
water use and its losses; (ii) introduction of automatic gates and night storage reservoirs to
reduce operational losses; and (iii) introduction of sprinkler and localized irrigation to reduce
field application losses. DSI did not explore these possibilities. The Bank missions also
apparently did not suggest to DSI to pursue such an approach to mitigate the shortage
problem.
Ercis Subproject'
15    Layout changes: The Ercis scheme was initially designed to irrigate GIA of 7,500 ha
(6,700 ha on the RB and 800 ha on the LB of the River Zilan) from the Kockopru dam
(completed in 1991 instead of the original target of 1985). Owing to geotechnical problems
encountered during filling of the reservoir, particularly along the alignment of the LB canal,
the construction of the infrastructure for the LB area was deferred. A re-aligned LB canal is
now being built by DSI and is expected to be completed by 1997. On the RB, GIA
increased to 7,260 ha, having gravity irrigation from a 61 km long main canal. In addition,
DSI constructed a high level pumped canal to the north of the main canal, under its own
financing, for an additional GIA of 2,035 ha. The pumping station is located close to the
main canal intake and the canal capacity was increased by 1.5 m3/second. The upper canal
and the pumping station were part of the original feasibility study of the scheme submitted to
the Bank but were excluded from the project at appraisal owing to the high cost of pumping.
16.  Implementation status: The irrigation infrastructure was completed at the end of
1992. As much as 86% of the land levelling target was achieved. The remaining OFD
works were not implemented due to geotechnical problems. Irrigation commenced in 1992
after completion of the Kockopru dam (not part of the project).
17.   Project impact on wrrigable area: The GIA of the project, which is located only on
the RB and commanded by the lower main canal, is 7,260 ha, with a corresponding NIA of
about 6,900 ha (Appendix C, Table 1 and maps in Appendix E). AIA increased from about
2,500 ha in 1992 to 5,940 ha in 1994 and is likely to increase to 6,200 ha. Of the four
subprojects, Ercis has the most effective impact.
I/ DSI has re-named this subproject as Erds-Kockopru since there is an existing Eris project in
close vicinity, located on the left bank of the Zilan river (Appendix E, Map 5).



-6-
Equipment and Vehicles
18.   The procurement of equipment and vehicles intended for improving the O&M of the
schemes by DSI, for implementing OFD by GDRS, and for strengthening extension by
GDAPD, was delayed considerably, mainly due to the long time taken in the finalization of
procurement documents meeting Bank guidelines, including the drafting of the final
specifications for the goods. A Bank Procurement Mission assisted the implementing
agencies in November 1987 in preparing specifications and tender documents. After the
initial delays and changes, procurement went ahead smoothly. By June 1988, the bulk of
DSI equipment was delivered and GDRS and GDAPD completed procurement in early 1989.
The equipment was satisfactorily utilized for the implementation of works.
Extension
19.  Implementation status: The extension component of the project was implemented
satisfactorily. The extension facilities in the subproject areas were adequately strengthened
as envisaged at appraisal. A total of 42 Village Group Centres (VGC) were established and
agiicultural equipment, vehicles and audio-visual aids were procured for each office. The 88
motorcycles for the agricultural technicians were procured under the Erzurum Rural
Development Project and the Agricultural Extension and Applied Research Project. Overseas
training under the project, for a total of 43 extension staff was successfully completed by the
end of 1991. The Subject Matter Specialist (SMS) posts at provincial and district levels were
created as envisaged at appraisal and the positions were filled by reallocation of existing
staff.
20.  Impact: The target of establishing one agricultural technician per 400 farm
households was not achieved. This ratio is currently 1:830 in Igdir, 1:583 in Aksu, 1:442 in
Eregli and 1:343 in Ercis. However, as compared to the 'without project' situation, the
number of farmers visited by extension agents increased by about 35%.
Training
21.  Implementation status: DSI and GDRS have implemented their respective training
components satisfactorily. In 1988, DSI sent on study tours of 2-3 weeks two groups of 12
engineers each to Germany, one group of 13 engineers to Romania and two engineers to
USA. In 1992, it sent a group of 12 engineers for training to USA for nine weeks, while a
second group of 10 staff undertook a one-month study tour. The subjects covered were:
advanced test drilling techniques, O&M of dams and irrigation networks, computer hardware
and software, dam safety, environmental impact assessment and water resources and
irrigation systems management. GDRS training program consisted of one month's training
of 20 professionals in Germany in land surveying techniques and I&D practices during 1985,
and a one-month training of 15 staff in Holland in land reclamation during 1989.



- 7 -
22.  Impact: Overall, the overseas training program had a good impact on both DSI and
GDRS trainees. The trainees have benefited from the study tours and training courses,
increasing considerably the participants' knowledge in irrigation networks operation and
maintenance, cost recovery, on-farm development and soil reclamation. It is important to
note that DSI and GDRS staff, trained under the project, remained with their respective
organizations upon completion of the training courses.
Irrigation Investment Master Plan (IMP) Study
23.   As pointed out in para. 1, the IMP study was implemented under the DOFD project.
It has provided the GOT with a comprehensive portfolio of 585 ongoing and proposed
projects. These projects were re-evaluated and ranked in order of their expected rates of
return. The IMP also presents alternative strategies for irrigation development.
Agricultural Credit
24. The availability of agricultural credit in the four irrigation schemes was assured in
adequate amounts by GOT, primarily through the Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB).
GDAPD confirmed that the credit demand in the four schemes was adequately met by TCZB
which, since 1984, received financial assistance by the World Bank through the two
Agricultural Credit Projects (Ln. 2318-TU and Ln. 3090-TU).
Economic and Flnancial Objectives
25.   The actual cost of the project (till June 30, 1995 when Loan 2663-TU was closed)
was US$270.3 million (SAR US$292.0 million) comprising US$189.1 million under this
project and US$81.2 million under DOFD project. The foreign cost was US$113.0 million
(SAR US$115.3 million) and the local cost US$157.3 million equivalent (SAR US$176.7
million). The cost is less than estimated in,the SAR, mainly due to partial completion of
works, specially by GDRS.
26.   At appraisal, both financial and economic analyses were carried out. Financial Rates
of Return (FRR) were expected to be very high ranging from 53% to over 100%. Economic
Rates of Return (ERR) were assessed as 16.6%, 21.4%, 29.6% and 15.2% for Igdir, Aksu,
Eregli and Ercis schemes, respectively. The ERR for the project as a whole was estimated
as 20.3%.
27.   FRRs have not been calculated for this ICR, since adequate data for preparing farm
budgets to represent the true situation at project completion could not be provided by the
implementing agencies. However, average financial incomes, based on financial budgets
calculated for each scheme (Appendix C, Table 10), increased by 195% in Igdir, 73% in
Eregli and as high as 900% in Ercis. In Aksu, the financial income for the scheme as a
whole decreased by 11%, reflecting ffie low AIA so far recorded (para. 12). ERRs are
below SAR estimates.



- 8 -
28.   The economic re-evaluation has been carried out taking into account the total
investment cost of the project, against which funding was provided both under loans 2433-
TU and 2633-TU. Details given in Appendix C, pertain to the costs incurred till the closure
of the loan 2433-TU. The investment costs for completion incurred (after the loan closure)
are taken for economic analysis, as indicated in Appendix C, Table 11. The anticipated
ERRs are about 9% for Igdir, negative for Aksu, 22.5% for Eregli and 17.0% for Ercis.
The project as a whole would generate an ERR of about 10%.
29.   The lower ERR are mainly due to the delay in completion of the infrastructure by five
to seven years, and the conservative assumption that AIA will not increase further from the
level achieved in 1996, the year following the completion of the infrastructure. Also the
cropping changes (conversion of land under cereals to vegetables and fruits) anticipated at
appraisal have not come true, due to changes in the demands of agricultural products during
the long project implementation. For the Igdir irrigation scheme, the lower ERR is also due
to the 10,000 ha of Government land (para. 6) that have not so far been distributed to project
beneficiaries despite satisfactory implementation of the I&D works (para. 5). Because of the
risk of being moved from their current land holding to another location when land title is
passed on to them, the landholders have not been willing to exploit these lands according to
their production potential. With respect to Aksu, the negative ERR results from the drop
(para. 9) in ALA in 1994 to about 80% of AIA in 1983, while NIA increased by 54%
(Appendix C-4, Table 1). The ERR for the Eregli and Ercis schemes are only slightly lower
than SAR estimates. Overall, about 28,000 farm-families benefitted under the project, well
above the number of 25,400 estimated at appraisal. This has helped considerably in reducing
the flow of people from rural areas to cities.
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control
30.   Considerable delays at the start of the project in arriving at a mutually acceptable
LCB document, due to incompatibility of certain provisions of Turkey's State Bid Law 2886
with the Bank's procurement guidelines, resulted in late award of local contracts. Serious
delays in implementation at Igdir, the biggest of the four subprojects, were caused by
unsuccessful attempts to improve the contractor's performance during 1985-88. The contract
was finally rescinded, the work split into two parts, and separate contracts awarded for each.
Part IV of this scheme is still under construction and DSI expects to complete it with its own
resources by June 1996. Implementation of the land levelling and reclamation components
was delayed due to late arrival of machinery and equipment (para. 18). Unfortunately, the
enormous mass tourism development around Antalya and its repercussions on the cultivation
of the cotton crop in Aksu could not reasonably have been foreseen.



- 9 -
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
31. The GOT could not complete the privatization of the 10,000 ha of the Government
lands in Igdir as stipulated in SAR. It is GOT's intention to carry this out by 1998 (para. 6).
As part of the GOT's ambitious plan to transfer the management and O&M of irrigation
schemes to farmers through the establishment of Water User Organizations (WUOs), two
WUOs have already been established in one subproject (Eregli) and negotiations between DSI
and farmers to establish WUOs in other subprojects are well underway. The construction of
the most important OFD works by a different agency, namely GDRS, in DSI schemes also
caused delays in project implementation due to lack of synchronization in their activities.
Such delays could have been avoided if one agency was responsible for both I&D and OFD
works, or with better coordination between the agencies.
Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control
32. Some of the problems faced during implementation at Ercis and those which still
affect Eregli could have been avoided with more detailed investigations and analysis during
the feasibility stage: (i) a more thorough geotechnical investigation at Kockopru dam site; (ii)
a more reliable estimate of water availability and corresponding irrigable area at Eregli.
Other factors that had a negative impact on the pace of implementation were (iii) lack of
prior dialogue and concurrence of the beneficiaries for implementation of works, specially
for land levelling and subsurface drainage; (iv) lack of a realistic project implementation
schedule; and (iv) inadequate coordination between the three implementing agencies -- DSI,
GDRS and GDAPD -- both at central and regional levels.
D. Project Sustainability
33.   The sustainability of irrigation projects depends on: (a) efficient operation and
maintenance (O&M) of the irrigation system, with trained staff and adequate equipment; (b)
ensuring that O&M funding is adequate; (c) availability of irrigation water and efficiency of
water use; (d) mitigating the adverse effects of any environmental impacts; and (e)
acceptance of the schemes by farmers.
34.   O&M by WUOs: The O&M of the four I&D system is currently being carried out by
the O&M sections of the Regional Directorates of DSI. At the same time, DSI O&M
Department at Ankara headquarters is pursuing the transfer of O&M responsibilities to the
farmers, who are organizing themselves for taking over by the establishment of WUOs.
With the World Bank support through the DOFD Project, DSI staff at various levels got
additional exposure to the accelerated transfer of irrigation systems in other countries such as
Mexico. By the loan closing date, transfer of O&M responsibility in the four subprojects
was as follows: though delays in completion at Igdir have affected the transfer, the farmers
are in the process of taking over 20,500 ha. At Aksu, 20,000 ha were under transfer to five
WUOs. At Eregli, 22,700 ha had already been transferred to two WUOs. The transfer had
not yet started at Ercis. The farmers were keen to form these organizations and take over



- 10-
the O&M in their respective areas. The GOT has passed the necessary legislation for
establishing the WUOs, although some issues such as financial and technical assistance to the
WUOs have yet to be resolved.
35.   Cost recovery (O&M): At present, the Ministry of Finance's tax collection system is
responsible for recovering O&M costs from the farmers. Water charges to be collected in
any year are computed on the basis of the actual O&M cost of the previous year and the
actual collection extends to the next year. For the period 1983-1994, the average recovery
ratios (gross cumulative receipts to total O&M expenses) at Igdir, Aksu, and Eregli were
68%, 47% and 74% respectively. However, the recovery occurs after about two years of
DSI having incurred the expenditures, which reduces substantialy the recovery in real terms
in an environment of very high inflation. Owing to late commissioning of the Ercis
subproject, the water charges will be recovered from 1995 onwards. The national recovery
ratio of all DSI schemes is presently estimated at 57%. The penalty for late payment is too
low (10% above the outstanding charge) and no interest is applied to late payments.
36.   Cost recovery (capital cost): The capital cost of an I&D project is recovered over a
50 year period. No costs are recovered for the first ten years. The irrigation projects have
been divided into four groups and the recovery rate varies from TL 3,000/ha to TL
7,500/ha. Recovery of capital costs without indexation for inflation, over a recovery period
of about 40 years yields, in real terms, less than its cost of administration and collection.
GOT still considers that the agricultural sales tax (the SAR also mentions it) is an indirect
investment cost recovery, which is not appropriate.
37.   According to the Loan Agreement, GDRS should have taken action to recover the
cost of the OFD works from the farmers (Section 4.06 of the Loan Agreement; see table 10).
Although necessary legislation has been enacted and the regulation gazetted, so far no cost
recovery has taken place. The legislation also needs to be amended to bring it in line with
the Loan covenant (i.e. to reduce the repayment period to 20 years).
38.   Water availability and water use efficiency: Water availability is a major constraint
for the sustainability of the Eregli scheme. As pointed out in para. 13, DSI should develop
the remaining 25 wells planned on the RB as a matter of priority since some farmers are not
receiving irrigation water at all. DSI should also consider investments in water saving
infrastructure besides further augmenting water. The impact of the rehabilitation and
improvement of the irrigation network through an increased water-use or irrigation
efficiency, is not being monitored at any of the four schemes, although provision has been
made for measurement of supplies. The importance of monitoring irrigation efficiencies,
however, is being brought to the attention of WUOs during handing over programs.
39. Environmental monitoring: Since both salinity and alkalinity affected parts of the
four subprojects in the past, remedial measures such as subsurface drainage and gypsum
treatment of soils were adopted under the project. Most of the affected areas had been
reclaimed/remedied by December 1994, and GDRS planned to implement the remaining



- 11 -
works with its own resources. DSI, which has a small Environmental Unit attached to its
Planning and Investigation Department, has not yet started environmental monitoring of the
subprojects. Expansion of the existing unit is under active considemtion by DSI.
40.   On the basis of criteria given in para. 33 and discussed above, the project's
sustainability is uncertain. Although the farmers accepted and welcomed the transfer of
M&O management, the sustainability will depend on how far DSI will succeed in achieving
the transfer of management to the WUOs, and the efficiency with which they will be able to
discharge their responsibilities. If successful, as in many other parts of Turkey, this would
result in O&M cost recovery changing from the present ex-post system to an anticipatory
collection system (to be introduced by WUOs). The sustainability of Aksu wiU remain
uncertain until an economically viable alternative use of the irrigation facilities is found. The
regular monitoring of environmental impacts, in particular salinity and alklinity, and of
irrigation efficiencies in particular at Eregli, will contribute to project sustainability.
E. Bank Performance
41.   The Bank's performance during project preparation and appraisl was poor.
Procurement issues that surfaced during implementation should have been sorted out earlier;
the implementation schedule was overoptimistic; and institutional issues were not adequately
addressed. In addition, the international waters issue with Iran that caused almost one year
postponement of Board approval, was not properly identified. The subprojects were parts of
much larger schemes which were already identified and prepared up to feasibility level and
partly implemented or in the process of being implemented. Following the normal
procedure, the Bank relied rather heavily on these feasibility studies when it selected
subprojects. In hindsight, another critical look at the recommendations of the feasibility
studies by specialists could have avoided the problems which arose at Aksu and Eregli.
While the socio-economic changes in Aksu area could not have been anticipated during
appraisal, at Eregli, however, the Bank should have emphasized exploring investments in
water saving technologies once the scarcity became apparent. Given its experience with
irrigation projects, the Bank should not have accepted a five year implementation period.
The regional committees, expected at appraisal, could not be established, and as a result
coordination between various agencies was not completely satisfactory. Although several
supervision reports noted this shortcoming, Bank should have acted more forcefully to
mitigate this problem.
42.   To quantify the works for a rehabilitation or improvement project is normally a
difficult task and is generaUy based on sample areas. The revision/updating of several key
project indicators based on work quantities occurs frequently, and the project was no
exception. However, some of the key indicators were amended frequently during
implementation and major amendments were made as recorded in the supervision mission
reports, which would have been avoided by more detailed preparation.



- 12 -
43.   With respect to the covenants on cost recovery of investment and of O&M, the Bank
did not pursue enforcement effectively. The main implementing agency, DSI, does not
collect any tariffs, although it carries out the O&M work. The non-collection is the fault of
the tax collection system of the Ministry of Finance. All Bank efforts on the subject were
never directed to the responsible party. The Bank could not possibly influence the
performance of tax collectors under an irrigation project. However, the issue was resolved
satisfactorily by the Bank in pushing for the formation of WUOs for taking over the
schemes.
F. Borrower's Performance
44.   The Borrower was unable to comply with three important legal covenants:
establishment of regional coordination committee (para. 41), distribution of state land in Igdir
(para. 6), and cost recovery of on-farm development works (para. 37). Although it should
be noted that DSI Headquarters in Ankara generally carried out the project's coordination
responsibility, coordination at the regional level was not satisfactory and resulted in
implementation delays and affected project results. It should be acknowledged that the
Borrower has taken some preliminary steps to comply with cost recovery and distribution of
state land which have serious implication on the project sustainability, but so far there is not
an action timetable for dealing with these two issues.
45.   At present, the most important task of on-farm water management (OFWM) is shared
by three different agencies, namely, DSI, GDRS and GDAPD. DSI delivers the water to the
farm, GDRS carries out physical OFD and GDAPD trains farmers in OFWM through its
regional Extension Directorates. The present arrangements are not effective since farmers
have to deal with three different organizations for OFWM.
46.   The O&M department of DSI collects not only the O&M data such as actual and net
irrigated areas but also agro-economic data such as cropping patterns, yields and prices, in
order to determine water charges. Its monitoring work thus gets very little importance and
priority. If a Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) unit was created in the O&M or in the
Planning and Investigation Department of DSI, it could have better analyzed and evaluated
project performance.
G. Assessment of Outcome
47.   Notwithstanding the delays in implementation, the project's outcome can be rated as
satisfactory. Considering the total area brought under irrigation and the concomitant rise in
agricultural production and incomes, the project achieved most of its objectives and realized
satisfactory development results in spite of the negative ERR generated at Aksu. Particularly
important is the successful establishment of WUOs at Aksu and Eregli. DSI has made great
progress in transferring irrigation systems to users (para. 34). In addition to enabling a
substantial reduction in government subsidy, such tr4nsfer should contribute to a more
efficient and equitable use of water.



- 13 -
H. Future Operation
48.   Since DSI is committed to the transfer of I&D scheme management to the WUOs,
operation and maintenance of the irrigation networks would become the responsibility of the
water users, except for the dams and main canals of the bigger schemes. Detailed future
operation plans have, therefore, not been prepared.
I. Key Lessons Learnt
49.   The key lessons learnt from the project are:
investment projects that are heavily focused on physical components, fail to
address in a substantive way the root causes of the problems facing the sector.
Greater focus on institutional and policy issues when these stand in the way of
efficiency is warranted;
-     the use (now mandatory) of country and sector specific disbursement profiles
would result in a more realistic implementation period of any irrigation
project;
-     the availability and reliability of water supply has to be critically assessed at
appraisal and the command area sized accordingly, to avoid situations similar
to Eregli;
-     delays in project implementation can be curtailed by closer cooperation and
coordination between implementing agencies, but this requires developing
appropriate arrangements during project preparation;
-     establishment of WUOs and making them responsible for management, is a
major positive step for assuring the sustainability of an irrigation project;
-     creation of a Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) unit in DSI and expansion of
its existing Environmental Unit would contribute substantially to a quality
analysis of the impact and to the planning of irrigation schemes;
-     the measurement of irrigation efficiencies is vital to assess the performance of
irrigation schemes;
-     there is need for a detailed, more formalized approach to project preparation
and detailed design, implementation details, operation and maintenance plans
and other mechanisms appropriate for the successful implementation of the
project, including time-bound schedule of performance activities and
management warning systems; in this regard the present practice of requiring
Implementation Plans to be developed is a step in the right direction.



- 14 -
Table 1: Summary of Assesnents
A. Acheien<tof Obiecive                     SubOAntl          Pahl          Nealfidbt      Not Awticab
()              (1)            (V)              (V)
Macro policies                              I               I               E                E
Sector policica                              E               E               E                 O
Finail objectives                                                             7  EJ          [O
Institutional development                     O               O              E                  J
Physical objectives                                         [J                 ]             I  J
Poverty reduction                            OI             I                  J 
Gender issues                                E                               EJ              E]
Other ocial objectives                         J            j               [                  O
Environmental objectives                    j                 O               O               U
Public sector management                                    I                   ]            EJ
Private sector development                                    O]
Other (specify)                               0                ]              0                0
B. P>rosect gatsfibaui
-I!5el         Unlikely       Uncen
(A              (A              (A
Hiel
C. Bank Performance                         atisfactory     Satisfactory    ne6cie
(A              (A              (A
Identification                              I1                0             [
Prepartion assistance                                        E               Z
Appraisal                                                   E     O   
Supervision                                                                  El
HiW
D. Borrower Perfonrace                        satisfactory    Satisfactory     Defiient
(A)             (A              (A)
Preparation                                  E                               El
Implementation                               0              CI               E
Covenant compliance                          E               El
Operation Cif applicable)                   I                E               E
Hiishl                                                Hiehle
E. Asesuneat of Outcome                  utisfactor       Satisfactory     Untjsfator         ustisa6tor
(A              (A                 (4                 (A
Ol   U]                           El                 El



- 15 -
Table 2: Rdated Bank LIA/Credit
Loon/credit Title          Purpose                                    Year of         Status
Approval
1. Corum-Cankiri Rural    Rural development including irrigation to    1975          Closed
Development Project,   increase agicultural production and incomos
La. 1130-TU            and expand rurd employment opporunities.
2. Erzurum Rurd            Irrigation development, soil conservation,  1982          Closed
Development Project,   roads plant protection and veternary services
UL. 2094-TU            components.
3. Second Agricultural     Supported credit for on-farm development to
Credit Project,       increase agricultural production, rase       1984          Closed
Ln. 2318-TU            farmers' productivity and incomes, and
various other free-standing agricultural
projects, and an action plan for institutional
development.
4. Agricultural Extension    Development and dissemination of improved  1984         Closed
and Applied Research    agricultural technology to foster increased
Project, LU. 2405-TU   productivity and agricultural incomes.
5. Agriculturd Sector      Deepen, broaden and refine agriculturd      1985          Closed
Adjustment,            adjustment programme through agreed policy
Ln. 2585-TU            reforms.
6. Drinage and On-farm    Rehabilitation and improvement of drainage   1986      To be closed on
Development Project,   systems to increase agricultual production,             30 June 1995
Ln. 2663-TU            productivity and incomes.
7. Agroindustry Project,    Expansion and modernization of agroindustry  1989         Under
Ln. 3077-TU            sector, improve capacity utilization, various         implementation
fisheries surveys, pilot marketing training
programme.
8. Agriculture Credit m,    Strengthen the Agricultural Bank of Turkeys'  1989       Closed
Ln. 3090-TU            (TCZB) financial position through increase in
its equity, settling claims of TCZB to
Govermment and improving its ratio of
networth to total assets.
9. Agricultural Extension   Increased productivity and income through  1990          Under
II Project, La. 3177-TU   improving the flow of information and the           implementation
transmission of relevant technology.
10. Agricultural earchosea
Project, Ln. 3472-T 
11. Eastern Anatolia
Watershed Project,    =        =       =   =      =                      =
La. 3567-TU _



- 16 -
Table 3: Projet Thnetable
Steps in Project Cycle                          Date Planned          Dae Atua
Identification                                                        July 1980"
Prepation                                        May 1982             Aug/Sept. 19822
Appisl                                          September 1982        September 1982
Negotiations                                     March 1983           May 4, 1983
Board presentation                               May 19, 1983         June 5, 1984
Signing                                                               June 15, 1984
Effoctivenews                                    September 17, 1984    October 29, 1984
Midterm review (if applicable)                  n.a.                  n.a
Project completion                               December 31, 1988    June 30, 1995-
Lo)an closing                                   June 30, 1989         Septmber 30, 1994"
Te project originated with the GOT's request to the June 1980 Agricultural Sector Identification Mision for
Bank financing to assist completion of irrigation schemes under construction: July 1980 for project concept and
in July 1981 for specific subprojects.
:   FAO/CP assisted DSI in final preparation of the project. Feasibility studies prepred by DSI.
Board presentation was delayed by one year due to riparian isues between Iran and Turkey, relative to tbh
IGDIR irrigation scheme.
i' At this time, some works remained to be completed which DSI and GDRS will be completing by 1996 and 1997
respectively.
The loan was finally closed on December 31, 1994 due to delay in reconciliation of the discrqancies in the
special account.



T te 4:   LOan/Credit Dislahwr nits: Cumtlative Estited *nd Actual
(C # illion)
.   .........   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .............         FiscalYear)    .............................. (18  Fiscal  Ynr)
1983/84     1964/85     1985/86     1986/87     1987/88     1988/89     1989/90     1990/91     1991/92      1992/93     1993/94    1994/95
Appraisal              9.5         21.0        61.8        85.4        104.0       115.0                     -           -                        -          -
estiate
Actual"                5.9          9.0        14.0        32.8         U6.7        61.9       77.6        107.9       110.7       110.4          -          -
Actuat as X of          62          43          23          38          45          54          67          94           96          96           -          -
esti_te
Date of Fina. Dilshuraait: 18 Auswit 1992 (US$ 718,219)
In  ddition, disbursemnt under loan 2663-TU was made amounting to US#56.9 million; the distribution being USS14.1 million In 1992-93, USS17.0 million in 1993-94,        _
US#7.0 million in 1994-95, and USS18.8 million in 1995-96. Total Bank dibursrmnt against the project thus amounted to US$167.3 million.
A total of USS 4,888,603 wrem cancelled as follows: USS 4,766,222 on 31 October 1992 and USS 122,381 on 29 September 1994.



- 18 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation           Page 1
Estimate
Key Implementation Indicators in      Unit      SAR        Revised     Actual
SAR/President's Report
IGDIR.:
Headworks
- Intake structure                    No.         1         2          2
- Settling basin                      No.        2          2          2
- Feeder canal                        km         31         26         26
- Feeder tunnel                       m         665        314         314
Irrigation Networks
- Main canal (new)                    km        144        210         146
- Main canal (rehabilitation)         km         8         8           8
- Secondary canal (new)               km        237        332         265
- Secondary canal (rehabilitation)    kam       120        106          90
- Tertiary canal (new)                km        381        588         421
- Tertiary canal (rehabilitation)     km        208        170         136
Drainage Networks
- Main & secondary drains (new)       km        327        445         408
- Main & secondary drains (rehabilitation)  km  121        10           3
- Tertiary drains (new)               km        385        572         551
- Tertiary drains (rehabilitation)    km        264        188         146
On-farm Works
- Land levelling                      ha         38,000     38,000      38,000
- Subsurface drains                   ha         12,500     30,000      25,000
- Soil amendment (gypsum)             tons      157,000    230,000     180,000
- Soil reclamation                    ha         14,000    22,000       4,200
- Surface drains                      ha         38,000     38,000      38,000
- Feeder roads                        km           190        232         232
AKSU:
Headworks
- Diversion weir (Kargi)              No.       1          1           1
- Remodelling of weir                 No.       1          0           0
- Intake structure                    No.       1          1           1
Irrigation Networks
- Main canal (new)                    kum         69        87          87
- Main canal (rehab)                  km          30          10           0
- Main tunnel                         m         1,250       1.520        1.520
- Main Syphon                         m         1,500       6.259       6.259
- Secondary canal (new)               km          55       208         208
- Secondary canal (rehab)             km          10        19.5        19.5
- Tertiary canal (new)                km         453       208         289
- Tertiary canal (rehab)              km          19       49           49
Drainage Networks
- Main & secondary drains (new)       km          45        28          22.5
- Tertiary drains (new)               km          20         7           4.5
Flood Protection Works
- Flood dikes                         km          70          0           0
- River channel improvement           10m3       2           0           0
- .                  = I         =



- 19 -                                Table 5
Page 2
Estimate
Key Implementation Indicators in     Unit      SAR        Revised     Actual
SAR/President's Report                                                            l
On-farm Works
- Land levelling                     ha        17,000     5,000       4,180
- Subsurface drains                  ha        7,000      7,000       5,000
- Surface drains                    klm          400       400         400
- Feeder roads                       km          200       200         200
EREGU:
On-farm Works
- Land levelling                     ha        17,000     17,300      17,300
- Subsurface drains                  ha        9,000         0           0
- Soil amendment (gypsum)            tons      22,500     7,650       7,650
- Soil reclamation                   ha        4,000      1,500       1,500
- Surface drains                     ha          300       300         300
- Feeder roads                       km          150        150        150
ERCIS:
Irrigation Networks
- Main canal                        Ikm          51      61.156      61.156
- Main Syphon                        m           400     595         595
- Secondary canal                   Ikm          65      61.92       61.92
- Tertiary canal                     km          108      80.365     80.365
Drainage Networks
- Secondary drains                  Ikm          33         32          32
- Tertiary drains                    kan         99         84          84
- Division ditches                   km           0       12.5        12.5
On-farm Works
- Land levelling                     ha        7,100      2,000       1,725
- Subsurface drains                  ha          500       500           0
- Surface drains                     ha         5,300     5,300          0
- Feeder roads                       km          30         30           0
Equipment and Vehicles
(4 subprojects)
DSI:
- Excavators, Tracked                No.         14                     15
- Excavator, Wheel                   No.         16                     16
- Excavator, Gradall               . No.         15                     15
- Tractor, Tracked                   No.         20                     30
- Loader, Tracked                    No.         14                      0
- Grader, 125-HP                     No.          11                    15
- Tractor, Wheel                     No.         11                      0
- Trailer Unit                       No.         10                     10
- Dump Truck IfT                     No.         40                     41
- Truck 8-1OT                        No.         16                     0
- Station Wagon                      No.         35                     35
- Generator 90-100 KVA               No.          4                     0
- Motorcycle 150-250 cc              No.         41                     0
- Wireless (Radio)                   No.         45                     41



- 20 -
Table 5
Page 3
Estimate
Key Implementation Indicators in      Unit      SAR        Revised     Actual
SAR/President's Report
GDRS:
- Motorscraper                        No.        28                     28
- Trencher 100-HP                     No.        21                     25
- Loader Wheel 130-HP                 No.         7                     10
- Dozer 120-HP                        No.         5                      0
- Excavator, Tracked                  No.         5                     10
- Bulldozer with Ripper               No.         9                      0
- Trailer Unit 30T                    No.         5                      0
- Trailer, Low Bed IOT                No.         6                      0
- Vehicles 4-WD                       No.        26                     11
- Mobile Repair Shop                  No.         6                     10
- Mobile Lubricant Units              No.         6                      0
Training                              Person-   170
month
DSI: Abroad (I&D)                     p-m       n.a.                    85
GDRS: Abroad (OFD/OFWM)               p-m       n.a.                    35
GDAPD: Abroad (Extension)             p-m       n.a.                    22
Total:                                                         142
Extension
- Buildings (County Office)           No.        0                       1
- Buildings (VGC Office)              No.        23                     42
- Agricultural equipment              Sets       79                    200
- Audio-visual equipment              Sets       19                     19
- Vehicles 4-WD                       No.        16                     16
- Machinery set                       No.        7                       0
- Motorcycles                         No.        88                      0
Note: Actual figures are up to June 30, 1995.



- 21 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Opwation
No key indicators for project operation were defined in the SAR. Key indicators for future operation
are as follows:
1.  Government (=Hazine=Treasury) land (10,000 ha) remains to be distributed. Privatization would
be carried out by 1998.
2.  DSI to continue the establishment of WUOs to futher implement the on-going national program of
management transfer of inigation schemes to farmers.
3. DSI to promote O&M cost recovery rate in not yet transferred schemes.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study             at appraisal/redefined    Status                    Impact of study
Master Plan for   Establish priority for    The study was            It has provided the GOT
Investment in     completion of many        implemented under DOFD   with a comprehensive
Irrigation        irrigation schemes in     project (La. 2663-TU).   portfolio of 585 on-going
Development (IMP) various stages of                                   and proposed projects
construction and develop                           which have been
criteria for future                                examined and ranked in
investment choices and                             order of their priority
establish a programme of                           and expected returns.
institutional support as
required.



- 22 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimae (UJSSM)         Actual (US$M) Li
Loc     Foreign              Local    Foreign
Item                                   Costs    Costs    Total       Costs     Costs      Total
1. Main irrigation and drinage works    71.8     47.8    119.6       112.6     75.1        187.7
2. On-farm development works            46.5      26.3     72.8      20.5       11.9        32.4
3. Machinery and equipment               8.7      33.5     42.2       -         23.7        23.7
4. Engineering                          19.2       -       19.2      ....       ....       .....
5. Land acquisition                     17.6       -       17.6      15.4        -          15.4
6. Training and consultants              1.2       1.1      2.3       -          1.1         1.1
7. Extension services                    0.7       1.9      2.6       1.3        1.2         2.5
8. O&M                                  11.0      4.7      15.7      7.5         -          7.5
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                    176.7    115.3    292.0    157.3        113.0      270.3
Notes: The distribution of actual total coat into foreign and local costs is approximate. Engineering costs and front end
fees are included in the actual cost of civil works. Actual costa are until June 30, 1995, when funding under
loan 2663-TU was closod.
The costs of completion of the balance of works after loan closure was US$81.2 million (I&D works US$77.3
million and OFD works US$3.9 million).
Table 8B: Project Flnandng
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)            Actual (US$M)
Local    Foreign                 Local      Foreign
Source                    Costs      Costa     Total       Costs        Costs    Total
IBRD Funds                  -        115.3     115.3        54.3        113.0    167.3
Government Funds           176.7       -       176.7        103.0         -       103.0
TOTAL                    176.7     115.3      292.0       157.3       113.0    270.3
Note: IBRD Funds include disbursements both under this loan and under loan 2663-TU till its closing on
June 30, 1995.



- 23 -
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Total project costs for economic analysis in constant 1994 prices are given in detail in
Appendix C. These have been calculated from the actual yearly costs incurred, both
under this project and under DOFD ptoject, and applying the deflators (Appendix C).
For the crops grown in the area, the economic prices were estimated from the Bank's
commodity forecasts for tradeable goods. For the others, the financial price was used
as the economic price. The conversion factor has been taken as 1.0, and shadow
pricing for labor is not applied as labor is short in the area.
Both financial and economic analyses were carried out at appraisal. Financial Rates of
Return (FRR) were very high, ranging from 53% to over 100%. Economic Rates of
Return (ERR) were assessed at 16.6%, 21.4%, 29.6% and 15.2% for Egdir, Aksu,
Eregli and Ercis schemes respectively, and for the project as a whole 20.3 %. Although
FRRs were not calculated for this ICR, average financial incomes, based on financial
budgets calculated for each scheme for 2 ha farm (Appendix C), increased by 195%
in Igdir, 73% in Eregli and as high as 900% in Ercis. In Aksu, the financial income
for the scheme as a whole decreased by 11 % over the without project situation,
reflecting the low AIA so far recorded.  Economic results, although generally
satisfactory, are below SAR estimates. The ex-post economic re-evaluation, as detailed
in Appendix C, indicated ERRs of 9% for Igdir, negative for Aksu, 22.5% for Eregli
and 17.0% for Ercis. The project as a whole generated an ERR of 10%.



- 24 -                                                     T"be 10
Page l
TURKEY: IGDIR-AKSU-EREGLI-ERCIS (IAEE) Irrigation Project
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
A-                   Prc cnt     Original     Revised               Description of                    cor  nb
|  ment  Section     Status    Fulfillment   Fulfillment             Covenant
Date         Date
Loan      3.01(b)    C                                    Complete in timely manner all   Only in Eregli subproject
dams and other facilities         area there has been shortage
required to provide water to      of surface water, thdt being
the project.                      mitigated through
I ______  ________    ________                _________    ___________________________        groundwater   developm ent.
3.01(c)    C          9/80                      Yearly allocate funds for the
project in the budget, and
submit, for every fiscal year,
the project's financial and
implementation plan to the
Bank.
3.02       C                                    Employ consultant for training    Consultants were employed
and preparation of Irrigation     under ASAL Loan 2585-
Master Plan and Strategy          TU.
Review.
3.03(a)    C                                    Provide adequate provision for
the insurance of the project
financed imported goods to the
i______                               place of use or installation.
3.03(b)    C                                    All goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the project.
3.04(a)    C                                    Furnish to the Bank, upon their
preparation, the plans,
specifications, contract
documents and work and
procurement schedules for the
project.
C   =   Complied with
CD  =   Complied with after delay
CP  =   Complied with partially
NC  =   Not complied with.



-25 -                                                       Table 10
Page 2
Agree-               Present     Original     Revised               Description of                    Comments
ment     Section     Status    Fulfillment   Fulfillment             Covenant
Date         Date
3.04(b)    C                                    Maintain the project benefit
and cost records, enable the
Bank's representatives to visit
the project sites to examine the
goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan and any
relevant records and
documents, and furnish to the
Bank all information that the
Bank shall reasonably request
conceming the project.
3.04(c)                                         The Bank may publish the
name and nationality of the
contractor, and the contract
price.
3.04(d)    C                                    Furnish to the Bank a report
concerning the Project's
implementation performance
not later than six months after
the closing date or such later
I             date as may be agreed.
3.05(a)    C                                    Acquire land required for the
construction and operation of
facilities for the project.
3.05(b)   NC          7/85         2/90         Plan for distribution of state     In 1987 MAFRA decided
land in lgdir and offer of such    that GDRS would be
land to farmers                   responsible for leasing of
land to farmers. In
February 1990
responsibility for
distributing land was vested
in the General Directorate
of Agrarian Reforms, which
is now considering carrying
out necessary survey work.
However, funds are not yet
available.
3.06       C                                    Provision of extension
services, including buildings
and provision of vehicles.
3.07(a)    C                                    Provide overseas staff training
in irrigation and agricultural
techniques.
C   =   Complied with
CD  =   Complied with after delay
CP  =   Complied with partially
NC  =   Not complied with.



- 26  -                                                    Table 10
Page 3
Algree               Present     Original     Revised              Description of                     Comments
ment     Section     Status    Fulfillment   Fulfillment             Covenant
Date         Date
3.07(b)   C                                     Carry out a training need
assessment survey for
extension staff, submit plan to
the Bank, and execute the
resulting training plan.                                       l
3.08(a)    NC         12/31/84                  Formation of regional              There has been reluctance
coordinating committee.           by agencies concerned,
especially DSI and GDRS,
to form this committee.
However, cooperation
between agencies has
improved even in its
absence.
3.08(b)    C          12/03/84    12/85         Establishment of GDRS
._____    ________    ________    _________      regional  office  in  Igdir.
4.0        C                                    Provision of credit to farmers.
4.02(a)    C                                    Maintenance of project
administrative entities.
4.02(a)    C          9/80 ea.                  Audits.
yr.
4.03(a)    C                                    Works, facilities and
equipment are properly
maintained.
4.03(b)    C          Annually                  Inspection of Karacaoren, Ivriz   Karacaoren and Ivriz dams
and Kockopru dams.                inspected in 1988. Repairs
at Kockopru dam have been
completed satisfactorily
with the assistance of
'NITRO NOBEL' of
Sweden. Bank staff have
inspected the dam three
times.
4.04       C          7/31/85      5/88         Irrigation Master Plan             Draft Master Plan received
in early 1992 and reviewed
_____ ______ ______ _______ _______ _____________________by the Bank.
C   =   Complied with
CD  =   Complied with after delay
CP  =   Complied with partially
NC  =   Not complied with.



- 27 -                                                    Table 10
Page 4
Agme-    Sti         Pes          le  lt Original  Revised        Decption of                      Comments
iet      Scin        Sau      Fuflmn       Furlment                Covenant
Date        Date
4.05       CP                                  DSI's irrigation cost recovery.   (a) DSI has increased water
charges to 100% of
previous year's O&M
expenditure; (b) recovery of
capital cost has been
negligible; (c) DSI has
made proposal to GOT to
impose 7% per month
penalty for non-payment of
_______                           ________                                        irrigation charges.
4.06       NC                                  GDRS's on-farm development    Legislation enacted and
cost recovery.                   regulations gazetted.
However, regulations
require amendments to
bring it in line with loan
covenant (i.e. reduce
repayment period to 20
years). So far, no cost
recovery has taken place.
4.07       C                                   Provide credit to farmers in
amounts sufficient to
effectively utilise the expanded
irrigation facilities created by
the project.
C   =   Complied with
CD  =   Complied with after delay
CP  =  Complied with partially
NC  =   Not complied with.



- 28 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title                 I Describe and comment on lack of compliance
Basically, there was compliance with the applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                Revised                Actual
Stage of         Weeks        US$        Weeks        US$       Weeks      US$
project cycle
Through appraisal       n.a          n.a                    n.a       129.0       n.a
Negotiation             n.a         n.a          n.a        n.a        14.3       n.a
Supervision             n.a         n.a          n.a        n.a       247.7       n.a
Completion"             n.a         n.a          n.a        n.a        12.0       n.a
TOTAL                  n.a         n.a         n.a         n.a       403.0      n.a
Carried out by FAO/CP.



- 29 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Perfonrance rating
Specialized
Stage of           Month/          Number        Days in       staff skills    Implementation    Development    Types of
project cycle         year          of persons      field       represented"        status        objectives     probleme'
Identification        July 1980          n.a           n.a             n.a
Preparation'       Aug./Sept. 1982        3                         A, E, EE
Appraisal             Sept. 1982          4             -          A, E, IE, A                                          -
Supervision           July 1984           1             18             E                                I     _         0
Supervision         Sept./Oct. 1984       1             18             JE               I               I            T, P, 0
Supervision           Sept. 1985          3            20           IE, E, A            3               3            T, M, F
Supervision         April/May 1986        3             16          EE, E, A            1               2               T
Supervision         Nov./Dec. 1986        1             12            lE                3               2               T
Supervision           July 1987           1             5              A               n.a             n.a             n.a
Supervision         Oct./Nov. 1987        1             it             A                3               2           M, T, 0
Procuremente'         Nov. 1987           1             6              IF,             n.a             n.a             n.a
Supervision           June 1988           3            16           A, XE, E            2               2             M, 0
Supervision         Oct./Nov. 1988        2            30            XE, DS             3               2             M, 0
Supervision         AprilMsy 1989         3            25           IE, A, E            3               2              M
Supervision         Sept./Oct. 1989       1             14             IE               3               2              M
Supervision           May 1990            3            16           XE, A, E            2               2
Supervision           June 1991           1             11             EE               2               2
Supervision           Mar. 1992           2            20              IE               2               1
Completione        March/April 1995       2             15            E, XE            n.a             n.a
IE = Irrigation Engineer; DS = Dam Specialist; A = Agronomist; E    Economist; FA  = Financial Analyst;
CS = Credit Specialist.
F = Financial; M  = Management; T = Technical; P = Political; 0  = Other.
"    Carried out by FAO/CP.
V    For both IAEE and Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan.



TURKEY
IGDIR-AKSU-EREGLI-ERCIS (IAEE) IRRIGATION PROJECT
APPENDIX A
MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE



TURKEY
IGDIR-AKSU-EREGLI-ERCIS aAEE) IRRIGATION PROJECT (Ln. 2433-TlI)
Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
FAO/CP Mission
AIDE MEMOIRE
A. Introduction
1.    An FAO/WB Cooperative Programme mission comprising Messrs R. Suppa
(Economist/Mission Leader) and M. Riaz Hasan (Irrigation Engineer/Consultant) visited
Turkey from 27 March to 12 April 1995 for the preparation of the ICR of the IAEE
Irrigation Project. The mission held meetings with the concerned officials of the Treasury,
the State Planning Organization (SPO), the General Directorate of State Hydraulic Works
(DSI), the General Directorate for the Rural Services (GDRS), the General Directorate of
Agricultural Production and Development (GDAPD) and the General Directorate of Agrarian
Reforms (GDAR). Respective field officers of the DSI, GDRS and GDAPD dealing with
project implementation, were met either in Ankara or in the regional offices. During its field
trips to Aksu and Eregli subproject areas, the mission had fruitful discussions with Water
Users Associations (WUA)1 and met with several project beneficiaries. The mission also met
the Deputy Task Manager of the project in the Resident World Bank Mission in Ankara. The
Acting FAOR was kept informed of the mission's activities.
2.    The mission acknowledges the cooperation and courtesy extended by the Government
of Turkey (GOT) and its agencies, in particular the DSI for organizing the mission's field
visits. The mission's findings and recommendations, as indicated below, are subject to
review and confirmation by the WB management.
B. Background
3.    The project was appraised in 1983; the Loan Agreement was signed on 15 June 1984
and became effective on 29 October 1984. The main objectives of the project were to
increase agricultural production and incomes, expand rural employment opportunities and
help towards the rationalization of a long term investment programme for irrigation
development in Turkey. The project consisted of four subprojects (IGDIR, AKSU, EREGLI
and ERCIS) and project components included:
(a)   the irrigation and drainage (a&D) infrastructure works;
1/    To cover various types of water user organizations that exist in Turkey, the term
"Water User Associations (WUA)" will be changed to "Water Users Organization
(WUO) in all subsequent documents regarding irrigation and drainage sector of
Turkish agriculture, including all other parts and appendices of this ICR.



- 2 -
(b)    the on-farm  development (OFD), including land levelling, surface and sub-
surface drainage, improvement of saline and alkaline soils and feeder roads;
(c)    the agricultural extension and training; and
(d)    the preparation of an irrigation investment master plan (IMP).
4.     The project cost was estimated at US$292.0 million, to be financed by a WB loan of
US$115.3 million and GOT contribution amounting to US$176.7 million. Project
implementation as foreseen at appraisal was expected to be completed in five years, from
1983 to 1987. The IMP component (d) above was subsequently transferred to and
implemented under the Drainage and On-Farm Development (DOFD) project (Ln 2663-TU).
C. Project Implementation and Impact
General
5.     In terms of achieving the physical targets, the project implementation can be
considered satisfactory and, at closure of project after three extensions on 31.12.1992, almost
the entire financial resources were disbursed. In order to implement some outstanding
activities at two subproject (Igdir and Aksu), US$38.0 million were diverted from the DOFD
project to this project. Also, following detailed design of some project sub-components by
the DSI and GDRS, the quantities and unit costs of relevant works and equipment were
revised/ updated with the Bank's agreement.
lgdir Subproject
6.     Irrigable area: According to the SAR, the gross irrigable area (GIA) at Igdir was
estimated to reach 56,300 ha at full development. The net irrigable (NIA) was estimated at
52,900 ha. However, the GIA at full development was later revised as 66,920 ha,
corresponding to an NIA of 63,570 ha. As the subproject was implemented in four parts, the
GIA/NIA under each part and the corresponding year of completion are shown below:
..    ..    ..   ..    .. ..).....                          ..    ..
f      .    ..   .   ..X 0: f S   -0  ,   : ; 7 ....   .  i!  .C i': - . 7 .' .   ..     ..  . .-'   . .   .    .. .. : .00 .  0,t.  0f3''j. -S ......'-'S;.; .."'    t ".  .   .......
WetPwtart 1)            34,900   70-:z: 33, 155t i3X155 -10                       1 33n.i..
Part :IV:                                                                         jj2 j:Q;: )0 \:l i;;  ;:00009000000i ;i; 0  i;j... . ... ...... ...
:   :To i  1-tal: tif  66,920-|-f  4: :: :Zz  nsn    id ::C:::Ei:#:i :E:: i1,74A S0 :i.  .1, 66.. .     . .... 0 6., .7.   .     . .     ........    . ..0
i; . ..   ...                                      .. .. .   ..    ..   ..    .. .   ..  .   ..    .... E..i  E.i.   ..    .. E.. E.         .....    ..    ....E..EE.E E  i  Eg    v a EFiS    i   fEF  !      E   sw E  



- 3 -
7.    Inplementation status: Part I of the Igdir subproject consisted of old irrigation areas
in West Igdir and needed some rehabilitation. Parts II, III and IV (described as Units 2 and 3
in SAR) are new areas requiring irrigation infrastructure and included some 10,000 ha of
GOT lands (Hazine). As regards the distribution of this land, no further development has
taken place since the review of the situation by the WB supervision mission of June 1991. In
1994 no funds were made available by the GOT because of budgetary constraints. The
amount of TL 500 million provided in 1995 was not even enough to cover the 10% down
payment requested by the contractor. The total cost of operation is presently estimated at TL
125 billion for a total area of 36,000 ha which includes the 10,000 ha of Hazine. It is the
GDAR intention to cover the total 36,000 ha in one single operation by 1998.
8.    The irrigation improvement and rehabilitation component has been fully implemented
by the DSI in Parts II and III, although irrigation in Part HI does not start until 1995.
Construction of irrigation infrastructure in Part IV is in progress and it will be completed by
June 1996. The status of OFD component, implemented by the GDRS, is as follows (%
completed): Land Levelling 84%, Sub-surface Drainage 74%; Feeder Roads and Surface
Drainage 100%, and Land Reclamation 20%. The main reason for the low implementation
level of land reclamation sub-component was the delay in the delivery of the machinery for
this purpose. The GDRS expects to complete some 4,000 ha of gypsum treatment in 1995
and another 4,000 ha in 1996. For this purpose, about 176,000 tonnes of gypsum has been
stacked in the subproject area.
9.    Project impact: The irrigation ratio (IR) or the ratio of actual irrigated area (AIA) to
net irrigable area (NIA) is often used in Turkey as an index to measure the impact of an
irrigation project. In 1983 (without project situation), the IR was 86% with an NIA of
26,600 ha and the AIA of 22,925 ha. As the project developed, the NIA increased to 45,000
ha in 1994, including some 3,260 ha of Part III, but the AIA increased only to some 25,000
ha despite the improved irrigation facilities and OFD works . The IR declined to 56% in
1994 because some 8,000 ha still require land levelling and a further 6,000 ha have salinity
and sodicity problems. It appears that the full project benefits may not be achieved until
1996-97 when the IR would also reach a satisfactory level.
Aksu Subproject
10.  Irrigable area: The NIA at Aksu was about 13,745 ha without project (GIA 15,457
ha). With project, the NIA has increased to 22,250 ha and the GIA to 23,667 ha. The GIA
and NIA are distributed along the Aksu River as follows:



-4-
30    i    -- ;    -; -  i0---il ;    GIA  I  -02  i40gNLKIA 0   00
R ig......    .   ..   .    . ..     7 6 9 5   ..    ..... .
:tLeflt BPanklggi00  ;:i(Phse I)::-:.  7      ;i;;--7,762: ::00l:;;j:::i0t-   0:::::7,2960;   :   :0:
K a rg ......    ...   ..... 
Total:                         23,6..67.....          22,.2.3.0... ... .     ..
11. Implementation status: Except for the rehabilitation of 10 km of main canal, the
irrigation components have been implemented in full. The land levelling component of the
OFD works was revised from the SAR estimate of 17,000 ha to 5,000 ha and out of this land
levelling  was carried out on 4,677 ha (93.5%  of the target). The sub-surface drainage and
feeder roads sub-components were fully implemented. The mission was told that several
c;otton growers were reluctant to allow land levelling on their fields and this was the main
cause for revising the land levelling sub-component.
12.   Project impact: Without project, the IR was about 77%  with a NIA of 13,745 ha
and an AIA of 10,522 ha. When project was fully implemented in 1992, the IR had fallen to
5-2% with the NIA increasing to 22,350 ha and the AIA decreasing to 11,604 ha. During
1993 and 1994 the IR fell further to 47% and 39% respectively with the NIA of 21,950 ha
(full development) and AIA decreasing to 10,394 ha in 1993 and 8,685 ha in 1994. The DSI
at the central and regional levels gave the following reasons for this steady decline: (i) the
demand for cotton, the dominant crop, had fallen in the area in recent years and the farmers
seem to prefer rain-fed to irrigated crops because of the marketing problems with the latter;
(ii) the number of green houses in the area have increase from 700 in 1984 to 3,900 in 1994;
and (iii) many young farmers are taking up jobs in the region's lucrative tourist industry in
summer and some of them are giving up farming altogether.
Eregli Subproject
13. Irrigable area: Prior to the project, the GIA was 31,860 ha and the MIA was about
30,270 ha. The AIA, according to the SAR, was not more than 14,000 ha and the IR was
estimated as 46%. With the completion of the Ivriz dam in 1985, the GIA increased to
37,649 ha and the NIA to 32,294 ha. On implementation completion in 1992, the distribution
of the GIA and MIA along the Ivriz River is shown below:



5
GIA                 NMA
-  , --- - - -): ................
Right Bank                       21,166                18,200
Loft Bank  - -   .      .        -10,270                8,832
Akhuluk-Ciller                    5,570                .4,709
Yildizli  '                         643                  553
Totak - -         .  .    .   .37,649                32,294
14.   Implementation status: The Ivriz dam and the appurtenant works were under
construction at the time of the project appraisal and these or any other irrigation
infrastructure at Eregli do not form part of the project. Only the OFD component was
implemented under the project and its entire physical targets were achieved by the closure of
the project in 1992.
15.   Project impact: As pointed out in para. 13 above, the pre-project IR was about 46%.
During the 1992-94 period, the IR averaged about 75%. The project had an overall positive
impact on irrigated agriculture in the area.
16.   Both the DSI and the farmers pointed out that the main cause of not being able to
irrigate the entire NIA is the inadequate capacity of the Ivriz dam. With an active storage of
80x106 m3, a mean annual inflow of 234x106 m3 and a regulation ratio of 85%, the dam can
irrigate 20,000-25,0000 ha depending on the cropping pattern and the overall irrigation
efficiency. In order to augment irrigation water supplies, the DSI drilled 60 tube wells in the
left bank (LB) area and 15 tube wells in the right bank (RB) area and a further 25 wells are
planned in this area. When all 100 wells are drilled, their combined yield would be about
36x106 m3 and they would be able to irrigate an additional area of 4,000-5,000 ha.
Therefore, the dam and the wells can, at best, irrigate a total area of 30,000 ha, which still
falls short of the NIA of 32,294 ha for which irrigation infrastructure is available. In 1994,
for example, the total water resources available for irrigation were 160X106 m3 (dam
132x106 m3 + wells 28x 106 m3) and these together irrigated an area of about 25,000 ha. The
DSI informed the mission that irrigation schemes in Turkey are normally designed to supply
water only to 90% of the total command area (or NIA). Other factors which have contributed
to the above were: (i) leakages from the main canal in the Akhuluk-Ciller area in a 7 km
length where the canal passes through gypsum area, and (ii) inadequate capacity of the RB
canal. However, the DSI has taken prompt remedial measures and the 7-km length of the
canal has been appropriately re-lined and the RB canal has been raised by about 0.3 m.



-6-
Ercis Subproject2
17.  Irrigable area and modified irrigation layout: The Ercis subproject was primarily
designed to irrigate a combined GIA of 7500 ha (RB: 6700 ha; LB: 800 ha) of River Zilan.
Owing to the serious geotechnical problems encountered in the construction of the Kockopru
dam - which was completed in 1991 instead of 1985 - and the LB canal, the subproject
design was amended in the initial stages. Emphasis was placed on the RB development and
the LB area was taken out of the Bank funding. A re-aligned LB canal is now being built by
the DSI and it is expected to be completed by 1997. On the RB, a GIA of 7,260 is
commanded by a 61-km long main canal. In addition, a high level canal was built to the
north of the main canal by the DSI with its own financial resources to command an
additional GIA of 2,035 ha. Water to this canal is pumped from a pumping station close to
the main canal intake built by the DSI. As a result, the capacity of the main canal at intake
was increased by 1.5 m3/second. The DSI informed the mission that the upper canal and the
pumping station were part of the original project feasibility submitted to the Bank but these
were excluded from the project at appraisal owing the high operating cost for pumping.
18.   The modified gross and net irrigable areas on the RB are as follows:
~......... ..(ha.
L tower: mami can-               7,260                6,90Q0. ;
Total: ..92.9...5                                    8 830
19.  Implementation status: The irrigation infrastructure was completed by the DSI at the
end of 1992. Only 86% of the land levelling target was achieved by the GDRS. The
remaining sub-components were not implemented due to the geotechnical problems. Irrigation
commenced in 1992 on the completion of the Kockopru dam (not part of the project).
20.   Project impact: The project impact has been significant and the area brought under
irrigation has increased from about 2,500 ha in 1992 to 7,600 ha in 1994. The IR in 1994
was 86% and it is likely to increase in 1995 as the GDRS carries out further OFD with its
own resources. Of the four subprojects, the Ercis seems to be most effective.
Extension
21.   The extension component of the project was also implemented satisfactorily and the
extension HQs in the subproject areas were adequately strengthened as envisaged at
2/ The DSI have re-named this sub-project as Ercis-Kockopru since there is an existing Ercis project in close
vicinity, located on the left bank of Zilan river.



- 7 -
appraisal. A total of 42 Village Group Centres (VGC) were established and agricultural
equipment, vehicles and audio-visual aids were procured for each office. Overseas training
for a total of 43 extension staff was successfully completed by the end of 1991.
Training
22.   The DSI, GDRS and GDAPD have implemented their respective training components
within Turkey and abroad satisfactorily.
Irrigation Master Plan (IMP) Study
23.   As pointed out in para 4, the IMP study was implemented under the DOFD project. It
has provided the GOT with a comprehensive portfolio of 585 ongoing and proposed projects.
These projects have been examined and ranked in order of their priority and expected
returns. The IMP has also presents alternative strategies for irrigation development.
D. Actual Project Costs and Disbursements
24.   Total final disbursement, as of July 1992, amounts to US$110.4 million representing
about 95 % of the total loan amount made available by the WB (Loan 2433-TU). However,
despite this good disbursement performance, some important civil works and OFD activities
at Aksu and Igdir subprojects remained to be completed. These were finally implemented
using US$38.0 million made available from the Drainage and OFD project (Loan 2663-TU).
Total project costs, including GOT contribution, will be estimated during the course of the
preparation of ICR in Rome.
E. Institutional Performance
25.   The individual performance of the three main institutions involved in project
implementation - DSI, GDRS and GDAPD - was satisfactory on the basis of the physical
implementation achieved (Section C). The SAR stipulated that the DSI Headquarters in
Ankara will coordinate the tasks and contributions of other agencies involved. In addition, a
coordinating committee at regional level comprising the main agencies and chaired by the
provincial governor was expected to monitor progress. Although the SAR recommendations
with respect to coordinating project activities have been followed, the mission noted that
closer cooperation and coordination between various agencies would have expedited project
implementation. The GDRS, for example, did not seem to know of the modified project
layout at Ercis for the implementation of the outstanding OFD works (para 17).
26.   The most important task of on-farm water management (OFWM) is shared by three
different agencies, namely, DSI, GDRS and GDAPD. The DSI delivers the water to the
farm, the GDRS carries out physical OFD and the GDAPD trains farmers in OFWM through
its regional Extension Directorates. The feedback from farmers, interviewed by the mission,



- 8 -
indicates that the present arrangements are not very effective since farmers have to deal with
three different organizations for OFWM.
27.   The Operation and Maintenance (O&M) department of the DSI collects not only the
O&M data such as actual and net irrigated areas but also agro-economic data as cropping
patterns, yields and prices in order to determine water charges. It is the mission's view that
these activities should be carried out by a Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) unit which does
not exist in the DSI at present. This unit could also be responsible for evaluating project
performance. However, a small Environmental Unit is attached to the Planning and
Investigation Division of the DSI.
F. Project Sustainability and Future Outlook
28.   Existing situation: The sustainability of irrigation projects depends on (a) prolonging
the project life through efficient O&M of the irrigation system, and (b) mitigating the
adverse effects of water-logging, salinity, siltation and soil-plant-water reactions under
irrigation. Since both salinity and sodicity have affected parts of the four subprojects,
remedial measures such as sub-surface drainage and gypsum treatment of soils have been
adopted under the project. Although not all the affected areas have been reclaimed/remedied
by December 1994, the GDRS indicated that it will complete its remaining tasks with its own
financial resources. The O&M of the irrigation infrastructure is being carried out by the
O&M sections of the Regional Directorates of the DSI. At the same time, the O&M
department in Ankara has started the transfer of O&M responsibilities to the farmers through
the establishment of the Water Users Association (WUA).
29.   Cost recovery (O&M): At present, the DSI is attempting to recover the full annual
O&M cost for irrigation infrastructure from the farmers. Water charges for the current year
are computed on the basis of the actual O&M cost of the previous year. On the basis of data
supplied by the DSI for the period 1983-1994, the average recovery rates at Igdir, Aksu and
Eregli were 68%, 47% and 74% respectively. Owing to late commissioning of the Ercis
subproject, the water charges will be recovered from 1995. The overall recovery rate is
presently estimated at 57%. The penalty for late payment is rather low (10% above the
outstanding charge) and no interest is applied to late payments.
30.   According to Covenant 4.06 of the Loan Agreement, the GDRS agreed to recover
O&M cost of the OFD works from the farmers. The necessary legislation has been enacted
and the regulations gazetted. Some of the regulations need to be amended to bring them in
line wit the Loan Agreement. The GDRS has not started cost recovery yet.
31.   Cost recovery (capital cost): The DSI normally recovers the capital cost of a project
over a 50 year period. No costs are recovered for the first ten years ("grace period"). The
irrigation projects have been divided into four groups for this purpose and the recovery rate
varies from TL 300/decare (1 decare=0. 1 hectare) to TL 750/decare. Recovery of capital



- 9 -
cost without interest over a long recovery period of about 40 years yields in real terms only a
small fraction of the actual project cost.
32.   Future outlook: The transfer of irrigation schemes and their O&M to the WUAs has
gained momentum and, as of 1 April 1995, a total irrigated area of about 486,000 ha was
under the control of WUAs in different regions of Turkey. The DSI is planning to transfer a
total area of 800,000 ha to WUAs by the end of 1995. The situation in the four subprojects
is as follows: the delay in completion of Igdir subproject has affected the transfer but the
farmers are in the process of taking over 20,500 ha of the total subproject area of about
67,000 ha; at Aksu 20,000 ha are under transfer to five WUAs; 22,700 ha have already been
transferred at Eregli to two WUAs; transfer has not yet started at Ercis. In view of the
highly positive results of transfer, both the DSI and the GDRS have expressed strong desire
for continuation of Bank's assistance under a new project. The mission was informed by the
DSI that the establishment of a M&E unit and the strengthening of the existing
Environmental unit are under consideration.
G. Key Lessons Learnt
33.   The key lessons learnt from the project are:
The long-term socio-economic trends in a development area should be fully
assessed in order to avoid the experience of the Aksu subproject, where
changes in socio-economic conditions since 1983 seems to have made a large
part of the upgraded scheme redundant. Also, plans to diversify crops in those
years when the demand for certain crops falls should be available to farmers.
- The availability of water from different sources should be critically assessed
under different cropping patters and irrigation efficiencies at the feasibility
stage of a project in order to determine the area to be irrigated. If the
developed water resources are found to be inadequate -as in the case of Eregli
- immediate action should be taken to augment these resources either from
surface or underground sources. The current DSI practice of designing
irrigation schemes to satisfy only 90% of the total scheme water requirements
is not compatible with internationally acceptable criteria.
Delays in project implementation could have been curtailed by closer
cooperation and coordination between DSI, GDRS and GDAPD.
At present, the farmer has to deal with three different organizations - DSI,
GDRS and GDAPD - to seek advice and assistance in OFWM activities. It
would immensely help the farmer if the same agency which delivers water to
the farm also carries out the OFD works.



- 10-
It is important to recognise that members of the WUA will, in future, not only
bear the costs but also share the benefits of irrigation and this is a major step
towards an effective and sustainable system of irrigation water management.
Recovery of capital cost without interest over a long recovery period of 40
years yields in real terms only a small fraction of the actual project cost and
needs to be reviewed as a matter of priority.
Project performance evaluation and environmental impact assessment is
indispensable to an organization like the DSI. The establishment of a
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) unit and the strengthening of the existing
Environmental unit would go a long way in planning and monitoring
sustainable irrigation schemes.
The measurement of irrigation efficiencies is vital to assess the performance of
an upgraded or rehabilitated irrigation scheme. This most useful task could be
carried out by the Regional Directorates of the DSI in charge of the
subprojects.
F. Follow-Up
34.   The mission will return to Rome on 12 April 1995. During the following three weeks
it will prepare the draft ICR which will be transmitted to the WB by early May 1995. It is
recommended that the DSI should also finalize its implementation completion report and send
it to the WB by early May 1995.



TURKEY
IGDIR-AKSU-EREGLI-ERCIS (IAEE) IRRIGATION PROJECT
APPENDIX B
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR



DSI's inplementation Completion Report on the Igdir-Aksu-Eregli-Ercis (IAEE)
Irrigation Project (Loan 2433-TU)
The loan agreement of IAEE project was signed on June 15, 1984 between the
Republic of Turkey and the World Bank. This project was carried out by the General
Directorate of State Hydraulic Works (DSI), General Directorate of Land and Water
Conservation (TOPRAKSU), and the Provincial Extension Services Arm of the General
Directorate of Agricultural Affairs of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (TZ).
The project is intended to increase agricultural production and incomes, expand rural
employment opportunities and provide assistance for preparation of a long-term program for
irrigation development.
The IAEE Irrigation Project includes Igdir, Aksu, Eregli and Ercis subprojects and
project components included:
(a)   the irrigation and drainage works;
(b)   provision of equipment for construction, operation and maintenance for the
subprojects of the project;
(c)   improving agricultural extension services in the project areas including
provision of buildings, equipment and vehicles therefor and training,
(d)   improving the on-farm development; and
(e)   the preparation of an Irrigation Investment Master Plan.
Project Implementation
A.   Civil Works
The project became effective on October 29, 1984 and the loan closed, after three
extensions, on June 30, 1992; the unfinished works have been transferred to Loan 2663-TU.
1.    lgdir Subproject
The lgdir subproject was implemented in four parts:
Part I (the gross irrigable area [GIA] is 34,900 ha); Part II (GIA is 34,900
ha); Part III (GIA is 10,445 ha); and Part IV (GIA is 12,539 ha). Part I of the
project consisted of old irrigation areas in West igdir and needed rehabilitation works.
Parts II, III and IV are new areas requiring the irrigation and drainage works and
included some 10,000 ha of GOT lands.
1



The irrigation and drainage improvement and rehabilitation works have been.
implemented by DSI in Parts I, 11 and III. The construction of irrigation and drainage
network system in Part IV is going on.
2.    Aksu Subproject
The Aksu subproject was implemented in three parts:
The irrigation facilities in Phase I (Right Bank GIA: 7,990 ha, Left Bank:
8,060 ha).
Phase II (Right Bank GIA: 2,620 ha, Left Bank: 2,290 ha) and Kargi Weir (GIA:
2,240 ha) except for the rehabilitation of 10 km of the main canal have been
implemented.
3.    Eregli Subproject
The Ivriz dam and the irrigation and drainage system were under construction at the
time of the project appraisal. Therefore, this project was not included in the loan,
4.    Ercis-Kockopru Subproject
Ercis project contains Kockopru dam, lower main canal and upper canal. The
construction of the Kockopru dam was completed in 1991 instead of 1985 because of
the serious geotechnical problems. The right bank development and left bank area
were taken out of Bank funding. A realigned left bank canal is now being built by
DSI. On the right bank, the lower main canal was completed. In addition, the upper
canal was constructed to the north of the main canal by DSI with its own financial
resources. Water to the upper canal is pumped from a pumping station close to the
main canal intake constructed by DSI. The upper canal and the pumping station were
part of the original project but these were taken out from the project at appraisal
because of the high operating cost for pumping. The irrigation infrastructure was
completed by DSI in 1992.
DSI has spent US$67,735,358 from the loan for civil works.
Civil works implementation performance has been quite high.
B.   Machinery and Equipment Procurement
DSI has implemented its training program under this loan through sending its
engineers of headquarters and project sites to Europe and USA.
These training programs have been completed satisfactorily.
2



DSI's Comments and Conclusions on the IAEE Project Implementation
The above-cited projects, namely, Igdir, Aksu, Eregli and Ercis, have been selected
from different locations of Turkey with having different characteristics and varied potential
economical and social impacts. First of all, this typical selection of four different irrigation
schemes under a World Bank loan has led to different experiences. The following are
viewed as major benefits of the project:
*     acceleration of project implementation
*     increased quality of civil works due to better control
*     increased coordination among concerned institutions
*     visible outcome compared to conceptual or policy oriented projects.
The deficiency of funding which initially occurred due to shortage of counterpart local
funding in civil works, had later been solved and foreign funding rate has been increased
during the Gulf Crisis. This change in the rate had substantially accelerated the
implementation performance in IAEE projects (increased rate has highly helped completion
of Aksu project and elevated the completion rate of Igdir project to 90% under the Drainage
and On-Farm Development Project (another World Bank project), of which funds were used
for the remaining IAEE subprojects). Therefore, a high foreign funding rate has been found
to be more convenient for upcoming projects.
Conclusively, the IAEE project has been implemented in a satisfying manner.
Individual projects are proven to be far more practical and technically sound projects.
Taking this opportunity, DSI wishes to commend the staff of the World Bank for their
very encouraging and supportive cooperation.
3



GDRS's Implementation Completion Report on the Igdir-Aksu-Ereeli-Ercis (IAEE)
Irrigation Project (Loan 2433-TU)
The loan agreement undersigned in 1984 provided a project loan of
US$115,300,000.00 for four individual irrigation projects, namely Igdir, Aksu, Eregli, Ercis
(IAEE Irrigation Project Loan 2433-TU). This loan closed on June 30, 1992 (Table I:
implementation and disbursement IAEE projects in 2433-TU) and Table [1: training
components in IAEE projects in 2433-TU).
Since there had been uncompleted civil works component in the project at loan
closing, an agreement was reached between the Government and the Bank for inclusion of
the remaining IAEE works in the Drainage and On-farm Development project (Loan 2663-
TU) in order to facilitate completion of the IAEE components and finalize remaining
disbursements. Total expenditure made from Loan 2663-TU for IAEE project
US$2,896,769.00 (Table III).
1



TABLE I
*                              Bi~~~~~~~~~L2Ei     6Y~~~~~~~~t  59 ~ -A                           1,1 IFIIELPik, Of-7 09            OTAL
ML                            AS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1KCDTAFA                                                      LO 2705T  0307*9  AN  DI510U518EhT  C00E0)T
A'  .   . .. A:  P~~~~~~"7AS :   2:U:~~~~~;   ~~Mt11N  72)  3           9r703  ~~-I,)"!O  7:   (1210    Ti              3)            (6ifTAi   (MILLION TLI        (MILLION TL)         ($
,,A4'?  ''.-r  ':3;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9                                                320 I1             32165          41823             F4-
S  ~~~~rrC9 134:0471           -' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                         7:55   ~~~~~~~~'Z4                4            :83            22,205             3)813         42479              S3P96
. ......                                    -                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4180  2784        6522              83
RSAS                                          '              641             23                 -              -               -                        222/4I6F4               225           641
'''  007  7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f  -  -            - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~5991                                           87R7
JANM  17.001L7N',. 4                                                                            27 4                                                              -           4180                 640          1214              327
.Tn2iqr   *:m FA   : 1'                                                                                          -                               -                           5000               2197           407592
Rn A[                                                                                                                                                                                                        7 '7          0/0  1  74  )74
.45  821'S                  7%1i452                                         296(2                               ---                                                        17300,              1313          2636               K25
MO: 707IANATISl1  I5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  5'$  4  3                      -              -               -               -           1500                   4              9               6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~50  49 
.903:01 6542  : t4~~~~~~~~* A'7  %.          ".19   ~ ~ 4 7174                                 --                         ' -                          156/799.                249            470              174
L.M315.7  -  -                                                    -              -               -               -               -                220           457               9!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~22  57q
"-A!
LAM   07EI.LM19  o:'~~~~~~~~:  sv':  22460       22)24                                2                          :u 74~~~~~~~~5.  108R4          55224              74298          4636,2           8201l
F.; F.,!M7                                 V                    F76       27>US7f 24                                                       204             ;131          275805              34010         46514               6
2962.Sm::::;  521>                             2~~~~~~V       MS.                               >5                -               -7~    -                    567                2708         .6531               jp
4 .778500 R1085                                    F,52  .5P                                     !14:               -                                                                               p28444



.., '.i.3                                                                                                                                        .. -  :. :
?    AI.;:                             S  ;o9t';t               4!.'                            A .'g.                                        i;      .
.~~~~~~; Al A  . 41Z..                                  t    SGrI  C J I  1         . 00 f       r g i O, .;, 
I,r  F.4!6                iOll  02LO                    GC F-C                          C?iJ 17                 * tt I"
r - * Lt-'                         *   .                                                                                                         .  .* . I  
,     ".AtfilOlt  -I '"9'.                                         i"                  P7iO:.,. ;
rlzi i '.z-l  IItI.J.                                                            J. i?;X   j.   .  jts&- .  f ;;  i                   ''   ;. ,.
W       @;v(S'L.t / ,;   ooo;                                      4o ij                                                ;:iC                     i  ;' 
RI                         002Loc3;2 
,'i,-21                                               301                      1 G                           !'                   ;    ' C '
'    u.t.i*  "cij, L.                                          .J&             _           2  J.'A           s          i         ;i:Si ............................ Vci.1i 0-
7~~~~~I                                                                                           ,-..-v,L,1.1lll:
It' ~                     ~11BElt



TABLE III
IAEE PROJRC? (2663-TU)
IIDI
DISBURSENENT
1992           1993        TOTAL
Subsurface  Dr.   4932467000   16218021000                21150488000
Land  Levelling   4047000000   11145012000                15192012000
TOTAL               8979467000   27363,033000       36,342500000
o..
FAE PROJECT (2663-TU)
I lADiR
CREDIT (TL)
1992           1993        TOTAL
Subsurface  Dr.   3945973000   12974416600                16920389600
Lat.d  Levelling  *3237600000    8916009200               12153609200
TUTAL               7183573000   21890425800         29073998800
TAEE PROJECT (2663-TU)
[oDIR
CREDIT ($)
1992           1993         TOTAL
Subsurface  Dr.    508337.86    1150205.97                 1658543.83
Land  Levelling           404716.36       833536.32        1238252.68
TOTAL                913054.22    1983742.29          2896,796.51



TURKEY
IGDIR-AKSU-EREGLI-ERCIS (IAEE) IRRIGATION PROJECT
APPENDIX C
ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION



TURKEY: IGDIR-AKSU-EREGLI-ERCIS (IAEW Irrigation Project
Appendix C: Economic Re-evaluation
Tabb 1. Irrited Area Witout mad Wth Project
...           * Witout Project                          .      .       .       .     Wt Project ................................
Project Conmpleion                             Full Devdopimedt
GIA             NIA            AIA             GIA       I     NIA               A             GIA            NIA             A
......................................................   (h).............................                    .  ..  . ..  . ..  .  .. .  .
I. IGDIR
PAt 1                     34,900         30,000          22,900           34,900          33,155         23,000          34,900          33,155        26,500
Pall n                    9,036             -               -             9,036           3,660           1,000           9,036          S,5S5          6,900
Pad m                     10,320            -               -             10,320          4,925           1,311          10,320          9,920          1,000
Patl IV                   12,6641           -               -             12,664            -              -             12,664          11,910         9,500
Toal                      66,9211        30,000          22,90            66,920         41,740          25,311           6,920          63,570        50,90
11. AKSU
RB-Part 1                 7,695           7,233           5,210            7,695          7,233           3,609           7,695          7,233          2,500
RB-Pait n                   -               -               -              4,618          4,410            950            4,688          4,410            950
I-lFekt 1                 7,762           7,296           5,312           7,762           7,296           4,700           7,762          7,296          3,700
LB-PMi n                    -               -               -             3,522           3,311           1,135           3,522          3,311          1,135
TOal                      15,457          14,529         1022             23,677         *2,2            10,394          23,677         22,250          3,3
in. EuIo
RB                        21,166          20,120          9,255           21,166          13,200         15,383          21,166          11,200         13,714
LB                        10,694          10,150          4,745           10,270          8,832           6,655          10,270          8,832          6,655
Akhuyuk-Ciller              -               -                             5,570           4,709           3,550           5,570          4,709          3,550
Yijdizli                    -               -               -               643             553            416             643             553           416
Totdal                    31,360         30,270          14,000          37,649          32,294          26,004          37,649         32,29          24,33
IV. ERCIS
RB                        7,500           6,700             -             7,260           6,900           1,950           7,260          6,900          6,200
Total                     7,500           6,700             -             7,60            6,900           1,950           7,260          6,900          6,200
Grad Total                   89,717          81,499          47,422         135,506         103,184          63,659         135,506        125,014         90,120
Surce: Witut Project: SAR figures; Project Cornpktion (1993 areas): DSI figures; FuDl Development (1996 and beyond): Mision Eatirates.
GIA: Gross Irrigable Area; NIA: Net Inigable Area; AIA: Actual Irigated Ara.
Ti area was inchd afler Appraisa.



TURKEY: IGDIR-AKSU-EREGLI-ERCIS (IABE) Irrigation Projeact
Appendix C: Economic Re-evaluation
Tablk 2. Total Project Cost
-                 ~~~~~Government of Turkey     World Bank Loan           Total Project Costa
Project Componenlts                 Contrnbution
(TFL mnillion) |(USS'000)   (TFL million) |(USS'000)  (lTL million) |(USS'000) |
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. DSI:
- Civil works- Igdir             69,651       29,549       151,886       46,387      221,537       75,936
- Aksu                   21,2S4        8,716        60,902       16,040       82,1S6       24,756|
- Eregli                   -                                                                       l      
- Erci                    6.9          4.360        10.037      S.3082         I16.2.6
Sub-total:               97,195       42,62S       222,825       67,735      320,020      110,360
- Equipment & spare parts          -             -          19,527       14,089       19,527       14,089|
- Trainin8g                                                    4           386           943         386
Sub-toulI                97,19S       42,625       243,295       82,210      340,490      124,835
B. (;*S
- OFD  - Igdir                   20,009        8,444        43,905       13,468       63,914       21,912
- Akssu                   2,77S         1,338        3,247        1,403        6,022        2,741
- Er.gli                   1,837        1,793        1,795        1,591         3,632        3,384 |
- Ercir                     449          306           180..A       134          629          440~2
Sub-tothl:                25,070       11,881       49,127        16,596       74,197       28,477
-'fraining                         -                          299          216          299          216
- EqUipment c spare partr          -            -           16.445       92991644929
Sub-total:                25,070       11,881       65,871       26,111        90,941       37,992|
C. Extension Comnonent 
- Equipment                        -             -            870          361           870         361
- Building                        2,197        1,259         1,483        1,250        3,680        2,509 |
- Training                          49           44           208.A        18SJ       ..257          229
Sub-total:                2,246         1,303        2,561        1,796        4,807        3,099
D. IJn cquajajzli2               66,883       15,373          --66,883                             15,373|
Total Investment Cost:          191,394       71,182       311,854      110,404      503,248      181,586
11. INCREMENTAL 
OPERATING COSTS|
A. DSI                           59,193        5,194                                  5  9,193      5,194 |
B. GDRS                                          -                                        
C. Extension                      8,386        2,319          -            -           8,386        2,319
Total Operating Costs:           67.79         .S1           -             -           7.79223 
TOTAL PROJlECT COSTS            258,973       78,695       311,854      110,404      570,827      189,099|
aI + II                          ,    .                                              .
Source: DSI, GDRS, MARA and WB Loan disburaementa.
Note: Total project costs given here pertain to the period up to June 30, 1992 when this loan was closed. After
loan closure, the coat of completing the balance of works amounted to US$81.2 mnillion (DSI civil works at
Igdir US$73.0 million, DSI civil works at Aksu US$4.3 million, and GDRS civil workrs at Igdir US$3.9
million) up to June 30, 1995, when loan 2663-TU was closed.



TURKEY: IGDIR-AKSU-EREGLI-ERCIS (LAEE) Irrigation Project
Appendix C: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 3. Exchange Rates and Inflators
Consumer Price Index                Deflators
Exchange Rate     Turkey           USA           Turkey  7        USA
(TL/US$) ....... (1985=100) ......  ....... (1994=1.0) ......
1982                186.8           35.4           89.7          234.3           1.54
1983                282.8           46.5           92.6           178.4          1.49
1984                444.7           69.0           96.6           120.2          1.43
1985                576.9           100.0         100.0           82.9           1.38
1986                757.8           134.6         101.9           61.6           1.35
1987               1,020.9          186.9         105.7           44.4           1.30
1988               1,814.8          327.8         109.9           25.3           1.25
1989               2,313.7          535.2         115.2           15.5           1.20
1990               2,930.1          857.9         121.4            9.7           1.13
1991               5,079.9        1,423.9         126.6            5.8           1.09
1992               8,564.4        2,421.7         130.4            3.4           1.06
1993              14,472.5        4,020.6         134.3            2.1           1.03
1994              38,726.0        8,293.3         137.7            1.0           1.00
1995              42,0001         12,435.72       139.61"         ...            ...
Source: IMF Intemational Financial Statistics (April 1995).
XV    March 1995.
V     January-February 1995.



TURKEY: IGDIR-AKSU-EREGLI-ERCIS (IAEE) Irrigation Project
Appendix C: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 4. Yields of Main Crops
Igdir      I      Aksu              Eregli              Ercis
Crops                Without  With   Without   With   Without IWith   Without  With
Project  Project  Project  Project  Project  Project  Project  Project
....................... (tons/ha) ..... .................
A. Irrigated Crops
Cereals (wheat)        3.0      3.5      2.7       3.6       3.0      3.5      1.8i     3.7
Sugarbeet             35.0    45.0        -         -       35.0    50.0      30.0     45.0
Cotton                 1.2      2.5      2.7       3.0       -         -        -        -
Sunflower               -       2.3       -         -        2.0      2.3      2.0      2.3
Vegetables'            17.5    22.0    25.0       32.0      10.0    25.0        -      25.0
Poplar trees'3          -       18.0      -       18.0        -      18.0       -       18.0
Citrus/orchards         9.0'4   11.02     -        12.0'5    8.0f2   11.O02     -        -
Fodder crops'          9.0      11.0      -         -       12.0    15.0        -       12.0
Sesame                  -        -       0.8       1.0       -        -         -        -
B. Rainfed Crops
Wheat                  1.8       1.8      1.8      1.8       1.8      1.8      1.8      1.8
/1  Rainfed.
/2  Tomatoes as main vegetable crop.
/3 Average annual production in m3/ha/year.
/4  Apples.
/5  Citrus.
16  Alfalfa hay.
Source: SAR estimates and data collected by the mission in the field.



TURKEY: IGDIR-AKSU-EREGLI-ERCIS (IAEE) Irrigation Project
Appendix C: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 5. Actual Irrigated Area Without and With Project
Igdir                      Aksu                      Eregli                     Ercis                       Total
Without        thout                        ith       Without        With        Without        With        Without        With
Proj         Project       Project      Project       Project      Project       Project      Project       Project      P Project
.... ....... ............ .......................    ..... .........   (ha'000)   .... .................. ...........................
A. Irrigated
Cereals                   10.1          17.7          0.2          0.6           7.1          16.4           -           0.7          17.4          28.2
Sugarbeet                  4.6          12.8           -             -           1.7           2.4           -           0.8           6.3          11.0
Cotton                     3.4           2.0          9.5          3.9            -             -            -            -            12.9          S.1
Sunflower                   -            3.3           -            -            0.4           0.6           -           0.5           0.4           3.1
Vegetables & legumes       0.2           1.0          0.5           1.0          2.5           2.5           -            1.5          3.2           5.6
Poplars                     -            0.5           -           0.3            -            0.3           -           0.4            -            1.3
Citnis/orchards            0.9           2.6           -           0.3           2.0           2.0           -            -            2.9           3.9
Fodder crops               3.7          11.0           -             -           0.3           0.1           -           2.3           4.0           9.1
Sesame                      -            -            0.3          2.6            -            -             -            -            0.3           2.6
Total:    22.9          50.9          10.5          8.7          14.0         24.3            -           6.2          47.4          69.9
B. Rainfed
CerealsL'                  4.5           -             -            1.8         10.3           -            3.5           -           18.3           1.8
1/ Wheat is the main representative crop.



TURKEY: IGDIR-AKSU-EREGLI-ERCIS (IAEE) Irrigation Project
Appendix C: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 6. Finana and Economic Prices
Economic
Output                      Unit         1994 Prices         Prices
(TL '000)        (TL '000)
Crops:
Cereals (wheat)             ton               5,950           10,123
Cotton                      ton              17,570           13,876
Sugarbeet                   ton               1,400              881
Sesame                      ton              25,770           25,770
Sunflower                   ton              10,500           12,132
Vegetables                  ton               2,800            2,800
Fodder crops                ton               2,100            2,100
Wheat (rainfed)             ton               5,950           10,123
Citrus/Orchards:
Apples                      ton              4,690             4,690
Citrus                      ton               5,800            6,094
Perennial Crops:
Poplar trees                m3            2,100,000         2,100,000



TURKEY: IGDIR-AKSU-EREGLI-ERCIS (IAEE) Irrigation Project
Appendix C: Economic Re-evaluation
Table 7. Operating Costs and Gross Value of Produiction
Igdir               |               Aksu               I              Eregli               |              Ercis
Without Project   With Project   Without Project   with Project I Without Project   With Project   Without Project   With Project
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . (TL' W0/ha)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
A. Operating Costs
Cereals'1                            7,500             8,370             8,060            10,950             7,500             8,370             6,500            9,450
Cotton                               6,980            18,540            25,150            28,340              -                 -                 -                 -
Sugarbeet                           15,420            19,380               -                 -              15,420            19,550            15,500           19,380
Sesame                                                                   3,130             5,670              -                 -                 -                 -
Citrus/orchards                     11,00013           18,840"'            -              60,700'3          10, 150"          20,050'4            -                 -
SunfLower                              -               3,900               -                 -               3,900             3,900            3,900             3,900
Vegetables                          19,670            22,120            48,600            58,280            15,600            46,300              -              46,300
Fodder crops                         3,900             5,700               -                                 6,700            10,500              -               6,700
Poplar trees                           -              10,330               -              10,330              -               10,330              -              10,330
Wheat rainfed                       6,500                -                 -              6,500             6,500               -               6,500               -
B. Gross VaLue of Production
Cereats                             17,850            20,825            16,065            21,420            17,850            20,825            10,710           22,015
Cotton                              21,080            43,925            47,440            52,710              -                 --                                  -
Sugarbeet                           49,000            63,000               -                 -              49,000            70,000           42,000            63,000
VegetabLes                          49,000            61,600            70,000            89,600            28,000            70,000              -              79,000
Sunflower                              -              24,150               -                 -              21,000            24,150            21,000           24,150
Fodder crops                        17,100            20,900               -                 -              22,800           28,500               -              22,800
Sesame                                 -                 -              20,620            25,770              -                 -
Poplar                                 -              37,800               -              37,800              -              37,800               -              37,800
orchards                            42,200            51,590               -             69,600'            37,520            51,590                                -
.  Wheat as the min cereaL crop.
Lg   Wheat rainfed.
/3   AppLes.
/4   Citrus.



TURKEY: IGDtR-AKSU-EREGLI-ERCIS OAHE) Irrition Pfoject
Appendix C: Economic Re-evalustion
Table 8a.  hIvesbent Costs in Co_au   M14 Pfou/
(up to Loan Clodig)
Year  Igdifr         A|su            Engli           Erds      |    ToWa
Years      . |............. .              . (TLbilion) 
1983              5.8             4.4             2.9            4.3             17.4
1984             57.7            73.2            22.8           55.4            209.1
1985             91.0            52.9            45.5           51.4            240.8
1986            125.0           103.6            32.9           86.7            348.2
1987            623.6           183.5            59.3           81.1            947.S
1988            800.5           189.0           139.1           75.9           1,204.5
1989            633.0           141.2            98.7           36.S            909.4
1990            630.6           114.9            22.9           45.4            813.8
1991            743.7           230.6            14.6           47.7           1,036.6
1992            334.8           150.0            18.4            5.1            508.3
1993             18.8             9.4            10.3            3.1             41.6
1994             33.1            14.9            17.4            4.7             70.1
Note:  These costs do not include the cost of completion of balance of works after Lon closre. However,
those costs are duly accounted for in the economic analysis, Table 11.
Table Sb. Additional Investment Cost in Coestant 194 Pi   1/
(aft  Loan Cidng)
Years                 Igdir                Aks
(TL billion)         (TL billion)
1992                 199.6                 24.1
1993                 662.8                 69.3
1994                 812.5                 47.6
1995                 568.7
I/   The actual investment costs are first converted into current TL using appropnatl exchange rat aNd
then adjusted to reflect constant 1994 prices using rospective deflators.



TURKEY: IGDIR-AKSU-EREGLI-ERCIS (IAEE) Irrigation Project
Appendix C: Economic Re-evaluation
Tal 9. E&_amic Budes for ERR Caluua
Igdir                               Aksu                                 Eregli                               Ercis
Without            With             Without             With             Without             Wtth             Wdhout             With
Project           Project           Project            Project           Project            Proect            Project           Project
........................................................TLbi ....................................................
A. Grem Vame of Prodwtio
Cerals (wbeat)                        306.7             627.1               5.5               21.9              215.6             581.1               -                26.2
Sugarbect                             141.8             507.5               -                  -                52.4              105.7               -                31.7
Cotao                                  56.6              69.4              355.9             162.3                                  -                 -
Sunflower                                                92.1                -                 -                 9.7               16.7               -                 14.0
Vegetables                             9.8               61.6              35.0               S9.6               70.0             175.0               -                105.0
Fodder crops                          69.9              254.1                                                    7.6                3.2               -                58.0
Citnu/orards (apples)                  33.0              134.1                                21.8               75.0              103.2              -                  -
Popartrees                                               18.9               -                 11.3                -                11.3               -                 15.1
Wheat rainfed                          S2.0               -                  -                32.3              187.7               -                63.t
Ses ae                                 _                  -                 6.2               67.0                -                 _                        
Total:                             704.8             1,764.S            402.6              406.7             618.0              996.2             63.8              250.0
B. 0w   Cab
Caeas (what                            73.8              143.1              1.6                6.6               53.3             137.3               -                 6.6
Sugtbeot                               70.9              248.1               -                                   26.2              46.9                -                15.5
Cowan                                  23.7              37.1              238.9              110.5               -
Sunflower                                                 12.9               -                 -                  1.6               2.3                -                2.0
Vegetabes                              3.9               22.1              24.3               53.3               39.0              115.3              -                69.5
Fodder crop                            14.4              62.7                -                                   2.0                1.0               -                 13.1
Coi/otebarde (apPle)                   9.9               49.0                -                18.2               20.3              40.1
Poplar trum                                               5.2                -                 3.1                -                 3.1               -                 4.1
Wea ta&ed                              29.3               -                                   11.7               66.9               -                22.4
Total:                             227.9              535.2             265.3              223.1             209.3              346.5              22.8             110.3
C. Not vdaf Ptomctg                    476.9            1,179.6            136.3             13.6              406.7              649.7              41.0             139.2



TURKEY: IGDIR-AKSU-EREGLI-ERCIS (IAEE) Irrigption Project
Appendix C: Economic Re-valuatioo
Table 10. Financial Budgets
Igdir              Aksu                Eeli                 1
Without   With   Without   With    Without I                Wil_uut    With
Project  Project  Project   Project   Prede       Projec    project   p roje
..........(ri....... . CbiHion) .
Gross Value     643      1,811     495      426        481        817        37        256
of Produciion
Operating       228       585      266      223        209        347        23        111
Costs
Net Value of    415     1,226      229      203        272        470        14        145
Production
Increase                 195%               -11%                  73%                 900%



TURKEY: IGDIR-AKSU-EREGLI-ERCIS (IAEE) Irrigation Project
Appendix C: Economic Re-evaluation
Tabk 11. Ec"uire Raba o Reduw
Igir                              M~~~~~~~~~~Am                                 FeaO                                            Euis                                       Tow huj.c
Yan               Imod-    Nd   Ble   Iuod-                                     Nd    Balae   hived-                           Nd    Baace   -ved-                             Nd    Bel                   kd-                Nd           B_e
_od           I.                          m_e                                             me _                r.                         MI 1. 11 tmm
Ci    BDfi                                 cos            3ml                             Cod            Be Cl                                           B                               Cio            3 B
...................... ............. .......... .. .......t........    I O .....................................................
I                     6                          (6)                             -              (4)             3               -              (3)             4                -(4)                           17                             (17)
2                    5S             -           (5             73                -              73)            23                -             (23)           55                               5              209               -2
3                    91             50          (41)           53                10            (3)             46                3             (43)           51               10             (41)            241               73            (la)
4                   125            100          (25)           104              20             (34)            33                5             c)             a                20             (64             350              145            a0
5                   04             150         (474)          14               25            (153             59               10            (49)            81               40             (41)            943              225(
(P                  Sl            200         (601)          1i                2S            (161)           139               20            (119)           76               50             (             1M205              2)
7                    33            220         (413)           141              30            (111)            99               30             (6             37               55              13             910              335
*                   CI             230         (401)           115              35             (80)            23               40              17           4f                40              15             314              365            (44)
744           245         (49"            231               40           (191)            15               50              35             43              70              22            10e38             405            (03
le (1992)           534 /          350         (I             174 1            47            (127)            13               70             52              5               S0              75             974              442           (C3)
11 (193)             S2 31         5o          (1S2)           7S11             47             (31)            10              100             90              3               90              37             539              5S97            4a
12 (1994)           U4S I          400          245             6311             7             (16)            17              200            13              5               98              93              70              745             75
13 (1995)           594 1          650           56             12              4               35             14              241             227             4               98              94              55              336            *31
14                   25            703          c7              12              47              35             14              Ul              227             4               9               94              55              986             931
1525                25            703          67              12              47              35              14             Ul              227              4              98              94              SS            1l3             1I094
_lito t     e  edlkd                            9%                                                                                           2Z.5%                                           rIfs
/I PIlee refer to Table S.



TURKEY
IGDIR-AKSU-EREGLI-ERCIS (IAEE) IRRIGATION PROJECT
APPENDIX D
BORROWER'S COMMENTS ON DRAFT ICR



90 312 2128737
27/02/96    16:30        DIS EKONOMIK ILISKILER GN. MD. /TR    002
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
PRIME MINISTRY
THE UNDYERSECRETARIAT OF TREASURY
Ref: B.02.1 .HMo.DEoi 01.02/114 - 3<ate:
~~~~~2~~ ~             7 IFENUARtY 153G5
Mr. Ricardo Halperin
Acting Division Chief, EClAE
The World Bank. 118B H Street, N.W.
Washington D.C. 2643X
U.S.A.
Re: - IAEE Irrigation Project (Loan 2433-TU)
- Drainage and On-farm Development Project (Loan 2663-TU),
Implementation Completion Reports
- Your letters dated Feb. 8, 1996 and Feb. 15, 1996
Dear Mr. Halporlnr
We are pleased to see that, especlaily during the last two years of the Drainage
and On-farm  Development Project which also included remainIng works of IAEE
Irrigation Project, there have been fruitful efforts on review, design and adoption of
methods on farmner participation in construction and operation of irrigation schemes that
have traditionally been planned, constructed, operated and maintained by the
Government agencies.
In some riegions of Turkey, it has been very exciting to discover farmers'
understanding about new approaches that will lead to better use of soil and water
together with more efficient operation and timely maintenance of the sohenmes and their
willingness to cooperate witli Government agencies at reasoniable terms, depending on
income levels and crop patterns.
The Implementation of DSI's plan for transfer of the Government's irrigation
sche,mes to the water user associations h-as been very successful and the
Implementation rate has exceeded by far the provisioned pace.
GDRS has also made visible progress In revealing farmer participation
opportunities blut has not been able to implement the plans since they were not mature
enough regarding terms and conditioins of the suggested approaches.
Tthe fact that the subpro)ect activity plans could have been completed years after
the loan became effective and that GDRS had to convince farmers who did not know
much about the benefits ot irrigation and had to deal with many small and inexperienced
contractors for on-farn works, have been the miiajor factors causin!g long delays in
constructions end slow disbursement.
However, the understandinig created about the need for different approaches in
planning and operation of costly irrigation investrnents of the Government and the
experience gained by on-farm works contractors have been the great benefits derived
from the Project.



Also, it was realized that a project loan in agriculture sector should take Into
account the seasonailty of field work, especially If It Includes on-farm works or field
research. Because construction periods are from May to November, it is not desirable
for a loan to close at the end of June, in which case no contracts can be signed for on-
farrn works during the last year of a project. Moreover, such delays occurred In the
previous years when the loan was extended since th-ere were uncertainties about the
extension decisions until several months before closing date.
Although there hlave been on-farm development works that remained incomplete
due to late start up and thie problems encountered, the project can be regarded as one
that attained the goal of providing more than physical works through the understandling
and coordination level reached between the implementing agencies and the farmers and
the knowledge and vision acquired by staff and the farmers through training programs.
We are also glad to observe that DSI staff has received a number of invitations
fronm forei-gn countries to participate in symposiums abroaci and to make presentations
about DSi's achievements. There have aIso been visits to Turkey by foreign country
authorities to examine the irrigation schemes and transfers in Turkey.
I would like to take this opportunity to state that It deserves mentioning that the
Bank's efforts durin-g the past two years have helped tremendously in bringing about
a real change to the approaches to irrigation investmeints especially through sharing
practices and experiences with those of other countries and the World Bank experts.
Please find attached the comments on the project experiences of The State
Hydraulic Works (DSI) and The General Dlrectorate of Rural Services (GDRS), the two
implementing agencies of both the IAEE Irrigation Project and the Drainage and On-
farm Development Project.
Hoping that the positive developments in this sector can be further improved and
thanking you for the excellent cooperation and coordination I remain,
Sincerely yours,
H. Ersen EKREN
POPQI l;SQowr Q0eaaL5






TURKEY
IGDIR-AKSU-EREGLI-ERCIS (IAEE) IRRIGATION PROJECT
APPENDIX E
MAPS 1 TO 5






TURKEY
IAEE - RfUGATION PROJECT
LOCATION OF THE SCHEMES
B U L G  A R  Aack                                                     S e a
i0 Edtrnre                                               Nj ) GEORGIA
AZERBAIJAN
bstanbul
5'5      ~0      ARMENIA
$a*arj,a.                                                                          I .lw   -=
-v4 5  /   <                                        ,/- Ewn                IdE
0                               1'                                                             0
Salikesv                         -/ANKARA                      ,- /--'_-
zmt                                                       Kayst                                     ER                            A
0 Akseir   SC EHEM 
ya  n                          Alya                              Oivana  ) 
n   r ,                     ~~~~~Mersh 0                                                        1  R A C)
I ISYRIAN ARAB REPUBUC
* d I t *r r a an   a n    S e a
0       100     200 Km
rcIsss-174



\



TURKEY
IMEi - mRiGATION PROJECT
IGDIR SCHEME
rea  ~aM
ICID~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Area    W S t                                                  IV\t
t    T u    F  K  fi Y                          
'_ < g_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,    0 l,km






T UJ R K E Y
IAEE- IRRI3ATION PROJECT
AKSU SCHEME
KARGI WEFI
-River
-  8    ExisthV imm canal
lCan_ _      Now nimn cli
W///  m   Exisin krgabe awa
/ tg  3    Now hlSI  rea
,  Proposd dIvowmnI  t
,L....---.J ( Not part d project)
IT              X                                        0        2        4 Km
i60                                                Aoprot
\   s 218i9 ha     " "" '            E
'S                       '    -"' ''l  .,,         .,               liii -
7' \'''
piL                  '~  /-  j?
C _               "A  / ha
I 1- / ~       Neitronan*






T U R K E Y
IAEE - IRRIGATION PROJECT
EREGLI SCHEME
/ \                                                  IAKHUYUK-CILLER Area
/ /                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~51570 ha
N    ---,..             -             /        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Karnislikuyu
7. =Akhyu -   IO-
'                                                        Ijr80\ \ ,q/  |  21,166ha  l
V' ADA       re         
, _>REGULATROR                                                           M  caa
_/5 S,- >    >    JA            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\*' |-I                                                     --- Seodena
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I   *!                                           N
LLE~FTBANKAI;ea j                         ,                                       
10,270 ha                                                                                z
643 ha~ ~~~~~~2,66h
IVRIZ DAM  ~ ~      ~        ~River
AND RESERVOIR                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Main canal
Secondary canal
-.----tRaitway
4  T U   *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ E -~~~~~~~~~~~                                              0 ~~~~~~Visage
Y U n K ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*.Wells
0D    2     4 km
c) _                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Approx .






MdIJ v
T U R K E Y
IAEE - IRRIGATION PROJECT
ERCIS - KOCKOPRU SCHEME
Kekliksirti 0
_____________BY_DSI
g . ' / . / )X\\\VAN-ERCISO
H:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RI 0-               
v r U ~~~R K ErYiS,
O~~~~~~Mi   ______                                                             LB.. '









IMAGING
Report No:        1552 v 7
Type: ICR



