Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4299-TU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TURKEY
IGDIR-AKSU-ERECLI-ERCIS (IAEE) IRRIGATION PROJECT
May 13, 1983
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1                     =      Turkish lira (TL) 195 la
TL 1                     =      US$0.0051
TT. 1,000,000                   US$5,128
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)                                         2.20 pounds
1 metric ton                                            1,000 kilograms
1 metric ton                                            0.98 long ton
1 meter (m)                                             1.09 yards
1 kilometer (kin)                                       0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)                                          2.47 acres
1 decare = 0.1 ha                                       0.25 acre
1 square kilometer (km2)   l00 ha                       0.386 square mile
1 liter (1)                                             0.264 gallon
ABBREVIATIONS
DSI        -    General Directorate of State Hydraulic Works of MPNR
GDAA      -    General Directorate of Agricultural Affairs of MAF
GDPPQ     -    General Directorate of Plant Protection and Quarantine of MAF
GDVS      -    General Directorate of Veterinary Services of MAF
IBRD      -    International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (World
Bank)
ICB       -    International Competitive Bidding
IDA       -    International Development Association
MAF        -    Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
HIPNR     -    Ministry of Power and Natural Resources
MVA       -    Ministry of Village Affairs
O&M       -    Operation and Maintenance
PPAR      -    Project Performance Audit Report
SAL       -    Structural Adjustment Loan
SEE       -    State Economic Enterprise
SEI'ER    -    Turkish Sugar Factories, an SEE
SMS       -    Subject Matter Specialists for the Extension Service
SPO       -    State Planning Organization
T&V       -    Training and Visit System of Agricultural Extension
TCZB      -    Agricultural Bank of Turkey
TMO       -    Soil Products Office, an SEE
TOPRAKSU  -    General Directorate of Land and Water Conservation of MVA
TZ        -    Provincial Extension Services Arm of GDAA
TZDK      -    Agricultural Supply Organization, an SEE
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Turkey    -       March I to February 28
SEEs and TCZB             -     January 1 to December 31
/a Exchange rate for March 1983



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF
IGDIR-AKSU-EREGLI-ERCIS (IAEE) IRRIGATION PROJECT
TURKEY
Table of Contents
Page No.
1.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR                                             I
A.  Project Background                                              1
B.  Agriculture in Turkey                                           I
II.  INVESTMENTS IN IRRIGATION INFRASTRUCTURE                            3
A.  Background                                                      3
B.  Total Irrigated Area and Potential                              4
C.  Key Constraints                                                 5
D.  Cost Recovery                                                   8
E.  Performance Under Previous Projects                             9
F.  Project's Role                                                 11
III.  THE PROJECT AREA                                                   11
A.  Igdir Irrigation Scheme                                        11
B.  Aksu Irrigation Scheme                                         14
C.  Eregli Irrigation Scheme                                       17
D.  Ercis Irrigation Scheme                                        20
E.  Agricultural Supporting Services                               21
IV.  THE PROJECT                                                        24
A.  Objectives and Brief Description                               24
B.  Description of the Project                                     24
C.  Water Requirements, Availability and Quality                   26
D.  Water Rights                                                   28
E.  Status of Engineering                                          28
F.  Cost Estimates                                                 28
G.  Financing                                                      29
H.  Procurement and Retroactive Financing                          29
I.  Implementation Schedule                                        31
J.  Disbursements                                                  3L
K.  Environmental lmpact                                           33
V.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                             33
A.  Organization and ManageTnent                                   33
B.  Staffing and Training                                          36
C.  Government Land                                                37
D.  Monitoring and Evaluation                                      37
E.  Irrigation Strategy Review                                     38
F.  Accounts and Audit                                             39
G.  Cost Recovery                                                  39
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
VI.  PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS                         39
A.  Crcp Areas, Cropping Patterns and Yields                        39
B.  Production and Markets                                          43
C.  Farmers' Incomes and Financial Analyses                         47
VII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATIONS                                          51
A.  Beneficiaries and Employment                                    51
B.  Economic Rate of Return                                          51
C.  Other Benefits                                                  55
D.  Project Risks                                                   56
VIII.  AGRERENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                                        56
ANNEXES
1.  Equipment Requirements                                                  59
2.  Detailed Cost Estimates                                                 64
3.  Procurement: Requirements                                               68
4.  Work Prograim                                                           71
5.  Disbursement Schedule                                                   72
b.  Terms of Reference for Irrigation Strategy Review                       73
7.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File               76
CHARTS AND MAPS
IBRD No. 24416        linplementation Schedule Chart                        78
IBRD No. 24417        Organization Chart                                    79
IKRD No. 16804       Project Area Map, Igdir Scheme (West)
IBRD No. 16859        Project Area Map, Igdir Scheme (East)
IKRD No. 16805        Project Area Map, Aksu Schemne
IBRD No. 16806        Project Area Map, Eregli Schemae
IBRD No. 16807        Project Area Map, Ercis Scheme



TLiRKEY
IGDIR-AKSU-EREGLYL-ERCIS (IAEE) IRRIGATION PROJECT
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Project Background
1.01      In its current economic reform eFfort, the Government is seeking to
increase export earnings, reduce inflation, improve the efficiency of public
sector investment, accelerate technological change and increase the role of
market forces in the economy by reducing subsidies, maintaining a realistic
exchange rate, limiting monetary expansion, reducing price controls, changing
the price system and other measures. Since irrigation accounts for almost
two-thirds of Government expenditure in agriculture, efforts are underway to
rationalize the investment program, concentrating first on irrigation projects
already under construction which could produce quick-yielding results. The
proposed project originated with government's request to the June 1980
Agricultural Sector Identification Mission for Bank financing to assist
completion of irrigation schemes under construction. Consideration of the
project was made possible by changes in Government policy for the irrigation
subsector to concentrate resources on a few priority projects to accelerate
their completion and by measures to imaprove cost recovery.
1.02      Four irrigation schemes were selected and the preparation of the
IAEE irrigation project was undertaken under the leadership of the General
Directorate of State Hydraulic Works (DSI) with the assistance of the FAO/IBRD
Cooperation Program. This report is based on the findings of an appraisal
mission which visited Turkey in September 1982. The mission consisted of
Messrs. S. R. Freiberg, W. E. Roell and Ms. S. Tillier (Bank), and Mr.
M. Fireman (Consultant).
B. Agriculture in Turkey
1.03      While the importance of the agricultural sector in the economy is
declining, it still represents about 20 percent of the GDP, about 40 percent
of exports, and about 60 percent of employment (See Annex 7 Sector Studies
A-1, 2, 3, 4 and 8). It also supplies much of the raw materials for
industry. Growth in agricultural production is of major importance in
expanding foreign earnings and providing employment for Turkey's growing labor
force.
1.04      Performance.  Throughout the 1970s, agriculture was assigned a
subordinate role to industry pursuant to the inward-oriented growth strategy
adopted by Turkey during those years. Its primary role was to supply low cost
inputs to industry and guaranteed food supplies for the urban work force.
Although agricultural commodities accounted for a significant though declining



- 2 -
share of total exports in the 1970s, sectoral exports as a fraction of total
production were quite low and far below potential, which mirrored the
generally poor export performance of thie economy. At the samne time, the
import content of production increased, a6ain mirroring patterns in the
non-agricultural sector, as a result of programs which encouraged fairly
indiscriminate agricultural mechanization and use of chemical inputs.
1.05      The seztor did not benefit as much as other sectors from the public
investment drive of the 1970s, which gave rise to the strong non-agricultural
growth rates experienced between 1972-1979. Much of the public investment
which occurred, mainly in the irrigation subsector, gestated very slowly
because resources were spread thinly over an excessive number of projects. As
a result, the principal instruments of policy became a combination of
budgetary and financial subsidies to guarantee high producer prices, low cost
inputs and cheap credit in order to stimulate agricultural production and
private investment in the sector.  These incentives induced good production
and investment performance until about 1975, but could not be sustained during
the late 1970s as a result of the strain placed on the budget, the banking
system and the competing demands for resources from the manufacturing sectors.
1.06       The effects of these policies on agriculture are manifested in the
figures for sectoral GDP, export and investment during the 1970s. Between
1972 and 1979, real agricultural GDP increased at an annual average rate of
3.3% p.a., averaging higher at 4.7% p.a. from 1972-75, and falling off to 1.4%
between 1976-79. As a result of disproportionately slower growth, the
sector's share in real GDP declined from 25.0% in 1972 to 21.7% in 1979.
Sectoral exports during this period increased by about 11% p.a. in US$ terms
(less in real terms), which is quite low considering the very small proportion
of total sectoral production actually exported. 1/
1.07       Sectoral fixed investment (FI) manifested trends similar to
agricultural GDP in the 1970s. It increased at an annual average rate of
about 18% p.a. between 1972-75, then declined by about 17% p.a. between
1976-79. Moreover, the composition of Fl changed. During the early 1970s,
the investment drive in the sector was fueled by private investment, whose
share in agricultural FI expanded from 50% in 1972 to 61% in 1975.
Thereafter, private capital formation fell off even more rapidly and, by 1979,
its share was only about 44%.
1.08      With the imposition of crisis management measures by the Government
in 1980 and 1981, much of the incentives apparatus put in place for farmers
during the 1970s was abruptly dismantled. Of particular note is the sharp
reduction of inputs subsidies, the reduction in number of production price
supports, the gradual conversion of the remaining supports from artificially
high incentive prices to floor prices, and the enforcement of constraints on
the availability of subsidized agricultural credit. These, coupled with
1/ Agriculture's share in total exports, however, fell from about 61% in 1972
to 59% in 1979 as a result of the inward-oriented policies. As a fraction
of agricultural GDP, agricultural sector exports amounted to less than 1%
in 1979.



- 3 -
deflationary demand management and the new export incentives, have forced
exporters and the more commercial farmers to seek out foreigrn marketing
opportunities. They have done so with some vigor. An inevitable consequence
of the adjustment process, however, was to throw the agricultural sector into
disarray, from which it is just now beginning to emerge. As a result, the
growth of agricultural GDP in real terms fell to 1.5% p.a. in 1980 and further
during 1981 co only 0.5% p.a. Aided by good weather, but also amidst strong
indications that farmers are now adjusting to the new realities of farm
management in Turkey--including considerably less subsidization, and greater
exposure to market deternined prices--the growth of real agricultural GDP is
expected to recover somewhat in 1982 (due in part to good weather) with
agricultural value-added growth estimated at 4.7 percent. In contrast with
sector production performance, agricultural exports during 1980 and 1981
jumped to unprecedentedly high levels in response to the new exporter
incentives, increasing by an annual average rate of 29% over the two-year
period. Export growth continued at a lower level in 1982 amidst some
indications that the diversion of existing production to foreign markets is
being replaced as a source of export growth by a genuine supply response to
the higher valued marketing opportunities which exporting presents.
1.09      The encouraging sectoral export performance since 1980 represents a
long overdue change in price policies and the foreign trade regime. These
must also be supported by strong institutional measures to foster a continuous
growth in the factor productivity of agriculture which include both technology
generation and its dissemination to farmers, more effective public investments
and higher levels of private capital formation, the provision of credit to
encourage the uptake of improved technology at the farm level, and
improvements in marketing and inputs distribution systems. A more effective
irrigation development program is an integral part of the strategy since it
will allow increased cropping intensities and higher yields at reasonable
costs.
II. INVESTMENTS IN IRRIGATION INFRASTRUCTURE
A. Background
2.01      Public investment in the agricultural sector has consistently
favored capital expenditures for physical infrasture. Thus, 55-65 percent has
been allocated for infrastructure historically, mainly for the construction of
large reservoirs, dams and water distribution systems by DSI, plus smaller
works by TOPRAKSU. The high rate of growth of agricultural GDP up to 1975
partially reflects the emphasis on irrigation infrastructure and technical
progress through the increased use of fertilizer, improved seeds,
mechanization, etc. These in combination also have steadily increased the net
contribution of irrigated agriculture to aggregate crop production. Although
area in irrigated crops represented about 11 percent of total crop area
(excluding fallow) in 1977, output accounted for roughly 39 percent of the
total value of crop production. With continued development of irrigation the
latter ratio, by 1990, could increase to more than half of the total value of
crop production, while about 55 percent of the incremental crop exports would



derive froTm the continued exoiansion of the irrigated area and its more
intensive use. 1/
2.02      In man37 respeccs, however, irrigated agriculture has operated well
below its capacity.  For a number of reasons, including incomplete on-farm
development, iess than 70 percent of the presently irrigable land is
cultivated under irrigation. In addition, the net value of output has been
reduced by suboptimal yields of irrigated crops (such as horticultu-ral and
most industrial crops) due to inadequate O&M and inefficient research and
extension services. Increases in output of irrigated crops have therefore
lagged behind the expansion of irrigated areas, while progress of irrigated
agriculture has been further stifled by the slow rate of completion of ongoing
projects. During the last few years, especially since the sharp decline in
public investment in agriculture beginning in 1977, the expansion of irrigated
area has slowed down from a previous average of 50,000 ha annually to less
than 20,000 ha in 1979. This led to a large backlog of incomplete and stalled
projects, concommitant sunk costs, and the resultant squandering of the
limited resources available for irrigation investment (see paras 2.06-2.07).
Therefore, current priorities lie in the completion of irrigation schemes,
on-farm development and the improvement of supporting services in commanded
areas.
B. Total Irrigated Area and Potential
2.03      Estimates of the area of 'irrigated' land in Turkey center on a
figure of about 3 million ha. 2/ Much depends on what is considered to be
irrigation (e.g. cLoes one application of water per crop count as 'irrigated')
and on how much privately-financed irrigation operations exist.  About 1.1
million ha are served by large-scale irrigation facilities built by DSI;
however it is estimated that on-farm development works (such as land
levelling, drainage facilities and on-farm distribution systems, which are
under the responsibility of TOPRAKSU) bave been completed on only about half
of this area.  An additional 0.9 million ha is served by small-scale
facilities developed totally by TOPRAKSU. A total of about 2.0 million ha is
thus under the c,m-aand of public (DSI and TOPRAKSU) irrigation infrastructure,
with about 1.4 million ha fully equipped with on-farm works to make efficient
use of this infrastructure. Very little is known about private irrigation
development, except that its growth in recent years has been less important
than construction of public irrigation.
2.04      According to TOPRAKSU an additional 5.7million ha could be
irrigated, thus bringing the total irrigated area to 8.7 million ha, Although
1/ Report No. 4204-TU, "TURKEY - Agricultural Development
Alternatives fcr Growth with Exports (January 28, 1983 - green
cover draft).
2/  The total irrigated area reported by TOPRAKSU's Land Use and
Capability Study is 2.99 million ha; according to the 1980
Census of Agriculture it would be now about 3.23 million ha,
while DSI estimates the total irrigated area at 3.99 million
ha (of which 3.81 million ha from surface water sources and
0.18 million ha from groundwater sources).



- 5--
the figure of 8.7 million ha is considered feasible by both DSI and TOPRAKSU
under present technology, it is likely that only a smaller area could be
developed economically since this figure has been derived from very crude
national averages of land slope and water availability and is not based on
economic criterion, nor was the estimate constructed from regional or
watershed-specific hydrological and topographic surveys. Irrigation
development has been concentrated in the Mediterranean and Aegean regions,
while the South East and the Marmara regions are the ones having the largest
undeveloped potential.
2.05      The Government is presently giving emphasis to the completion of
on-farm works in area already served by major infrastructure, and the proposed
project would provide technical and capital assistance for this purpose.
However, TOPRAKSU still does not have sufficient capacity to complete all the
on-farm works needed on large projects constructed by DSI, and DSI is still
proceeding with the construction of new large-scale works under an indicative
annual program of about 130,000 ha p.a. TOPRAKSU estimates that with some
staff augmentation and training, it could presently supervise completion on
about 100,000 ha per year.
C. Key Constraints
2.06      Investment Programming.  A major constraint to further irrigation
development is the absence of a capability to systematically program public
investments for the subsector. DSI's and TOPRAKSU's project selection and
evaluation criteria primarily emphasize technical considerations; both have
had difficulty responding to the new exigencies of public investment mandated
by the economic stabilization program, viz. a concentration of future
investments on quickly gestating projects with high economic returns. The
problem has been further exacerbated by a lack of coordination between DSI and
TOPRAKSU at the planning level. As a result, the agencies have tended to
carry out their annual work programs for service area development
independently.
2.07      The ad hoc nature of irrigation investment planning is typified by
the summary lists of projects prepared for the annual public investment
budgeting exercizes. These are sparse in content and devoid of the kinds of
indicators which an in-depth review of the application of sectoral priorities
and subsequent monitoring of progress would require. Furthermore, neither the
construction agencies, nor the SPO presently have a capability of improving
the situation.  This has hampered the Government's nonetheless serious effort
to focus public expenditures on fewer irrigation projects in 1981 and 1982 and
has resulted in near total emphasis on the scaling-back of financial
aggregates in real terms, which has been supported only by rather crude
attempts to modify the existing portfolio in order to hasten the rate of
completion.
2.08      The pattern of adjustments since 1980 is instructive.  At the height
of the economic crisis in 1980, DSI's resources were spread thinly--over 142
irrigation, drainage and flood control "projects" serving an undetermined
number of ha. The severity of the crisis mandated a complete portfolio
review, a reassessment (indeed, simply an initial estimate) of the economic



- 6 -
viability of its contents, and a subsequent reordering of priorities. This
was not even attempted in 1980 for a number of reasons, through an important
consideration was the fear of subsequent liability should outstanding
contracts be unilaterally impaled by DSI. Moreover, the DSI--which was
allocated about 90 percent of the budget for water resources development in
1980--also had neither the staffing and institutional capability to
systematically review its operations and it is questionable whether in 1980
this politically entrenched entity had yet acknowledged the necessity of such
a review.
2.09      By 1981, however, the need had become abundantly clear; adjustments
were made to DSI's portfolio under the guidance of the SPO and the Ministry of
Finance.  The preliminary list of 1981 projects contained 133 investments 1/
of which 14 were slated for completion in 1981. The total allocation was TL
27,050 million. Subsequently, the list (see Project File) was revised, when
one major project was dropped, 5 received token allocations to avert
litigation, and others were scaled back. The final approved program for 1981
thus contained 108 projects in the amount of TL 22,451 million, covering some
965,800 ha in total, of which 85,681 ha were to be completed in 1981. Under
the 1982 program for DSI, the completion schedule was further accelerated by
assigning token allocations to 8 more projects and markedly augmenting the
allocation for about 25 of the smaller ones. The final budget in 1982 thus
contained 95 projects and an allocation of TL 33,020 million. 2/ As a result,
70,341 additionaL ha were scheduled for completion in 1982, while the
indicative completion figures for 1983 and 1984 were enlarged to abouit 253,000
ha for the two years.
2.10       Construction Capabilities.  Although these rates of irrigation
development are roughly in line with the annual rate of 80,000-100,000 ha
projected as being necessary to achieve performance possibilities from
irrigated agriculture noted above growth and export targets (para 2.01), it is
by no means certain that DSI has design and supervision capacity to attain
these targets in view of recent staff attrition to the private sector. Nor
have DSI (or TOPRAKSU) done the requisite programming and budgetting analysis
to establish a benchmark for comparison with its present capabilities.
Moreover, the per hectare "completion" figures cited above refer to hectares
scheduled to be brought under the command of DSI-constructed headworks and
distribution canals; such, generally, are not synonomous with the provision of
service to farmers' fields, which also requires the completion of associated
field channels and on-farm works by TOPRAKSU.
2.11       Thus, TOPRAKSU's limited construction capabilities, and the poor
coordination of investment planning with DSI represents another major
constraint in the irrigation subsector. Whereas on-farm development and other
irrigation works wJere being completed by TOPRAKSU at the rate of 45-50,000 ha
anDually in the early 1970s, this has recently been reduced to about 20,000
1/ Report No. 3472-TU; Turkey - Public Sector Investment Review
(December 7, 1981);    Appendix 2, page 1.
2/ In real terms, this represents only a marginal increase over the
1981 allocation.



ha/year. TOPRAKSU's backlog of works for on-farm development on DSI's schemes
has remained at 300-400,000 ha throughout the 1970s. By 1982, the backlog was
roughly equivalent to one-quarter of the area under the command of technically
good headworks.  In the 1981 and 1982 public investment budgets TOPRAKSU was
given an allocation to complete on-farm development on about 30,000 ha. Each
year, however, indications are that about only 20,000 ha could actually be
constructed. Moreover, its completion capability is severely constrained by a
near total reliance on force account construction for major works with the use
of contractors being confined to supplemental tasks.
2.12      Measures to Accelerate Completion.  A rapid expansion of the
completion rate is possible, but it will entail a considerable further
reorientation of the public investment budget for irrigation. Particular
aspects include (i) a further concentration of both DSI's and TOPRAKSU's
resources on service area development of ongoing DSI schemes, (ii) the further
scaling back or postponement of many projects in DSI's pipeline which were
initiated in the late 1970s, but for which to date sunk costs are
comparatively insignificant, and (iii) a concommitant increase in TOPRAKSU's
construction capability. Although investment planning data is very limited,
the scope for an additional concentration of resources still appears to be
high. It is crudely estimated in current terms that the capital expenditure
required on new irrigation construction by DSI is approximately $4000 per ha,
including headworks and major conveyances. This delivers water to the farm
gate. In contrast, TOPRAKSU's on-farm development costs currently amount to
about $500 per ha, which are considerably less. Therefore, with further
concentration of DSI's resources on the completion of distributories on its
surface gravity projects and pumping schemes where the major "headworks" have
been substantially completed 1/, and a marked shift of its construction
program to also encompass the completion of on-farm works, the average
incremental expenditure per ha completed could be reduced from about $4500 to
$2-2500 per ha, which, in the 1982 investment program, might have allowed DSI
by itself to program the complete development for about 115-120,000 ha in 1982
rather than merely bring water to the farm gate on about 70,341 ha.
Furthermore, with a selective expansion of TOPRAKSU's staff to augment its
design and construction supervision capabilities, and an increase in its use
of private contractors, it might be possible to rapidly augment TOPRAKSU's
completion capabilities to 80-100,000 ha/year. These indicative figures,
based on the implementation of priorities followed by readjustment in
budgetary allocation, therefore suggest that DSI and TOPRAKSU together could
relieve the current backlog on DSI schemes within two to three years should a
firm decision to pursue this course be adopted by Government. The urgency of
doing so forms one of the principle justifications for the proposed project,
which contains training for the agencies' engineering and technical staff, and
changes in TOPRAKSU's operating procedures to increase its use of private
construction contractors.
2.13      Master Plan.  A second justification for the project is the need to
improve the government's capability to identify, plan and program additional
investments for irrigation after the current budgetary crisis has been
resolved. This will require, firstly, the preparation conjointly by DSI and
1/ Impossible to determine extent from existing data.



-8-
TOPRAKSU of a detailed medium-term investment program in which the programmed
expenditures of those agencies' resources would continue to be concentrated on
economically justifiable projects which can be completed in a reasonable
period of time, with clear indication of associated staff, equipment and
budget requirements. The plan will thus entail both a careful screening of
all ongoing projects as well as a careful assessment of new additions to the
portfolio. Secondly, the plan would identify and program the corresponding
expansion of the agencies' technical and engineering staffs and associated
training. Staffing levels and fields of specialization would be determined
with reference to requirements for improving longer term scheduling and
planning as well as project identification and evaluation capabilities,
accelerate the rate of project preparation and finalization of designs, and
expand their construction, supervison and O&M training capabilities. The
formulation of a medium-term program is one of the requirements of the
proposed project.
2.14      Post-implementation Services.  Only scattered information is
available about irrigated cropping patterns, and no comprehensive study has
been made on the subject. However, data from the 1980 Agricultural Census
confirm the low cropping intensity since 7 percent of the presently irrigated
land is annually left under fallow and scattered reports indicate that
irrigated crop yields are well below their potential. On schemes developed by
TOPRAKSU, some O&M training and extension advice is offered during the
immediate post-implementatiorn period, however such assistance is usally
withdrawn after two or three years. Therefore, the project will provide
measures to effectively recover construction and O&M costs (paras 2.15-2.17)
so as to generate additional resources both to sustain further public
investments in the subsector and foster more effective O&M by DSI and O&M
training by TOPRAKSU. 1/ The project will also provide for the development of
effective agricultural extension assistance to the proposed service areas,
which can introduce irrigatecd techniques to first time users and forge a link
between applied research and the beneficiary farmers for the dissemination of
improved technology.
D. Cost Recovery
2.15      With regard to DSI major irrigation works, legal provision exists,
since 1953, for recovery of costs of capital investment and O&M. These
charges have to be approved by the Council of Ministers. In practice DSI
computes the capital charges for completed irrigation works on the basis of
recovery over 50 years without interest and without any adjustment for
inflation. The O&M charges approved by the Cabinet have normally been
significantly below actual costs. O&M costs of DSI works increased from TL
336 million in 1977 to TL 2.7 billion in 1981 but actual levies ranged from 23
percent (1977) to 82 percent (1978) of these costs. A one-titne 10 percent
late penalty surcharge for delinquency of over one year in payment of capital
or O&M charges has been insufficiently stringent to induce adequate recovery,
1/ Expenditures on O&M on TOPRAKSU's systems are generally borne by
members of irrigators associations formed by TOPRAKSU for this
purpose.



and collections average less than two-thirds of assessed charges. With
respect to TOPRAKSU minor irrigation and on-farm development works there has
been, until this year, no legislation permitting cost recovery. The
Government has recently taken measures to improve cost recovery. The
Government has planned a schedule for increasing O&M charges for DSI works
progressively (32.5% in 1983, 50% in 1984, 75% in 1985) so as to charge,
beginning in the 1986 irrigation season, 100 percent of the previous year's
actual O&M charges. The Gove!rnment would also adjust its capital recovery
charge to include interest. The Government also indicated its intention to
seek legislation to increase substantially the penalties for delinquency in
payment of DSI O&M and capital charges and to institute appropriate legal
procedures in cases of delinquency of over 12 months.
2.16      Government has passed a law which levies a 5 percent agricultural
sales tax on all farmers produce sold and beginning in 1981 it collected about
TL 15 billion and expects to collect about TL 25 billion in 1982. The
agricultural sales tax can be considered a partial alternative cost recovery
arrangement since irrigation would be expected to increase yields and value
and accordingly result in higher tax payments. A conservative estimate on the
share value of sales tax revenues from irrigated areas is 20 percent or TL 3.0
billion for 1981 whereas actual DSI total O&M costs for irrigation amounted to
TL 2.68 billion. Government should continue to move toward full payment of
O&M costs in addition to the sales tax, but at least with the introduction of
the sales tax the minimum acceptable condition has been met of recovering the
full O&M costs of irrigation. 1/
2.17      Draft legislation for cost recovery of farm development works by
TOPRAKSU has been submitted by the Ministry of Village Affairs to the Council
of Ministers. It would permit full recovery including interest for all
TOPRAKSU investments in soil preservation, land improvement, field drainage
and land levelling in a repayment period not to exceed 20 years including the
grace period. If approved, it would, for the first time, permit cost recovery
of public investment in on-farm development works.
E. Performance Under Previous Projects
2.18      The Bank and IDA have provided financing in four credits and four
loans for five irrigation projects in Turkey. The first Bank loan in 1952
(63-TU US$22.8 million) assisted in financing construction of the Seyhan
Multipurpose Dam. It was followed in 1963 by a credit of US$20 million
(38-TU) to assist financing of Stage I of the Seyhan Irrigation Project
(57,000 ha) and in 1969 for stage II of the same project for an additional
48,250 ha in a combined loan of US$12.0 million (587-TU) and credit of US$12.0
million (143-TU). In 1972, financing was provided in a credit of US$18.0
million (281-TU) for an Irrigation Rehabilitation and Completion project in
1/ Bank's report "Water Management in Bank Supported Irrigation Project
Systems: An Analysis of Past Experience, OED No. 3421 (1981)" and
CPN No. 2.10 suggests that sales tax may be one of a number of
alternative arrangements to substitute for direct cost recovery.



- 10 -
three separate areas of Turkey (Koprucay, Silifke and Tokat) to rehabilitate
26,000 ha of existing irrigation and drainage systems and construction of new
systems on an additional 24,000 ha.  These four projects are now completed.
_n 1973, the Ceyhan Aslantas Aultipurpose Project was initiated through a
combined loan (883-TU US$44.0 million) and credit (360-TU US$30.0 million) to
construct a storage dam and power plant and provide for irrigation of some
97,000 ha. This project is due for completion in December 1983.
2.19      The elimination of a major constraint to production by providing a
reliable source of water had a major impact on agricultural production in the
four completed Bank and IDA-financed projects. Production levels in all areas
exceeded appraisal estimates, although they subsequently declined in the
Seyhan irrigation command areas mainly due tc white fly and bollworm attacks
on cotto3n, a major crop of the region. In the Irrigation Rehabilitation and
Completion Project, as of the issuance of the Project Performance Audit Report
\PPAR), the economic rates of return averaged 33 percent for the three areas
and ranged from 23 percent at Koprucay to 42 percent at Tokat. Despite such
performance, the projects were beset with a number of problems which were
outlined in the PPARs for Seyhan II and the Irrigation Rehabilitation and
Completiosn Project.  Two major problems were cost recovery (para 2.15) and
exten,sion services support.
2,20      Extension Services.  A separate project extension service was
initiated in 1967 for Stage I of the Seyhan Irrigation Project which was
conttnued under Stage 11  Tft difEered from the Government extension programs
in the use of viill-age level workers from the farming community (referred to as
foresen) backed by more qualified staff, coordination of all extension
activities undertaken by different Government agencies under a single program
and concentration of activitties on extension rather than on data collection
for use by Governrnent agencies, The service was backstopped by a consultant
firm which introduced the new techniques and especially the training and visit
system (- T &V)l which has now been extended to many Bank-supported projects in
many developing countries.  However. the success of this newly introduced form
of extension in Turkey was slow to be adopted elsewhere since it was perceived
as a project implepEmented servLce and not a part of the national extension
systeml.  This resulted in the T&V system being allowed to gradually dimninish
in effectiveness in the Seyha) area after the Seyhan II project was completed
in 1977,
2e21      Under the Irrigation Rehabilitation and Completion Project, existing
extension services were to be strengthened in the three project areas by the
appointment of extension coordinators and additional extension agents and two
consultant extension specialists. While the extension coordinators were
appointed, they were usually the extension directors for the region with other
responsioilities and were, therefore, unable to devote full time to training
and supervision of extension personnel. The full complement of extension
personnel were not hired nor were the consultants. This was, however,
mitigated by extension and research services available from other agencies,
especially in Kopruicay. Never-theless, the additional extension personnel and
especially the consultants could have helped farmers increase yields and
especially with the serious outbreaks of white fly infestations which sharply
reduced cotton production in the Koprucay area.



- 11 -
2.22      A T&V system in separate project extension services were established
with varying degrees of success in Bank-financed projects of the
Ceyhan-Aslantas Multipurpose Project, Corum-Cankiri Rural Development Project,
and the Fruits and Vegetables I and II projects. Since 1982, all project
oriented extension services have been merged with the parallel Ministry of
Agriculture and Forestry's Extension Service known as Teknik Ziraat. The
newly established Bank-financed Erzurum Rural Development Project will also be
provided with a strengthened Teknik Ziraat which will also utilize a T&V
system. Government has recognized the need to strengthen and coordinate its
various extension activities and has a national program to accomplish these
changes and introduce a modified T&V system on a nationwide basis, which will
be partially supported througi a proposed Bank project. The major difference
from the system introduced under the Bank projects is the substitution of
agricultural technicians (agricultural school graduates) for the village
foremen, with Government convinced that this will be an improvement because of
the higher education of the agricultural technicians.
F. Project's Role
2.23      The proposed IAEE Irrigation project has been formulated in
accordance with the objectives outlined in paras 2.12 and 2.13. It is
intended to be the first of a series which would accelerate the completion of
irrigation schemes while contributing to the implementation of other desirable
changes in the subsector. Four irrigation schemes corresponding to a total of
about 120,000 ha have been selected for inclusion in the IAEE irrigation
project, on the basis oL the following criteria:  (i) they have a significant
element of sunk costs; (ii) they can be completed quickly because of existing
investment in major infrastructure; (iii) they are technically sound; (iv)
they have an insignificant energy requirement; and (v) they are financially
and economically viable. In addition to an expansion of the irrigated area,
the IAEE irrigation project includes measures designed to foster its more
efficient land use and strengthen, through training, the planning, design and
construction capability of DSI and TOPRAKSU.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
The project would consist of four areas (see Maps):
A. Igdir Irrigation Scheme
Location
3.01      The scheme is in the Aras river basin of the eastern Anatolian
region covering a gross area of 56,600 ha. The area is bounded on the north
by the Aras river which divides Turkey from USSR. On the south it is bounded
by the Agri (Ararat), Solaka, Kale and Pamuk mountains and on the southeast by
the Karasu river. The entire command area lies within the Igdir and Aralik
counties of Kars province and surrounds the towns of Igdir and Aralik and
contains 59 villages with a total population of 80,900.



- 12 -
Physical EnvironTnent
3.02       The area has a micro-climate very different from the rest of eastern
Anatolia. Surrounded by mountains, with an average altitude of 850 meters, it
has a milder clirmate characterized by hot dry summers and cold winters.
Precipitation is mainly in the spring and averages between 226 and 265 mm.
Temperatures range between maxima and minima of 430C and -300C and monthly
averages of 270C and -40C. Frosts generally occur between October and
April with total annual accumulation of snow ranging from only 1 cm to as high
as 82 cm. Poor distribution as well as low rainfall are a major constraint to
growing crops without irrigation. However, temperature and insolation permit
growth of a wide variety of crops including cotton under irrigation.
Irrigation and Drainage
3.03       Due to historical floods and river bed changes of the Aras river in
the Igdir scheme, clay, silt, sand and other sediment deposits have formed a
range of light to heavy soil textures on a basaltic underlying formation.
Heavy and medium textured soils are predominant on the plains and consequently
about half of this area has drainage difficulties. Nevertheless, about half
of the subproject area presently has some form of irrigation. The Aras river
is the major source for irrigation and for many years has been equally shared
as agreed between Turkey and USSR. In 1927, Turkey and USSR jointly built and
completed the Serdarabat diversion dam with two intakes at the head of the
irrigation scheme. Turkeyts 50 percent share of Aras river water is barely
sufficient during peak demand in August to meet the needs of 23,000 ha which
are presently irrigated. To assure the supply of water to this area and
providing for the remainder, the storage water of Arpacay dam (also jointly
built by Turkey and USSR), which is completed but not yet in operation, will
be used. For the existing network, referred to as Unit I (26,500 ha) between
the Serderabat diversion dam and the Erkaci main discharge canal (West Igdir
irrigation network), the main canals and irrigation networks need to be
extended, replacecd and rehabilitated and capped with a settling basin to
reduce excessive siltation (see para 3.16 on water rights).
3.04       Three separate parcels of land adjoining west, south and southeast
of the existing West Igdir distribution system amounting to 8,400 ha are
designated as Unit II. About 50 percent is presently irrigated by private
earth canals which divert water from the existing irrigation network.
Construction of Unit II is being carried out by a contract tendered in 1979
and due to be completed in 1983. The third unit of the Igdir scheme consists
of 21,700 ha, located east of Unit I, and consisting of flat lands of the east
Igdir and Dil plains. No irrigation development has been initiated except for
the East Igdir outfall drain which is under construction. About one-third of
the area is presently irrigated privately by farmers using water from large
springs, from the tail end of canals of the existing network and from the
Erkaci main drain. High watertables and use of water from existing drains has
resulted in drainage and salinity problems.
Land Tenure
3.05       The Igdir subproject area consists of 46,100 ha of land held
privately by 12,500 households or an average of 3.7 ha. Farm size



- 13 -
distribution shows that 78 percent of all households have 5 ha or less with
only 6 percent having holdings greater than 10 ha which accounts for 15
percent of the land area. An additional 10,200 ha are publicly owned land
mainly in the eastern Igdir section in Unit III which also contains some 5,000
ha with soils considered too highly alkaline for economic reclamation. In the
Western Igdir irrigation network (Unit I) about 680 ha are village pastures or
unoccupied wasteland and an additional 1,200 ha are occupied by land holding
families in various lease-hold or usufruct arrangements. In Unit II, 1050 ha
of publicly owned land are in nine parcels of unoccupied range and wasteland.
In Unit III, about 1000 ha of publicly owned land is harvested annually for
meadow hay. Also, grazing rights in the area are held by some 5,000 persons
who have temporarily left the area in search of employment elsewhere. The
area also has about 470 families without land and about 250 households from
neighboring villages which graze animals in the area.
Farming Systems
3.06      The Igdir subproject area has traditionally been in mixed farming of
crops and livestock. Those areas without irrigation are mainly used for
grazing cattle, sheep and goats during the winter supplemented by fodder crops
of barley, alfalfa and wheat straw grown on irrigated land. During the summer
months much of the livestock is moved to grazing pastures on the slopes of Mt.
Agri (Ararat) while some of the lowland meadows are harvested for hay. Some
56,900 head of cattle, 428,000 sheep, 14,600 goats and 6,800 water buffalo are
in the area.
3.07      In the irrigated areas, the major crops are cereals, sugar beets,
cotton and alfalfa, which occupy 44%, 20%, 15%, and 12%, respectively, of the
cropped land. Fruit orchards of apricots, apples, pears, and peaches account
for an additional 4 percent and vegetables another 4 percent. Poplars,
although a small proportion of the cropping area, are important for
establishing field boundaries and are used locally for building materials.
Farming operations are partially mechanized with some 614 tractors, 611 plows,
869 trailers, and 427 threshers in the area. Tractors are used for initial
cultivation of field crops and regional transportation. Most of the wheat and
all horticultural crops are planted and harvested by hand.
3.08      Farm production of crops and livestock have substantial, potential
for improvement in the area with an increased supply of irrigation water and
land levelling to permit its even distribution; appropriate drainage and soil
reclamation; strengthened extension services to provide information on
improved technology and better access to credit. This should result in
increased yield of cereals and other crops and including corn for silage as a
second crop. The reserve of unused family labor, once water is available,
would permit an increase in horticultural crops, fruit orchards, sugarbeets
and potatoes.
Marketing
3.09      Wheat is produced in the Igdir area in sufficient quantities to
produce an annual surplus which is exported to other counties which are in



- 14 -
deficit. Seven private traders are involved in marketing, transportation and
milling of wheat. Toprak Mahsulleri Ofisi (TMO) has a grain silo of 4000 tons
at Igdir town but it has not been used since 1978 as farmers normally prefer
to sell direct to the private sector because of low prices offered by TMO.
Sugarbeets are purchased by the state Sugar Corporation (SEKER) in four
collection centers in the subproject area and transported to a sugar factory
in Erzurum 276 km away. A new factory is under construction in Agri of 3000
ton-daily capacity and should be completed in 1984 to receive sugarbeets for
processing in 1985. This would take care of planned increase in sugarbeet
production in the project area. Cotton is ginned in seven private ginneries
in Igdir which are presently operating at 50 percent of capacity. Baled
cotton and cotton seed are purchased by the Erzurum textile mill and by
merchants from Adana and Izmir. A textile mill is under construction at
Igdir. Fruit and vegetable production is marketed fresh in Kars, Erzurum and
Agri provinces and to some extent in the central Anatolia region, particularly
apricots. A small family business exists in Igdir for making jans from local
fruit produce. Surplus livestock from the area is exported to Iran, USSR and
the Persian Gulf countries. An animal feed plant in Dogubayazit in Agri
province has a capacity of 16,000 tons per year using inputs from the region
and from southeastern Anatolia. A milk processing plant in the city of Kars
of 80 ton daily capacity works full time during the summer and 50 percent of
capacity during the winter.
Communications
3.10      A state highway of 75 km runs through the Igdir subproject area.  In
addition there are 118 km of provincial roads, 146 km of stabilized roads,
3 km of asphalt roads, and 76 km of earth roads without structures. In
addition, roads lining the crest of the Aras levees are used as service roads
for military facilities on the border. In the existing distribution system,
there are service roads along some DSI canals and drains. Village roads and
access from villages to field are earthen roads which are, in general, in
satisfactory condition. Access to imports and exports are by paved roads to
Kars (246 km), Agri (147 km), Van (237 km) and Erzurum (276 km) and to
Gurbulak, point of entry located at the Iranian border (84 km) and the Black
Sea port at Trabzon. Railroad connections to other parts of Turkey are
possible from Kars and Erzurum. The area is served by regional TV and radio
services which include farm programs.
B. Aksu Irrigation Scheme
Location
3.11       The Aksuj scheme is in the Antalya basin of the Mediterranean
region. The scheme lies astride the Aksu river beginning about 20 km
downstream from the Karacaoren dam presently under construction and covers a
gross area of 23,200 ha. The area is bounded on the east by the Koprucay
basin (which was a part of the Irrigation Rehabilitation and Completion
Project) and by the Mediterranean sea on the south.  It is some 16 to 20 km
east of the city of Antalya and contains 33 villages with a total population
of 38,900 within the counties of Merkez and Serik in the province of Antalya.



- 15 -
Physical Environment
3.12      The climate of the Aksu irrigation area is Mediterranean with annual
average rainfall from 850 to 1050 mm which mostly falls between October and
March and with only 9 to 18 percent falling during the growing period.
Temperatures range between 440C and -50C with monthly averages of 280C
to 50C. Frosts occur infrequently but its possibility necessitates heating
provision for greenhouses and limits outdoor planting of frost sensitive
plants such as tomatoes until late March or early April. Temperature,
insolation and relative humidity provide favorable conditions for growing a
wide range of field crops, fruits and vegetables. However, poor rainfall
distribution is the major constraint to an otherwise long growing season.
Heavy rainfall during the winter months create drainage and soil conservation
problems in its flat coastal area and delays cultivation, preventing timely
planting of crops in many locations.
Irrigation and Drainage
3.13      The Aksu irrigation area consists of a long fan-shaped plain
following both sides of the river for 42 km and reaching a maximum width of
9.5 km south of the Aksu-Serik highway and comprises the main flood plain of
the Aksu river. It also includes adjoining areas north of this road which are
extensions of this plain and contiguous low slopelands. The flat plains are
at elevations of one to two meters above sea level at the southern end which
rises through the plains area to 60 m elevation and to 80 m on the
slopelands. Soils in the area are derived from calcareous material and are
alluvial and colluvial in type to a depth of more than 150 cm. Clay content
increases with proximity to the river and about 40 percent of the area have
heavy textured soils and drainage problems.
3.14      The irrigation systems presently in operation comprise the Aksu
diversion dam which was completed in 1961, where water is diverted into two
main canals (completed in 1965), one on each bank from which water is
distributed by a network of secondary and tertiary canals. This system serves
9,285 ha and is on relatively flat land. Except for 120 ha of sloping land
which has been levelled, no TOPRAKSU on-farm works, such as for surface
drainage, have been carried out. Privately owned lift pumps are used to
irrigate small areas close to the river. About 12,260 ha could be irrigated,
partially double cropped, in this Unit I, provided flood protection is
provided as flooded areas of up to 7,000 ha are common in this area. Between
Unit I and the sea, lies 3,060 ha which would become a part of the project
area as Unit II. It is presently three-quarters irrigated by privately pumped
water from the river or from tail-ends of old canals carrying drainage water
from upstream areas. The entire area suffers from drainage problems due to
flooding and high water tables, The third unit in toe Aksu subproject area
involves areas lying upstream and above the present DSI distribution system on
both sides of the riverbank. It includes 6,170 ha of up to 2 percent
slopeland and 1,730 ha of up to 5 percent slopeland. Some 35 percent of the
area presently receives irrigation by farmers using pumps on the river, small
streams and shallow wells and from an old DSI gravity scheme.



- 16 -
Land Tenure
3.15       The Aksu subproject area consists of 23,300 ha held by 5,800
households. Average farm size is 4 ha with 50 percent having 2 ha or less and
only 8 percent with holdings in excess of 10 ha accounting for 16 percent of
the land area. According to DSI surveys, the number of farmers renting or
share-cropping i.n the Aksu area is negligible. The area varies from other
parts of Turkey in that it is used intensively and little is devoted to
fallow, Tneadows or pasture.
Farming Systems
3.16      Farming systems in the Aksu irrigation scheme along the
Mediterranean differs from the Igdir area in that livestock is unimportant.
Generally, where irrigation water is available, farmers plant cotton as the
main crop with smaller areas devoted to tomatoes, fruits and vegetables.
Where irrigation water is unavailable and poor drainage is not a factor, then
Winter wheat is the main crop. Second cropping after wheat is a recent
phenomenon with sesame and corn, and even more recently, soybeans, has been
introduced to the area. Presently in Unit I, 70 percent is sown to cotton,
15-16 percent wbeat, 3 percent tomatoes and other vegetables, and 5 percent
second crops. Unit III which is the least irrigated has 63-66 percent wheat,
32 percent cotton and very little in tomatoes, vegetables and second crops.
About 500 greenhouses on some 25 ha have been established in recent years to
intensify production and spreacl the seasonality of production, income and
employment. Most greenhouses (steel framed with glass) are used for a single
crop to produce out of season tomatoes planted in December or January and
harvested in February and March. Livestock, as indicated, plays a minor role
in the agriculture of the area. Less than half of the households own
livestock and when they do it is mainly to provide the family with a source of
milk.  Total animals in the area amount to 7300 cattle and 2000 horses and
donkeys. Sheep and goats are owned by individuals from outside the area and
enter to graze CrIop stubble and wasteland but are generally not encouraged by
irrigation crop farmers.
3.17       Farming operations are mechanized with roughly one tractor per 2.8
farmhouseholds and about the same ratio for plows and motor or tractor pumps.
Practically all initial cultivation of field crops is mechanized. However, 40
percent of wheat, 30 percent of corn, and all sesane and horticultural crop
seeds are planted by hand, whereas all cotton seed is mechanically planted.
Conversely, all cotton is picked by hand as well as all other crops except
wheat which is mechanically harvested with combines.
Marketing
3.18       Cotton in Antalya province, which includes the Aksu scheme is ginned
in 16 local ginneries. About half the lint is directly exported and about
half is spun into yarn at two spinning mills in Antalya which is then exported
to Western Europe. There is also a weaving mill which produces 6.5 million
square meters of various cotton materials. Two oil processing plants of
110-120,000 ton capacity process cotton seed, sesame, sunflower, soybeans and
olives into edible oils and soap. The region's wheat production is just under



- 17 -
300,000 tons which is processed in four flour mills in Antalya. The mills
also compound animal feeds for sale to local poultry operators. The wheat
flour is mainly exported to other parts of Turkey with small quantities going
to Iraq. Since cotton and wheat processing capacity is well above production,
no problems are foreseen in increased production, marketing, storage and
processing of incremental production.
3.19      In 1981, Antalya province produced half the national output of early
vegetables, 255,100 tons as well as 250,000 tons of citrus which was mainly
exported as fresh produce. The Bank supported Fruit and Vegetable II project
is assisting in the production and marketing of fruits and vegetables in the
province. Seventy percent of regional output of fresh produce passes through
a central market located in Antalya. There are plans to build a new
out-of-town facility complete with cold storage. Growth in fruit and
vegetable production in recent years has been matched by investment in
marketing and storage facilities, particularly by the private sector.
Increased trucking capacity has permitted a surge in exports, particularly of
citrus to the Persian Gulf and Libya.
Communications
3.20      A state highway of 13 km runs through the Aksu subproject area and
it is connected by rail and paved roads to Antalya 20 km away and to Izmir and
Ankara and to neighboring cities of Burdur (122 km), Isparta (149 km), Mersin
(487 km) and Mugla (368 km).  In addition, there are 54 km of provincial
roads, 40 km of additional paved roads, 67 km stabilized roads and 15 km of
earth roads without structures. There are also service roads along some DSI
canals and drains and from the state highway, good provincial all asphalt
roads connect as far north as Gebiz. In general, access in the area is
satisfactory except for a few villages in the northern extremity; but access
from the villages to the fields is in many cases lacking. The seaport of
Antalya provides direct access for export and import and domestic air
passenger services exist also. The area is served by regional TV and radio
services including farmers' radio programs. Communications are constantly
improving spurred by developments in tourism and fresh fruit and vegetable
export which have increased rapidly over the last two years.
C. Eregli Irrigation Scheme
Location and Physical Environment
3.21      The Eregli scheme is in the Konya closed basin of the central
Anatolian region. The entire command area lies within Konya province and
Eregli county, 150 km from Konya. It contains 26 villages in a gross area of
31,860 ha with a population of 75,813. The area has a typical continental
climate of Central Anatolia. Annual average precipitation is 300 mm with most
of it falling between December and May and only 1 percent during July and
August. In December and January most of the precipitation falls as snow.
Temperature maxima and minima ranges are 380C and -270C with monthly
averages of 220C and -0.50C. Good conditions for growing field crops,
vegetables and fruits occur between April and September but due to poor
rainfall distribution needs to be supplemented with irrigation.



- 18 -
Irrigation and Drainage
3.22      Source of ,he irrigai-ion water for the Eregli irrigation scheme is
the Ivriz springs and the Delirnahbmutlar river and the area lies along both
banks of the Ivriz, as the river is called downstream of the springs for about
20 km. Sustained discharges during the dry season are due to supply of the
Ivriz springs which constitutes almost 70 percent of the annual flow. Soils
of the area are alluvial and colluvial derived from calcareous parent material
and are heavy textured and rich in lime. Flooding occurs periodically, mostly
during spring time and causes some damage along the river when discharges
exceed 30 m3/sec.
3.23      The irrigation system presently in operation as Unit I in the Eregli
scheme comprises the Ivriz diversion weir, completed in 1967, which diverts
the water into the main canal completed in 1971, and through an old
distribution system of earth canals. The Ivriz dam, which is about two-thirds
completed (begun in 1979), will form a reservoir which will cover the Ivriz
diversion weir. In Unit II an old canal called Alanarki is still in use for
supplementary irrigation of 4,500 ha from water diverted from the unregulated
Delimahmutlar stream. A main drainage canal, 42 km in length, serves both
Unit I and II, and evacuates excess runoff into a depression. The Ivriz dam,
which is being constructed, when completed for the irrigation season of 1985
will provide flood control and sufficient water to irrigate Unit II, and would
add 19,800 ha including most of the Alanarki canal area. Unit I (12,100 ha)
is on the left bank of the Ivriz river on mostly level land. At present 8,900
ha is irrigated, although inadequately, under control of the Eregli
municipality and has about 90 percent provided with concrete canalette
irrigation infrastructure and a matching drainage network. Ongoing
rehabilitation and construction will increase the equipped area to 12,100 ha.
AbOut 6,000 ha has salinity and drainage problems which will require
subsurface drainage and about 5,500 ha require some land levelling. Unit II
which is on the right bank is mostly gently sloping land. About 5,000 ha is
irrigated to a limited extent of which 4,500 is irrigated by farmers from the
Alanarki canal under the control of an irrigation cooperative. The remaining
500 ha is irrigated from private tubewells scattered over the area. About
3,000 ha of Unit I1 has salinity and drainage problems and about 16,500 ha
requires land levelling.
Land Tenure
3.24      Apart from 400 ha owned by the Zootechnique Institute, all land is
privately owned in the Eregli irrigation scheme.  In Unit I (12,100 ha) 2560
households own farm units averaging 4.5 ha and many of the young men of this
area seek employment elsewhere. In Unit II (19,800 ha), because of a 1965
goverinment decree, village land was allocated on the basis of 25 ha per
household on cond:ition it would be passed on by inheritance and not sold or
subdivided. It now has 1800 household farm units with an average of 11 ha and
many sons have remained, creating extended family units. Whereas most of Unit
I has some form of irrigation, about 40 percent of Unit II lies fallow because
of unavailability of irrigation water and low rainfall.



- 19 -
Farming Systemqs
3.25      Unit I (12,100 ha) of the Eregli scheme is mostly irrigated and
fruit orchards predominate, occupying 30 percent of the area.  Fruit trees
include apples, pears, apricots, peaches and cherries. Another 21 percent is
occupied by sugarbeets, vegetables and beans. Winter wheat is still an
important crop in the area and accounts for 23 percent of the irrigated and 14
percent of the rainfed areas with 12 percent fallow. In Unit II (19,800 ha)
which is largely rainfed, 50 percent is in winter wheat and barley, 5 percent
in sugarbeets, 2 percent in vegetables, 1 percent in alfalfa and 40 percent
fallow. Livestock is an important factor with some 58,000 sheep, 3,650 goats
including angora, and 4,000 cattle. Two minor but profitable developments in
the area are the planting of poplar seedlings in nurseries which after one
year are sold to growers all over Turkey, and is the growing of Kimyon, which
produces an aromatic spice seed (cumin) and commands high prices. Farming is
generally mechanized with most transportation and initial cultivation done by
tractors which average about 1 tractor to 2.3 households in the project area.
Seeding of wheat, sugarbeets, potatoes and sunflowers are by seed drill
whereas other crops are hand planted. Cereals are harvested by combine but
other crops are harvested by hand.
Marketing
3.26      Of the produce grown in Eregli county, about 45 percent is consumed
locally, 35 percent is purchased privately and 20 percent is purchased by TMO
which has storage facilities in the area for 4220 tons. Eregli has one flour
mill of 75 ton daily capacity which processes locally grown grains (25
percent) and the remainder transported from Adana and Karapinar. Vegetables
are marketed privately and of 5000 tons of potatoes produced in 1981, 3,500
tons were exported to Iraq with additional orders from Iran and Syria
unfulfilled. The area also enjoys a special market for tomatoes which are
produced later than from other areas. The area also has seven cold stores of
16,000 ton capacity mainly for apples and cheese. There is also a privately
owned fruit processing plant of 6000 tons capacity for apples, peaches,
apricots and cherries mainly for export. The company also has plans to
introduce a frozen vegetable operation of 2500 ton capacity. Sugarbeets
produced in the Eregli area are transported to the processing plants in
Kayseri and Konya. Construction of a 3000-ton capacity sugarbeet plant at Bor
in 1984 and eventually at Eregli of 4000 ton capacity should handle increased
production of sugarbeets in the area. An old mill operating since 1958 in
Konya produces animal feeds using alfalfa and has an annual 4000 ton
capacity. Livestock is consumed locally but is also exported to other parts
of Turkey and to Middle East countries.
Communications
3.27      The Eregli subproject area has connections by rail and state highway
to the provincial capital at Konya (150 km), to Nigde (100 km), Adana (200 km)
and Mersin (188 km) and also by state highway to Ankara (347 km).  In addition
to 38 km of state highway and 30 km of railroads in the irrigation scheme
area, there are also 31 km of provincial roads, 10 km asphalt roads, 123 km of
stabilized roads and 10 km of earth roads. Accordingly, access into the area
is good and possible throughout the year. Telecommunications are also
satisfactory with TV and radio services.



- 20 -
D. Ercis Irrigation Scheme
Location and Physical Environment
3.28       The scheme is in the river terrace land bounded on the south by Lake
Van, on the east by the Zilan river mostly and on the west and north by
mountains. The entire command area lies within Ercis county which is 100 km
north of the city of Van, the provincial seat. The irrigation scheme covers a
gross area of 7,500 ha and contains 12 villages with a population of 8,922.
Climate of the Ercis irrigation area is continental with precipitation
averaging between 473 to 497 mm annually and falling mostly between October
and May and only 10 percent during the vegetative growing period.
Temperatures range between maxima and minima of 370C and -280C with
monthly averages of 220C and -50C. Under rainfed conditions, poor
distribution of rainfall limits crop production to winter cereals with almost
50 percent of the area in fallow. Otherwise, conditions exist for growing a
range of crops with irrigation.
Irrigation and Drainage
3.29       The Ercis irrigation area consists of terrace land following both
sides of the Zilan river, but mostly on the right bank with elevation changing
from 1650 to 1760 m. The length of the command area is 17 km and consists of
medium to light textured alluvial and colluvial soils. The irrigation area
consists of two units. The existing area (3750 ha), which is not included in
the project, lies on the left bank of the Zilan, and is irrigated with water
diverted by a weir in the Zilan and by the Irsat spring. Some 1450 ha of
sloping land has been levelled with on-farm infrastructure completed for
subsurface drainage in a small area near Lake Van. Presently 2800 ha receives
irrigation through the existing DSI irrigation network. Project works would
be limited to a new area (Unit I, 7500 ha) located mainly on the right bank of
the Zilan river. About 6700 ha of it is farmed under rainfed conditions in a
cereal fallow rotation. About 1090 ha has up to 6 percent slope and another
780 ha having 6-12 percent slope. Located immediately upstream of the
subproject area construction of the Kockopru dam was begun in 1979 to supply
irrigation water for the new unit and generate power. It is expected to be
completed by 1984.
Land Tenure and Farming Systems
3.30      Average farm size in the Ercis scheme (7,500 ha) is 8.9 ha per
household with 44 percent of farmers having between 5 and 10 ha and 77 percent
of all households having 10 ha or less. Units larger than 10 ha account for
23 percent and 51 percent of the land area. Farmers renting or sharecropping
in the area is negligible according to DSI surveys. Cropping intensity in the
existing irrigation area of Ercis is quite high where irrigation water is
available. About a third (34 percent) is planted to alfalfa, 16 percent each
to cereals and sugarbeets, 20 percent to vegetables including potatoes, beans
and melons, poplars 20 percent and orchards and vineyards, 4 percent. Farming
in the rainfed area is traditionally mixed rainfed cereals/fallow and
livestock. Livestock in the area consists of 5800 cattle and 26,100 sheep.



- 21 -
In summer, livestock are grazed in high plateau rangelands in the surrounding
areas and winter in and around the villages where they are fed on hay,
sugarbeet pulp and straw from cereal crops. Mechanization is moderate with
about nine household units per tractor, plow, and trailer and will need to
increase when shifted from rainfed to irrigated agriculture. Mechanical
operations are similar to those practiced in the other subproject areas.
Marketing and Communications
3.31       In the Ercis subproject area excess wheat is processed in four flour
mills in Van city with a total daily capacity of 288 tons. Vegetables and
potatoes which can be held up to 1,000 tons capacity in cold storage owned by
the Ercis municipality, are exported to nearby cities and towns. A state
owned animal feed factory in Van city of 16,000 tons annual capacity operates
at only 25 percent because of low demand and produces mainly poultry feed from
cereal byproducts and cottonseed meal which is sold in Adana. A subsidiary
alfalfa processing plant stopped operations in 1980 because of low prices
offered to farmers. Sugarbeets are transported to Erzurum. The Ercis
subproject area has good connections by state highway to the provincial
capital at Van (100 km) and to Agri (130 km).  General access in the area is
satisfactory with 19 km of state highway, 23 km provincial roads, 51 km
stabilized roads and 8 km of earth roads. There is also ferry boat service on
Lake Van between Van and Tatvan where rail connection exists. Domestic air
flights also occur four days per week between Van and Ankara-Istanbul. Radio
and TV services are also available.
E. Agricultural Supporting Services
3.32      The major government institutions providing services to the four
irrigation schemes areas are the General Directorate of State Hydraulic Works
(DSI) of the Ministry of Power and Natural Resources, the General Directorate
of Land and Water Conservation (TOPRAKSU) of the Ministry of Village Affairs,
the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry's General Directorate of Agricultural
Affairs (GDAA) and the Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB).
3.33      DSI is responsible for completion of the dams, construction of weirs
and canals, most of which are done by contractors, and for operation and
maintenance of the existing irrigation networks. In Igdir they have a staff
of 55, most with University degrees, which are responsible to the DSI regional
office in Erzurum for existing irrigation schemes totalling 36,650 ha. Igdir
staff meet monthly with the USSR counterparts in discussing the technical
aspects of the shared use of the Aras river water at the diversion dam and
head regulator. The Aksu irrigation scheme is under the DSI's regional office
in Antalya which is responsible for 69,000 ha in existing irrigation schemes
and has a staff of 106 of which 88 have University degrees. In 1981 they
completed 2,748 ha of irrigation works and 1800 ha of drainage works. DSI
manufactures 120-150 km of canalettes annually in its Antalya factory which is
sufficient to meet the needs of the scheme. The DSI regional directorate in
Konya is responsible for 84,000 ha in irrigation networks in the region and is
responsible for the design and supervision of the construction of the
irrigation scheme in Eregli. It has a total staff of 156 of which 123 have



- 22 -
University degrees with 14 located in the Eregli branch office. No additional
staff would be required for completion of the program. For the Ercis
irrigation scheme the Van regional office of DSI has a technical staff of 85
of which 35 have University degrees. Existing DSI irrigation schemes in the
region cover a net area of 30,000 ha of which 2800 ha are in Ercis county.
3.34      TOPRAKSU is responsible for all on-farm. development for publicly
financed irrigation works. Until recently most on-farm development works were
by force account. Increased capabilities of local contractors is resulting in
TOPRAKISU contracting more of its works and at least 75 percent of land
levelling, surface drains and farm roads will be done by contractors. Most
subsurface drains are expected to be constructed by force account because of
lack of know-how by contractors and the required specialized equipment.
Nevertheless, measures are proposed (see para 4.02b) to encourage local
contractors to participate in a portion of subsurface drainage works.
TOPRAKSU has one of its regional offices in Erzurum with a staff of 313,
including 45 engineers, and plans to establish a project directorate for the
Igdir irrigation scheme to supervise land levelling, farm drainage and land
reclamation. In 1981, TOPRAKSU completed 2,320 ha on-farm development works,
185 ha drainage and soil reclamation, 5,445 ha small irrigation schemes and
990 ha small dams and soil conservation. TOPRAKSU also provided TL 8 million
credit for on-farm works valued at TL 12 million. The Aksu irrigation scheme
will be served by TOPRAKSU's regional office in Antalya with a staff of 260
including 34 engineers. In 1981, 150 ha on-farm drainage works, 4,175 ha of
small irrigation schemes and 290 ha of soil conservation works were carried
out.  TOPRAKSU in the region also provided TL 260 million of credit for
on-farm works totalling TL 325 million in value. The Eregli scheme will be
served by TOPRAKSU's regional headquarters in Konya with a total staff of 158
including 31 engineers. In 1981, this office completed 400 ha on-farm works,
780 ha drainage and soil reclamation 1751 ha of small irrigation schemes and
470 small dams. TOPRAKSU also provided TL 51 million for on-farm works
totalling TL 63 million in value. The Ercis irrigation scheme comes under the
jurisdiction of the TOPRAKSU regional headquarters in Van which has a staff of
294 including 28 enginers. In 1981 they completed 2502 ha of on-farm works,
3675 ha small irrigation schemes, and 4936 ha small dams and conservation
works.
3.35      GDAA is the major directorate in the MAF providing extension
services and research to the agricultural community. However, other
directorates also provide services and plans are under way to bring all such
services under the responsibility of a single Director in each province to
coordinate different directorates under MAF. Such provincial directors have
been appointed in Kars which includes the Igdir scheme, Antalya (Aksu scheme)
and Konya (Eregli scheme) and is planned for Van province (Ercis scheme). For
the Igdir scheme the GDAA extension service, Tekzik Ziraat (TZ) has 12
extension staff (5 in Igdir county and 7 in Aralik county), one of which is an
agricultural engineer and the rest agricultural technicians. They provide
inadequate service to some 26,000 farm families because of a shortage of staff
and transport. In Antalya, TZ regional headquarters has 16 graduate staff
including eight subject matter specialists. Services in the Aksu subproject
area are provided through two county offices with 11 graduate staff, 123



- 23 -
agricultural technicians and 23 home economist technicians. Contacts with
village farmers is made by technicians and graduate staff but is constrained
by a shortage of vehicles and is usually limited to visits to villages and not
to the fields. Consequently, many farmers do not look to TZ for on-farm
advice. The TZ regional office in Konya has 33 agricultural engineers and 279
agricultural technicians. In the Eregli subproject area, only 2 agricultural
engineers, 9 agricultural technicians and 2 home economists are available but
staffing is expected to increase to 28 technicians by the end of 1982.
Transport in Eregli is in short supply with TZ only having 2 vehicles. The TZ
provincial office in Van has 3 agricultural engineers, 13 technicians and 2
home economists. The Ercis subproject area has 9 agricultural technicians and
I home economist and only one vehicle.
3.36      Agricultural research.  The Igdir sub-project area is served by a
small research station of GDAA near Igdir mainly for forage crops, cereals and
cotton trials and by another small research station of TOPRAKSU near Igdir for
trials on sugarbeets, rice, soybeans and other irrigated crops. The Igdir
area also has a large state farm (3,353 ha) which is underutilized, being
mainly in pastures and meadows and livestock and some 200 ha in wheat and
barley. The farm also houses an agricultural school for training and
demonstration purposes for agricultural technicians. Combined staff of farm
and school totals 6 agricultural engineers and 13 technicians. The Aksu
project area is well served by six MAF regional research institutes for
vegetables, citrus, field crops, cotton, livestock and biological protection.
Information and materials available from these institutes should be adequate
to meet the needs of production expansion in the project area during the next
five years. The Eregli subproject area is served by research from the
regional TOPRAKSU Research Institute and the Veterinary Control and Research
Institute, both at Konya. For field crops research they must look to the
Central Anatolia Regional Research Institute near Ankara. No agricultural
research facilities exist in the vicinity of the Ercis irrigation scheme and
extension personnel will have to rely on findings of regional institutes
located elsewhere.
3.37      Agricultural credit is mainly supplied by TCZB which has branch
offices throughout the country. Loans are given to farmers or through
cooperatives. Supervised loans are given only on the basis of development
plans prepared by TCZB whereas conventional loans are granted according to
collateral offered by borrowers. In the Igdir scheme TCZB in 1981 through its
two branch offices in Igdir and Aralik provided credit to only 969 farmers who
received a total of TL 24 million. In the Aksu scheme loans by TCZB's two
branch offices is not known but the total for the provincial office in
Antalya, Aksu and Serik branch offices amounted to roughly TL 1,033 million as
45 percent crop loans, 20 percent equipment loans, 27 percent land purchase
and establishment loans mainly for greenhouses and 8 percent for other loans.
Of this amount, 59 percent was for supervised credit and 35 percent by
conventional credit and only 6 percent through cooperatives. Maximum loans
per household is TL 5 million for supervised credit and TL 2.5 million for
conventional credit. Loans for seasonal credit is presently TL 2050 for
irrigated cotton to TL 720 for wheat per 0.1 ha and a maximum of TL 500,000
per farm. The TCZB branch office in the Eregli subproject area disbursed TL



- 24 -
180 million to 4,168 farmers, whereas the Ercis branch office disbursed TL 66
million to 466 farmers in 1981. In addition to TCZB, credit in kind is
provided by the Turkish Sugar Factories (SEKER) to sugarbeet growers for seed,
fertilizer, pesticides and implements. Similar credit in kind is provided by
the cotton cooperatives such as ANTBIRLIK in the Antalya region. The usual
procedure is to deduct the cost of these expenditures at the time of sale of
harvested sugarbeets or cotton. Consultants financed under the First
Agricultural Credit Loan (1248-TU) have recommended measures to improve the
efficiency and effectiveness of TCZB. Assistance in implementing these
measures is intended to be included as part of a Second Agricultural Credit
Loan expected to be presented to the Bank's Executive Directors in the next
few months.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Brief Description
4.01      The main objectives of the project are to increase agricultural
production and incomes, expand rural employment opportunities, and to help
provide for a rational longer-term investment program for irrigation
development in Turkey. These would be accomplished by completing four
irrigation schemes covering a total of about 119,000 ha gross (112,700 ha net)
and benefitting some 25,356 farm families. It would include the construction
of additional irrigation and drainage systems; rehabilitation and improvement
of existing irrigation and drainage systems; provision of on-farm developments
in the form of land levelling, surface and subsurface drainage; correction of
salinity and alkalinity problems and feeder roads. It would also include
strengthening of extension services and the project would provide for
equipment and for training. Through an Irrigation Strategy Review and
elaboration of current and proposed investment programs, the project would
support the rationalization of future investments in irrigation, develop
criteria for future investment choice based on various considerations and
establish a clear program of institutional development.
B. Description of the Project
Works!/
4.02       Igdir Irrigation Scheme.  The subproject would complete the works
planned for providing irrigation water from the Arpacay reservoir and the Aras
river. It would comprise 56,300 ha gross (52,900 ha net) situated in the Aras
river basin adjacent to the USSR and Iran borders and include only works to be
carried out after January 1, 1983. It would include the construction of an
additional intake for the Serderabat diversion weir, a 665 m tunnel, a
settling basin to reduce siltation, and 31 km feeder canal, 144 km of main
canals and 35 km of outfall drains for the east Igdir irrigation network.
Rehabilitation and improvement of the existing irrigation and drainage system
1/ See Annex 1 for further details.



- 25 -
of Unit I would involve construction of a settling basin and rehabilitaLion of
8 km of main canals, 120 km of secondary canals, 208 km of tertiary canals,
121 km of main and secondary drains, and 284 km of tertiary drains.
Construction for the irrigation and drainage networks of Unit III would
involve 152 km main canals, 216 km secondary canals, 381 km tertiary canals,
230 km of main and secondary drains and 383 km tertiary drains.
4.03      On-farm development works for the Igdir irrigation scheme would
include 38,000 ha land levelling, 14,000 ha subsurface drains, 38,000 ha
surface drains, feeder roads for 38,000 ha and 12,500 ha reclamation of saline
and alkaline soils through amendments of gypsum (see Annex 7, C-10).
4.04      Aksu Irrigation Scheme.  The subproject would complete the works
planned for irrigating 23,220 ha gross (22,100 ha net) ha in the Antalya basin
astride the Aksu river and to be served by the Karacaoren reservoir. For
Unit I, it would raise the crest levels of the Aksu weir and the main right
and left bank canals for 30 km, rehabilitate 10 km of secondary and 19 km of
tertiary canals and add 50 km of tertiary canals, 38 km of secondary drains
and 5 km of tertiary drains which would permit irrigation of 12,260 ha. For
Unit II (3,060 ha) it would construct 4 km of main, 5 km of secondary and 89
km of tertiary canals and 7 km of main and secondary drains.  For Unit III
(7,900 ha), it would construct the Kargi concrete diversion weir, 100 m in
length with a 4 m high crest designed to pass a 1,300 m3/sec flood and a
head regulator of 31 m3/sec capacity. It would also construct the Alayli
main canal of 21 km to serve by gravity 1,294 ha gross of the right bank area
of Unit III and the Kurucen main canal of 44 km which includes a 1,500 m river
siphon and a 1,250 m tunnel to serve 4,441 ha of Unit III. It would also
construct secondary canals of 55 km and tertiary canals of 314 km. Flood
control works would be constructed to prevent periodic flooding in Unit I and
II comprising 70 km of flood protection dikes and 2 million m3 of river
channel improvement.
4.05      On-farm development works of the Aksu irrigation scheme include
17,000 ha land levelling, 7,000 ha subsurface drains, 18,500 ha surface drains
and farm roads for 17,000 ha.
4.06      Eregli Irrigation Scheme.  The subproject would complete the on-farm
development works for 12,100 ha gross (11,600 ha net) in Unit I and 19,800 ha
gross (19,000 ha net) in Unit II, served from the Ivriz reservoir. It would
not finance construction of any head or canal works as these are already
contracted out and construction is under way. The on-farm development works
to be completed include 22,000 ha land levelling, 9,000 ha subsurface drains,
22,000 ha surface drains, feeder roads for 22,000 ha and 4,000 ha reclamation
of saline and alkaline soils.
4.07      Ercis Irrigation Scheme.  The subproject would complete works for
irrigating 7,500 ha gross (7,100 ha net) of the new Unit I served from the
Kockopru reservoir. It would construct 51 km of right and left bank main
canals, irrigation and drainage networks of 65 km of secondary canals, 108 km
of tertiary canals, 33 km of secondary drains, 99 km of tertiary drains, and
400 m of siphons. On-farm development works would include land levelling of



- 26 -
7,100 ha, subsurface drains for 500 ha, surface drains and feeder roads for
5,300 ha.
EquipTment
4.08      Equipmient will be required to supplement the existing equipment for
operation and maintenance of the four irrigation schemes (Annex l, Tables
1-4). Equipment will also be required to supplement existing equipment for
on-farm drainage and about 25 percent of the total requirements for on-farm
land levelling (Annex 1, Tables 1-4).
Extension Services
4.09      The extension services would be strengthened by recruitment of three
or four subject matter specialists per each irrigation scheme and a county
agricultural engineer for three of the schemes. Agricultural technicians
would be recruited to permit a ratio of at least one village technician per
400 farm households. A county extension office and accommodation for the
subject matter specialists would be provided for in the Igdir and Eregli
schemes, Field demonstration equipment and vehicles for SMS and village
technicians would also be provided in all four irrigation schemes.
Training
4.10      In addition to on-job training, provision has been made for about
170 manmonths of training abroad of staff in various aspects of irrigation,
investment assessments, operation and maintenance, cost recovery, on-farm
development, soil reclamation, and extension.
Master Plan for Investment in irrigation Develment
4.11      The Government has many irrigation schemes in various stages of
construction (see para 2.03). In order to avoid having funds spread too
thinly stretching out completion of projects, there is a need to systematize
which of these schemes should receive priority for completion, develop
criteria for future investment choices and establish a program of
institutional support where requiread  In order to establish a rational longer
term investment program for irrigation development, the borrower would by June
30, 1984 conduct an irrigation strategy review and prepare an investment
master plan aiming at achieving an average increase in irrigated area over the
next ten years to about 100,000 ha per year, and would submit the plan to the
Bank for comments. Assistance for preparation and review would be provided by
a specialist consultant financed by the project (see para. 5.12 and Annex 6).
(para 8.01a).
C. Water Requirements, Availability and Quality
4.12      Water Requirements.  Net water requirements for the proposed
cropping patterns of the nine units of the four schemes vary between 252 mm
(Ercis Scheme) and 592 mm (Aksu Scheme, Unit II). Differences in annual
demand between the units are caused by different patterns, cropping



- 27 -
intensities and percentages of crops with low irrigation requirements (winter
cereals) and high requirements (rice). The overall efficiency of all four
schemes has been estimated to be 51 percent, based on conveyance efficiencies
of 85 percent and on-farm efficiencies of 60 percent. Annual diversion point
requirements are:
Igdir Scheme                      466 million m3
Aksu Scheme                       234 million m3
Eregli Scheme                     161 million m3
Ercis Scheme                       35 million m3
Peak requirements occur in the months of July or August.  To meet peak demand,
irrigation modules varying between 0.58 1/s/ha (Eregli Scheme Unit II) and
1.44 1/s/ha (Aksu Scheme, Unit II) have been used for designing the irrigation
systems. Future developments depending on the same sources of supply are
planned by the Government for the Igdir, Aksu and Ercis schemes, with the
latter two also including hydropower development. Reservoir operation studies
have been made which take into account these future needs and it was found
that future developments would not affect water supply for Aksu and Ercis and
only insignificantly the Igdir supply conditions of presently irrigated areas
and extensions to be added by the project.
4.13      Water Availability and Quality.  The existing supply systems for the
four schemes, as they have been built or are in the final stages of
construction, have sufficient capacity to meet crop requirements in most of
the years and with acceptable reductions during very dry years. Reservoir
operation studies indicated that the Igdir scheme would have a supply
shortfall (about 10-15 percent) only once in a sample period of 26 years. The
Eregli scheme would be subject to shortages in 4 out of every 17 years with
shortfalls varying between 7 and 27 percent. The Aksu and Ercis schemes would
not experience any shortage during the sample periods. The storage dam for
the Igdir scheme, the Arpacay dam, will be operational in 1983. The dams for
the Eregli and Ercis schemes, the Ivriz and Kockopru dams, would be completed
in 1984 and operational in 1985. The Karacaoren dam would be completed by
1985. However, supply for the additional areas in the Aksu scheme (Units II
and III) would be met before 1985 by releases of additionally stored water in
the Egridir lake. The Government would employ independent qualified experts
acceptable to the Bank to periodically inspect on an agreed schedule the
ongoing construction of the Karacaoren, Ivriz and Kockopru dams. Without
limiting requirements for project operation and maintenance in general, the
Government also shall, under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, cause the
Karacaoren, Ivriz and Kockopru dams to be periodically inspected in accordance
with sound engineering practice in order to determine whether there are any
deficiencies in the condition of the dams or in the quality and adequacy of
maintenance or methods of operations which may endanger their safety.
Assurances of the above as well as the provision of all required funds and
facilities to permit timely completion of the Karacaoren, Ivriz and Kockopru
dams (for impounding 84/85) would be obtained during negotiations (para 8.01
b&d). The water quality for all four schemes is good and can be used for
irrigation without any restriction.



- 28 -
D. Water Rights
4.14      There is an international agreement between Turkey and USSR on the
use of the Aras river flows which divides the two countries. The Aras river
further downstream forms the border between Iran and the USSR. The Serderabat
diversion dam with two intakes was jointly built and has been operating since
1927 equally dividing the Aras river flows. Recently the Arpacay storage dam
was jointly built upstream and provides additional flows when necessary and a
supplementary treaty was signed in 1973 governing the use of this water.
Government provided copies of these treaties which satisfactorily deal with
the water rights issues for the Igdir subproject with respect to the USSR.
With respect to Iran, the arrangements in effect since 1960 have led to full
utilization of all available water by USSR and lurkey during the growing
season. The storage of additional water during the winter (8% of total flow)
for release during the growing season appears not to have any significant
adverse effects on Iran. These findings were conveyed to Iran and no
objections have been received.
E. Status of Engineering
4.15      The project work requirements have been studied and are well defined
by DSI and TOPRAKSU and no more investigative work is necessary on the
irrigation, drainage and on-farm development works. Preliminary designs and
cost estimates have been prepared by DSI and TOPRAKSU with some assistance
from the FAO/IBRI) Cooperative Program. DSI and TOPRAKSU have the
responsibility of preparing final design cost estimates and bidding documents
and have done so for the first year's contracts (1983), including main
irrigation and drainage works for Unit I and III of the Igdir scheme, and main
irrigation and drainage works for the Ercis scheme.
F. Cost Estimates
4.16      The total project cost (exclusive of some US$28.3 million for farm
investment credit and US$14.2 million for incremental farm operating credit)
is estimated to be US$292.0 million equivalent including some US$6.6 million
in taxes. The foreign exchange component which includes both direct and
indirect foreign costs is estimated at US$115.0 million or about 39.4 percent
of the total cost. The base cost represents the estimated cost of investment
and initial operation during the five-year (1983-87) project implementation
period, in March 1983 terms (US$1=TL 195.0). The estimated foreign exchange
cost consists mostly of heavy equipment for construction and maintenance of
irrigation/drainaige works, as well as a portion of construction costs.
Physical contingencies of a total of US$27.8 million equivalent, or about 12
percent of the base project cost, have been estimated on the basis of 15
percent of the cost of main irrigation and drainage works, 15 percent of the
cost of on-farm development works, 15 percent of the cost of engineering, 10
percent of the cost of machinery and equipment and 15 percent of the cost of
buildings and initial operation of the extension services. Price
contingencies between the March 1983 and the end of the project implementation
period are estimated at US$39.4 million equivalent, or 15.6 percent of base
cost plus physical contingencies. They have been applied to both local and
foreign costs in US$ terms at the following annual rates: 8.0 percent in
1983, 7.5 percent in 1984 and 7.0 percent in 1985 and 6.0 percent in each of
1986 and 1987. By measuring both foreign and local price contingencies in



- 29 -
US$ equivalents, it has been assumed in line with the Government's policy that
the lira exchange rate would change so as to offset the inflation differential
between Turkey and its major trading partners. The lira has been devalued
roughly in accordance with this pattern since 1980 and is now adjusted daily
on a crawling-peg system. A summary of the project cost is given in Table 4.1
with details in Annex 2 (Tables 1-4).
G. Financing
4.17      Financing.  The proposed Bank loan of US$115.3 million equivalent
will finance 100 percent of the foreign exchange costs of the project (39.4
percent of total costs) and the front end fee. The Government of Turkey as the
borrower will contribute US$176.7 million equivalent or 60.6 percent of the
total. The Government, at negotiations satisfied the Bank that they have
sufficient funds to finance year one budget allocations for the various
components of the project. Subsequently, the Government would submit to the
Bank for review, not later than September 30 prior to the beginning of each
fiscal year, an annual updated financing plan indicating the proposed budget
allocations for the project including revised schedules which account for
physical and price changes. In addition, government will provide or cause to
be provided timely and adequate credit to farmers in the project areas.
Assurances for the above were obtained during negotiations (para 8.Olc&g).
H. Procurement and Retroactive Financing
4.18      During negotiations assurances were obtained that contracts
(estimated at about US$33.0 million equivalent including price and physical
contingencies) for construction of DSI project works excluding the Igdir
subproject and 40 percent of the Ercis subproject and rehabilitation of the
existing network, and contracts (estimated at US$42.0 million equivalent) for
purchase of equipment and machinery would be awarded through ICB in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition of the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits published by
the Bank in March 1977. Bidding documents for equipment will stipulate that
suppliers will guarantee adequate servicing and the provision of spare parts
within Turkey. Purchase of small items of value less than $50,000 and not to
exceed $250,000 in total for the project may be procured off-the-shelf.
Because of the remoteness and inaccessibility of the area, seven contracts
varying in size from $0.5 million to $12 million (estimated at US$49.9 million
equivalent) for the construction of the project works of the Igdir irrigation
scheme could be more efficiently carried out by local contracts and would thus
be awarded through LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. In addition, about
US$4.1 million awarded through LCB acceptable to the Bank for part of the
Ercis subproject but not yet begun has been included. About US$33.2 million
for the rehabilitation of the existing irrigation networks in Unit I each of
the Aksu and the Igdir irrigation schemes would be by DSI force account. This
is appropriate since work can only be accomplished during periods when power
plants can be shut down and irrigation service interrupted. At least 75
percent of TOPRAKSU civil works for land levelling, surface drainage and farm
roads, and at least 10 percent for subsurface drains (estimated at about
US$43.2 million equivalent) and construction of buildings for the extension
service (about US$1.6 million equivalent) would be carried out by contracts
awarded by LCB. These on-farm works are local in nature and local contractors



- 30 -
Table 4.1. PRDJECT OOST SUMMARY
Foreign
Item                                Local     Foreign      Total        Iocai      Foreig      Total         Exchange
TL Million                          U   Million 
Main irrigation & drainage works   10648.2       7098.8   17747.0          54.6        36.4       91.0          40.0
On-farm development works            6544.8      3730.7   10275.5          33.6        19.1       52.7          36.3
Machinery & ecluipment               1421.1      5519.7    6940.8           7.3        28.3       35.6          79.5
Engineering                          2802.2        -       2802.2          14.4         -         14.4           -
Land acquisition                     3053.0        -       3053.0          15.7         -         15.7           -
Buildings                             197.6        62.4     260.0           1.0         0.3        1.3          24.0
Training and consultants                4.7       115.4     120.1           0.0         0.6       0.6           96.1
06M main works                       1580.2       526.8    2107.0           8.1         2.7       10.8          25.0
Extension services (operation)        257.7       223.4     481.1           1.3         1.1        2.5          46.4
Total Base Cost                     26509.6    17277.1   43786.7          135.9        88.6     224.5           39.5
Physical Contingencies               3210.1      2219.3    5429.7          16.5        11.4       27.8          40.9
Price Contingencies /2               4744.8     2925.0    7669.8           24.3        15.0      39.3           38.2
Total project cost                  34464.9    22421.4   56886.3          176.7       115.0     291.7           39.4
Front-end fee                          -           55.4      55.4           -           0.3        0.3         100.0
Total Financing Required            34464.9    22476.9   56941.7          176.7       115.3     292.0           39.5
/1 Table contains rounding errors.
/2 Estimated in dollar terms at an exchange rate of US$1=IL 195.0. Because local inflation is expected
to be higher than international inflation, the actual TL amounts will be higher, the difference being
offset by changes in exchange rate.



- 31 -
are well versed in such works which are small and in scattered locations.
Furthermore, no foreign contractors would be interested in bidding on small
and localized works which must be completed in a short period of time between
crop seasons. Up to 90 percent of subsurface drainage work and up to 25
percent of land levelling work (estimated at US$30.1 million equivalent) may
be undertaken by force account (which is a considerable reduction from all
previously Bank-financed projects with on-farm development by force account
reduced from 100% force account to 41% in this project). Contractors will be
encouraged to undertake subsurface drainage works (see para 5.02b). In order
not to interrupt progress on the project, all contracts signed after January
1, 1983 which were awarded in accordance with the above procedures would be
eligible for financing under the proposed loan. The amount of retroactive
financing for such advanced contracting is estimated at up to US$4.0 million.
Details of the procurement packages are shown in Annex 3.
4.19      Ongoing construction work, contracted or undertaken by force account
before 1983 has not been included in the package to be financed by the World
Bank loan although its timely completion is essential for the project's
success. Assurances were obtained during negotiations on the timely
completion of these essential works and adequate operation and maintenance
thereafter and that Government will include the necessary funds, estimated at
US$10.1 million equivalent, in its budget (para 8.0ld).
I. Implementation Schedule
4.20      The project would be completed in five years (1983 to 1987) as per
implementation schedule in Chart No. 24416. An estimated schedule of
expenditures is presented in Annex 2, Table 1. The projected program for
irrigation works and on-farm development are shown in Annex 4. A summary of
both is presented below.
Calendar Year                    1983       1984       1985       1986       1987
 ----------US$ Million Equivalent ----------
Annual estimat.ed expenditres
Government funds               29.0       44.4       47.9       37.6       17.8
IBRD funds                     21.0       40.9       23.8       20.2        9.1
Total                       50.0       85.3       71.7       57.8      27.4
Cumulative expenditures            50.0     135.3      207.0      264.8      291.7
1983      1984       1985       1986       1987
---- net ha '000 ----------------
Yearly development completed
Irrigation network             15.1       22.9       21.9       14.3       -
On-farm works                   8.7       22.9       20.7       22.8       20.9
Cumulative development         21.7       45.1       59.2       84.5     ]L08.7
J. Disbursements
4.21      The proposed Bank loan of US$115.3 million net of taxes would be
disbursed over six years as follows:



- 32 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated                 % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category /1                     Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1) Irrigation and drainage
works - DSI
(a) By contract                     38,400,000                  50%
(b) By force account                 7,800,000                  25%
(2) Irrigation and drainage
works and soil
reclamation - Topraksu
(a) By contract                     19,100,000                  50%
(b) By force account                 7,000,000                  25%
(3) Works for buildings and
extension services                      800,000                 50%
(4) Equipment: and vehicles                                 100% of foreign ex-
(a) DSI                             20,300,000         penditures, 100% of
(b) TOPRAKSU                        11,300,000         local expenditures
(c) TZ                                 300,000         (ex-factory cost) and
60% of local expendi-
tures for other items
procured locally
(5) Overseas training                                       100% of foreign
(a) DSI                                300,000         expenditures
(b) TOPRAKSU                           200,000
(c) TZ                                 100,000
(6) Consultants                             100,000         75% of local expendi--
tures for services of
consultants domiciled
within the territory
of the Borrower and
100% of foreign expen-
ditures for services
of other consultants
(7) Initial deposit in the Special
Account to prefinance items under
Categories 1, 2 and 3 above          4,000,000
(8) Fee                                     287,531        Amount due
(9) Unallocated                           5,412,469
TOTAL                       115,300,000
/1 For ease of disbursement, $5.0 million foreign exchange cost of O&M
operations will be met by equivalent higher disbursement on construction
cost.



- 33 -
Four million US Dollars from categories 1(a), 2(a) and 3 will be disbursed
into a Special Account (revolving fund) to avoid the need for the Government
to advance the total cost of payments to contractors and then await repayment
from the Bank. A tentative disbursement schedule is shown in Annex 5. The
proposed schedule is accelerated from the profile for irrigation projects in
Turkey where 50 percent disbursed averages 53 months, since these irrigation
schemes are in ongoing projects and delays in setting up new project
organizations will not arise. Furthermore Turkey's disbursement profile
includes periods of unusual political disruptions which are not expected to be
repeated. Therefore disbursement should be better than usual. LCB contracts
above US$500,000 will be paid through submitting full documentation of
contracts and withdrawal applications supported by invoices. LCB contracts
below US$500,000 and force account will be paid through Statement of Expenses
only.
K. Environmental Impact
4.22      Bilharzia does not occur in Turkey.  Malaria, however, occasionally
occurs in Turkey and may also occur in the four subproject areas, but it is
not endemic. In 1978, an outbreak of malaria which reached endemic levels in
the Seyhan plains was mainly caused by insufficient organization and means by
the Ministry of Health to control its vector, the anopheles mosquito.   Since
then, aided with supplies of insecticides by EEC countries, the Ministry of
Health has radically brought down the anopheles population and the incidence
of malaria is low. In the four subproject areas malaria has been much less of
a problem than in the Seyhan plain because of (a) less conducive environmental
factors, (b) naturally better drained areas than the Seyhan plains, and (c)
lesser use of migrant labor which is the main source of malaria infection.
The project would improve drainage in the existing irrigation areas as well as
in the new extensions in the four subproject areas which should all help to
conserve and improve the environment. No detrimental effects are expected on
the chemical/physical/biological regime of the water.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
Organization
5.01      Implementation of the project components would be the responsibility
of the government agencies concerned and since each irrigation scheme
represents merely an acceleration of the on-going programs, no serious
difficulties are anticipated.
5.02      The agencies and their responsibilities for completion of the four
irrigation schemes and development to their full potential are as follows:
(a) DSI regional staff will be responsible for designs for
engineering works which have not been completed through its
engineers at each of the three regional DSI offices except
for the Igdir works which has been prepared at Headquarters



- 34 -
with consultants. The engineers at the three regional DSI
offices are presently underemployed and have both the
capacity and ability to prepare such designs which are
mainly standard. Construction will be by ICB except for the
Igdir subproject where LCB will be employed and for
rehabilitation of existing works which will be by force
account. DSI will acquire land needed for drain canals,
etc., compulsory under its powers and will be responsible
for paying compensation to its owners. Construction,
operation and maintenance will be supervised by DSI staff
who are considered capable of carrying out this
responsibility;
(b) TOPRAKSU regional staff will contact farmers one year before
on-farm development works. They will secure a signed
'"guaranitee" from each farmer to make land available after
harvesi: of the crop in June. The "guarantee" will be
approved by the village head, the mukhtar. During the
previous year, TOPRAKSU will prepare preliminary designs for
land levelling in order to assess approximate quantities and
finalize the designs after crop harvest. Final designs will
also be prepared for farm drains. Land levelling, surface
drainage and farm roads will be at least 75 percent
performed by contractors with bids called during the winter
months and contracts signed in March. The remainder of land
levelling and up to 90 percent of subsurface drainage will
be done by TOPRAKSU force account using its own equipment.
However, local contractors would be encouraged to bid for at
least 10 percent of subsurface drainage works by initially
being allowed to use backhoes and other equipment in place
of trenchers. Assurances to this effect were obtained
during negotiations (para 89.02e):
(c)  Extension Services in the subproject areas would operate as
part of the provincial and district organizations under the
provincial director of extension. After selection and
initial training, agricultural technicians would work four
or five days weekly with farmers in their villages providing
advice and demonstrations in the villages and in farmers'
fields. Once established, one day of training by district
engineers and subject matter specialists would be given to
the agricultural technicians every two weeks with nine days
in field extension work. Each group technician would have
regular visits to the agricultural technician in his charge
according to a predetermined schedule and would also spend
one day every two weeks for in-service training at district
or provincial level and some time, as needed, in the
planning and execution of field demonstration plots.
District: agricultural engineers would be responsible for
outlining the work schedule and extension programs for the
village technicans concerned in accordance with the season,



- 35 -
cropping patterns and packages to be promoted and would be
assisted as required by SMS at the provincial and district
levels. The provincial directors of extension on behalif of
the provincial directors of Agriculture would have overall
responsibility for deciding, planning and implementing
extension programs in the province. Through the directors
of Agriculture, he would coordinate the work of extension
with other sections such as plant protection and would
liaise with institutions concerned with agricultural
research, input supply, marketing, and credit. Assurances
to this effect were obtained during negotiations (para
8.01f);
(d) Provision of agricultural credit in the four irrigation
schemes would be guaranteed by Government in adequate
amounts for farmers' requirements and assurances to this
effect were obtained during negotiations (para 8.01g).
Estimated incremental credit requirements arising from the
project are estimated at US$42.5 million equivalent. It is
expected to come primarily from TCZB, either directly to
farm households or through appropriate cooperatives. The
organization required to facilitate this increased activity
is expected to be strengthened through the proposed Bank
assisted Agricultural Credit II project; and
(e) Marketing for all project output would be disposed of
through existing channels of the private sector for grains,
forage, livestock, fruits, vegetables, cotton, oilseeds,
spices and poplars as well as government agencies of TMO for
grains, cotton cooperatives of Antbirlik and Cukorbirlik and
SEKER for sugarbeets. Supplies of seeds and pesticides will
come mainly from the private sector but also from the
government sector for wheat, cotton and sugarbeet seeds and
for fertilizers.
Coordination
5.03      During preparation of the project, DSI Headquarters staff in Ankara
was given responsibility to coordinate the contributions of the three major
agencies involved. During project implementation each of the implementing
agencies shall furnish documentation for the purposes of monitoring,
evaluation and preparation of progress reports and assurances to this effect
were obtained during negotiations (para 8.01h).
5.04      Regional Coordinating Committees.  In order to expedite the
completion programs for the four irrigation schemes, each province will form a
coordinating committee chaired by the provincial governor (Vali) to oversee
the progress and execution of the scheme. The committee would consist of the
DSI, TOPRAKSU and Extension Services Directors and their respective project
engineers for the irrigation scheme. The branch managers of TCZB in the
region would also be represented. The coordinating committee would meet at
least once a month and could be called more frequently if problems



- 36 -
jeopardizing the progress of works arise. The irrigation schemes would look
to the provincial governors for assistance in resolving problems which arise
locally or througnh contact with authorities in Ankara if the problem cannot be
resolved at the provincial level. Assurances for the establishment and
operations of the Regional Coordinating Committees by December 31, 1983 were
obtained during negotiations (para 8.01i).
B. Staffing and Training
Staffing
5.05      In general DSI has adequate and qualified staff in the provinces and
Headquarters to carry out all aspects of project design, tendering,
supervision of construction, operation and maintenance of the irrigation
network system. COPRAKSU similarly has adequate and qualified staff in the
irrigation scheme areas of Aksu, Eregli and Ercis to carry out all aspects of
project design, tendering, supervision of land levelling, and construction of
farm drainage and farm roads. They are also qualified to carry out by force
account about 25 percent of the land levelling works and the installation of
subsurface drains. For the Igdir irrigation scheme, TOPRAKSU will establish
in Igdir a project: office section by December 31, 1983 under a Chief Engineer
and staffed by five supervising engineers in the area of land levelling,
on-farm drainage, land rehabilitation, land consolidation and machinery and
equipment. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations (para
8.Olj).
5.06      The extension services in each of the irrigation schemes would be
strengthened with additional staff. For the Igdir irrigation scheme, 27
additional agricultural technicians would be recruited to supplement the
existing 12 to service 59 villages and about 12,500 farm households. Six of
the more experienced would act as group technicians, each supervising about
five village-basecd technicians. A district agricultural engineer would also
be recruited as well as the appointment of four subject matter specialists
(SMS) in the subjects of field crops, horticulture, irrigation and livestock.
For the Aksu irrigation scheme, 8 agricultural technicians would be recuited
to supplement the eight group technicians presently available. Also four SMS
would be appointed covering the subjects of irrigation, field crops,
horticulture and aigricultural economics. For the Eregli and Ercis schemes
sufficient technicians are on hand but 3 SMS each would be appointed to cover
the subjects of irrigation, field crops, economics and horticulture. Also,
one district agricultural engineer would be recruited for the Ercis irrigation
scheme. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations (para
8.01k).
Training
5.07      In-service training would be provided primarily to extension staff.
Initially recruited agricultural technicians would receive at least one-month
training before being assigned to the field. Subsequently all agricultural
technicians would receive training once every two weeks by the Agricultural
Engineers and SMS. Group technicians would, in addition, also receive two
weeks annual refresher training. Newly recruited SMS would receive one



- 37 -
month's initial training followed by two weeks annual refresher training. In
order to more accurately tailor extension skills to project objectives, GDAA's
Training Department would conduct, within six months of project effectiveness,
a training needs survey in the four irrigation scheme areas. After completion
of the survey by February 29, 1984 and its assessment, the GDAA Training
Department would hold a workshop for at least one week to ensure that relevant
training programs were designed and would assist those responsible for
training to acquire design skills. Short-term assistance is provided for
analysis of needs assessment work and project training program design.
5.08      Training abroad would also be provided for representatives of DSI,
TOPRAKSU and the extension services. Training would be provided for on
irrigation networks, operation and maintenace and cost recovery (DSI - 80
man-months), on-farm development and soil reclamation (TOPRAKSU - 65
man-months) and extension (25 man-months). All programs for training abroad
would be submitted to the Bank for approval. Assurances for short-term
assistance and training abroad were obtained during negotiations (para 8.01 1).
C. Government Land
5.09      As indicated in para 3.05, 10,200 ha of the 56,300 ha in the Igdir
Irrigation Scheme is publicly owned land. Government plans to have this land
become the property of the Treasury Department after TOPRAKSU has completed
the on-farm development works. In accordance with Circular No. 106 of the
Ministry of Finance dated June 26, 1980, Treasury plans to lease this land for
three to five years to farmers, in order of priority, to those with no land,
small landholders, farmers renting or sharecropping and farmers in the
immediate vicinity of the project area. Both the project cost and the
economic analysis have been based on the assumption that this land would be
leased to farmers who mostly originate from the area; therefore no settlement
cost has been taken into account. Since most of this land will not be
available until 1985, assurances were obtained during negotiations that (a)
Government will submit to the Bank by July 1, 1984 a detailed plan for
disposition of irrigated government and village owned land and (b) unless
otherwise agreed, Government will lease or sell the government and village
owned land irrigated under this project to farmers under arrangements
acceptable to the Bank (para 8.01m).
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitoring
5.10      Monitoring of civil works construction and procurement of
furnishings, vehicles and equipment will be the responsibility of each of the
implementing agencies, namely DSI, TOPRAKSU and the DGAA Extension
Directorates. Each agency would prepare semiannual reports on the progress of
project execution and submit these in a timely manner to the Bank. The
reports would include information on the progress of construction of all
physical facilities under the various project components, on procurement of
equipment materials and on project expenditures. Annually, data would be



- 38 -
reported which includes information on the areas rehabilitated and reclaimed,
on-farm development works completed and their cost recovery, O&M costs and
recovery, cropping patterns, crop yields and output, extension services
provided and training. Assurances were obtained during negotiations for the
timely submission of these reports and in a format acceptable to the Bank
(para 8.01n).
Project Completion Report (PCR)
5.11      Immediaitely after completion of the project, but no later than six
months after the closing date DSI in cooperation with TOPRAKSU and DGAA would
prepare and submit to the Bank a project completion report (PCR). It would
report on the implementation and operations of the project, its costs and its
existing and projected derived benefits. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations for the timely submission of the PCR and in a format acceptable
to the Bank (para 8.Olo).
E. Irrigation Strategy Review
5.12      In the past irrigation development has been handicapped by the
initiation of too many projects, beyond implementation and financing
capabilities, causing excessive periods to be required for project
completion. Over the past two years the government annual investment programs
have concentrated resources on priority projects nearest completion. This
policy is being continued under the 1983 investment program. Nevertheless, a
further planning exercise is required to establish future investment
priorities among the various partially completed projects and to develop
implementation plans taking account of financing and implementation
constraints. A review will be conducted by Government which will form the
basis of preparing a master plan by June 30, 1984 for future government policy
on irrigation strategy over the next 10 years with a more precise
implementation plan for the first five years and aiming at an annual increase
in additional irrigated area of about 100,000 ha per year during the period.
It would be based on a detailed inventory on a project by project basis and an
assessment of existing and projected irrigation and on-farm development
investments and of financial and implementation constraints. It would detail
the issues and targets to be reached including additional works required, cost
and timing, arrangements for sustainability of irrigation works and cost
recovery improvement and serve as a basis for future lending by external
donors.  One of the measures recommended to increase implementation capacity
would be an increased substitution of private contractors in place of TOPRAKSU
force account workc for all on-farm development works including subsurface
drainage. About eight manmonths of technical assistance is included under the
project to assist in the preparation of the master plan. The master plan
would be submittedl to the Bank for review and would serve as a basis for
preparation and execution of future irrigation projects for which Bank
assistance might apply (see Annex 6 for further details). Assurances for such
a review were obtained during negotiations (para 8.01a).



- 39 -
F. Accounts and Audit
5.13      Practically all financial functions in Turkish Ministries are
carried out by staff of the Ministry of Finance seconded to various
ministries, and fully independent from the management of the ministries they
are assigned to. They report to the Ministry of Finance, who intervenes in
case of conflict. DSI, TOPRAKSU and DGAA would each maintain separate
accounts for the project. Staff of the three agencies involved would prepare
at the end of each quarter a detailed statement of project expenditures during
the period (in an agreed format) and submit such statement to the Bank within
45 days after the end of each quarter. Such statements would, inter alia, be
used as a basis for supervising the progress and costs of force account
works. In addition, an annual audit would be carried out by the Auditor
General's office and submitted to the Bank within nine months of the end of
each fiscal year. Financial reporting and auditing will be in accordance with
the World Bank 1982 Guidelines Report. Assurances to this effect were
obtained during negotiations (para 8.Olp&q).
G.  Cost Recovery
5.14      The Government has agreed to take all necessary action to permit
TOPRAKSU by September 1984 to assess and collect charges for on-farm
development works under the Project sufficient to recover costs over a period
of 20 years. Completion of such actions would be a condition of disbursement
for DSI works and equipment and disbursements on TOPRAKSU equipment and force
account work and on contracts entered into by TOPRAKSU after September 1, 1984
would also be curtailed if appropriate action is not forthcoming by September
1, 1984 (para 8.01r).
5.15      DSI water charges for O&M costs would increase progressively under
an agreed schedule (37.5% in 1983, 50% in 1984, 75% in 1985) so that, by the
1986 i-rrigation season, beneficiaries would be charged the full costs of O&M
based on the previous year's actual expenditures. Furthermore, capital costs
recovery would be increased by inclusion of interests. In order to improve
recovery of water charges, the Government indicated its intention of seeking
legislative change to permit increased penalties by a su gested additional 2
percent per month after the second month of delinquency (in addition to the
present 10 percent surcharge for non-payment imposed at the first repayment
date). Appropriate legal procedures would be instituted in cases of
delinquency of more than 12 months with water delivery discontinued after
prolonged failure to repay. During negotiations assurances were obtained
covering these cost recovery provisions (para 8.01s).
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Crop Areas, Cropping Patterns and Yields
6.01      In the Igdir scheme, the total cropped area 1/ would increase from
about 29,950 ha at present to some 53,200 ha with the project at full
1/ The cropped area as defined in this chapter excludes fallow and waste
and includes all areas effectively cropped, with doubled-cropped
areas counted twice. Therefore it differs from the total gross as
well as net areas quoted elsewhere.



- 40 -
development. This increase would be due mostly to the introduction of
irrigation in areas which presently are either waste or low productivity
pasture or meadow land. Because of climatic constraints, double cropping
would be limited to about 5,000 ha on which cultivation of maize for silage
will follow a winter wheat crop.
6.02      Except for the introduction of paddy to speed up reclamation of
saline soils, the present range of crops would continue to be grown. The
share of cereals would however decrease in favor of more labor- and
water-intensive crops as shown below: 2/
Table 6.1: Changes in Cropping Patterns - Igdir
Cropped Area ('000 ha)             % of Total Cropped
Present          Future            Present      Future
Cereals                 13.2            17.1               44.2         32.1
Sugarbeet                6.0            10.6               20.0        19.9
Cotton                   4.5             4.1               14.9         7.7
Sunflower                0.1             1.1                0.3          2.1
Fruit & Vegetable        2.2             7.6                 7.4       14.3
Fodder crops             3.8            11.4                12.7       21.4
Poplar                  0.2              1.3                0.5         2.5
Total               30.0             53.2              100.0       100.0
6.03      A substantial increase in yields per hectare is expected as a result
of improved irrigation/drainage and soil reclamation, combined with expanded
extension services and greater use of inputs. Future yields at full
development (i.e. 3 to 4 years after commencement of irrigation) have been
estimated at the levels currently obtained on lands where irrigation is
properly conducted and agricultural practices adequate, and can be summarized
as follows for the main crops:
2/   The projected cropping pattern in Unit III is relatively less
labor-intensive than in Units [ and II to allow for a larger average farm
size and more limited labor availability. For each unit of each
irrigation scheme, the evolution over time of cropping patterns, yields
and product-ions has been derived fromn the relevant farm model(s) ancl the
anticipated phasing-in of these models.  Dletails can be found in Working
Paper C.6 of the Project File.



- 41 -
Table 6.2.  Yield locreasesl/ - lgdir
Yields (ton/ha)
Present                         Future
Units I & II            Unit III            All Units
Wheat (grain)                   3.0                   1.5                 3.5
Sugarbeet                      35.0                  20.0                45.0
Seed cotton                     1.2                   1.2                 3.0
Sunflower                       1.75                  -                   2.25
Vegetable (tomato)             17.5                   -                  22.0
Water melon                    18.0                  12.0                22.5
Orchard (apple)                 9.0                   -                  16.0
Alfalfa (hay)                   9.0                   7.0                11.0
Maize (silage)                  -                     -                  30.0
1! Variation in yields of specific crops may be noted between irrigation
schemes due to wide differences in agroecological conditions.
6.04       In the Aksu irrigation scheme, the total cropped area with the
project would increase from about 22,050 ha at present to 26,700 ha at full
development, mostly by (i) an increase in double-cropped area from about 720
ha to 3,720 ha; and (ii) the cultivation of areas which presently are waste
because of poor drainage. With the project, thie increased supply of water for
irrigation will permit changes in cropping patterns and in particular a
substantial increase in horticultural crops, citrus orchards and greenhouses,
as shown below:
Table 6.3; Changes in Cropping Patterns - Aksu
Cropped Area ('000 ha)              % of Total Cropped
Present          Future             Present       Future
Wheat                    7.3               5.0               33.1         18.7
Paddy                    -                 0.3                -            1.1
Cotton                  13.4              13.4               60.9         50.2
Field Vegetable          0.5               2.1                2.3          7.9
Citrus                   0.1               2.1                0.3          7.8
Greenhouse               0.023             0.116              0.1          0.4
Second crops
(maize, sesame)        0.7               3.7                3.3         13.9
Total                22.0              26.7              100.0        100.0
6.05       Significant yield increases are expected as a result of (i) the
increased supply of water for irrigation and its more even distribution after
land levelling; (ii) the prevention of periodic flooding in Unit I; and (iii)
improved drainage over most of the area. Based on yields reported from the
adjoining Koprucay area, where similar soils and drainage problems have been
remedied through a previous World Bank assisted project, estimates of yield
increases are the following;



- 42 -
Table 6.4: Yield Increases - Aksu
Yields (ton/ha)
Present              Future
Wheat (grain)                         2.5-2.7              3.6
Paddy                                 -                    5.5
Seed cotton                           2.0-2.7              3.6
Field Vegetable (tomato)            25.0                 35.0
Citrus (orange)                     15.0                 25.0-30.0
Greenhouse (tomato)                 80.0                100.0
Sesame (2nd crop)                    0.8                   1.0
Maize (2nd crop)                      2.0                  4.0
6.06       In the Eregli irrigation scheme, the cropped area would increase
from 21,950 ha to 27,650 ha mostly by introduction of irrigation and hence
continuous cropping in areas of Unit II which presently are exclusively
rainfed and consequently under a cereal-fallow rotation. As a result of this,
as well as of increased water availability in areas already irrigated, the
following intensification of land use is expected;
Table 6.5: Changes in Cropping Patterns - Eregli
Cropped Area ('000 ha)              % of Total Cropped
Present          Future             Present       Future
Cereals                 14.4               9.4               65.5         33.8
Sugarbeet                2.0               3.0                9.0         10.9
Potato, Bean, Onion    0.3                 3.9                1.2         14.0
Fruit & Vegetable        5.0               8.7               22.8         31.4
Alfalfa                  0.3               1.8                1.5          6.7
Poplar                   -                 0.9                -            3.2
Total                22.0              27.7             100.0         100.0
The improved irrigation and drainage infrastructure would result in the
following yield increases:
Table 6.6: Yield Increases - Eregli
Yields (ton/ha)
Present              Future
Wheat (rainfed)                       1.75                 -
(irrigated)                    2.2-3.0              4.0
Sugarbeet                           34.0-35.0            50.0
Bean                                  1.25                 2.25
Vegetable (tomato)                  10.0                  25.0
Orchard (apple)                       8.0                 16.0
Alfalfa (hay)                         8.5                 12.0



- 43 -
6.07       In the Ercis irrigation scheme, the cropped area would increase from
about 4,100 ha to 6,800 ha as a result of introduction of irrigation on land
which presently is mostly rainfed and under a cereal-fallow rotation. Land
use would be intensified as follows:
Table 6.7; Changes In Cropping Pattern - Ercis
Cropped Area ('000 ha)              % of Total Cropped
Present          Future             Present       Future
Cereals                  3.5               2.7               85.3         40.0
Sugarbeet                0.2               0.5                3.7          6.9
Potato, bean             0.1               0.8                2.5         11.9
Fruit & Vegetable        -                 0.7                -           10.0
Alfalfa                  0.3               1.7                8.5         25.0
Poplar                   -                 0.4                -            6.2
Total                 4.1               6.8             100.0         100.0
The following yield increases would occur:
Table 6.8: Yield Increases - Ercis
Yields (ton/ha)
Present              Future
Wheat (grain)                         1.5                  3.75
Sugarbeet                           30.0                 45.0
Potato                              18.0                 25.0
Bean                                 -                     2.2
Vegetable (tomato)                                        25.0
Orchard (apple)                      -                    16.0
Alfalfa                               7.0                 12.0
B. Production and Markets
6.08      As a result of expanded crop area and higher yields, the production
of all categories of crops will increase substantially as shown in Table 6.9.
This, together with a shift of the cropping patterns towards higher-value
crops will result in an increase of the gross value of production of about
156%, from TL 9.8 billion at present to TL 25.1 billion at full development
(in 1982 producers' prices). At full development, fruit and vegetable will
account for 32% of the total gross value of production (vs 15% at present),
industrial and oil crops for 35% (vs 48% at present), grain for 15% (vs 23% at
present), fodder crops and straw for 11% (vs 13% at present) and other crops
(potato, bean, dry onion, poplar wood) for 7% (vs 1% at present).
6.09       The total incremental production of sugarbeet would represent about
4-5% of the current national production. It would contribute to meeting
national demand for sugar and partially substitute for imports (imported
164,000 tons in 1980 and about 68,000 tons in 1981). The farmers will sell
their production to the Sugar Corporation, which has a well organized



Table 6.9: Incremental Production at Full Development
Production ('000 tons)
Igdir               Aksu              Eregli                Ercis                      Total
Present   Future   Present   Future   Present   Future   Present   Future   Present   Future   IncrementaL
Cereals /1 grain        37.3      55.9      19.2      24.2      29.6       37.4       5.3     10.2       91.3     127.6       36.3
straw!/stover      74.6      111.7     29.0       39.4     44.3        56.1     10.5      20.4     158.4      227.6      69.2
Paddy                    -         7.9       -         1.7      -           -         -        -          -         9.6        9.6
Sugarbeet              196.2     476.1       -         -       68.0       150.2       4.6     21.0     268.8      647.4      378.6
Seed cotton              5.4      12.3      34.2      48.2      -           -        -         -         39.5      60.5       21.0
Sunflower                0.1       2.5       -         -        -           -         -        -          0.1       2.5        2.4
Potato                   -         -         -         -         1.9       27.6       1.8      8.5        3.8      36.1       32.3
Bean                     -         -         -         -         0.2        4.3       -        1.0        0.2       5.4        5.2
Onion (dry)              -        18.8       -         -         -         21.2       -        -          -        40.0       40.0
Sesame                   -         -         0.4       2.2      -           -         -        -          0.4       2.2        1.8
Alfalfa hay             32.4      71.0       -         -         2.5       22.3       2.4     20.4       37.3     113.7       76.40
Meadow & pasture /2    21.9        -         -         -         -          -         -        -         21.9       -        -21.9
Silage maize             -       148.6      -          -        -           -        -         -         -        148.6      148.6
Vegetable /3            18.0      76.0      12.4      69.9      10.8       82.4       -       12.8      41.2      241.1      199.9
Citrus                   -         -         0.9      57.8       -          -         -        -          0.9      57.8       56.9
Other fruit /4          10.4      49.7       -         -        31.9       86.1       -        2.7      42.3      138.5       96.2
Poplar /5                2.5      23.6       -         -        -          15.7      -         7.7        2.5      46.9       44.4
/1   Includes wheat, barley, maize.
/2   In hay equivalent.
/3   Includes production from greenhouses, field tomatoes and other vegetable, water melon.
/4   Apple, apricots, etc.
/5   In '000 m3.



- 45 -
collection network in the three areas concerned (Igdir, Eregli, Ercis). The
sugarbeet produced in Ercis is presently processed in the Erzurum factory; a
new factory is scheduled to open in Mus in late 1982 and will provide enough
capacity to handle the production from the Ercis scheme at full development.
Production from the Eregli area is presently processed in the Konya plant
which already operates well above its capacity, i.e. for 185 days a year with
around 130-140 days to minimize excessive losses in sugar content. A new
plant of 3,000 tons/day capacity is under construction in Bor-Nigde and should
start operations in late 1983, thus providing the additional capacity
necessary to support the project in the Eregli area. The sugarbeet produced
in Igdir is presently processed at the Erzurum plant. The Sugar Corporation
is constructing a new plant in Agri of 3,000 tons/day capacity, which is
expected to be in operation in late 1984 and should take care of the
substantial increase in sugarbeet production expected from the Igdir scheme.
6.10      The total production of lint cotton in Turkey is presently about
500,000 tons, of which 200,000 to 300,000 are exported annually. The
incremental project production of 21,000 tons of seed cotton would correspond
to about 7,350 tons of lint, i.e. 1.5% of the national production. Two-thirds
of this would come from the Aksu irrigation scheme, and would add about 13% to
the production of the Antalya province, which produces the best average
quality in Turkey. In the Aksu area, most of the farmers sell their seed
cotton to a marketing cooperative (Antbirlik) which could easily absorb the
incremental production expected from the project. There are 16 cotton
ginneries in the Antalya province, the processing capacity of which is 50%
above present production. The existing oil extracting capacity would also be
sufficient for the production increase expected from the project. Although
some of the incremental production of lint would be processed by local
cooperatives and state spinning mills, most of it is expected to be exported
as lint. Similarly in lgdir, no problem is anticipated in marketing/
processing the incremental seed cotton production. Seed cotton is presently
ginned in 7 private ginneries which are working at an estimated 50% of their
capacity. The lint is purchased by the Erzincan spinning mill (Sumer bank) or
by rmerchants from Izmir, and the cotton seed by private millers from Adana.
6.11      At full development, the total production of fruits and vegetables
from the project area would be quadrupled. During the last decade, the
national production of vegetable has increased by about 4% per year, and the
productions of citrus, apple and apricot by about 5-6% per year. This
increase has been partially absorbed by the growing national demand, as well
as by rapidly rising exports during the last 2-3 years, mostly towards
Middle-Eastern and European countries.  Part of the incremental project output
would be exported, particularly most of the citrus and early vegetable from
the Aksu scheme in the Antalya province, where the World Bank-supported Fruit
and Vegetable Project (Loan 1967-TU) is currently assisting in the production
and marketing of these commodities.  In this province during recent years the
growth in fruit and vegetable production has been matched by private
investment in marketing and storage facilities, and increased trucking
capacity has permitted a surge in exports, particularly of citrus to the
Persian Gulf and Libya. In the medium term however, further expansion of
export markets will require improvements in marketing efficiency, packaging



- 46 -
and quality control. Loan 1967-TU includes financing to support the creation
of four fruit and vegetable marketing corporations to assist in improving
market intelligence, marketing, quality control, cold storage, packaging and
transportation. In addition, the loan supports creation of a central
marketing organization to coordinate the marketing corporations export
activities, represent the corporations in foreign markets and participate in
setting quality control standards.
6.12       Because of its location and exceptional microclimate, the Igdir area
has an advantage in fruit and vegetable production for local consumption in
the eastern part of the country. Most of its excess vegetable production is
presently marketed fresh for local consumption in neighbouring cities such as
Kars, Erzurum, Agri or Van by some 10 local traders; fruit, especially
apricots, are also purchased partly for export by traders from Istanbul,
Ankara, Konya and Mersin. In the medium term, most of the incremental project
output of vegetables is expected to go toward meeting the regional domestic
denmand, which is projected to grow further along with improvements of
nutritional standards in Eastern Anatolia. Even though the project production
of vegetables would thus not reach directly the export market, it would
release production from other areas for export. Part of the incremental
production of fruit (apricot and apple) would continue to be exported by
existing channels. In the future, exports of fresh fruit and vegetable from
Igdir to Iran may also develop. The Igdir area is presently underequipped
with storage and processing facilities. However, a private cold store with an
estimated 1,000 tons capacity recently started operations, and a small
family-operated cannery exists which could be expanded. In the meantime, the
increased production of fruit and vegetables can be stored in neighboring
cities.
6.13       In the Eregli area, vegetables (including tomatoes, potatoes,
onions, beans) and apple production already play an important role. They are
marketed through private merchants for domestic consumption and export (via
Adana, Mersin, Iskenderun). In 1981 about 3,500 tons of potatoes (out of a
total of 5,000 tons marketed in the district) were exported to Iraq and orders
from Iran and Syria remained unfulfilled.  The area is renowned for apple
production and some 30,000 tons have been exported in 1981 mostly to
Middle-Eastern countries. The area also enjoys a special domestic market for
tomatoes since the crop is produced later than in other areas. There are
seven cold stores with a total capacity of 16,000 tons and one privately owned
fruit processing plant. Considering the favorable location of the Eregli
scheme and its established marketiing channels, no prohlem is anticipated in
marketing the incremental project output of fruit and vegetable.  In Ercis,
most of the incremental production of fruit and vegetabLe should be absorbed
by the local market, particularly by the city (f Van.
6.14       The incremental production of cereals at full development would
represent 40% of the present production of the project area, and 0.15% of the
national production. Most of it would be soft bread wheat for domestic
consumption.   About two thirds of the incremental cereals production from the
project would originate from the Igdir and Ercis schemes, which are located in
wheat deficit areas of the country. Although TMO purchasing and storage



- 47 -
facilities exist in all four schemes of the project, the farmers tend to sell
most of their wheat production to private traders or flour mills which offer
slightly higher prices and much quicker payment. No problem is anticipated in
marketing of the incremental cereal production primarily through such private
traders. In the Igdir area however, where paddy should be grown in the early
years of reclamation of saline soils, measures should be taken to ensure that
TMO will have the funds necessary (in case the private traders do not react
quickly enough to the availability of the new crop) to purchase the paddy and
transport it to the nearest mills.
6.15      Poplar wood is in strong demand in the project area as building
material and the additional 44,400 m3 of poles are expected to be easily
disposed of mostly on the domestic market. Straw, stover, alfalfa hay and
maize for silage would be partly used on the farm for animal feeding and
partly sold to other livestock keepers. In Igdir, Eregli and Ercis schemes a
substantial share of the alfalfa hay produced by the project farmers would be
sold to neighbouring livestock farmers; a very active interprovincial market
already exists for hay in eastern Anatolia.
C. Farmers' Incomes and Financial Analysis
6.16      To test the project's expected effect on farmers' incomes, 11 farm
models have been developed (i.e. 1 to 2 models for each unit of each
irrigation scheme). All models assume gradual changes in cropping patterns
and increases in yields after completion of the basic irrigation/drainage
infrastructure by DSI and of on-farm development works by TOPRAKSU. The gross
value of production has been calculated at constant mid-1982 farmgate prices.
Production costs include all inputs also valued at mid-82 market prices, as
well as hired labor valued at the present average wage rate of TL 500 per
manday. A water charge covering the full operation and maintenance cost and
capital costs over 50 years in real terms for DSI and over 20 years for
TOPRAKSU has been taken into account, and sales taxes of 5% have been
estimated after deduction of an allowance for home consumption. 1/ Details
can be found in Working Paper C.6 of the Project File.
6.17      As summarized in Table 6.10 the net benefits (or net disposable farm
incomes) at full development will be 1.4 t:o 11 times higher than without the
project. The highest increases will be achieved in areas which presently are
non-irrigated and used very extensively (Lgdir model 4 and Eregli model 3).
Farm investments shown in the models consist of machinery, poplar, orchard and
greenhouse establishment. Because the level of these investments made
directly by each farm household is relatively low, and a substantial share of
the incremental benefits are derived from investments in irrigation and
drainage infrastructure made by DSI and TOPRAKSU and recovered from the
farmers over a number of years, the financial rates of return (FRR) are very
high. As shown in table 6.11 the FRR remain very attractive even under the
1/   This allowance consists of 1,400 kg of wheat, 300 kg of vegetable, 80 kg
of fruit, as well as the full production of poplar wood and half the
production of roughage (straw, stover, hay, maize for silage).



Table 6.10; Farm Incomes
( 000 TL)
Igdir                                Aksu                           Eregli                 Ercis
Model 1   Model 2   Model 3   Model 4   Model 1   Model 2   Model 3   Model 1   Model 2   Model 3   Model 1
Gross Value of Production
Without project                       337        202        276         43       725        571        495        483        641       289        308
Full development                      552        543      1,232       832      1,472      1,300      1,402        977     1,825      1,825      1,224
Net Benefit
Without project (a)                   223        137        170        40        266        145        195        271       333        133        140
Full developuent (b)                  316        308        660       446        732        602        681        589     1,096      1,096        670
Ratio (b)/(a)                         1.4        2.2        3.9      11.2        2.8        4.2        3.5        2.2       3.3        8.2        4.8
Fanm Investment                          34         66        275        340        582       408        556        235        218       292        495
Financial Rate of Return /_            100%       100%        6 6%       53%       59%       100%        74%       100%       1007%     100%       100%    0
Cost Recovery Elements Included
In Farm Costs (Full Dev.)
O&M charge                             25         26         63        41         40         40         40         32         77        77         73
Sales tax - Total                      22         22         52        34         70         62         66        46         84         84         50
- Incremental                l0        15         42         33        37         35         45         24         56         72        39
/   On total farm investment (i.e. before financing).



Table 6.11: Financial Rates of Return /_ - Sensitivity Analysis
Lgdir                               Aksu                          Eregli                Ercis
Model 1  Model 2   Model 3  Model 4   Model 1   Model 2  Model 3   Model 1  Model 2   Model 3   Model 1
Financial Rate of Return (%)
Base case                            100       100         66        53         59       100        74        100       100        100       100
Increm. invest. & operating /2
costs up 10%                         100       100         56        44         52       100        60        100       100        100       100
Increm. invest. & operating /2
costs up 20%                         100       100         47        36        46        100        49        100       100        100       100
Increm. gross benefits /3
down 10%                             100        100        55        43         52       100         58       100       100        10         0
Increm. gross benefits /4
down 20%                              86       100         43        33        44         97        44        100       100        100        96
/1 FRR on total farm investment, i.e. before financing.
/2 Excluding sales tax.
/3 Sales tax down lf/% also.
/4 Sales tax down 20% also.



- 50 -
assumption that total farm costs would increase by 20% or total farm benefits
would decrease by 20%.  However, medium-term credit will be necessary for the
financing of on-farm investments, and incremental short-term credit will have
to be provided in order to foster the introduction of the improved practices
proposed under the project. 1/ Both types of credit would be provided by
TCZB, either as a part of the Agricultural Credit Project presently under
consideration for World Bank financing or through its own resources (see para
5.02d).
Cost Recovery
6.18       In all models, the operating costs include a water charge
corresponding to full payment by the farmers of the annual operation and
maintenance costs borne by DSI. The incremental sales taxes which will be
derived from the project have also been included as part of the operating
costs. They will represent a substantial indirect contribution to the
recovery of the investments made by DSI and TOPRAKSU in the
irrigation/drainiage infrastructure.  Direct capital cost recovery will occur
after the passage of the new TOPRAKSU legislation and the expected
improvements in DSI cost recovery (see para 5.14 and 5.15).
6.19       By taking into account only the incremental O&M water charge and the
incremental sales taxes which will be received by the government as a result
of the increased production expected from the project, the cost recovery
index21 for the whole project would be 31.6 percent. Perhaps more
significant, the average incremental sales tax per hectare gross at full
development will amount to TL 5850 annually, as compared to an average
investment cost3/ of TL 278,900 per ha gross corresponding to an annual
amortization, over a 50 year period, of TL 5,6004/.  While the sales tax is
considered by the Government as a substitute for an agricultural income tax
and not as a cost recovery vehicle, the sales tax could be considered as
representing an additional means of ensuring indirect investment cost recovery.
6.20      At full development, the incremental revenues from O&M water charge
and sales tax will represent 15.8 percent of the aggregated incremental rent
accruing to the participating farmers. The rent has been here defined as the
inc-emental net cash income before payment of O&M water charge and sales tax,
and after deduction of an allowance for incremental family labor valued at
TL 500 per manday. Although no allowance has been made for return on
incremental own capital, incremental depreciation of farm assets and
additional risk/uncertainty, all of which would decrease the estimated project
rent, the rent recovery index (15.8%) appears rather low when only water O&M
i/ The total needs for medium-term credit under the project are estimated at
TL 4511 million, and the annual short-term credit needs at full
development at TL 4494 million (mid-19482 prices).
2/ Ratio of (net present value of incremental O&M water charge and sales
taxes) to (net present value o' investment and O&M costs borne by the
government), calculated at 10 percent opportunity cost of capital.
3/ Excluding machinery for maintenance by DSI, which is recovered through the
O&M water charge.
4/ All figures are in mid-'82 prices.



- 51 -
charge and sales tax are taken into account. This indicates that an
additional portion of the project rent could be recovered for direct repayment
of capital cost, while still leaving adequate incentive to farmers to
participate in the project. If TL 5600 per ha gross (para 6.19) are added as
direct capital cost recovery, the rent recovery index for the whole project
will increase from 15.8 percent to 23.4 percent.
VII. Benefits and Justification
A. Beneficiaries and Employment
7.01      The project will directly benefit some 25,356 farm families.  Of
these, 23,344 presently own and cultivate land in the project area, and 2,012
will start cultivation on government-owned land to be reclaimed and
redistributed or leased in the Igdir scheme.  As a result of the project, at
full development improved cultural practices will be applied on 119,000 ha
gross of land (112,700 ha net) which will benefit from new or more efficient
and secure irrigation. Although most of the existing land-owners in the
project area are above the relative rural poverty level, the project is
expected to contribute to the alleviation of rural poverty, since the
government intends to give priority to landless families for the allocation of
reclaimed government land in Igdir. Opportunity for temporary employment of
landless people as hired labor on the project farms will also increase.
7.02      As a result of the project, total annual on-farm employment of the
direct beneficiaries (25,356 families) will be more than doubled at full
development. Employment will also be more evenly spread over the year,
specially in Aksu where the establishment of greenhouses will considerably
increase the on-farm labor requirements during the winter months. The project
will thus absorb part of the endemic underemployment of farm operators. On
the other hand, the seasonal peak labor demand will continue to exceed in most
cases the family labor availability. As a result of the intensification of
cropping patterns and practices with the project, the annual demand for
seasonal labor will increase; it is estimated that with the project at full
development, about 20,000 more people will find temporary employment on the
project farms during the 3 months of peak farm labor.
B. Economic Rate of Return
7.03      Full development will be practically achieved in year 12 of the
project (1994). At that time total incremental benefits will amount to about
16 billion TL in 1982 economic prices. Of this, about 49% will be derived
from the incremental production of fruit and vegetables, 13% from cotton and
12% from sugarbeet, the remainder corresponding to cereals, fodder, oil seeds,
tubers and poplar wood.
7.04      The economic rate of return (ERR) has been calculated on the basis
of 11 farm models assumed to be representative of the various units of each
scheme. The following assumptions underlie the rate of return calculations;
(a) All benefits and costs were calculated using constant
mid-1982 prices, adjusted to represent benefits or costs



- 52 -
at the farm level. Benefits and costs were adjusted for
all apparent tranfer payments such as taxes, duties,
tariffs, and subsidies;
(b)  All expenses on civil works incurred prior to 1983 have
been considered as sunk costs ancl excluded from the
analysis. All expenses to be incurred from 1983 on have
been taken into account, including those DSI works which
are already under construction (and hence have been left
out for financing by the Bank);
(c) Border price of tradeable outputs were derived from the
Bank's commodity price forecasts (cereals, cotton,
sugarbeet, sunflower, citrus) or in their absence
(vegetable, non-citrus fruit) frc,m recent EEC export
prices, and were adjusted for graide differentials and for
local handling and transportation costs back to the
farmgate. They were held constant during the expected
life of the project. Economic prices of non-tradeable
outputs such as hay, straw, silage fodder, wood were
derived from financial prices by applying the conversion
factor for consumption goods (0.86), and were also held
constant during the project life;
(d) All imported inputs and locally procured tradeable inputs
such as fertilizers, chemicals, and fuel were valued at
their estimated 1982 border price. The shadow wage rate
for incremental hired labor was estimated at half its
market rate of TL 500 per manday, which reflects the
present underemployment of the rural labor force in the
project area. All other local costs, corresponding to
1982 domestic prices of non-tradeable goods and services,
were adjusted by the standard conversion factor (estimated
at 0.80) to translate them into border prices;
(e)  All iocremental production and incremental inputs
utilization were phased in at the rate at which the
farmers represented by the various models are expected to
enter the project. Year I of the various models usually
corresponds to the year when land levelling is done by
TOPRAKSU. In some cases, farmers would have water already
available during the previous year although on-farm
developments works would not be completed; therefore the
build-up of benefits considered in the economic analysis
is relatively conservative;
(f) Costs of procurement of machinery for DSI and TOPRAKSU,
construction of irrigation and related works, and
strengthening of the extension services were phased in
according to the implementation schedules and investment
tables;



- 53 -
(g)  It is assumed that, in line with present Government's
policy, the lira exchange rate will continue to be
adjusted so as to offset the inflation differential
between Turkey and its major trading partners;
(h)  A life of 30 years was assumed in the analysis of the
project. Investment items (machinery for maintenance by
DSI, farm equipment) were replaced regularly when
necessary at the end of their respective useful life;
however, no salvage value has been imputed in year 30 for
such items because of the sTmall amounts involved and their
negligible inpact on results using discounting techniques;
and
(i)  Foregone crop production from the pre-project situation
has been deducted throughout the project life. The
without-project situation was considered to be equivalent
to the present situation. Although some technological
improvements would occur in the next 30 years without the
project, these would be more than offset by the increased
silting and decreasing efficiency of the irrigation
system, as well as by increasing salinity resulting from
poor drainage if the project was not implemented.
7.05      Based on these criteria and on the data shown in Table 7.1, the
basic ERR for the whole project is estimated to be 20.3%.  The ERRs of the
individual units of each scheme are the following:
ERR (%)                                   ERR (%)
Igdir Scheme              16.6              Eregli Scheme            29.6
Unit I              22.1                   Unit 1             37.1
Unit II             24.1                   Unit II            25.6
Unit III            12.1              Ercis Scheme            15.2
Aksu Scheme               21.4                    Unit II            15.2
Unit I              25.6              Whole Project           20.3
Unit II             19.9
Unit III            17.7
7.06      The switching values (percentage change required in benefits or
costs to reduce the ERR to the opportunity cost of capital, assumed to be 10%)
are listed below;
Net Present Value
Switching Values (% change)       at 10% Opportunity
Benefits              Costs        Cost of Capital
(TL million)
Whole project               -39.5             65.2                36481.1
Igdir scheme                -29.2            41.2                 10451.2
Aksu scheme                 -42.9            75.1                 11968.2
Eregli scheme               -54.3           118.9                 12881.8
Ercis scheme                -23.4            30.6                  1180.0



- 54 -
Table  7.1:   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
WHOLE PROJECT
(TL MILLION-MID 62 PRICES)
YEAF              1982         1983          1984          1985         1986          1987          1988         1989          1990         1991          1992         1993          1994          1995         1996          1997
'NCR. BENEFITS
'2TA6 T1CR9. BENEFIS                   -       -23.50       099,03       2354.67      4998.93       8173.83      10430.41     11855.16      02742.83      13465,66     14211.68      14939,64     15528.25      16238.93      16930.45     16687.41
INCF. I1. COSTS
[El                                    -      8644.12      6136.45       5151.95      2856.40              -             -                   -             -                   -      2575.77             -             -             -            -
'OPRAKSL                               -      2758.13      1779.05       1801.210      1693,05      1474.40      -0047,99             -             -            -             -             -            -             -            -             -
EXTENSION                              -       100.27        108.58        24.65              -            -             -             -            -             -            -             -             -            -
FARMERS                                -        06.10       549,87       1048.38       1344.80      1070.64        718.15        317.27       214.55        120.43        54,45         31.64        221.80       646.88        491.89        175.,2
TOTAL INCR. IN0.  0AST                 -    11518.62       8574.25       8026.19       5895.05      2645.04       -329.84        317.27       214.55        120.43        54.45       2607.41        221.80       646.88        491.89        175.62
INCR, OPER0 , CO'S
OI, 0 HAINT.                           -      -194.04         36,51       197.02        287.59       359.11        359.11       359.11        359.11        359.11       359.11        359.11        359.11       359.10        359.11       359.11
EXTENSION                              -        13.39         35.18        43.14         43,25        43.26         43.26         43.26        43.26         43,26        43.26         43.26         43.26        43.26         43.26         43.26
FARMERS                                -        -3.30        265.44       607.76       1469,82      2292,04       2666,88       2864,13      3050.00       3224.55      3374.14       3482,17       3543.80      3574.26       3584.97      3588.24
'OTAL INCR. OPER. C017                 -      -106,75       242.25        730.58       1683.31      2577.06       2951.89      3149,15       3335.02       3509.57      3659.15       3767.18      3828.83       3859.28       3869.99      3873.06
TOTAL INCR. COST                       -    11334.67       8911.38       8874.11       769570      5339.44       2739.40       3583.76      3666,92       3747.34      3830.95       6491.94       4167.97      4623.50       4479.22      4960.02
[NCR, NET BENEFIT                      -   -11358.19      -8012.35      -6519.44     -2696,77       2834.39       7691,01      8271.79       9075.92      9718.32      10380.73       8447.71     11360.28      11615.43      12451.23     12521.39
YEAR              1998         0999          2000   2000-2002           2003          2004         2005          2006          2007   2008-2012
INCR. BENEFITS
TOTAL INCR. BENEFITS           16239.14      16071.38     15907.13      05872.64      15872.64     15872.64      15872.64     85872.64      15872.64    15872,64
INCR. IN0. COSTS
0S3                                    -             -            -                    2575.77             -             -
TOPRAKSU
EXTENSION
FARMERS                                -             -                                   11.96        205.69       646,88        491.89        075.62             -
TOTAL INCR. IN0. COST                  -             -            -             -      2587.73        205.69       646.89        491.89       175.62              -
I06R9 OPER. COSTS
OP. I MAINT,                     359.00        359.00       359.11        359.11        359.11       359.11        359.11        359.11       359.11        359.11
EXTENSION                          43.26        43.26         43.26        43.26         43,26         43.26        43.26         43.26         43.26        43.26
FARMERS                         3589,55       3589.55      3589.55       3589.55       3589.55      3589.55       3589.55       3589.55      3589.55       3589,55
TOTAL INCR. OPER. COST           5874.57      3874.57       3874.57      3874.57       3874.57      3874.57       3874.57       3874.57      3874.57       3874.57
TOTAL INCR. COST                3991.91       3991.91      3991.91       3991.91       6579.64      4207.00       4638.79      4483.80       9167.53       3991.90
INCR. NET BENEFIT              12247.23      12079.47     11915.21      11880.73       9293.00    10685.04       11233.85     11388.94      1>705.11      11880.73



- 55 -
They show that the economic profitability of the project is relatively more
sensitive to a decrease in benefits than to an increase in costs of the same
magnitude. This focuses attention on the need to accompany irrigation
development with an effective extension service in order to ensure that the
projected yields will be achieved.
7.07      Delays in project benefits and on-farm costs would have the
following effect on ERRs:
ERR with Farm Benefits
Base            and Operating Costs
ERR (X)   Delayed 1 year   Delayed 2 years
Whole project           20.3          17.6              15.6
Igdir scheme           16.6           14.5              12.9
Aksu scheme             21.4          18.7              16.7
Eregli scheme           23.6          25.0              21.7
Ercis scheme            15.2          13.3              11.7
Such delays might occur in case the construction schedules assumed in the
project would not be met.  On the other hand, the farm models on which the
economic analysis is based assume only gradual changes (over 4-5 years for
each individual farm) in cropping patterns and yields, and the phasing-in of
these models has been projected rather conservatively (para 7.04 (d)).
C. Other Benefits
7.08      More than half of the project area is located in economically
depressed regions (Igdir and Ercis), where the project impact on production
and employment would contribute to regional development and reduce rural
emigration.  In Igdir, the project is expected to have substantial
non-quantified social benefits through the allocation of government land to
landless families (para 7.01).
7.09       Investment in machinery for operation and maintenance by DSI would
significantly increase its implementation capacity. Under the project, an
increasing share of on-farm development works will be contracted out by
TOPRAKSU instead of being done by force account. This will foster the
development of private contractors in the project area, as well as contribute
to further increase of the implementation capacity for on-farm development
works.
7.10      On the institutional side, assistance to MAF in intensifying
agricultural extension in the project area is expected to demonstrate the
benefits of integrating agricultural services with investments in irrigation
development.  This demonstration would be useful for the strengthening of
extension services in other areas as part of the national program.
Improvements in cost recovery are also expected under the project (para 5.14 &
5.15).



- 56 -
D. Project Risks
7.11      There are no unusual technical risks associated with the project,
and those normally associated with the project benefits, costs, development
period and implementation delays have been evaluated in the sensitivity
analyses. On the organizational side, collaboration and cooperation between
DSI and TOPRAKSU is already quite satisfactory. The only organizational risk
is that the strengthened extension service, which is intended to be part of
the national program of MAF, will have to be introduced in some of the project
areas before implementation of this general program.  Coordination between the
strengthened extension services of the project area and DSI and TOPRAKSU will
be organized through the office of the Governor (para 5.04).
7.12      There is a risk that additional work on the dams might be required
as a result of safety inspections. The costs, if any, are unknown and will
remain so until after inspection. One risk which could affect project
viability and which other Bank-assisted projects in Turkey have faced in
recent years would be an inadequate local budgetary support resulting in
delays in DSI and TOPRAKSU contruction schedules. This risk is a serious one
in the present economic climate of Turkey, and is likely to continue until
economic recovery is well underway. To minimize this risk, assurances will be
sought during negotiations that the necessary budget will be provided on time
and that the Government will, for each year of the implementation period,
review the matter with the Bank on this matter (para 4.17); assurances will
also be sought that agricultural credit will be provided in adequate amounts
to ensure adoption of the improved practices by the farmers (para 5.02d). The
provision of a revolving fund (para 4.21) to avoid the need for the Government
to advance funds to pay contractors' bills while awaiting reimbursement of the
Bank's share should help facilitate prompt payment to contractors.
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01       During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government that:
(a) a review to be completed by June 30, 1984, would be
initiated to serve as a basis for government irrigation
strategy and as a guide for future irrigation projects (para
4.11 & 5.12);
(b) independent qualified experts would be employed to review
and periodically inspect construction and maintenance of the
Karacaoren, Ivriz and Kockopru dams (para 4.13);
(c) annual updated financing plans would be submitted to the
Bank for review, by September 30 each year, prior to
approval of proposed budget allocations (para 4.17);
(d)  government funds would be allocated for tirnely completion of
essential works not financed by the Bank loan and further
subsecluent operation and maintenance (para 4.13 and 4.19);



- 57 -
(e) at least 75 percent of land levelling works supervised by
TOPRAKSU would be done by contractors and local contractors
would be encouraged to bid for at least 10 percent of
subsurface drainage works (para 5.02b);
(f) extension services would operate as described in para 5.02c;
(g) provision of agricultural credit would be guaranteed by
government in adequate amounts for incremental needs of
farmers in the four project areas (para 4.17 & 5.02d);
(h) project implementation and preparation of progress reports
would be submitted by the three implementing agencies (para
5.03);
(i) regional coordinating committees would be established for
each irrigation scheme (para 5.04);
(j) a project office section will be established by TOPRAKSU in
Igdir (para 5.05);
(k)  extension services would be strengthened as described in
para 5.06;
(1) a training needs survey and workshop for designing relevant
training programs for extension staff would be carried out
during the first six months of the project and all training
programs abroad would be submitted to the Bank for prior
approval (paras 5.07 & 5.08);
(m)  government land irrigated under the project to be leased or
sold to farmers under arrangements satisfactory to Bank and
a detailed plan for disposition of irrigated government and
village owned land will be submitted to the Bank no later
than July 1, 1984 (para 5.09);
(n) semi-annual and annual reports on the progress of project
execution prepared by the agencies would be submitted in a
timely manner to the Bank (para 5.10);
(o) a project completion report would be submitted to the Bank
no later than six months after project closing (para 5.11);
(p) quarterly statements of project expenditures would be
submitted to the Bank (para 5.13);
(q) annual audits carried out by the Auditor General's office
would be submitted to the Bank within nine months of the end
of the fiscal year (para 5.13); and



- 58 -
(r) the costs of TOPRAKSU on-farm development works for the
project would be recovered over 20 years (para 5.14); and
(s) improved DSI cost recovery would be established (para 5.15).
8.02      The passage of appropriate legislation permitting TOPRAKSU recovery
of costs of on-farm development works would be a condition of Board
presentation.
8.03      On the basis of the above assurances and agreements, the project is
suitable for a Bank loan of US$115.3 million to the Government of Turkey.



- 59 -
ANNEX 1
TURKEY
LAEE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Works
The works to be accomplished under the project would be as follows:
(a)  Igdir Irrigation Scheme - headworks of one irntake, 2
settling basins, 31 km feeder canal, 665 m feeder tunnel;
irrigation networks of 144 km main canal, 8 km
rehabilitation of main canals, 237 km secondary canal, 120
kin rehabilitation secondary canals, 381 km tertiary canal
and 208 km rehabilitation tertiary canals; drainage networks
of 327 km main and secondary drains, 121 km rehabilitation
of main and secondary drains, 383 km tertiary drains and 284
km rehabilitation tertiary drains; on-farm works of 38,000
ha land levelling, 12,500 ha subsurface drains, 157,500 tons
soil amendment (gypsum), 14,000 ha soil reclamation, 38,000
ha surface drains and feeder roads for access to 38,000 ha;
(b)  Aksu Irrigation Scheme - headworks of one diversion weir,
one remodelling of weir and one intake; irrigation networks
of 69 km main canal, 30 km rehabilltation main canals, 1250
m main tunnel, 1500 m main siphon, 55 km secondary canal, 10
km rehabilitation secondary canals, 453 km tertiary canal,
and 19 km rehabilitation tertiary canals; drainage networks
of 4 km main drain, 41 km secondary drains and 20 km
tertiary drains; flood protection works of 70 km of flood
cikes and 2 million mJ of river channel improvement; and
on-farm works of 17,000 ha land levelling, 7,000 ha
subsurface drains, 18,500 na surface drains and feeder roads
for access to 17,000 ha;
(c) Eregli Irrigation Scheme - on-farm works of 17,000 ha land
levelling, 9,000 ha subsurface drain, 22,500 tons soil
amendment (gypsum) 4,000 ha soil reclamation, 22,000 ha
surface drains and feeder roads for access to 22,000 ha; and
(d)  Ercis Irrigation Scheme - irrigation networks of 51 km main
canals, 400 m main siphons, 65 km secondary canals, 108 km
tertiary canals; drainage networks of 33 km secondary
drains, and 99 km tertiary drains; and on-farm works of
5,300 ha land levelling, 500 ha subsurface drains, 5,300 ha
surface drains and feeder roads for access to 5,300 ha.



- 60 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1
TURKEY
ISDIR-AKSU-EREGLI-ERCIS (IAEE) IRRIGATION PROJECI'
Table 102. IGDIR SCHEME: CAPITAL COSTS 2
Detailed Cost Table
(TL Million)
Ouantitw                                      Olase Costs                 Phs.
------------------                    --------------------------------   Cont, For.   Gross   Sumanr
Unit  1   2   3   4   5  Total Unit Cost    1          2      3      4      5   Total   Rate  Exch- Tax Rate Accowut
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT
1. otM CIVIL WORKS DSI
EXCAVATOR, TRACKED. 1.5 CY             NO.    -   8   -   -   -       B    27.815        -   222.5      -       -    -   222.5   0.1      1         0      QI
EXCAVATORD, WHEEL? 0.75 CY             NO.    -   8   -   -   -       8    29.801        -   238.4      -       -.   -   238.4   0.1      1         0      DI
EXCAVATOR, GRADALL                     NO.    -   B   -   -   -       8    31-788        -   254.3      -       -    -   254.3   0.1      1         0      Ql
TRACTOR? TRACKED, 140 HP               NO,    -   8   -   -   -       8    14.901        -   119.2      -       -    -   119.2   0.1      1         0      G1
LOADER, TRACKED, 150 HP                NO ,       6   -   -    -      6    13,907        -    83.4      -       -    -    83.4   0.1      1         0      GI
GRADER, 125 HP, 12 FT                  NO,   -   4   -   -   -        4    11.921        -    47.7      -       -    -    47.7   0.1      1         0      GI
TRACTOR, WHEEL, 60-80 HP               NO.        4   -   -   -       4      2.98        -    11.9       -      -    -    11.9   0.1       1        0      01
TRAILER UNIT, 60T                      NO.    -   5   -   -   -       5    19.868        -    99.3      -       -    -    99.3   0.1      1         0      DI
DUMPTRUCK,  OT                        NO.    -  20   -   -   -    20       9.934        -   198.7       -      -    -   198.7   0.1      1         0      DI
TRUCK,8-1OT                            NO,    -   6   -   -   -       6     4,967        -    29.8      -       -    -    29.8   0.1       1        0      GI
STATION WAGON                          NO.    -  15   -   -   -    15        2.98        -    44.7      -       -    -    44.7   0.1      1         0      GI
GENERATOR, 80-100 KV                   NO,    -   2   -   -   -       2     2,781        -     5.6      -       -    -     5.6   0.1      1         0      Qi
MOTORCYCLE 150-250 CC                  NO.    -  14   -   -   -    14       0.199        -     2.8      -       -    -     2.8   0.1      1         0      GI
HIRELESS                               No. 0.1   -   -   -   -   0-1         0.06      0.0       -      -       -    -     0.0   0.1      1         0      DI
SPARE PARTS                            NO.    -    -    -    -    -   -                  -   135.8      -  135.8    -   271.7   0.1       1         0      GI
LOCAL HANDLING                         NO.    -    -    -    -    -   -               0.0   149.4        -   13.6    -   163.0   0.1  0.45          0      GI
Sub-Total OtM CIVIL WORKS DSI                                                             0.0 1,643.6       -  149.4    - 1,793.0
2. CONSTRUCTION ON FARM WORKS TOPRAKSU
MOTORSCRAPER 11 CY                     NO.   13   -   -    -    -    13    17.881   232.4        -              -    -   232.4   0.1      1         0      OF
TRENCHER 100 HP                        NO.   10   -    -    -    -    10    15.894   158.9       -      -       -    -   158.9   0.1      1         0      OF
LOADER, WHEEL, 130 HP                  NO.    4   -    -    -    -    4     9.934    39.7        -       -      -    -    39.7   0.1      1         0      OF
DCZER 120 HP                           NO.    3   -    -    -    -    3    10,927    32.8        -      -       -    -    32.8   0.1      I         0      OF
EXCAVATOR, TRACKED. 1.5 CY             NO.    2   -    -    -    -    2    27.815    55.6        -      -       -    -    55.6   0.1      1         0      OF
BULLDOZER WITH RIPPER, 180 HP          NO,    1   -   -   -   -       7    17.881   125.2        -      -       -    -   125.2   0.1      1         0      OF
MODILE REPAIR SHOP                     NO.    4   -    -    -    -    4    13,907    55.6        -      -       -    -    55.6   0.1      1         0      OF
MOBILE LUBRICATION UNIT                NO,    4   -   -   -   -       4     9.934    39.7        -      -       -    -    39.7   0.1      1         0      OF
TRAILER UNIT 30T                       NO.    3   -    -   -   -      3    13.907    41.7        -      -       -    -    41.7   0.1      1         0      OF
TRAILER, LOW BED lOT                   NO,    4   -    -    -    -    4     7.947    31.8        -                        31.8   0.1      1         0      OF
VEHICLES 4 WHEEL                       NO.   20   -    -   -   -    20      1.987    39.7        -      -       -    -    39.7   0.1      1         0      QF
SPARE PARTS                            NO.    -    -    -    -    -   -              85.3        -   85.3       -    -   170.7   0.1      1         0      QF
LOCAL HANDLING AND DUTIES              NO,   -    -    -    -    -    -             657.0        -   59.7       -    -   716.8   0.1  0.06       0.86      OF
Sujb-Total CONSTRUCTION ON FARM WORKS TOPRAMSU                                        1,595.7       -  145.1       -    - 1,740.8
3, EXTENSION SERVICES
MOTORCYCLES. LIGHT                     NO.    4  17  10   -   -    31       0.099     0.4      1.7    1.0       -    -     3.1  Ol       1         0      QE
MOTORCYCLES                            NO.    8   -   -   -   -       8     0.212      1.7       -      -       -    -     1.7   0.1      1         0      DE
CARS                                   NO.    4   2   -    -    -     6     1.457     5.8      2.9      -       -    -     8.7   0.1      1         0      QE
MACHINERY SETS                         NO.    1   1   -   -   -       2     0.755     0.8      0.8       -      -    -      1.5   0.1  0.76         0      DE
SYPHINS, 400                           NO.    -    -    -    -    -   -               0.0      0.0      -       -    -     0.1   0.1  0.33          0      GE
SUNDRY EQUIPMENT                       SET   12  17  10   -   -    39       0.009     0.1      0.2    0.1       -    -     0.4   0.1  0.33          0      GE
Sub-Total EXTENSION SERVICES                                                              8.8     5.5    1.1       -    -    15.5
Sub-Total VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT                                                         1.604.5 1.649.1  146.1  149.4    -3,549.2
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                      1,604.5 1P649.1  146.1  149.4    - 39549.2
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                         1Y604.5 1,649.1  146.1  149.4    - 3,549.2
March 9  1983  10:29



-61-                                                      ANNEX 1
Table 2
TURKEY
ISDIR-AKSU-EREGLI-ERCIS IRHEE) IRRI6ATION PRFJECT
Table 202. AKSU SCHEME-CAPITAL COST 2
Detailed Cast Table
(TL Million)
Ouantito                                   Base Costs                Phw,
 ------------------------------- Cont, For.   Gross   Sumara
Unit    1   2   3   4   5  Total Unit Cost   1          2     3    4    5   Total   Rate  Exch. Tax Rate Acount
==-Sn fl* S   AC  == C ===   C 5===S  CA =--====   CAC== CA SACK==  KZCK StAR CCCSASS KCKAK -=-  KSK:CKCK SKKCC
I. INVESTNENT COSTS
A. VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT
1. 0 AND N CIVIL WORKS DSI
EXCAVATOR, TRACKED, 1.5 CY                 NO       -   2 -   -   -         2    27.815       -   55.6    -    -    -    55.6   0.1        1         0      RI
EXCAVATOR, WHEEL, 0,75 CY                  NO       -   2 -   -   -         2    29.801       -   59.6    -    -    -    59,6   0.1        1         0      RI
EXCAVATORP GRADALL                         NO       -   2    -     -        2    31.788       -   63.6    -    -    -    63.6   0.1        I         0      QI
TRACTOR, TRACKED, 140 HP                   NO       -   4    -    -         4    14.901       -   59.6    -    -    -    59.6   0.1        1         0      RI
LOADER, TRACKED, 150  P                    NO       -   2 -   -   -         2    13.907       -   27.8    -    -    -    27.8   0.1        1         0      0I
GRADER, 125 HP, 12 FT                      NO       -   2 -   -   -         2    11.921       -   23.8    -    -    -    23.8   0.1        1         0      DI
TRACTOR, WHEEL. 60-O0 HP                   NO       -   3    -    -         3      2.98       -    8.9    -    -    -       8.9   0.1      1         0      RI
TRAILER LUNIT, 60T                         NO       -   2   -   -   -       2    19.068       -   39.7    -    -    -    39.7   0.1        U        0       0l
DUMPTRUCK, IOT                             NO       -   6   -   - -         6     9,934       -   59.6    -    -    -    39.6   0.1        1        0       RI
TRUCK, 8-IOT                               NO       -   3   -   -   -       3     4.967       -   14.9    -    -    -    14.9   0.1        1         0      0l
STATION WAGiN                              NO       - 5 -    -    -         5      2.9        -   14.      -    -    -    14.9   O.1       I        0       Ql
GENERATOR. N0-100 KVA                      NO       -   2    -     -        2     2.781       -    5.6    -    -    -       5.6   0.1      I         0      QI
NOTDRCYCLE, 150-250 CC                     NO           8   -   -   -       8     0.199       -    1.6    -    -    -       1.6   0.1      1        0       0l
WIRELESS                                   No       -      8-    -    -     8      0.06       - 0.5-            -     -     0.5  0.1       1         0      01
SPARE PARTS                                NO       -    -    -    -    -   -                 -   43.6     -436    -        7.2   0.1      1        0       Ql
LOCAL HANDLING                             NO       -    -    -    -    -   -                 -   47.9    -  4,4    -    52.3   0.1  0.45            0      D1
Sub-Total 0 AND N CIVIL WORKS DSI                                                                -  527.3    - 47.9    -   575.2
2. CONSTRUCTION ON FARN WORKS TOPRAKSU
NOTORSCRAPER. 11 CtY                       NO       6 -   -    -    -       6    17.801  107.3        -    -    -    -   107.3   0.1       1         0      OF
TRENCHER, 100 HP                           NO       5 -   -    -    -       5    15.894   79.5        -    -    -    -    79.5   0.1       1         0      XF
EXCAVATOR, TRACKED, 1.5 CY                 NO       I -   -    -    -       1    27.815   27.0       -    -    -    -    27.8   0.1        1        0       QF
SPARE PARTS                                NO       -    -    -    -    -   _              21.5       -21.5    -    -    42.9   0.1        1         0      OF
LOCAL HANDLING AND DUTIES                  NO       -    -    -    -                      165.2       - 05.0    -    -   180.2   0.1  0.06       0.06        F
Sub-Total CONSTRUCTION ON FARN WORKS TOPRAKSU                                                401.2       - 36.5    -         407.7
3. EXTENSION SERVICES
MOTORCYCLES, LIGHT                         NO       8      80    -         24     0.099    0.8    0.8  0.8     -    -       2.4   0.1      1                QE
MOTORCYCLES                                NO       4   4   -   -           8     0.212    0.8    0.8    -    -    -        1.7   0.1      1         0       E
CARS                                       NO       2 2 -    -    -         4     1.457    2,9    2.9    -    -    -        5.8   0.1      1         0      DE
MACHINERY SETS                             NO       I                 _    2     0.404    0.4    0.4    -    -    -        0.8   0.1  0.76          0      GE
SYPHONS, 200                               NO       -    -    -    -    -   -               0.0    0.0  0.0     -    -      0.1   0.1  0.33          0      QE
SUNDRY EXTENSION EOUIPMENT                SET      13  13   6   -   -    32       0.009    0.1    0.1  0.1     -    -       0.3   0.1  0.33         0       DE
Sub-Total EXTENSION SERVICES                                                                   5.1    5.1  0.9    -    -    11.1
Sub-Total VEHICLES AND EGUIPHENT                                                                406.3  532.4 37.4 47.9    - 1,024.0
B. EXTENSION BUILDINGS
OFFICE SERIK. 330 SON                         NO.      -    -    -    -    -4.8    6.6    -    -    -    11.4  0.15  0.24                               0      DU
GROUP OFFICES AND HOUSING                    NO.       4   4   -   -   -       8      3.311   13.2   13.2    -    -    -    26.5  0.15  0.24            0      DU
Sub-Total EXTENSION DUILDINGS                                                                    18.0   19.8    -    -    -    37.9
C. TRAINING AND CONSULTANTS
1. INITIAL EXTENSION STAFF TRAINING
VILLAGE FOREMEN                           NO.       8   0   8   -   -    24        0.04    0.3    0.3  0.3     -    -       1.0  0.15      0        0       TE
GROUP TECHNICIANS                         NO.       4   4   -   -   -       B      0.02    0.1    0.1    -    -    -        0.2  0.15     0        0       TE
SUBIJECT HATTER SPECIALISTS               NO.       2   2   -   -   -       4     0.026    0.1    0.1    -    -    -        0.1  0.15     0        0       TE
Sub-Total INITIAL EXTENSION STAFF TRAINING                                                     0.5    0.5  0.3    -    -       1.2
2. TRAINING ABROAD
DSI, TOPRAKSU, EXTENSION SERVICES       LUNP SM-                                            6.4    6.4  S.4  6.4  6.4    31.8       0      1        0       TA
3. CONSULTANTS
CONSULTANTS NASTERPLAN IRRIGATION                   -    -    -    -    -                   2.6    2.6    -    -    -       5,3     0      1        H       TC
Su1-Total TRAINING AND CONSULTANTS                                                                9.5    9.5  6.7  6.4  6.4    38.3
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                             433.  561.7 44.0 54.3  6.4 1,100.2
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                                 433,0  561.7 44.0 54;1  6.4 1,100.2
Mhrch 9- 1903  10:30



- 6 2 -                                       ANNEX I
Table 3
TURKEY
IGDIR-AKSU-EREGLI-ERCIS (IAEE) IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table 302. EREGLI SCHEME-CAPITAL COST 2
Detailed Cost Table
(TL Million)
Ouantitu                                   Base Costs                Phy.
---------------------                 ------------------------------------ Cont. FOr.   Gross   Sunsarv
Unit  1   2   3   4   5  Total Unit Cost   1         2     3    4    5   Total   Rate  Exch, Tax Rate Account
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. VEHICLES AND EGUIPMENT
1. 0 AND H CIVIL WORKS DSI
EXCAVATOR. TRACKED, 1.5 CY              NO.         2   -    -    -    2    27.815       -   55.6    -    -    -    55.6   0.1        1         0      OI
EXCAVATORD  WHEEL. 0.75 CY              NO.         4   -   -    -     4    29.801       -  119.2    -    -    -   119.2   0.1        1         0      GI
EXCAVATOR, GRADALL                      NO.         4   -    -    -    4    31.788       -  127.2    -    -    -   127,2   0.1        1         0      DI
TRACTOR. TRACHED. 140 HP                NO,         6    -    -        6    14.901       -   89.4    -    -    -    89.4   0.1        I         0      GI
LOADER. IRACKED. 150 HP                 NO.         4   -    -    -    4    13.907       -   55.6    -    -    -    55.6   0.1        1         0      GI
GRADER.  125 HP, 12 FT                  NO.         3   -    -    -    3    11.921       -   35.8    -    -    -    35.8   0.1        1         0      GI
TRACTOR. WHEEL. 60-80 HP                NO.         2   -    -    -    2      2.98       -    6.0    -    -    -       6.0   0.1      1         0      DI
TRAILER UNIT, 60T                       NO.         2   -    -    -    2    19.868       -   39.7    -    -    -    39.7   0.1        1         0      0I
DJMP TRUCK, lOT                         NO.        10   -    -    -    10    9.934       -   99.3    -    -    -    99.3   0.1        1         0      GI
TRUCK, B-lOT                            NO.    -   4   -   -   -       4     4.967       -   19.9    -    -    -    19.9   0.1        1         0      8I
STATION WAGON                           NO.    -  10   -    -    -    10      2.98       -   29.8    -          -    29.8   0.1       1         0      01
MOTORCYCLE. 150-250 CC                  NO.    -  12   -   -   -    12       0.199       -    2.4    -    -    -       2.4   0.1      1         0      GI
WIRELESS                                NO.    -  12   -    -    -    12      0.06       -    0.7    -    -    -       0.7   0.1      1         0      GI
SPARE PARTS                             NO.    -    -    -    -    -   -                 -   68.1    - 6B.1    -   136.1   0.1        1         0      01
LOCAL HANDLING                          NO.    -    -    -    -    -   -                 -   74.9    -  6.8    -    81.7   0.1  0.45            0      GI
Sub-Total 0 AND H CIVIL WORKS DSI                                                           -  823.5       74.9    -   898.4
2. CONSTRUCTION ON FARM 0ORKS TOPRAKSU
MOTORSCRAPER, 11 CY                     NO.    9   -    -    -    -    9    17.881  160.9       -    -    -    -   160.9   0.1        1         0      OF
TRENCHER, 100 HP                        NO.    6   -    -    -    -    6    15.894   95.4       -    -    -    -    95.4   0.1        1         0      OF
LOADER. WHEEL, 130 HP                   NO.    3   -    -    -    -    3     9.934   29.8       -          -    -    29.8   0.1       1         0      OF
DOZER, 120 HP                           NO.    2   -    -    -    -    2    10.927   21.9        -.  -    -    -    21.9   0.1        1         0      OF
EXCAVATOR. TRACKED, 1.5 CY              NO.    2   -    -    -    -    2    27.815   55.6        -    -    -    -    55.6   0.1       1         0      OF
BULLDOZER WITH RIPPER, 160 HP           NO.    2   -    -    -    -    2    17.881   35.8       -    -    -    -    35.8   0.1        1        0       OF
MOBILE REPAIR SHOP                      NO.    2   -    -    -    -    2    13.907   27.8       -          -    -    27.8   0.1       1         0      OF
MOBILE LUBRICATION UNIT                 NO.    2   -    -    -    -    2     9.934   19.9       -    -    -    -    19.9   0.1        1         0      OF
TRAILER uNIT. 30T                       NO.    2   -    -    -    -    2    13.907   27.8       -    -    -    -    27.8   0.1        1         0      OF
TRAILER, LOW BED, lOT                   NO.    2   -    -    -    -    2     7.947   15.9       -    -    -    -    15.9   0.1        1         0      OF
VEHICLES, FOUR WHEEL                    NO.    6   -    -    -    -    6     1.987   11.9       -    -    -    -    11.9   0.1        1         0      OF
SPARE PARTS                             No.                                           5 -    -    -    -  -  50.3  - 50.3    -    -   100.5   0.1  1  0  OF
LOCAL HANDLING AND DUTIES               NO.    -    -    -    -    -   -             387.0      - 35.2    -    -   422.2   0.1  0.06        0.86       OF
Sub-Total CONSTRUCTION ON FTRM WORKS  TOPRAKSU                                          940.0       - 85.5    -    - 1,025.4
3. EXTENSION SERVICES
MOTORCYCLES. LIGHT                      NO.   22   -   -   -   -    22       0.099    2.2        -    -    -    -      2.2   0.1      1         0      DE
MOTORCYCLES                             NO.    2   -   -   -   -       2     0.212    0.4       -    -    -    -       0.4   0.1      1         0      GE
CARS                                    NO.    3   -    -    -    -    3     1.457    4.4       -    -    -    -       4.4   0.1      1         0      DE
MACHINERY SETS                          NO.,  2   -   -   -   -        2     0.424    0.8        -    -    -    -      0.8   0.1  0.76          0      GE
SYPHONS.*160                            NO.    -    -    -    - -     -00                       -    -    -    -       0.0   0.1  0.33          0      GE
SUNDRY EQUIPMENT                        SEI    5   -   -   -   -       5     0.093    0.5       -    -    -    -       0.5   0.1  0-33          0      GE
Sub-Total EXTENSION SERVICES                                                              8.3       -    -    -    -      8.3
Sub-Total VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT                                                           948.3  823.5 85.5 74.9    - 1,932.1
B. EXTENSION BUILDINGS
OFFICE EREGLI, 330 SOH                     NC.    -    -    -    -    -   -               4.8    6.6    -    -    -    11.4  0.15  0.24            0      BU
SKS HDUSING, 330 50M                       NO.    -    -    -    -    -   _               4.8    6.6    -    -    -    11.4  0.15  0.24            0      BU
VILLAGE TECHNICIAN HOUSES                  NO.    6   6   -   -   -    12       3.311   19.9   19.9    -    -    -    39.7  0.15  0.24             0      BU
Sub-Total EXTENSION BUILDINGS                                                               29.4   33.0    -    -    -    62.5
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                        977.7  136.6 85.5 74.9    - 1,994.5
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                           977.7  856.6 85.5 74.9    - 1,994.5
1=== ====:= == == ==3== =
March 9, 1953  10:31



IVJDII-AXS!J-EREIi-ERTS (lACE) TAR  S        TEE  PROJECT
Tabib  402. ERr;2 SCHhE -CAPT'N  rCEI  2
3iet3iier Cr5t Is5ls
toss Costs
------------- .......... -   -_.------ ------------------wI'. !.  -S ' r:
Unit  1   2   2         5 S  '    Urit C;st  i       2     7    4    S   &siC  Ps>  Us:u Tai U>
I. INESTMENT COSTS
A. VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT
1. 0 AHO H CIVIL WORKS DS'
EXCAVATORF TRACKED; 1.5 CY                          NO.    -   2                          27-5                    -    _
EXCAVATOR; WHEEL; 0.75 CT                           No,    -   2   -   -   -        2                     12--  570 --             Y
EXCAVATOR, ERADALL                                  NO.    -   I   -   -   -S                        -   31             -         '.
TRACTOR? TRACKEDY 140 MP                            NO.         2  '                          Di     -   2957     -2-      p,A 
WADERv TRACKED, 150 HP                              NO. -       2                         I   57,    -   27.2           -    -   4  -  ; r
GRADER9 12S HP; 12 FT                               NO.         2      -            2    '1,921          23,r     -    -38                .i ''
TRACTOR, .HEEL  60-SP HP                            NO.    - 2   -- -                                             -                 6 0 
TRAILER UNITY 60T                                   No,          I   -    -                         - I  9c-    Q,A                               * 9
DUMPTRUCKl IOT                                      NS,    -     4                  4                -      7     - -        -   :37.7    '       i 9
TRUCK; 8-iOT                                        No,    -                           - -- -                                -   L4 ?   Pil        '        P       '.:
STATION WAGON                                       N,.,        5   -   -   --      5                             - 
MOTORCYCLE? 150-250 CC                              NOf         ! i    - _- -, 7   '                                                               :
HIRELESS                                            4       -0  7   -                          s $6i                               O'
SPARE PARTS                                         ND,                    -                              2,6    - _ -27 -
LOCAL HANDLING                             7         U  - -               -               -      -   35.0    - -.         -                               C      22
Sub-Total 0 AND N CIVIL WORKS DII                                                                       -  357.P     - -2  c.
2. EXTE-NSION SERVICES
MOTORCYCLES? LINHT                                  Ha      -   2   -        -      3      0.,2 9         6            -,
CARS                                                NO.     2   2                              7 -   -  2  ;,4_7  1I5    :9    -    -  -
MACHINERY SETS                                      NO.    - E       -S                              -            - I        - 0,5-
SYPHONS 6d    NO.-- -                                                                                                                     C7
SUNDRY EXTENSION EQUIPMENT                          SET    -   2   - -       -      3      d Qd    -    e.a    -                                 .  3
Su-Total EXTENSION SERVICES                                                                              7          !      _
Sub-Total VEHICLES AND EOUIPMENT                                                                         *.S  225.2        5.7         -t
B, EXTENSION BUILDINGS
VILLAGE TECHNICiAN HOUSES                                O.A  2-2   37                                0              - -         -    j .1J  2A,i,
C. TRAINING AN       SUTANT5
1. INI7IAL STAFF TRAINIH6
VILLAGE TECHNICIANiS                                NO. _  I             - _  _             096      -    2       -    -    -        2 70
SUlBJECT MATTER SPECIALISTS                         NC.     -   2   2   -        d           .04    -    V.1  0.1    -    -         2 2           C
Sub-Total INITIAL STAFF fRAINING                                                                        _          p,9  05  .-        0d;
2. TRAINING ATROAD
TRAINING DSII TOPRAKSU. EXTENSIiN SERVICES                 -   -   -   -   -        -B                                             7 9            *
3. CONSULTANTS
CONSULTANTS NASTERPLAN IR IG70N                             -    -    -    -    -                                 -          -         
Sub-Total TRAINING AND CONSULTANTS                                                                       -                          s
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                      ?    Q&v   .7 27.-   l          -
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                -,7                                                    3.  :      li   '.  4
March 99 1983 10Q31



TURKEY
IGDIR-AKSU-EREGLI-ERCIS (IAEL) IRRIGATION PROJECT
Sucars Account bn Tfie
(TL Million)
Base Costs
P Price
Base Costs                            Cont. on    Foreigs  Exchanse
No, of ---------------------------------------------------  Base Costs   ----------------
Urit  Unit CLit   Units        1        2          3         4         5      Total   (US$ Million)               msount
1, INVESTMENT COSTS
. nAIN IRROOTIUON  ' DRAINAGE WORK0
HEAD WORKS                                                      -   279.5    75B.9    605.3    156.3             -  1.800,0             10.4    40.0    720.0
MAIN  4ANALS                                                         773,5  1,365.6  1,255,6   800.7             -  4,b00.9             25.0    40.0  1,704.4
IPRIGATION NETWORKS                                             - 1,057.0  1,985.4  2,162.9   1,382.8            -  6,588.1             38.8    40.0  2,635,2
OOUINAGE NETWORS                                                   1!119.2   1,532.4  1,502.0       944.4        -  5,09a0,             2Y97    40.0  2.039.
-t '-''T) Mh1lN iPpiTGoITN U DRATNAGE WOKS                           3,229.1  5,642.4  5.525.S  3,349.7             - 17,747,0           104.0    40.0  7,098,8
fii.ssicl  ontingencis,s                                        -   484.4    846.4    82809    502.4             -  2,bb2.0                 -    40.0  1,064,8
"ruce v7r;ti2e27le                                             -    07.1    666.3  ,,159,9    990.4             -  2,911.0                 -    40.0  1,164,?
Tot-,! iNCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                        3-00.6  7,15,0  7,514.6  4,850.6               - 23,320.8            104.0    40.0  9.32S.3
FOreLsi E-cbhndU                                                   1.520,3  2,062.0  3,005.0  1,940.2            -  9020.3                  -     0.0        0.0
. 0N OARM WORKS
LuND LEVELLING                                                  -    80.!  1,210.6   1.215.9   i,2i7,2  1,050.3  5,474.2                33.4      40.4  2-212,4
SUATORF4CE DR01N6                                               -        -    792.1    814.6    813.2   792.1  3,211 9                  20.i      25.0    803.G
SOIL AMENDMENTS                                                 -        -    189.4    205.3       201.3   194.7    7T90.                4.9    45.0    355.0
iUFFhCE DRhINS & RODS                                          -   111.3    172.2       169.5      180.1    16S.,     798.7              4.9    45.0    359.4
S.ub-TCtdl UN FhRO  WORF;S                                              091.4  2,364.2  2,405.3  2,411.n 2,202.6 10,275.5                   63.3    36.3  3,730,7
Fhusical Continsencies                                               133.7    354.6    360.0    361.0   330.4  1,541.3                            36.3    559.6
Frice [ortinsencie6                                             -    24.1      279.2    504,9    718.9   847.9  2,375.0                     -    35.8    851,0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                     1,049,1  2,998.1  3,271.0  3,492.0 3,381.0 14,191,0                   63.3     36.2  5,141.7
Foreisr Exnchanse                                                    431.4  1,079.0  1,176.2  1,257.0 1,19,7.  5,141.3                      -      0.0       0.0
Ci EGUPIMENT
O&M M0N10 I  WORKS                           0.06-31.788      274      0.0  3,388.4           -    300.3         -  3,696.5             21.1     95.0  3,511.6
CONETRUCTION ON FARM WORKS                  1.907-27.S15      124 2,936.9           -    267.0                   -  3,203.9             17.0    61b.   1,909.5
EXTENSION SERVICES                           9.009-1.457      200    23'        14.8        2,0         -        -      40.5             0.2     95,3       38.6
Sb-Tot31 EGOUIPENT                                                    2,96U.6  3.403,3    269.0    3003,            -  6,940.0             30.4      79.5  5,519.7
Fhurical Continnoencies                                         -   296.1    340.3         26.9      30.8        -    694.1                      79,5    502.3
Frice Tontir,nences                                             -    76.4    384.4        54.0       87.0        -    602.6                 -    87.6    529.1
Sub-Total  INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                    3,333.1  4,120.0    349,0        426.7        -  8,237.6             30.4      80.1  6,600.8
Taxes                                                           - 1,166.8           -    122.6          -            1,289.3                       0.0       0.0
Foreisn Exechanse                                               - 2,050.0  3,921.5    215.9        405,3             6,600,8                -     0.0        0.0
D. ENGINEERINE
MAIN 1D WORKS                                                   -   322.9    504.2    552.6    335.0             -  1,774.7             10.4      0.0        0.0
ON FORM WORKS                                                   -    09.1    236.4    240.5        241.2   220.3  1,027.5                6.3      0.0        0,0
Sub-Total ENGINEERING                                                   412.1    800.7      793.1    576.2   220.3  2,802.2                 16,7      0.0       0,0
Fhssical Continsencies                                          -    6.        120.1    119.0       06.4      33.0    420.3                -      0.0        0,0
5C5 Censinneiss                                                -    11.1       94,5    166.5    171,7        04.0    528.7                -      0.0        0,0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                       485.0  1,015.3  1,078.6        934.3   338.1  3,751,3               16.7      0.0       0.0
E. LAND E COUISITION                                                -   039.7    906.0    050.3    449.0            -  3,053,0             17.0       0.0       3.0
Frice Continnsencies                                            -    19.-       93.0     156.7    116.4          -    385.8                -      0.0        0.0



Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                       859.4    999,Q  1,014.9        565.4         -  3,438.7             17.6      0.0        O.0
F, BUILDING5                                          3.311        60   103.2    123.7        33.1          -              260.0            1,4     24.0        62.4
Phusiocl Cortir,gencies                                         -    15.5       18.6        5.0         -         -     39.0                -    24.I         9,4
Price Contir,gencies                                            -      2.8      14.6        7.0         -               24.3                -    24.0        5.8
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                        121.4    156.8       45.0          -        -    323.3              ',4    24.0        77.,
Foreign ExchanYe                                                -    29.1       37.6       10.8         -         -     77.6                -      0.0       0.0
G. TRAT1NIN  ANB CONSULTANTS
ExTENSION, INITIAL                             0.02-0.06      101      2.1        1.8       1.0         -         -       4.9             0.0      3.6        .
TRAINING ABR9AD 6                                                     19.1      19.1       19.1      19.1    19.1       95.4              Io 150.3'         95.4
CONSULTANTS                                                     -      9.9        9,c         -         -         -      19. 90.,    100.0                  19.9
Sub-Total TRAINING AND ]ONSULTANTS                                        31.1      30.8      20.1      19,1      19.1     120.1             0.7     96.1      115.4
FOHuocal Cortingencies                                          -      0.3       Q.3        ).1         -         -      0.7                -      3.6         . 0
PFice ContinoevcieE                                             -      0.7       3.2        3.'       4.9      6.4       18.9               -    97.6       19.5
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                         32.1      34.3      23.9      24.0      25.5    139,8              0.7    05.9    133.9
Foreion E:chense                                                      20.9       32.1      22,o      ?4,0     25,5     133,w                -      2.0       0 ,,
Total IN'!EOTENT COSTS                                                   0,467,1 13,271.0  9,904.6  7,113.8 2,442.0 41,198.6                  242.2      40.1 16,526,9
Fhusical Contir.encies                                             -   991.7  1,680.2  1,340.6    981.5   363.4  5,357.5                       -    40,8  2,185.3
Price CoiU er,"ences                                               -   221.9  1,535.3  2,052.6  2,098.3   939.1  o,847.1                       -    37,5  7569.2
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                            9,sBO.8 16,486.5 13,297.9 10,193.6 3,744.5 53,403.2                  242.2      39.9 21.281,9
TO .eE                                                              - 1,166.8                12:.6          -        -  1,289.3                -       0.0       0.2
ror. E.:.har.e                                                      - 4,068.6  7,932,2  4,4313  3,626.6 1,223.1 21,281.9                             0.6        3.3
II. RECURRENT 3OST3
4. OS1  361N ID WORKS                                              -    83.8    126.2    424.1    620.9   851.9  2,107.0                   13.o    25.C      526.3
Price Cortinaenceo-                                                   2.0      13.0       77.4     160,9   285.2    538.5                  -    25.0      134-0
ub-6otal INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                        85.9    139.2    501.5    781.9 1,137 .1  2,645.5                  13.6    25.0    661.4
Foreign E!cchanre                                              -    21.5       34.8    125.4    195.5   284.3    661.4                     -      0.0       0.0
0. EYTENSION SERVICES
ST0FF                                       0.013-0.954      760     11.1      30.6      42.1       43.0    43.0    169.8                1.1      0.0       O.C
ECUUIFhENT AND [OILDINC5                    0.009-1.113  2,883    37.9         63.6       68.9      70.4     70.5    311.3               1.9     71,8     223.4
Sub-Total EXTENSION SERVICES                                            47.0       94.2     111.0    113.4   113.5    481.1                 3.0    46.4    223.4
Phunical Continsencies                                         -      7.3      14.1       16.6      17.0    17.0        72.2               -    46.4       33.5
Price Contingencies                                            -      1.3      11.1       23.3      33.8     43,7     113.2                -    44.3       50.2
Sub-Tot2l INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                       57.6      119.5    150.9    164.2   174.2    666.5                  3.0     46.1     307.1
Foreign Exchange                                               -    34.2       59.5       66.9      71.3    75.2    307.1                  -      0.0       0.0
Total RECURPENT COSTS                                                       132.8    220.4    535.1    734.3   965.4  2,588.1                   16.5    29.0    750.1
Rhasical Contingences                                              -      7.3      14.1      16.6       17.0    17.0       72.2                -    46.4       33.5
Price Continsencies                                                 -      3.3      24.1    100.7    194.7   328.9    651.7                     -    28.4      184.8
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                               143.5    258.7    652.5    946.1 1,311.3  3,312.0                   16.5     29.2    968.4
Foreigr Exchange                                                    -    55.6       94,3     192.3    266.8   359.4    968.4                    -      0.0       0.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                       0,600.0 13,491.4 10,439.7  7,848.2 3,407.4 43,786.7                  258.7    39.5 17,277.1
Phbsical Contingencies                                               -   999.1  1,694.4  1,357.3    998.5   380.5  5,429.7                       -    40.9  2,219.3
Price Contingenries                                                  -   225.2  1,559.3  2,153.3  2,293.0 1,268.0  7,498.8                       -    36.7  2,754.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                        9,824.3 16,745.1 13,950.3 11,139.6 5,055.8 56,715.2                  250.7    39.2 22,250.3
Ta.es                                                                - 1,166.8           -    122.6          -         -  1,289.3                -      0.0       0.0
Foreigo Exchange                                                     - 4,124.3  8,026.5  4,623.6  3,893.4 1,582.6 229250.3                       -      0,0        0.0
March 9, 1983  10:32



TURKEY
II3IR-AKSO-EREOLI-ERCIS (IAEE) IRIGATION PROJECT
Sumarcn Account Rn Project Cuoeonent
ITI. Million)
Physical
Contingencies
EREGLI   ERCIS              -------------
1GDIR SCHEME AKSU SCHEME SCHEME  SCHEHE   Total           2   ARount
I. IN'ESTMENT COSTS
a  MOAIN TRRIGhTITN S TOTIhAGE WORKS
HEAD WORKS                                             1-006.6         793.4         -        -  1,800.0  15.0   270.0
MHIN CANALS                                            2,033,1       1,739.1              4838.   4,260,9  15.0   639.1
IRRIGATION NETWORKS                                    3,891.4       2,059.6         -   637.1  6,580.1  15.0   988,2
DRAINAGE NETWORKS                                      4,307.3         329.8         -   460,9  5,098.0  05.0   764.7
Suh-Total HAIN IRRICATIOA N   DRAINAGE WORKS              11,238,4      49210.8            1,586,8 17,747,0  'S.O 2,662.0
Fhnsical Contingenciyn                                 1,685.8         738.3         -   238.0  2,662.0   0.0         0.0
Frice Contingencies                                    1,792.8         932.9         -   186.1  2,911.8  13.0   379,8
Sub-lotal INCLUDING CONTINCENCIES                         14,716.9       6,593.0         - 2,010.9 23,320.8  13.0 3,041.8
Foreign ExchanXe                                       5,886.8       2,637.2         -   804,4 ?-328,3  13.0 121607
P ON FOFRHM WORKS
_ __ __ -----    4-
LANE LEVELLING                                         2,581.5       1.075.5 1,361.6   455.6  50474,2  15.0   021 1
SUESURFACE DRAINS                                      1-512.6         741.7   91S.2    42.4  3,211.9  15.0   481.8
SOIL AMENDIHENTS                                          692,7             -    98.0         -    790.7  15.0   110.6
SURFACE DRAINS i ROAD'S                                   366.9        166.9   213,2       Sl,7    790.7  15.0   119,80
Sub-lotal ON FORM WORKS                                    5,153.6       1, 984,1 2,588.1   549.7 10,275.5  15.0 1,541.3
Rhnsical Continsencies                                    773.0        297.6   388,2    ^2.5  1,541.3   0.0           0.0
Price Contingencies                                     1,221,1        459.2   595.8    98.9  2,375.0  13.0   309.8
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                          7,147.7       2.740-9 3,572.1   730.1 14,191.8  13.0 1,851.1
Foreijn Exchange                                       2,614.9         951.7 1257.6   317.1  5.141,3   13.0   670.0
C. EQUIFMENT
0M MOON ID WORKS                                       1,793.0        575,2   890.4   429,  13-696.5  10.0   369,6
CONSTRUCTION ON FhRM  ORKS                             1,740.8        437.7 1,025.4          -  3,203.9  10.0   320.4
EXTENSION SERVICES                                         15.5          11.1      8.3      5.6      40,5  10.0       4.0
Sub-Total EOUIPHENT                                        3,549.2       1,024.0 1,932.1    435.5  6,940.8  10.0   094.1
Fhnsical Contingencies                                    354.9        102.4   193.2    43.5    694.1   0.0           0.0
"rice Continsencies                                       299.6         01.8   156.0    55.2    602.6   9.1    54.8
Sub-Totol INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                          4,203.8       1,218.2 2,281,3   534.3  8,237.6   9.1   748.9
Taxes                                                     700.5        176.1   412,6          -  1,289.3   9.1   117.2
Foreign Exchanae                                       3,328.1         990.1 1,775.0   507.6  6,600.8   9.1   600.1
D. ENGINEERING
MAIN ID WIORKS                                          1,123.8        492.2         -   158.7  1,774,7  15.0   266.2
ON FARM WORKS                                             515.4        198.4   258.8    05.0  1,027.5  15.0   154,1
Sub-Total ENGINEERING                                      1,639.2         690.6   258.8   213.6  2,802.2  15.0   420.3
Phusical Contingencies                                    245.9        103.6    38.8    32.0    420.3   0.0           0.0
Price Contingencies                                       301.4        139.2      59.6    28.5    528.7  13.0    69.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                          2,186.5         933.4   357.2   274.2  3,751.3  13.0   489.3
E. LAND ACQUISITION                                        2,317.9         573,5         -   161.6  3,053,0   0.0         0.0
Price Contingencies                                       290.2         88.0         -      7.6    385.8   0.0        0.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                          2,608.1         661,5         -   169.2  3,438.7   0.0         0.0
F.  1UILDINGS                                                149.7          37.9    62.5       9.9    260.0  15.0    39.0
Phosical Continoencies                                     22.5           5.7      9.4      1.5      39.0   0.0       0.0
Price Contingencies                                        's 7                              . 0     '7.4   1 .0       . 2



Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                            18S.1          46.4     76.5    12.3    323.3  13.0    42.2
Foreign Exchange                                           45.1          11.1     18.4      3.0       77.6  13.0    10.1
B. TRAINING AND CONSULTANTS
EXTENSION,  INITIAL                                         2.5           1.2      0.8      0.3        4.9  15.0       0.?
TRAINING ABROAD                                            31.8          31.8    23.8       7.9      95.4   0.0        0.0
CONSULTANTS                                                 7.9           5.3      4.0      2.6      19.9   0.0        0.0
Sub-Total TRAINING AND CONSULTANTS                            42.2          38.3    28.6    10,9        120.1   0.6       0.7
Phusical Contingencies                                      0.4           0.2      0.1      0.1        0.7   0.0       0,0
Price Contingencies                                         6.S           6.2      4.6      1.6       18.9   0.3       0.1
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                             49.1          44.7    33.4       12.6     139.8   0.6       0,8
Foreign Exchange                                           46.2          43.2    32.4    12.2    133.9   0.0           0.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                       24,090.3       9,270.2 4,870.1 2,968.0 41,198.6  13.0 5,357.5
Fhvsical Contingencies                                     3,082.4       1,247.7   629.7   397.6  5,357.5   0.0           0.0
Price Continaencies                                        3,927.5       1,720.1   820,7   378.9  6,047.1  11.9   816.6
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                31,100,2      12923800 6,320.5 3,744.5 53,403.2  11,6 6,174,1
Taxes                                                        700.5         176.1    412.6         -  1,289.3   9.1   117.2
Foreign Exchange                                          11,921.1       4,633.3 3,083.4 1,644.1 21,281.9  11.7 2,497.6
II. RECURRENT COSTS
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
A. OtN MAIN ID WORKS                                      1,000.1         183.8   700,1   222.9  2,107,0    0.0          0.0
Price Contingencies                                      250.0          57,3   171.9    59,4       538.0   0.0        0.0
Sib-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                         1,250.1         241.1   872.0   282.3  2,645.5   0.0           0.0
Foreign Exchange                                         312.5          60.3   210.0    70.6    661.4   0.0           0.0
P. EXTENSION SERUICES
STAFF                                                     67.1          69.2    17.0    16.5       169.8  10.0    25.5
EOUIPhENT AND BUILDINGS                                   71.4          42.2   180.4       9.2    311.3  15.0    46.7
Sub-Total EXTENSION SERVICES                                138.5         111.4   205.5    25.7    481.1  1.8          72.2
Phasical Contingencies                                    20.8          16.7    30.8       3.8      72.2   0.0        0.0
Price Contingencies                                       34.5          26.5     45.6      6.6     113.2  13.0    14,8
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                           193.8         154.7   281.9    36.1       666,5  13.0    86.9
Foreign Exchange                                          49.7          42.0   208.6       6.8    307.1  13.0    40.1
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                         1,138.7         295.3   905,6   248.6  2,588.1   2.8    72.2
Phusical Contingencies                                        20.8          16.7    30.8        3.8      72.2   0.0       0.0
Price Contingencies                                          284.5          83.8   217.5    66.0    651.7   2.3          14.8
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                 1,443.9         395.8 1,153.9   318.4  3,312.0   2.6    86.9
Foreign Exchange                                             362.2         102.2   426.6       77.4    968.4   4.1    40.1
Total BASELINE COSIS                                          25,220.9       9,565.5 5,775.7 3,216,6 43,7S6.7  12.4 0,429.7
Phusical Contingencies                                      3,103.2       1,264.5   660.6   401.4  5,429.7   8.0           0.0                                >
Price Contingencies                                         4,212.0       1,S83.8 1,038.1   444.9  7,498.8  11,1   831.3                                       z
Total PROJECT COSTS                                           32,544.2    12,633,8 7,474.3 4,062.9 56,715.2  11.0 6.261.0                                     .  .
Taxes                                                         700.5         176.1   412.6          -  1,289.3   9.1   117.2
Foreign Exchange                                           12,283.3       4,735.5 3,510.0 1,721.5 22,250.3  11.4 2,537.6
March 9, 1983  10132



TURKEY
IGDIR-AKSU-EREGLI-ERCIS (IAEE) IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project ComPonent bY Timie
(TL Million)
Total
Base Costs                   -----------------
(US$
1       2         3         4         5        TL    Million)
A. IGIiIR SCHEME                5,483.5  7J539.2  5y899.8  4,566.6 1,739.8 25y228.9    129.4
B. AKSU SCHEiiE                 1,076,0  2.983.4  2,836.1  2,000.0   669.9  9y565.5            49.1
C. EREGLI SCHEME                i1315.8  1,582.5    989.4    980.6   907.4  5,775.7           29.6                                        ON
D. ERCIS SCHEME                   724.7  1Y386.3    714.5    300.9    90,3  3,216.6           16.5
Total BASELINE COSTS              8,600.0 13,491.4 109439.7  7,848.2 3,407.4 43,786.7    224.5
Physical Continsencies           999.1  1Y694.4  i,357.3       998.5   380.5  5,429.7        27.8
Price Contingencies              225.2  1i559.3  2Y153.3  2,293.0 1,268.0  7,498.8           3e.5
Total PROJECT COSTS               9,824.3 16,745.1 13,950,3 11,139.6 5,055.8 56,715.2    290.8
Ta-es                          1,166.8         -    122.6          -        -  1Y289.3        6.6
Foreisn Excharne              4,124.3  8.026.5  4i623.6  3,893.4 1,582.6 22f250.3    114.1
March 9f 1983  10:32
)r



TURKII EY
IGDIR--AKSU-EREI6LI--ERCIS (IAEE) IRRIGATION PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(TL Million)               (US$ Million)         % oF
------------- ----------------------- Forei4r.  % of Total
Local   Forei. ri  lTotal   Local  Foreilr, Total  E-charnie Base Costs
A. IGDIR SCHEME                 15Y696,0  9Y533.0 25,228.9   80.5    48.9  129.4            37,8        57.6
B. AKSU SCHEME                   59957+4  3,60861  9,565,5   30.6    18.5   49.1            37.7        21.8
C. EREGLI SCHEME                 3,000.6  2,775.1  5,775.7   15.4    14.2   29.6            48.0        13,2
D. ERCIS SCHEME                  1,655.7  1,P360.9  3,216.6       9.5      7.0   16.5       42,3         7.3
Total BASELINE COSTS              26,509.6 17,277.1 43,786.7  135.9    88+6  224.5            39.5       100.0
Physical Contirnlencies         3,210.4  2Y219.3  5,429.7   16,5    11,4   27*8            40.9        12.4          1
Price Continrserncies           4,744.8  2,925.0  7,669.8   24.3         15.0   39.3       38.2        17.1          0"
Total PROJECI COSTS               34Y464.9 22,421.4 56,886.3  176,7   115.0  291.7            39,4        129,5
Frornt End Fee                         -     55,4       55,4       -      0,3    0,3    100,0           0.1
Total FINANCING REQUIRED          34,464.9 22,476.9 56,941.7  176.7   115.3  292.0            39,3        129.7
March 22, 1983  16b35
(D <
4-   Il



- b8 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
TURKEY
IAEE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Procurement for Civil Works and Equipment
Net Cost in Million TL, March 1983 Prices - US$1=TL 195
ICB*    LCB*    FA*
Main Irrigation & Drainage Works
Igdir Scheme
1.   Intake Unit III (158), Settling Basin Unit I
and II (97):, Feeder System Unit III (752)                     1007
2.   Rehabilitation Unit I, 24900 ha                                         3876
3.   Construction Unit III, Part 1, 7800 ha                         2319
4.               "        "   Part 2, 6800 ha                        2009
5.          "         "        Part 3, 5500 ha                      2028
Aksu Scneme
6.   Rehabilitation and Completion Unit I (518),
II (271)                                                                1045
7.   Construction Kargi Weir (591), Flood
Protection (.570)                                     1759
8.   Construction Unit III, 7400 ha                         2118
Ercis Scheme=
9.   Construction Unit I, 7100 ha                           1587
Total Main Irrigation & Drainage Works         5464    7363    4921
On-Farm Works
Igdir Scheme
10a. Land levelling, by contract, Unit I-III,
28500 ha                                                       1937
10b. Subsurface drains, by contract, 1250 ha,
179 km                                                          151
11.  Land levelling, by TOPRAKSU, 9500 ha                                     645
11.  Subsurface drains, by TOPRAKSU,
11250 ha, 1609 km                                                       1362
12.  Soil amendments, supply of gypsum,
157500 tons                                                     627
11.  Soil amendments, spread, ploughed by
TOPRAKSU, 14000 ha                                                        66
10c. Surface drains, 570 km, and feeder
roads, 190 km                                                   367



- 69 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
Aksu Scheme
10a. Land levelling, by contract, Unit I-III,
12750 ha                                                        806
11.  Land levelling, by TOPRAKSU' Unit 1-III,
4250 ha                                                                  269
10b. Subsurface drains by contract, 700 ha,
88 km                                                            74
11.  Subsurface drains by TOPRAKSU, 6300 ha,
787 km                                                                   668
10c. Surface drains, 278 kin, and feeder
roads, 85 km                                                    167
Eregli Scheme
10a. Land levelling oy contract, Unit i and II,
22950 lna                                                      1022
11.  Land levelling bv TOPRAKSU, Unit I and I1, 7650 ha                       340
10o. Subsurface drains, bycontract, 900 ha, 108 km                     92
11.  Subsurface drains by TOPRAKSU, 8100 na, 972 kmi                          824
12.  Soil amendments, supply gypsum, 22500 tons                        78
11.  Soil amendments spread, ploughed by TOPRAKSU
2000 na                                                                  16
10c. Surface drains, 330 km, and feeder road9s, 1.10 km              213
Ercis Scheme
10a. Levelling by contract, Unit I                                   35U
11.  Subsurface crains by TOPRAKSU, 500 ha, 50 km                              42
lOb. Surface drains, 80 km, and feeder roads, 27 km                    52
Total On-Farm Works                                   5935    4232
Equipment
13.  Operation & Maintenance Main ID Wcrks (DS!)           3697
14.  Construction On-Farm Works (TOPRAKSU)                 3204
15.  Transport & Deronstration (Extension Service)            40
Total Equipment                              6941
Buildings
Extension Service                                               200
Total buildings                                        260
Grand Total TL 351lb M                      13110   12853    9153
Percent of Total                              37%      37'%    Lb



- 70 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
Summary Procurement
(i)  ICB Contracts Main I&D Works
5 contracts TL 5464 million. Average price US$5.6 million.
(ii) IGB Contracts Equipment
3 contracts TL 6941 million. Price US$0.2-19.0 million/package.
(iii) LCB Contracts Main I&D Works
4 contracts TL 7363 million. Average price US$9.4 million.
(iv) LCB Contracts On-Farm Works
Land levelling, surface drains, subsurface drains and feeder roads and
soil amendments (lOa, b ana c, 11 and 12), TL 5935 million. Convenient
size contract packages TL 55 to 165 million, for areas of 1000-3000 ha
or about 40 packages. Price US$0.3-0.9 million/package.
(v) LCB contracts Buildings
Extension buildings TL 260 million, US$1.3 million.
* ICB - Internacional Competitive Bidding;
LCB - Local Competitive Bidding;
FA - Force Account



- 71 -
ANNEX 4
rU LKEY
IAEr  IRRIGATION PROJECT
Construction Schedule of Main Irrigation
and Drainage Works and On-Farm Works
Rehabilitated or Newly Developed Area for Irrigation
Total  1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
------ net ha '000 -------------
Igdir Scheme
Ongoing Main Irrigation & Drainage Works/l           7.9  (6.6)  (1.3)
Main Irrigation & Drainage Works                    45.0  19.8   13.5   12.9    8.8    -
On-Farm Works                                       38.0   2.5    9.1   11.6    9.0    5.8
Irrigable Area, cumulative /2                       52.9   4.9   10.3   17.9   37.9   47.8
Aksu Scheme
Main Irrigation & Drainage Works                    22.1   1.5    7.0    8.4    5.2
On-Farm Works                                       17.0   1.7    4.1    2.9    4.2    4.1
Irrigable Area, cumulative                          22.1   0        1.0    5.7   11.3   22.1
Eregli Scheme
Ongoing Main Irrigation & Drainage Works Li    30.6 (28.5)  (2.1)
On-Farm Works                                       22.0   2.1    5.0    5.U    5.0    4.9
Irrigable Area, cumulative /4                       30.6  10.0   10.6   25.9   29.1   30.0
Ercis Scheme
Main Irrigation & Drainage Works                     7.1   2.0    3.2    1.9
On-Farm Works                                        7.1   1.3    1.7    2.1    2.0
Irrigable Area, cumulative /5                        -      0      0       5.2    7.1    7.1
Project Total
Ongoing Irrigation & Drainage Works /1              38.5 (35.1)  (3.4)
Main Irrigation & Drainage Works                    74.2  13.3   23.7   23.2   14.0
On-Farm Works                                       84.1   7.6   19.9   21.6   20.2   14.8
Irrigable Area, cumulative                         112.7  14.9   21.9   54.7   85.4  107.0
/1 Not included in project.
/2  Feeder system Unit III completed in 1985, water available in 1984 season.
73 Kargi weir for Unit III completed in 1986, water available in 1987.
14 Ivriz dam completed in 1984, water available in 1985.
/5 Kockopru dam completed in 1984, water available in 1985.



- 7i -
ANNEX 5
TU RKE Y
IAKE IRRiGATiON PROJECT
ScLheduie of Disbursements
Cumnulat ive*-
Disbursements                                Comparison
IBRD Fisc4il          US$ million         Cumulative       Banu Agric.  T"urkey Irrig.
'ear               equivalent         _                Projects         Projects
19 83 /841
Dec. 3   183             7. 5               4.0               0.6             2.7
,j-e 303  986+            9.5                8.3               3.6             5.4
Dec.  31  1984           15.Q               13.0               7.2            10.0
u 3, 1985          21,0               1895               13.4            14.7
Dec  315 1985                              36.0              19.5            20.1
.TU11a2 .0, 198v        bicb                53.7              29,0            25.b
Dec, _1' 19b8o           74.                64,9              3t30            35.6
June 3(, iS87            65,4               74.3              4t.7            45.6
L98' /8>
Dec, 31, 1'-97           95,3 5               i0              54,2            52.9
June 30, 1988           104.0               90.4              64.7            60.2
1988/89
Dec. 31, 1988           I 0907              95.4              71.2            68.7
June 30, 1989           115.0              100,0              80.3            77.3
Does nIot inclucte front end fee of US$0.3 million.



- 73 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1
TU KEY
IAEE IRRIGATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Irrigation
Strategy Review
1.        Irrigation development in Turkey has in the past been hampered by
public sector initiation of numerous projects far beyond the scope of
financial and implementation capabilities. This has caused a dilution of
effort and excessive delays in irrigation project completion. Present
government strategy is to shift public investment to quicker yielding projects
of which irrigation schemes under construction would have high priority.
Furthermore, government has made a significant advance in improving cost
recovery of public sector irrigation works through new and proposed
legislation which permits both indirect and direct cost recovery. The Bank
suports this strategy and is interested in assisting in a systematic
development of irrigation schemes under construction. Currently DSI has some
79 irrigation schemes in various stages of development which would add about
900,000 ha to the existing 4 million presently under irrigation. Furthermore,
TOPRZAKSU has a backlog of about 300-400,000 ha of on-farm development works on
DSI's schemes. Clearly there is a need to develop a plan for implementation
of the various irrigation schemes so as to maximize land put into production
over the next 10 years within the budgetary allocations provided by Government
with assistance from external donors and within the implementation capacity of
the agencies involved.
2.        The objective would be to expand DSI irrigation works and TOPRAKSU
on-farm development works to complete at least 100,000 ha per year. For
TOPRAKSU this is expected to require increased use of contractors, especially
for subsurface drainage works to accelerate the process of completion. To
achieve these goals, both agencies will need to prepare detailed investment
programs in which programmed expenditures of those
agencies' resources would be clearly concentrated on projects which can be
completed within a reasonable period of time.
3.        In order to develop an irrigation strategy and prepare a master plan
for implementation, the two agencies will need to accomplish the following;
(a) prepare a detailed inventory of existing irrigation schemes
showing location, state of completion and number of hectares
to be irrigated;
(b) additional costs required to complete irrigation networks
and on-farm development works per each irrigation scheme;



- 74 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2
(c) detailed estimates of staff, training needs, equipment and budget
requirements in parallel with a rapid expansion in construction
activity;
(d)  timing required to complete each scheme and the estimatea cost on a
year to year basis; and
(e) cropping pattern changes, intensity, and estimated rate of return
for each scheme.
4.        Criteria for priority selection of projects expected to be completed
during the first five years of thie plan period will include the following:
(a) there is a significant element of sunk costs;
(b) substantial investment in major infrastructure has occurred and
therefore project can be completed rapidly;
(c) technically sound;
(d) minimum energy requirements; and
(e) financially and economically viable.
Criteria (c), (d) and (e) would apply for projects for the second five years
of the plan period.
5.        The SPO will prepare an estimate of government and external
resources expected to be made available for irrigation construction and will
coordinate efforts by DSI and TOPRAKSU to develop an irrigation development
program within likely resource availability.
6.        Under the coordination of the SPO, DSI and TOPRAKSU in preparing a
detailed assessment of irrigation works using the criteria outlined in para 3,
to come up with a master plan which highlights a phased implementation
schedule on a year to year basis for the next 10 years with a more precise
implementation plan for the first five years which would include additional
works required, cost and timing. Annual estimates would also be prepared to
show the expansion of the agencies technical and engineering staff to refine
long range scheduling and planning, project identification and evaluation,
finalization of designs and tendering of works, construction supervision, cost
recovery and O&M training capabilities.
7.        The irrigation strategy and investment master plan would also take
into account the additional funds for irrigation development and
sustainability of ongoing irrigation works which could be obtained through
improved cost recovery, and outline what further steps are proposed for
improving capital costs and O&M costs recovery for DSI irrigation works as
well as irrigation, drainage and other TOPRAKSU on-farm development works.



- 75 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3
8.        A specialist consultant with broad international experience in
master planning for irrigation and drainage projects would be employed to
assist DSI and TOPRAKSU in the preparation and review of the proposed
irrigation strategy and master plan for implementation of irrigation projects
over the next ten years.
9.        The irrigation strategy and investment plan proposed as a result of
the above would be submitted to the Bank for its review no later than July 31,
1984.



- 76 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1
TURKEY
APPRAISAL OF
IGDIR-AKSU-EREGLI-ERCIS (IAEE) IRRIGATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Selected Reports Related to the Agricultural Sector
and Irrigation Subsector
A-1  IBRD, Turkey - Agricultural Sector Survey, Report No. 1684-TU,
June 23, 1978.
A-2  IBRD, Turkey - Public Sector Investment Review, Report No. 3472-TU,
December 1981.
A-3  IBRD, Turkey - Agricultural Development:  Problems and Opportunities,
Report No. 3178a-TU, May 7, 1981.
A-4  IBRD, Turkey - Industrialization ana Trade Strategy, Report No. 3641-TU,
March 1982.
A-5  IBRD, Turkey - Seyhan Irrigation Project Stage II, PPAR Report No. 2747,
November 26, 1979.
A-6  IBKD, Water Management in Bank Supported Irrigation Project System;
An Analysis of Post Experience, Report No. 3421,
April 16, 1981.
A-7  IBRD, Turkey - Irrigation Rehabilitation and Completion Project,
PPAR Report No. 3515, June 23, 1981.
A-8  IBRD, Turkey - Agricultural Development Alternates For Growth With
Exports, Report No. 4204-TU, November 22, 1982.
B. Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B-1   Turkey - Irrigation Completion Project Preparation Report - Main
Report.
B-2   Turkey - Irrigation Completion Project.  Preparation Report,
Aksu. Irrigation Scheme.
B-3   Turkey - Irrigation Completion Project.  Preparation Report, Annex 2,
Igdir Irrigation Scheme.
B-4   Turkey - Irrigation Completion Project.  Preparation Report, Annex 3,
Van-Ercis Irrigation Scheme.
B-5   Turkey - Irrigation Completion Project.  Preparation Report, Annex 4,
Eregli-Ivriz Irrigation Scheme.
B-7   Turkey - Law No. 6200 Concerning the OrganiZation and Duties of the
General Directorate of State Hydraulic Works,
December 25, 1953.
B-8   Turkey - DSI Water Charge Uperation-Maintenace and Annual Investment
With 5% Stoppage Tax.
B-9   Turkey - 1982 Operation-Maintenance, Annual Investment Schedules,
Decree No. 8/4697, May 3, 1982.



- 77 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2
B-10  Turkey - Draft of the Legislation on the Repayment of Directorate
General of TOPRAKSU (Soil-Water) Investments (as of
beptember 1982).
C. Selected Working Papers
C-1   Detailed Cost Tables
C-2   DSI Project Works
C-3   TOPRAKSU Project Works
C-4   Extension Services
C-5   Training
C-6   Farm Hodels and Financial Analyses
C-7   Crop Areas, Production, Utilization of Inputs and Credit Needs
C-8   Markets and Prices
C-9   Economic Analysis
C-10 Assessment of Salt-Affected Soils in the Igdir and Eregli Sub-Project
Areas



78
TURKEY
IGDIR-AKSU-EREGLI-ERCIS (IAEE) IRRIGATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
PYt      PY2       PY3      PY4       PYB
MAIN I&D WORKS (OSI_
Head Works                                        10       45        30        15
w     Main I. Canals                   KM    266         J        30        30        35
E     I&D Networks                     KM   2074         10       30        30        30
,   ON FARM WORKS (TOPFAKSU)
O     Land Levellrig                    HA  38,000       n         25       25        25       20
Sub-surface Orains               HA  12600               2_           2b       25        2_
Soil Amr drTidmsttg              HA  14,000                 26        26       25        26
Surface Draltn & Rroids          HA  38,000        5        25        2. 26              20
MAIN ID WtORKS (081)
Head Works                                        0         40       40        20
Main L. Cranals                  KM      t9        0        36        35       30
E     I&D Networks                      KM    682        0         0        50        50
J     Flood Protection                 HA   7,000        0        30        25       45
r.   ON FARM WORKS ITOPRAKSU)
Land Leveling                    HA   17,000       5        25       25        20       25
Sub-surface Drains               HA   7,000                 25        25       25        25
Surface Chains & Roads           HA   18.500       5        25        25       25        20
E   ON FARM WORKS ITOPRAKSU             _
u     Land Leveling                     HA  22,000       5         25       25        25       20
u4    Sub-surface Drains                HA   9,000                 25       25       25        25
3     Soil Amendments                   HA   2,000                30        30       25        15
-=    Surface Drains & Roads            HA  22,000       5        20        25        25       25
MAIN laD WORKS (DS01
Main 1. Canals                   KM      51       35        40        25
I&D Networks                     KM    305        25        45        30
L)  ON FARM WORKS (TOPRAKSU)
Land Leveling                    HA   7,100       10       30         30       30
LU    Sub-surface Drains                HA    500                           50        s0
Surface Drains & Roads           HA   5,300        10       30        30 |   30
l'  EQUIPMENT
2
uE    O&M Civil Works                  No.   286                  90                  10
Constr. On Farn Works            No.   121        90                  10
|     Extension Services                No.   198        55       40         5
O&M CIVI L WORKS                   HA  112,700      S        45   .   70         95       100
EXTENSION SERVICES
_     Buildings                         No.   100        40       50        10
L     Operating                                          30        75      100       100       100
x                                          I         I         r___
TRAINING
Z     Extension Initial                 _      _         45       35        20
<     Extension, In Service             _       _        35       80       100       100       100
I-    Abroad, Extension,DSl,Topraksu   _                 20       20        20        20       20
World Bank-24416



TURKEY
IGDIR-AKSU-EREGLI-ERCIS (IAEE) IRRIGATION PROJECT
Organization Chart
I PRIME MINISTRY 1                                     lLine Control
PR IMSPO MIISRY                                        Coordination
MINISTRY OF   |       MINISTRY OF                MPNR              MINISTRY OF       [        MVA                    MAF
FINANCE        [     COMMERCE    j                                 INTERIOR          [                               .
I ________     TCZB        __         DSI'       _____               - -____    TOPRAKSU        _,        DGAA
TOPRAICSU        1    EXTENSION
TCZB                   DS I               PROVINCAL              TOPRAKSU            DGAA EXTENSION
REGIONAL              REGIONAL              GOVERNOR    __          REGIONAL    __       PROVINCIAL
OFFICE                OFFICE                  VALI                  OFFICE                OFFICE
_            ~~~REGIONAL
_ .     r R              ~~~~COORDINATINGr 
COMMITTEE"
TCZB                   DSI                                       TOPRAKSU
BRANCH        -       DISTRICT        ----                         DISTRICT      - COUNTY OFFICE
OFFICE                OFFICE                                        OFFICE
'Coordinator at Headquarters Level.
**One RC Committee for each of Igdir, Aksu, Eregli and Ercis Irrigation Schemes. Members: Chair-Provincial
Governor-VaIli, Regional Directors of DSI, TOPRAKSU and DGAA Extension and their project engineers
and TCZB Managers.
World Bank-24417






U     S         S.  R,JNOO18
0175   ~~~~~~~~~~~-'-s.                                                                    O0re~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nn  /~                                                               5     S. R
4t0  [pgi&                                     -,L
4'     ~                /
Unitl                  /                                                                                  i.1c                           rA-
K'1                                       5~~~~~~~~S  /B890/6859
3-7~~~~~%
Ua I    AlornI4-c
49 "   / 7>                                                                           I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GD11RR  AKSU -EREGLU-ERCIS  (IAEE) IRRIGATION  PROJECT
IGDIR SCHEME
PROJECT EXISTING
\  '/1  >~~~~~~~~~~~~  '                                                                             Pro~~~~~~"posd onfr ,orks-sd roplatno-fj
nwron,,'0'.-n,wwnoo r  Ooo1~~~~~~~~~~~~ororo~~~mrwr~~~,  Hoohakser~~~~~~~  {                   Rni
______________________________                                                    K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
"'OA'____________________________ A,','f                                                                                     -US",N   D.rriowi
JUGs/OwN A                               S1                             INRAN-,frMTER 0 1 2     7                                          /                                                   ti--day
'ELOORO  r              '                ~'                             /      y     Shs-q-d -    eriay
-/1   -~~~                                                   tsr                                                         yt-I  t(                                                       DrainsE6  -~
- YA ~    ~      ~              -o'            ~           ~            u  li  n        /       K ~ '                                                                                                rm r
/ Al-rinwi                                        FJ






iBRD 16859
.~ ~~'999/                                                                                                                         I                                  7T,I
for~ ~ ~ ~ ~9 cNn  30MAR19 of  -9wTUR                            itIL18                                $
==oc:c R ver                                                   .>       XUSSR -.
t-          "~~-m                                                                                                                                  9.EARA< '39                  It>
Secondary~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~L Y-LY9                         r'" / \
%    At~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
"~~~ ~ ~~~~--n3nt0ru /o nOre 9-e O' 1K  /  \   X 5"979....  s'#-R A   N  \ - \\\2N'
-. fi-      /-                              _                 KYUnit a
GDIR SCHEME                                                                                                       I
IGDIR-AKSU-EREGLI-ERCIS (IAEE) IRRIGATION PROJECT 
PROJECT   -RSTINA
P,pARONd -Y- A-ARS -nd
-   Dik                                                                                        'ss 
Con .. 3: ,
Serond-o-Irp                                          Asar6ns 
Reeds  AThePR9EeYd9ERTRd ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ I RA 



I



TURKEY
RGI DVERSION WEIR                                            IGDIR-AKSU-EREGLI-ERCIS (IAEE)IRRIGATION PROJECT
AKSU SCHEME
PROJECT   EXISTING
clIF in; : .           Proposed on-farm works and
completion of irrigation infrastructure
Kill <,Proposed on-farm works
4.                                                                       b~~~~~~25t~~~~nO;  Rivers
Embankments
I .   g   Diversion weirs
~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~Pumping stations
-;        ,>-  @         = . Siphons
Unit   m1                               -.           )=Ia   Tunnels
Canals:
A' <  >9i.   -   *  \   u               ePrimary
Secondary
Tertiary
Hctnr f6,->-u%   g   g)  ;                              Drains:
-   |     e  Primary
D IV                                                          Secondary
WEIR         <            -                    - ---In--   Tertioary
Roads:
Primary
Secondary
0   Towns
x                              -  --  ~~~~~~~international boundaries
Unit 11 1'
Kilireeters  0         2          4         6          a
/N e>  -S    04-'  f    st_wMiles  0                        1        2       3        4       5
Unit II
Oum=nlr 
AbdueeAhmanlor
>      i   ~~~Unit If         
-    Th,s enac has been prepared by The Worid Bank's staff ecclusilve far the  --te-nee of
th reades an d is beenoatrely far the Wt-ernal use ot The World Bask and the tnteteat,ohal
/~~~~~~~                                    ~         ~        ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~ '-5       Ferance Corporatnn The deonommabons used and the boundarnes Oshetc on thta mrap dn nol
8oz eh te                               -np[y, an tre part of The Weld Bash aod the t-trs-attossi Fmace Corporafion, any jndgt-et
On the 1eglal stat!s sfa-y terr,tory Sr any endoement Sr acceptance of such bnoudanes
~~~~~~~~C.k. li                                                !\ 3v'                        450
unit :45 , < t    S--      YUGOj- - -     U. S-S. R-                 450
Unitv,                                     Kumbtoy             .T8LGAR A
/  Unit IT                   J *yREECE  ()   Ankara                          -A.
CYPRUS        ARAE
LEBANON_(                           IRAIN R    > KUAI
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cl
ISRAEL%                                       > RQ ~ IA
LIYAARAB REP OF EGYPTIl                                            co
KUAt     (is






TURKEY                                               <OAA             : *'
IGI-AKSU-EREGLI-ERCIS (IAEE) IRRIGATION PROJECT                                     ${---            .          .5..
~~  St                                                                                                                              ,~~~~~~ i~~~NULC~~~~~AoAER GLISC EM
A     \                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT   E PAIST NG  EE L  C E EARw.9.                               2%1
ii                                              Proposed on-form works                                     G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-RERCE  ~Am  V~1 
N                      K                                                                                      ___Riv~"        P'0ers    -f-  -o,k
in''                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Damns  CYPRA%U
7  "  \  ~~~~~~~~~~~~  "  I  7"   .   . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Secondary                                                                                        AiE   RAB RRP Cr/5, VJO'JN
\   II7o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '\ ~~~~~~~~~Tertirary
YeII'ceKoya                                                                                                                     S 5    ertiary
iii   -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~Dikses
.0                                 .  /   -             - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HalacliPrmy
~~~  ,s  k  /  / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Secondary
1, ~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                           in- -Railway
/                                           ., ~~~~~~~~~~~Towns
Torkroen             . ~~~~International boandories
Unit T ~
RI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aaibnee
x ~     ~           ~          ~          4 
~~~~~~Beykciyu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C fsmciI
Halkopinar Zanpo  NoNkceAdnn                                                                                                                                                        / gy/nin






TURKEY
AKSU-EREGLI-ERCIS CIAEE) IRRIGATION PROJECT
ERCiS SCHEME
PROJECT EXISTING
Proposed on-farm works and
L I iS f =1      completion of irr gotion infrastructure
c     Rivers
Dams
Pumping station
Siphons
Canals:
Primary
________ ______ Secondary
________ _ Tertiary
Drains:
Primary
Secondary                  I
Tertiary
Roaids:
Primary
Secondary
o    Towns
Kekliksirti
-     International boundaries
/   KO CKGPRJ DAM
/   Cbuklu
K        0Ty rs                  3 _
eIt<s'saX,ssG/ z:T79 yu,'eK-a sop3. ro,e ese e. ass OO/;d't!5SO-'G h 7: 5 O 9szsa ssB-w:  . t g2 
Cso    7         , _   _r-,  &-,o~-  *       - _
LEEbl'iO;R~~~ ~ ~ ~ ,'                                    \        \ -                                                        D'
/~~~~~~~
'SR 4E' -A' .   . _ _              .-                                                 N
I{, / fi 
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
n,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



