The World Bank                                              Country Office
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT       50 Mirambo Street                  Tel: (255-22) 2163200
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                       P.O. Box 2054                      Fax: (255-22) 213295
                                                            Dar es Salaam, Tanzania




                                                        CONFORMED COPY


                                                                                         June 6, 2011




            Honorable Mustafa Haidi Mkulo
            Minister for Finance and Economic Affairs
            Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs
            The United Republic of Tanzania
            Dar es Salaam


            Dear Honorable Minister,

                         Re: TANZANIA: Marine and Coastal Environment Management Project
                         (IDA Credit No. 4106 TA and GEF Trust Fund Grant No. TF 55580 TA)
              Reallocation and Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement and Grant
                                             Agreement

                   We refer to the: (a) Development Credit Agreement (DCA), dated August 25,
            2005, between the United Republic of Tanzania (the Borrower) and the International
            Development Association (the Association); (b) GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement
            (GEF Grant Agreement), dated August 25, 2005, between the International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) (acting as the implementing agency for the
            Global Environment Facility (GEF) for the above mentioned Project.

                   We also refer to your letter dated May 22, 2007, requesting amendment to the
            DCA and the GEF Grant Agreement in order to Reallocate the Credit and Grant
            Proceeds and Amend the Agreements’ Closing Date and Performance Monitoring
            Indicators.

                   We are pleased to inform you that the Association and Bank agree to your
            request and proposes to amend the DCA and GEF Grant Agreement as follows:

                    Development Credit Agreement

                    1.       Article II, Section 2.03 is amended to read as follows:

                             “The Closing Date shall be August 31, 2012, or such later date as
                             the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly
                             notify the Borrower of such later date.?




                                          RCA 248423.   WUI 64145   FAX (202) 477-6391
Honorable Mustafa Haidi Mkulo              -2-                              June 6, 2011


       2.     Schedule 1, Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit to DCA Cr.
              4104-TA is hereby deleted in its entirety and is replaced with a
              new Schedule as set forth in Attachment I to this Amendment
              Letter.

       3.     Schedule 5, Performance Monitoring Indicators to Agreement Cr.
              4104-TA is hereby deleted in its entirety and is replaced with a
              new Schedule as set forth in Attachment II to this Amendment
              Letter.

       GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement

       1.     Article II, Section 2.03 is amended to read as follows:

              “The Closing Date shall be August 31, 2012, or such later date as
              the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the
              Borrower of such later date.?

       2.     Schedule 1, Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund
              Grant No. TF 55580-TA is hereby deleted in its entirety and is
              replaced with a new Schedule as set forth in Attachment III to
              this Amendment Letter.

       3.     Schedule 5, Performance Monitoring Indicators to Agreement Cr.
              4104-TA is hereby deleted in its entirety and is replaced with a
              new Schedule as set forth in Attachment IV to this Amendment
              Letter.


         All other provisions of the DCA and the GEF Grant Agreement, except amended
herein, shall remain in full force and effect.

        Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and
dating the two (2) originals of this Amendment Letter and returning one fully signed
original to us.

        The provisions set forth in this Amendment Letter will become effective upon
receipt by the Bank and the Association of one (1) fully executed original of this
Amendment Letter.
Honorable Mustafa Haidi Mkulo              -3-                            June 6, 2011



                                       Sincerely,

             INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION AND
      INTERNATIOANL BANK FOR RECONSTRCUTION AND DEVELOPMENT
         (Acting as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility)



                                /s/ John Murray McIntire
                              ______________________
                                 John Murray McIntire
                   Country Director for Tanzania, Uganda and Burundi
                                     Africa Region




 AGREED:
 UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA

 /s/ Ramadhani M. Khijjah
 __________________________________

 By: Authorized Representative

 Name: ____________________________

 Date: June 9, 2011
Honorable Mustafa Haidi Mkulo            -4-             June 6, 2011



Cc:    Mr. Ramadhani Mussa Khijjah
       Permanent Secretary
       Ministry of Finance
       Dar es Salaam

       Dr. Charles Nyamurunda
       Permanent Secretary
       Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries Development
       Dar es Salaam

       Mr. Hosea Gonza Mbilinyi
       Director of Fisheries Development
       Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries Development
       Dar es Salaam

       Mr. Robert Sululu
       MACEMP Project Manager
       Fisheries Division
       Ministry of Livestock and Fisheries Development
       Dar es Salaam

       Mr. Yusuf Kombo
       MACEMP Project Manager
       Fisheries Division
       Zanzibar

       Mr. Ngosha S. Magonya
       Commissioner – External Finance
       Ministry of Finance
       Dar es Salaam

       Mr. Jerome J. Buretta
       Assistant Commissioner – External Finance
       Ministry of Finance
       Dar es Salaam

       Mr. John S. Mavura
       Economist – World Bank Desk Officer
       Ministry of Finance
       Dar es Salaam

       Mr. Patrick W. Pima
       Economist – World Bank Desk Officer
       Ministry of Finance
       Dar es Salaam
Honorable Mustafa Haidi Mkulo            -5-                              June 6, 2011



Bcc: I. Pswarayi-Riddihough, P. Kristensen, Maria Isabel J. Braga, A. J. Glauber, J.
Kwengwere, L. Niyonahabonye (AFTEN); M. Kariuki (AFTUW); M. Sabai, B. Diallo,
(AFTFM); K. Funk, S. Stallmeister, S. Hye, (AFCTZ); G. Kinyero (AFTPC); J. Owino
(CTRDM); P. Beauregard (LEGAF); G. Sindano, L. Mukuta, A. Jacob, M.Mwakangale,
F. Matumbo, F. Chande (AFCE1); WBDocs.
                                                                              Attachment I


                                     SCHEDULE 1

                      Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit

A.     General

1.      The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                                     Amount of the
                                    Credit Allocated                      % of
                                     (Expressed in                    Expenditures
      Category                      SDR Equivalent)                  to be Financed

(1)   Goods                                                               100%

      (a) Mainland Tanzania               2,568,873
      (b) Zanzibar                        1,532,531

(2)   Works                                                               100%

      (a) Mainland Tanzania               3,637,305
      (b) Zanzibar                        3,274,033


(3)   Consultants’ Services                                               100%

      (a) Mainland Tanzania                 903,409
      (b) Zanzibar                          595,620

(4)   Training                                                            100%

      (a) Mainland Tanzania               1,534,125
      (b) Zanzibar                        1,196,484




                           RCA 248423.   WUI 64145   FAX (202) 477-6391
                                                                                    Attachment I



                                         Amount of the
                                        Credit Allocated                      % of
                                         (Expressed in                    Expenditures
       Category                         SDR Equivalent)                  to be Financed

(5) Operating Costs                                                          100%

      (a) Mainland Tanzania                   8,168,279
      (b) Zanzibar                            4,204,412

(6)   Subprojects                                                            100% of
                                                                      amounts disbursed

      (a) Mainland Tanzania                   3,256,644
      (b) Zanzibar                            2,576,008

(7)   Refunding of                                                    Amount due pursuant
      Project Preparation                                             to Section 2.02 (b) of
      Advance                                   452,277               this Agreement

(8)   Unallocated                                    0
                                            _________
                                            33,900,000
      TOTAL                                 ========

2.           For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “Operating Costs? means the
incremental operating costs on account of Project coordination, implementation and monitoring
carried out, as the case may be, by the MNRT and MANREC MMTs, the EEZ Governance
Facilitation Team, the Coastal Districts and the Project Steering Committee, Technical
Committee, and CCAF Technical Committee, including office supplies, operation and
maintenance costs for vehicles and equipment, utilities, salaries of the EGFT, daily subsistence
allowances, communication charges, the organizational expenses associated with Project
Steering Committee, Technical Committee, and CCAF Technical Committee meetings, and
workshop expenses, but excluding salaries of the Borrower’s civil servants.

3.      Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in
respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b)
expenditures incurred for Subprojects under Category 6 of the Project until the Association has
declared the Second Social Action Fund Project effective.

4.       The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods;
(b) works; (c) services of individual consultants; (d) services of consulting firms;
(e) training; (f) Operating Costs; and (g) Subprojects, all under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. After the first year of Project
implementation, the Association shall carry out a statement of expenditure audit as a basis for
determining whether the use of statements of expenditure should be limited for subsequent
contracts under the Project.




                              RCA 248423.   WUI 64145   FAX (202) 477-6391
                                                                                 Attachment I

5.       The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the
basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in form and substance satisfactory to the
Association, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the case of the first such
request submitted to the Association before any withdrawal has been made from the Credit
Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Association only a statement with the projected
sources and applications of funds for the Project for the quarter following the date of such
request.

B.      Special Accounts

1.      The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars the MNRT Special Account and the
MANREC Special Account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association, on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure and attachment.

2.     After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Accounts
are open, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be deposited into the Special
Accounts shall be made as follows:

        (a)    if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and

        (b)    if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.

3.      Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Accounts, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.

4.      Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall not
be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:

       (a)     if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part
A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for
Report-based Disbursements;

       (b)     if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals for
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit
Account; or

        (c)     if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the period
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (A) the
records and accounts for the Special Accounts; or (B) the records and accounts reflecting
expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based Disbursements or were
made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may be.



                               RCA 248423.   WUI 64145   FAX (202) 477-6391
                                                                              Attachment I
5.       The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Accounts in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the
Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of
the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association shall determine, in its sole
discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Accounts may be made and what
procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its
determination.

6.       (a)     If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of any Special
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure,
or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon      notice     from    the    Association,     provide     such    additional    evidence
as the Association may request, or deposit into the respective Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by
the Association into any Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

        (b)     If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in any
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the
six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.

         (c)     The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association
all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.

        (d)      Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.




                              RCA 248423.   WUI 64145   FAX (202) 477-6391
Honorable Mustafa Haidi Mkulo   -10-   June 6, 2011
                                                                             Attachment II


                                           SCHEDULE 5

                            Performance Monitoring Indicators




1. Annual URT Revenue generation to EEZ Authority from offshore fishery. (US$/yr)


2. Annual operational costs of MMA system covered by own- revenues (%)


3. Proportion of households perceiving an improvement in their welfare and economic status


4. Number of key studies completed and legislation implemented.




                             RCA 248423.    WUI 64145   FAX (202) 477-6391
Honorable Mustafa Haidi Mkulo   -12-   June 6, 2011
                                                                                Attachment III


                                         SCHEDULE 1
                     Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant

        A.       General

1.     The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of
the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust Fund Grant to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                                      Amount of the
                               GEF Trust Fund Grant Allocated                 % of
                                       (Expressed in                      Expenditures
       Category                           Dollars)                       to be Financed

(1)   Goods                                                           100%

      (a) Mainland Tanzania                   1,500,000
      (b) Zanzibar                            1,200,000

(2)   Works                                                           100%

      (a) Mainland Tanzania                     416,000
      (b) Zanzibar                              618,450

(3)   Consultant Services                                             100%

      (a) Mainland Tanzania                     600,000
      (b) Zanzibar                              900,000

(4)   Training                                                        100%

      (a) Mainland Tanzania                     509,000
      (b) Zanzibar                              604,250

(5)   Operating                                                       100%
      Costs

      (a) Mainland Tanzania                   1,850,000
      (b) Zanzibar                            1,552,300

(6)   Marine Legacy Fund                                              100%
      under Part A.1 (b) of the Project                               of amounts
                                                                      disbursed
      (a) Mainland Tanzania                     125,000
      (b) Zanzibar                              125,000




                              RCA 248423.   WUI 64145   FAX (202) 477-6391
Honorable Mustafa Haidi Mkulo   -14-   June 6, 2011
                                                                              Attachment III

(7)   Unallocated                                    0
                                             _________
TOTAL                                       10,000,000
                                              ========

2.       For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “Operating Costs? means the incremental
operating costs on account of Project coordination, implementation and monitoring carried out,
as the case may be, by the MNRT and MANREC MMTs, the EEZ Governance Facilitation
Team, and the Coastal Districts including office supplies, EGFT salaries, daily subsistence
allowances, operation and maintenance costs for vehicles and equipment, utilities,
communication charges, and workshop expenses, but excluding salaries of the Recipient’s civil
service.

3.      Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in
respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b) the
MLF under Category 6 of the Project until: (i) the Bank has received from the Recipient
evidence of the legal establishment of the said Fund that it considers satisfactory for this
purpose; (ii) the Recipient has deposited its counterpart contribution of seven hundred fifty
thousand Dollars ($750,000) into the said Fund; and (iii) the Bank has approved the
appointment of the Executive Director and the composition of the Board of Directors of the said
Fund (or comparable organ(s)/officer(s) for the administration of the MLF).

4.      The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods;
(b) works; (c) services of individual consultants; (d) services of consulting firms; (e) training;
and (e) Operating Costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice
to the Recipient. After the first year of Project implementation, the Bank shall carry out a
statement of expenditure audit as a basis for determining whether the use of statements of
expenditure should be limited for subsequent contracts under the Project.

5.      The Recipient may request withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be
made on the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to
the Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Recipient (Report-based Disbursements). In the case of the first such request
submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the GEF Trust Fund Grant
Account, the Recipient shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected sources and
applications of funds for the Project for the quarter following the date of such request.




B.      Special Accounts

1.      The Recipient may open and maintain in Dollars the MNRT GEF Special Account and
the MANREC GEF Special Account in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure
and attachment.




                              RCA 248423.    WUI 64145   FAX (202) 477-6391
                                                                              Attachment III


2.       After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Accounts have
been opened, withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of amounts to be deposited
into the Special Accounts shall be made as follows:

        (a)    if the Recipient is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and

        (b)    if the Recipient is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.

3.     Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Accounts, the
Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures.

4.      Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be
required to make further deposits into any Special Account:

        (a)     if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part A.5

of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based Disbursements;

        (b)    if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for payment of
Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant
Account; or

        (c)      if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of
time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (A) the records and
accounts for the Special Accounts; or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with
respect to which withdrawals were Report-based Disbursements or were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, as the case may be.

5.       The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Accounts in
accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have
notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to
make withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole discretion,
whether further deposits into the Special Accounts may be made and what procedures should be
followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Recipient of its determination.

6.      (a)      If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of any Special
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified
by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the respective Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into any
Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.



                               RCA 248423.   WUI 64145   FAX (202) 477-6391
                                                                            Attachment III


        (b)     If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in any Special
Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month
period following such determination, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,
refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.

        (c)      The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.

         (d)     Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement.




                             RCA 248423.   WUI 64145   FAX (202) 477-6391
                                                                              Attachment IV



                                            SCHEDULE 5

                             Performance Monitoring Indicators




1. Proportion of territorial seas under effective protection or management

2. Daily-observations of vessel catch and effort entered into URT Fisheries Management
System (records/yr)




                              RCA 248423.    WUI 64145   FAX (202) 477-6391
Honorable Mustafa Haidi Mkulo   -19-   June 6, 2011
