                                        Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                                             Report No: 36303

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                            (PPFB-P3670 PPFB-P3671 SCL-45810)

                                            ON A

                                  LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 3.43 MILLION

                                           TO THE

                                  DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

                                           FOR A

                      Dominican Republic - Global Distance Learning Project




                                        June 12, 2006




Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective May 25, 2006)

                            Currency Unit = Dominican Peso (DoP)
                                DoP 1.00 = US$ 0.031
                                   US$ 1 = 32.6 DoP

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1 - December 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADSL                 Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line
CAS                  Country Assistance Strategy
CLARA                Cooperación Latino Americana de Redes Avanzadas
DLC                  Distance Learning Center
ERR                  Economic Rate of Return
GDLN                 Global Developmentistance Learning Network
GoDR                 Government of the Dominican Republic
INAP                 Instituto Nacional de Administracion Publica
IP                   Internet Protocol
ISDN                 Integrated Services Digital Network
ISR                  Implementation Status and Results
LAC                  Latin America and the Caribbean Region
LIL                  Learning and Innovation Loan
MCU                  Multi-point Conferencing Unit
NGO                  Non Governmental Organization
NPV                  Net Present Value
OC                   Operating Cost
OED                  Operations Evaluations Department (World Bank)
PAD                  Project Appraisal Document
PAR                  Procurement Assessment Review
PIU                  Project Implementation Unit
PCSD                 Santo Domingo Cybernetic Park
PSR                  Project Supervision Report
SOE                  Statement of Expenditures
UNDP                 United Nations Development Program
UNICEF               United Nations Childrens Fund
VSAT                 Very Small Aperture Terminal
WBI                  World Bank Institute

                          Vice President:     Pamela Cox
                        Country Director      Carolina D. Anstey
                         Sector Manager       Eduardo Velez Bustillo
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       David A. Gray

                                 DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
                       Dominican Republic - Global Distance Learning


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              20
10. Additional Information                                                       20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30
Annex 8. Distance Learning Center - Performance Information                      31

Project ID: P068753                                                  Project Name: Dominican Republic - Global Distance
                                                                     Learning
Team Leader: David Gray                                              TL Unit: LCSKM
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 12, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Dominican Republic - Global Distance Learning            L/C/TF Number: PPFB-P3670;
                                                                                                     PPFB-P3671; SCL-45810
   Country/Department: DOMINICAN REPUBLIC                                                 Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Telecommunications (56%); Adult literacy/non-formal education (44%)
                  Theme: Education for the knowledge economy (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 08/11/1999                                     Effective: 10/31/2000                10/31/2000
     Appraisal: 04/28/2000                                         MTR:
      Approval: 09/22/2000                                      Closing: 10/31/2005                 11/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC/NATIONAL INSTITUTE
                                           OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION (INAP)
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     David De Ferranti
Country Director:               Caroline D. Anstey                             Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:                 Eduardo Velez Bustillo                         Jamil Salmi
Team Leader at ICR:             David Gray                                     David Gray
ICR Primary Author:             David Gray


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Global Distance Learning Project (DO-4518) was prepared as a Learning and Innovation Loan (LiL)
with the following objectives:

a. to test the effectiveness and sustainability of a Distance Learning Center (DLC) as part of a global
     knowledge-sharing network, expanding access to high quality training, strengthening the capacity of
     public and private sector decision-makers and improving levels of policy dialogue; and
b. to support the establishment of a "cyberpark"

The Project was initiated as one of a series of similar LiLs which were used to establish capacity as part of
the Global Development Learning Network (GDLN), a Bank initiated network that utilizes information and
communications technologies to share knowledge between the countries of the World. The GDLN was
officially launched by then Bank President James Wolfensohn on June 17th 2000 with the Dominican
Republic as one of the initial tranche of ten countries.

Quality at Entry - As discussed in more detail in Sections 5 and 8, the Project was somewhat unusual as it
was primarily a vehicle to provide resources for a DLC in the Dominican Republic with an extremely
rapid turnaround. Much of the original design work was undertaken by a team supporting the entire GDLN
initiative and was reviewed on a number of occasions as part of numerous appraisal packages. The use of
a LiL was justified as this project, and the entire GDLN, has been an exercise in learning and innovation.
The fact that both have evolved considerably and positively from effectiveness to completion reinforces the
use of the instrument and the flexibility it embodies. Significant lessons have been learned and applied in
other countries in LAC and beyond.

Institutional Arrangements. At the request of the first Fernandez administration (1996-2000), the
implementing agency selected was the Instituto Nacional de Administración Pública (INAP). In line with
the project's development objective, to test a sustainable entity, it was decided to embed project execution
in the existing staff structure of INAP, with DLC staff effectively acting as the Project Implementation
Unit (PIU). Financial management was carried out by the INAP accountant.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The Objectives of the Project were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The Project had three Components financed with a US$3.43 million IBRD loan plus a total GoDR
counterpart of US$1.10 for a total of US$4.53 million cost.

Component 1. Distance Learning Center Retrofitting (US$1.99 million). The objectives were to (a)
upgrade facilities made available by the INAP for the establishment of the Distance Learning Center
(DLC). This included (a) the establishment of a (i) videoconference room with a 30-person capacity, (ii) a
computer/multimedia room for 30 computer workstations (hardware, software and internet hook-up), (iii) a
technical and administrative center, and (iv) mechanical outfitting such as installation and / or upgrading
of the electrical system (including backup) and telephone wiring. The component also provided for the
equipment for the DLC, including information and communications technology, office equipment and other
equipment related to the security and operation of the DLC.

Component 2. Support for the DLC Operation (US$1.99 million). This included, (a) financing of DLC



                                                     - 2 -

operations on a decreasing basis over the first three years of operation, (b) technical assistance for the
training of Center (DLC) staff, periodic evaluation of DLC operations, and establishment of financial
accounts and annual audits, (c) funds for the sponsoring and development of local course content and
partnerships, and (d) financing of technology review and upgrades.

Component 3. Support for the establishment of a Cyberpark and integration of the DLC into a domestic
network (US$1.38 million). This included:
(a) a market study and marketing campaign to determine the real and potential market demand for the
Cyberpark
(b) a study and market survey to assess the benchmark and best practices for the establishment of the
Technology Institute of Las Americas (ITLA) including the development of an online training center and
technical training program
(c) a study to determine best practices and benchmarks for the development of the E-Center and Netpreneur
Center
(d) the establishment of a "Training the trainers" and pilot technology training program and for
strengthening the current university academic curricula and the capacity of instructors
(e) development of a Business Plan and Financial Prospectus for the consortium established to launch the
Cyberpark and related developments. This will include the legal and strategic frameworks associated with
the proposed Venture Capital Fund
(f) revision of the current legal framework and implementation of best practices in the areas of intellectual
property rights and electronic commerce (e-commerce)
(g) study in support of the National Internet Infrastructure Development Strategy
(h) procurement of the partial equipment needs of the Netpreneur centre and training facilities, including
computer and network equipment and video-conferencing
(i) development of the internet gateway to promote investment opportunities, provide information on the
business environment, provide access to government, private sector and civil society and facilitate the
exchange of knowledge
(j) equipment required to connect the DLC to the Codetel fiber optic network

3.4 Revised Components:
No revision or re-structuring of the project components was undertaken. Some minor reallocation of funds
across disbursement categories was undertaken in mid-2004 at the request of the Borrower.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
ICR Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory. As outlined in more detail later in this ICR, the development of
the initial tranche of GDLN Centers, of which this was one, would have benefitted significantly from a
more considered approach that grounded the task at hand in the appropriate sectoral context and which
allowed greater flexibility to reflect on-the-ground realities. The unnecessarily compacted timeline imposed
on the project team by the Bank's Senior Management (the first suite of ten Distance Learning Centers was
to be completed by the Global Launch on June 17 2000), while leading to rapid results, undoubtedly
impacted the quality of the Project, although lessons were rapidly learned and applied to the subsequent
development of the GDLN presence in the Latin America and Caribbean Region.

Country Assistance Strategy. The Project supported the objectives of the FY00-02 CAS related to trade
liberalization, privatization and public sector modernization as key objectives required for economic growth
and meaningful poverty reduction. This reflected the situation in the Dominican Republic at the time where
national dialogue on national directions and stakeholder roles and responsibilities was seen as key to
moving forward. The specific needs identified in the CAS included the development of appropriate
incentives, institutions, skills and a clear sense of (national) direction which can endure cyclical changes in



                                                        - 3 -

administration. Building a broad, society-wide consensus on the specific means to achieve these objectives
required investment in knowledge generation and sharing, and the continued development of a national
dialogue which involves all segments of Dominican society. The project was expected to contribute
significantly to several of these elements, (i) improving skill levels in the public service and other segments
of society, (ii) knowledge generation and sharing both within the Dominican Republic and internationally,
and (iii) development of consensus and national dialogue.

Social and Gender Assessment: n/a

Environment: n/a

Risks: The Project appropriately identified the main risks and mitigation measures. The Project was overly
optimistic in two aspects, namely (i) the immediate availability of a high volume of relevant
Spanish-language content from the World Bank Institute (WBI) and other sources and the related issue of
generating high levels of utilization in the DLC, and (ii) the capacity of the host institution to mobilize high
levels of donor support and other paying clients. While the overall impact of these on financial
sustainability were considerably mitigated by choices subsequently made on connectivity (moving from
fixed costs ­ satellite to variable ­ per call ISDN) and integration within INAP, this lowered the ability of
the Project to fully achieve its potential impact by time of closing.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory. The Project's outcome is considered satisfactory. This Project has, (a)
successfully tested the effectiveness and sustainability of a Distance Learning Center (DLC) as part of a
global knowledge-sharing network, expanding access to high quality training, strengthening the capacity of
public and private sector decision-makers and improving levels of policy dialogue and has, (b) supported
the establishment of a cyberpark.

Distance Learning Center (Components 1 and 2). As implied in the development objectives, the success or
failure of this Project must be understood in the context of the global knowledge sharing network it belongs
to. The GDLN was conceived in 1998 by then Bank President Wolfensohn as a means of utilizing ICTs to
increase knowledge flow between the countries of the World. To date, over 70 countries are active
participants in this network, and over 900 learning events (defined to include Global Dialogues, short
courses and seminars) have been offered. In the Latin America and the Caribbean Region (LAC) the
GDLN includes 19 countries and is a vibrant and innovative learning community. Growth in the number of
affiliated members and partners is rapid (40+), reflecting the success of the approaches adopted and the
close match between the objectives of the Network and the recognition on the part of Governments and
affiliates of the importance of participating in the global knowledge economy.

Although not specifically an objective, the PAD also noted the role a DLC based in INAP could play in
assisting the agency to modernize, broaden its training programs, provide opportunities for professional
career development and support policy dialogue in pursuit of national consensus. As reflected in the
recently published INAP Annual Report Memoria INAP 2004-2005 , the project has contributed
                                                                        1


significantly to the revitalization of INAP, despite some loss of momentum during the Presidents Mejia's
Administration (2000-2004). INAP, while still relatively weak, is significantly better equipped to serve its
mandate than in 2000.

Cyberpark (Component 3). While significant momentum was lost during the Mejia Administration



                                                       - 4 -

(2000-2004), when the venture was marginalized politically and lacked significant management capacity,
revitalization under the current Administration allowed much of the support included in the Project to be
realized by closing.

In terms of the specific developmental objectives of this project, and not withstanding the implementation
difficulties outlined below, the project has achieved its objectives.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1. Distance Learning Center Retrofitting. Satisfactory. State-of-the-art training facilities
were constructed in the INAP facility and are used consistently, not just for GDLN-related activities but
within the core capacity-building program of INAP.

The videoconference classrooms were subsequently expanded to provide overflow capacity in an adjoining
room and similarly, the multimedia room was expanded to increase capacity. A multipoint conference unit
(MCU) (commonly known as a videoconference "bridge") and associated telecommunications capacity
were added in 2004. Funds from the project were also utilized to upgrade the administrative areas of INAP
and storm shutters were added throughout to mitigate damage due to adverse weather. Elevator access and
entry hall areas were upgraded by the Government and much-needed upgrades to restrooms and foyer are
programmed as part of support to INAP by the Inter-American Development Bank which has also
supported re-surfacing of the roof (completed in early 2006). A major constraint, not given sufficient
attention during preparation, namely the availability of adequate parking, remains an issue and has
adversely affected the ease of use of the facility.

Component 2. Support for DLC Operation: Moderately Satisfactory. This component was intended to
support the operations of the DLC until it achieved sustainability. In the original generic model this
equated with the DLC breaking even in terms of generating sufficient revenue to cover operating costs, and
in particular, the high fixed costs associated with connectivity.

Revisiting technical options for connectivity: The GDLN initiative initially utilized satellite connectivity to
allow rapid integration of new DLCs into an existing global network (the Bank's own telecommunications
network). In countries where no viable alternative means exist to connect internationally with the necessary
bandwidth (256k-512kbps), for example in many African countries, this solution made imminent sense but
imposed fixed annual costs ranging from $40- to $80,000 payable regardless of DLC usage. In the
Dominican situation, and similarly in almost all of Latin America, the increasing availability of
commercially-offered alternatives allowed more competitive selection and lower costs based on utilization.
The availability of Integrated Service Delivery Network (ISDN) services from Codetel (latterly Verizon)
allowed migration of connectivity to per-call payment for videoconference connections in Year 2 of the
Project. Reflecting the low cost of IP services, INAP also acquired ADSL lines to provide internet
connectivity throughout INAP. These changes significantly mitigated the high fixed cost of operation of the
DLC which has hampered other GDLN DLCs in lower income locations. Charges for connectivity now
reflect usage and are in the order of $20,000/annum.

These figures are likely to fall further as and when the Dominican Republic integrates with Red CLARA .     2


This network, financed in part by the European Union, is rolling out high bandwidth infrastructure (known
in the US as "Internet 2") in Latin America, primarily targeted at tertiary education (and including distance
education and telemedicine applications). The DLC is part of a Dominican consortium working with
Government to make this a reality. Indications are that this connection will be funded by the
Inter-American Development Bank within twelve months.




                                                      - 5 -

As explained in greater detail below, an explicit strategy to develop a national network of affiliated partners
was adopted in 2003. This strategy, reflecting development and good practice in the rest of LAC, aimed at
allowing the DLC, and the GDLN, to reach beyond Santo Domingo and bring in partners with learning
content which could be offered both domestically and internationally. To facilitate these interconnections,
the DLC acquired a videoconference "Bridge" (Multi-point Conference Unit (MCU)). The MCU has given
INAP the ability to provide services to other government and non-governmental agencies with
videoconference equipped facilities and to connect up to twelve points simultaneously. A number of
Government entities have videoconference rooms/networks including the Ministries of Education and
Health. While these capacities remain underutilized and suffer from lack of local technical support, INAP
is promoting the idea within Government that they can provide support for this domestic network, which
would provide broad geographic reach with the country and facilitate dialogue and training.

Institutional Development: A number of consultant reports were sponsored by the Project to establish the
basic direction for the DLC. The first of these, a Marketing Study, carried out by GALLUP República in
June 2001 surveyed the potential clients for the services offered by the DLC. As well as canvassing general
awareness of the DLC and its core content providers among target client groups (Government, Private
Sector, Tertiary Education Institutions and Donors), the study included a basic willingness-to-pay analysis.
This found that the majority of participants were prepared to pay in a range around $150 for a short course
(15 hrs instruction). Less encouraging was the finding that respondents overwhelming thought that
government should bear the brunt of these costs.

A second consultant input, carried out in February 2004, established a Business Plan for the DLC. The
Plan noted the challenge of reconciling the mandate of INAP (public sector training) with the aims of the
GDLN, which had by then evolved significantly to the use of dialogue events in sectors including health,
environment, social development, small and medium enterprise (SMEs) and information and
communications technologies (ICTs). This tension reinforced the need to diversify the GDLN presence in
the Dominican Republic, most notably to include the university sector. However the Plan identified strong,
if diverse, demand for the services of the DLC and noted the potential to increase utilization. The Plan
noted however, that it was unlikely that INAP would be able to recover significant costs from these
participants, particularly those in the public sector. INAP's mandate is to train these individuals and there
is little history of cost recovery, although it should be noted that the current administartion has begun
charging participants for some courses offered by INAP.

In late 2004, the Business Plan was supplemented by the development of an internal Strategic Plan,
coinciding with the change of administration and new, much improved management capacity and support.
This internal study found that there had been limited progress in implementing the recommendations of
earlier studies based on the limited human capacity of the DLC and the lack of management support
provided under the previous administration. The plan also identified risks associated with the DLC and
concluded that it needed to raise its profile within Government, increase it's integration with the core work
of INAP and reduce further costs associated with the technology. The study set several priorities to guide
the work of the DLC in the 2005-2008 time period. These included:

1. Positioning of INAP and the DLC as a leader in distance learning and public sector capacity building
2. Increasing the number and effectiveness of strategic alliance with government and non-governmental
     entities
3. Focusing on financial sustainability and promotion of cost-effective means of achieving connectivity,
     notably Internet 2

The plan laid out an ambitious series of actions in pursuit of these goals. By the time of project closing


                                                       - 6 -

some progress had been made, although the mobilization of financial support from government entities and
the associated development of content, lags behind that projected. Significantly greater progress has been
made in integrating the DLC with INAP's core activities and in raising the profile and professionalism
associated with INAP, notably through use of strategically positioned press articles.

Modernization of Training for the Public Sector and the Introduction of e-learning. The current
Fernandez administration is cognizant of the importance of improving the public sector via training and
capacity building, not least in the areas of ethics and transparency. To this end, INAP has adopted an
aggressive strategy which includes increasing access to learning opportunities for public servants
throughout the country. As part of this, and supported by the Project, INAP has implemented an e-learning
platform and web-based portal (http://www.inap.gov.do). A range of online courses have been offered, in
conjunction with GDLN Affiliates, notably:

l Etica Deberes y Derecho del Servidor Público (INAP) ­ 284 participants
l Atención al Ciudando y Calidad en el Servicio (INAP) ­ 564 participants
l Relaciones Humanas en el Trabjao (INAP) ­ 260 participants
l Nutrición en Pacientes con Cáncer (INAP)
l Diplomado de "Gobieno Electrónico (INAP, Tec de Monterrey, WBI)
l Regulación del Sector Eléctronic (GDLN-Spain CEDDET)
l Elementos Básico para Planificación, Desarrollo y Evaluación de un Curso en Línea (INAP,
    GDLN-UNED Costa Rica)
l Prevención de Blanqueo de Capitales (GDLN-Spain CEDDET)
l Diplomado de "Gobierno Abierto y Participativo" (GDLN-Chile)


INAP plans to extend these course offerings with the financial support of the Inter-American Development
Bank's (IDB) PROREFORMA project. There are also plans to develop a series of dialogues in support of
anti-corruption activities. INAP has also developed a reputation in this regard and has even provided
technical support to their counterparts in other countries, notably INAP Argentina.

International Content Providers: In line with the goals of the GDLN, the DLC has developed a range of
international clients that routinely utilize the DLC to support their activities. A number of these are charged
rental or share revenues. Most notably among these are (i) Tec de Monterrey (ITESM), a renowned
distance education provider in the Region. ITESM shares revenue on a 60-40% breakdown with 40% going
to the DLC, (ii) CEDDET ­ the GDLN partner in Spain, which facilitates the flow of content from
respected Spanish institutions. The DLC offers between four and five courses per year from each these
partners. These short courses are supplemented by longer offerings (Diplomas) from several LAC DLCs,
notably Chile and Peru.

Frequently Returning International Content Offerers
l World Bank Institute, Washington, D.C.
l Instituto Tecnológico de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey, México, D.F.
l Instituto Interamericano de Cooperación Agrícola (IICA), Costa Rica
l Centro de Educación a Distancia para el Desarrollo Económico y Tecnológico (CEDDET), España and
    Spanish partners.
l JICA
l Organization of American Status ­ Young Americas Business Trust YABT
l Universidad de Harvard, USA
l Universidad de los Andes, Colombia
l Pontificia Universidad Católica del Perú



                                                      - 7 -

l Universidad de Guadalajara, México, D.F.
l Universidad de Chile
l Universidad Técnica Particular de Loja, Ecuador
l UNDP
l UNICEF


As Annex 8 details (see Table A8.1), INAP has actively participated in the full range of GDLN content
offerings, offering 100 Global Dialogues , 80 Courses (short courses through diplomas), 5 seminars and
                                             3


held 14 promotional events since their launch. Overall, some 199 learning events have been offered,
involving an estimated 3396 participants.

In addition, the multimedia room is heavily used by the Academic Department of INAP and the Technical
Secretariat of the Presidency, the former on an internal rental basis. Over the period of the Project some
183 short courses (4 days on average) and more significant offerings (month long project management
courses) have been offered reaching an estimated 3434 participants drawn from across government.

In terms of overall utilization rates It should be noted that the Borrower had consistently under-reported on
                                      4.


utilization of the facility ­ typically not including the multimedia room in reports. This led to some of the
earlier concerns re utilization mentioned in ISRs. Based on a 49 week, 5 day a week working year for the
two rooms (multimedia and videoconference) the figures suggest that the current utilization is around 42%
(See Table A8.2) . This contrasts with projections in the PAD that the facility would reach 60% utilization
by the end of the project. The shortfall is entirely based on content supply and the preponderance of
dialogue events over videoconference-based multi-session courses. These variables are largely outside the
control of the DLC although there is undoubtedly more that could be done by the DLC/INAP to support
the development of domestic (national) activity.

As Annex 8 shows (see Table A8.3), while INAP-DLC is not a top performer among LAC DLCs in terms
of video-conference based GDLN events (as opposed to use of the multimedia facility), its performance
ranks near the median of Regional DLCs.

Monitoring and Evaluation of Learning Activities: Most of the content providers utilizing the DLC
undertake a modified Level 1 (participant satisfaction) evaluation using simple forms handed to
participants at the end of events. Unfortunately, the questions posed tend to be proprietary and
non-comparable across providers . Annex 8 details several aggregate evaluations carried out on three
                                    5


main DLC usage-types, namely, (i) online learning, (ii) videoconference-based knowledge exchanges
(global dialogues), and (iii) multi-media/computer-based learning with local facilitation. The results (see
Tables A8.6 and A8.7 ) are encouraging, with respondents (1300 in total) responding in the 80-100%
satisfaction range. There has undoubtedly been an overall improvement in such results across the Network
since its inception reflecting the growing experience of the DLCs in running distance learning events and
improvements in the reliability of the technology.

In addition, a number of evaluations have been carried out of the overall GDLN initiative in the project
period. The first of these, carried out by WBI's Evaluations Group in 2002 See "FY00-01 Impact
Evaluation Program Brief: A Comparison Between Distance Learning and Face to Face Approaches", WBI
Evaluation Briefs, January 2003 focused on the comparison between distance learning (DL) and
                                   6,


face-to-face (F2F) modes of delivery. Among the findings were that:
         (i) DL activities were as effective as F2F activities for Knowledge and Skills (a score of 3.83 out
         of 5), Strategies/Approaches (3.52) and Networking (3.58)



                                                        - 8 -

         (ii) DL activities were more useful for research and teaching that F2F, suggesting that they are
         more oriented towards academics,
         (iii) DL activities used less instructional time for lectures and more for exchanges of knowledge
         than did F2F.

These findings reinforced the emerging view that GDLN's value-added in a middle-income environment is
significantly tied to its use for multi-country knowledge exchanges and that if these are well designed - to
maximize interactivity ­ they can have extremely useful outcomes.

A second evaluation carried out in June 2004 by the same group examined a broader range of questions
surrounding the Network. This included some discussion on the relevance and quality of content. This
reinforced the view that content must be contextualized and be sufficiently, but not overly, specific and
tailored to the needs of clients. As such, off-the-shelf or content designed for one region does not easily
transfer to another. Similarly, good instructional design is critical for all events, even those based on
dialogue. There is little worse from a participant standpoint than poorly designed distance education.
These lessons have been learned and considerable expertise now exists among the DLCs in the design and
hosting of successful events.

In LAC, these concerns were more formally addressed, with some success, through the instigation of a
Quality Committee in the summer of 2002. This Committee, drawn on a voluntary basis from the staff of
the DLCs in LAC, carry out a priori evaluation of all content offered through the network, including
(added in 2004) Global Dialogues.

In terms of impact, a further set of lessons were discussed in OED's review of GDLN published in January
2003 . These noted the growing importance of dialogue-based events and that there was a need to build
     7


these sessions into coherent programs that provide incremental learning opportunities, bring together
defined communities of practice and which were flexible enough to allow the emergence of key topics for
future sessions. This led directly to GDLN LACs subsequent focus on key sectors , predominantly those
                                                                                        8


with the potential to influence achievement of the Millenium Development Goals (MDGs). OED also
recommended that supplementary tools be used to increase the impact of these events. This is now routinely
handled through the use of collaborative tools like WebEX and dgroups (http://www.dgroups.org).

Development of a Consortium Approach: One of the most successful, if initially unforeseen, outcomes of
this Project has been to strengthen the ties between INAP and the university sector. As is evident
throughout LAC, closer ties between the academic and public sectors represent a "win-win". The
universities throughout the Region are modernizing and globalizing their approaches to learning, are
interested in stronger societal ties and tend to be stable across political transitions . From the perspective of
                                                                                       9


the public sector, the universities bring academic excellence and capacities which they can ill-afford to
develop in-house. They are expected to play a stronger role in training of public servants going forward and
some joint courses have already been developed.

Building on developments occurring elsewhere in LAC (see discussion under Section 5, below), the DLC
was encouraged to develop partnerships with a broad range of stakeholders, both those that could utilize the
services of the DLC and those who could potentially bring learning content and/or geographic reach
(beyond the INAP DLC). INAP responded well to this challenge and developed relationships with several
government ministries (notably Health) to good effect. A consortium of universities was convened under the
banner of the Red Dominicana de Aprendizaje para el Desarrollo (REDAD) which launched in summer
2004. The original membership of REDAD consisted of



                                                       - 9 -

        l Instituto Superior de Formación Docente Salomé Ureña (ISSU)
        l Universidad Católica de Santo Domingo (UCSD)
        l Universidad Central del Este (UCE)
        l Universidad Tecnológica de Santiago (UTESA)
        l Universidad Autónoma de Santo Domingo
        l Universidad Abierta para Adultos (UAPA)


The REDAD membership was latterly expanded to include:

        l Fundación Global para la Democracia y el Desarrollo (FUNGLODE)
        l Universidad Iberoamericana (UNIBE).


Discussions are underway to add the Pontificia Universidad Catolica Madre y Maestra (PUCMM) and they
are likely to join by July 2006.

Several of these have functioning videoconference facilities and the project provided both technical support
and minimal equipment to several others to allow them to participate. Several of the partners have initiated
GDLN events, including:

         Global Dialogues
        l Education and the Knowledge Economy (UCSD: sponsor)
        l Eating Disorders (INAP:sponsor)
        l Telemedicine (CEDIMAT e INAP : sponsor)
        l The Control of Malaria (UNIBE : sponsor)
        l HIV/AIDS (UNIBE: sponsor)


         Courses
        l Nutrition in Patients with Cancer (INAP : sponsor)
        l The Epidemiology of Aging (INAP: sponsor)


The long-term success of this approach will largely depend on: (a) the ability of the partners to adopt these
approaches to learning within their core business and (b) the success of the broader GDLN community to
implement a "market" for online and blended course content. There is every indication that such a market
exists in Latin America and that high quality content offered via GDLN can not only recover development
costs (over several offerings) but can provide an attractive return. By taking content to a continent-wide
market, an increased number of paying participants can be attracted, thus lowering individual costs and
maximizing reach and impact. A recent course offered by GDLN-Peru, attracted 270 paying participants in
seven countries and brought over $90,000 in revenue to the University, based on a development cost of
around $20,000. A number of DLCs, notably in Chile, successfully cover all operational costs through the
annual offer of a core curriculum of 4-8 courses. This type of model makes imminent sense to universities
keen to expand beyond their national borders.

Sectoral Focus: Health : Based on early successes related to the Health Sector, notably in the areas of
HIV/AIDS and close relations with Bank-supported activities with SESPAS. Latterly, through an
agreement with a US NGO, Medical Missions for Children (MMC), INAP extended its network to a
number of hospitals across the country.

        l Hospital Dr. Robert Reid Cabral in Santo Domingo, D.N.



                                                   - 10 -

        l Hospital General Dr. Marcelino Velez Santana en Santo Domingo, D. N., comunidad de
              Herrera.
        l Hospital San Vicente de Paúl in San Francisco de Macorís
        l Hospital de Puerto Plata.
        l Hospital Cabral y Baez in Santiago de los Caballeros


INAP continues to play a key role in supporting these facilities with technical advice and content
mobilization. In terms of content, MMC offer access to the top US children's hospitals, offering access to
mentoring of physicians, case review, grand rounds and seminars from medical gatherings. This model is
being replicated in other LAC countries, notably Guatemala, Brazil and Bolivia.

Component 3. Support to the Cyberpark: Moderately Satisfactory. The Cyberpark of Santo Domingo
(PCSD in Spanish) was established under the previous Fernandez Administration (1996-2000) to attract
investment in technology-related products and services. In line with technology parks elsewhere, the
premise remains that lowered telecommunications costs and increased capacities makes it possible for
international firms to offshore these investments to take advantage of lower labor costs, technical expertise
and locally-offered fiscal incentives. The booming software development and call center industries of India
are often-quoted examples, although similar ventures are found in all regions of the World. The global
market for these services was estimated at around $119 billion in 2002.

The Project was to provide consultant support for the establishment and positioning of the PCSD, and lay
the ground work for the initial tranche of investments, notably in software development, call centers and
"net-preneur" activity, closely tied to the Dominican Republic's well-trained, bi-lingual, technically adept
and underemployed manpower, notably those trained at the ITLA Technology Institute which is integrated
into the PCSD campus.

A series of spacious well-equipped buildings were constructed on a 3 million sq. ft park in close proximity
to the international airport and located in a tax-free zone. Top-end environmental conditioning (HVAC,
electricity) and connectivity were installed. In addition, the PCSD offers a series of value-added common
services (e.g. legal advice, marketing, HR, insurance, receptionist, travel services, translation) and access
to a range of adjunct services such as hotel and a full range of country club amenities.

As per the Loan Agreement, the signing of a subsidiary agreement between the Government and the
Cyberpark (a non-governmental entity with Government holding a 20% stake) was a condition to disburse
under Component III. The latter was only concluded in September 2002, as the juridical status of the
Cyberpark had to be defined before the agreement could be signed.

In July 2002 a Bank mission, including a Senior Informatics Specialist and an Emerging Industry Specialist
assisted the Cyberpark in business development and marketing. The subsequent consultancy produced a
draft outline Business Plan and Action Plan but more importantly, included discussions that allowed the
management of the Cyberpark to tailor and prioritize its marketing efforts.

The PCSD was conceived during the "dot-com bubble" (1997-2001) and many of the more ambitious
                                                          10


plans suffered significantly in the subsequent downturn. This coincided with the advent of the Mejia
administration and the subsequent loss of political support for the PCSD. Reflecting this rapid downturn in
fortunes, disbursement under Component III were delayed and largely focussed on study tours and
preparation of marketing materials. The bulk of the consultant input occurred in 2004/2005 following the
revitalization of the PCSD under the new Fernandez Administration. The primary consultant inputs



                                                      - 11 -

subsequently carried out included: (i) design and development of an internet portal for the PCSD, (ii) A
Business Plan for the Data Center, (iii) design and development of an E-procurement system, (iv) A
Marketing Plan,. (v) a Strategic Business Plan, (vi) Design of the Net-preneur Center, and (vii) various
architectural designs in connection with facilities expansion. In addition, staff from the PCSD were
supported to undertake overseas training.

Under new management (located in the Export Promotion Office, RD-EI), and with significant and very
visible political support, the PCSD is beginning to attract investment as part of the Government's efforts
to strengthen the investment climate. Collaboration agreements have recently been signed with Telvent
(Spain) and discussions are ongoing with SoftBank and others. Grant support has also been provided by an
InfoDev grant and the Republic of China (Taiwan).

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The Project was not subject to a Cost-Benefit Analysis. The cost effectiveness analysis undertaken during
preparation was based on a generic analysis carried out for the GDLN model. As mentioned in Section 6,
the model was flawed in a number of aspects both in relation to operating costs, willingness to pay and the
fundamental assumption that the DLCs could breakeven and that this was the sole path to sustainability.
The comment made in the PAD that the GDLN brings benefits beyond the purely economic remains valid.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
A discussion of the financial aspects of this project and its sustainability is included in Section 6.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
ICR Rating: Modest The project has had a modest impact in a number of areas. It has:

a) Allowed significant modernization of INAP, not simply in terms of its physical and technical
infrastructure but in introducing e-learning and related modern approaches to capacity building that will
allow it to better fulfill its mission. The 2004-2005 INAP Annual Report highlights the significance that the
Project has had in this respect. The addition of state-of-the art multimedia and videoconference
laboratories has allowed training of over 6500 public servants since the project's inception. INAP are now
exporting their online courses and technical assistance to other countries in Latin America.

b) Increased the interchange and working relationship between the public sector and the universities
(REDAD). While in its infancy, the pilot design, development and delivery of joint courses has opened up
new opportunities for partnership and outsourcing of public sector training. Similarly, INAP's ability to
bridge videoconference connections (the only such non-private capacity in the DR) opened up new avenues
for the existing physical infrastructure of several Ministeries and health facilities. This has broadened
INAPs view of its role and its potential.

c) Connected the Dominican Republic to the GDLN community thus allowing senior public officials to
participate in over 100 multi-country dialogues across a range of topics. The high degree of participant
satisfaction in these events suggests that these events have had an impact and have contributed knowledge
of significant value to their work.

d) Supported the institutional foundations of the Cyberpark, providing a legal and business framework for
current efforts to attract investment despite a marked lack of interest shown by the Mejia Administration.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome



                                                     - 12 -

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Evolution of the GDLN Model in LCR. The original GDLN model was driven by the desire to install
technical and human capacity in participating countries, based on requests from government. Much of the
initial support for the GDLN came from African countries, who stood to gain considerably from improved
connectivity and access to global knowledge. To fulfill this demand, the Bank originally utilized a
"cookie-cutter" approach, the LiL instrument, as utilized in the DR project, and with some modifications,
still in use in Africa. Similarly, the Bank's communications network, (managed by ISG) was seen as the
logical means of providing technical connections and videoconference bridging.

However, as is explained in more detail in Section 8, this approach, while delivering the initial target
number of DLCs in the short-time frame given (9-12 months) at start-up, can in hindsight, be seen to
contain a number of flawed assumptions that are exacerbated in a middle-income environment. It should be
noted that a similar approach has only been used in two other Latin American country (Honduras,
IDA-32501, and to a lesser extent Bolivia). Many of the lessons learned in this operation are likely to be
reflected in the ICRs of many of the original projects.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Weakness of the Host Agency. Following the initial launch, and the incumbent optimism and dynamism of
the Fernandez Administration, the project was unfortunate that the majority of the implementation period
coincided with the subsequent Administration led by President Mejia (2000-2004). This period was marked
by the downgrading of the role of INAP, large numbers of staff appointments based on political largesse
and subsequent weakening of staff capacity and morale within the agency. Many of the initiatives and
energy experienced in GDLN affiliates in other LAC countries during this period were conspicuously
absent, as PIU staff concentrated primarily on protecting their own employment. This period also saw
reduced or negligible provision of counterpart funds to the Project. Some successes were achieved, but the
Project undoubtedly lost ground during this period. This affected both the INAP-related components and
the Cyberpark, which largely languished due to lack of political support and sound management.

More generally, public sector training agencies in LAC (and perhaps globally) are typically weak. In the
Dominican Republic, in line with much of the public service, they are afflicted by a polarized political
environment that results de facto, in wholesale turnover in personnel during changes in administration. This
affects staff at all echelons. As discussed further in Section 8, this Project initially (2000-2001) suffered
from a period of high staff turnover, significantly exacerbated by positioning related to the electoral
transition. During this period there were three DLC Directors and four technicians assigned to the Project.
Subsequently, staffing has been stable, if less effective. The challenge of sustaining capacity, particularly
that with technical expertise, in this environment cannot be underestimated.

It remains to be seen if staff associated with the DLC will survive future political transitions without the
umbrella of a World Bank project. That said, this risk has been partially mitigated by the close integration
of the DLC into INAP operations and the development of the formal and informal networks that now exist
in the country. As such the DLC in INAP is not dependent on one or more specific individuals and the
GDLN presence in the Dominican Republic is no longer dependent on any one entity.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Weakness of the PIU. Again largely during the Mejia period, management inattention led latterly (2004) to
weakened internal controls on staff actions contributing to poor performance on financial management and



                                                      - 13 -

procurement. The latter, in particular, allowed a series of violations of the Bank's procurement rules,
largely sole sourcing of a series of small IT-related contracts which passed beneath the Banks prior review
threshold. These were identified in supervision mission and a subsequent post procurement review
(February 2005). The PIU continued to make periodic procedural errors until supplemented by a
procurement consultant in mid-2005.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Counterpart Funding. The PIU received no counterpart funding for 2001 and 2002 and on average around
50% of identified requirement in subsequent years. Simialrly, as was the case throughout the Bank's
portfolio in the Dominican Republic during this time, there were also issues related to the flow of funds.
These difficulties had a significant effect on the ability of the project to foster local content development,
perform outreach activities and increase impact but did not unduly affect the operations of the GDLN
facilities in INAP.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
ICR Rating: Likely. While the original projections of participant days and cash-flow contained in the
Project Appraisal Document (PAD) can now be seen to be overly ambitious, the alteration of the model to
suit the needs of LCR have mitigated this to a significant extent. Much of the original emphasis was on
developing a business which returned revenue to sustain the high operating costs of the DLC (mainly
associated with connectivity and staffing). This emphasis persists in many countries which adopted the
original model (notably in Africa). However, an alternative perspective, possible in a middle-income
context, and that now in place in most of the Region, is that the focus of the GDLN should not be primarily
about matching of revenue with expenditure but about facilitating dialogue and change in the societies
which utilize the Network. Given this perspective, and the trend towards lowered connectivity costs in
Latin America (falling to nominal amounts in most countries due to adoption of "Internet2" infrastructure),
it is possible to refocus on outcomes not inputs. In terms of sustainability, the emphasis now is not on
building viable businesses but on embedding the goals and operations of the GDLN into the core business
of the host institutions and having operating costs assumed as part of core budget of these affiliates. The
latter takes time, but has been successfully achieved in many countries.

In this context, the DLC within INAP, has not been able to achieve significant revenue generation
($10-25,000/year, see Tables A10.4 and A10.5)), largely as: (1) there is no history or defined mechanism
for cost recovery for training delivered, INAP's mandate is to support training and capacity building within
the public sector, and (2) a significant percentage of the learning content delivered with the GDLN within
LAC (over 50%) does not lend itself to participant fees ­ it is about dialogue and knowledge exchange as
opposed to the more traditional course delivery model supported by the World Bank Institute (WBI) in
Africa and elsewhere In 2004 . In only few cases, can participants be charged more than a nominal fee to
                               11


attend.

At the same time, the costs of connectivity, the major operational expense of a typical DLC are not
considered a major obstacle in INAP. The early decision to move away from the fixed cost connectivity
solution (satellite/VSAT) costing between $40,000 to $80,000/year to a per-call method (ISDN and
latterly IP) resulted in major savings to the project. As in other countries the adoption of Internet2 will
likely reduce this concern further . GDLN LAC is partnered with RedCLARA and the Internet 2
                                   12


Consortium and are jointly developing this connectivity solution.

In terms of integration with its core business, the INAP Annual Report reflects the importance the Project



                                                      - 14 -

has had in introducing and supporting new approaches to learning and increased attention to positioning
and professionalism. These will serve INAP well going forward.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The DLC in INAP is fully operational and has a clear direction going forward based on the various inputs
produced by the Project. The degree to which they actively pursue these directions and leverage associated
funding will determine the value-added that GDLN brings to INAP and the Government and will ultimately
speak to the sustainability and growth of the GDLN presence and impact in the Dominican Republic.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
ICR Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory. The Bank's performance during preparation was moderately
unsatisfactory. As previously discussed, the approach taken to the roll-out of the initial GDLN Centers
contained a number of flawed assumptions and a timeline and management environment that discouraged
critical examination of these. The Bank team prepared the Project for the Board in approximately 9
months, a period that included the construction and staffing of the facility (financed with two PPFs). A
multi-disciplinary team prepared the project utilizing a number of generic tools developed to support the
first phase of GDLN roll-out in ten countries. Subsequent application of these lessons, particularly in Latin
America has demonstrated the lack of lateral thinking evident (in the original team and an adherence to
convential wisdom (e.g. implementation in the public sector), in what should have been an initiative
demanding innovation.

7.2 Supervision:
ICR Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. The Bank's supervision performance was moderately satisfactory
with supervision missions being carried out at least three times per year and supplemented by significant
interaction by videoconference and at GDLN LAC Annual Workshops. The Project benefited from having
a sole task team leader from its inception through closing and as Regional Coordinator for the entire GDLN
LAC, this allowed rapid implementation of best practices being learned from elsewhere in the Region and
transmission of the lessons from this Project to other countries (and Regions). Despite their limited
inclusion as team members on supervision missions (See Annex 4), significant and continuous inputs were
also made by local financial management and procurement staff.

This Project was implemented during a difficult period in the Dominican Republic and in particular, the
implementing agency. Throughout this the Team, Leader was able to maintain a good working relationship
with counterparts and their performance on the substance of the project reflects this. The anomalies
identified in the management of the procurement process were rapidly flagged to the CMU and addressed
through appropriate channels, notably the initiation of a procurement post review and the subsequent
reporting to the Bank's Office of Integrity (INT). The combined input of international and local Bank staff
and the responsiveness of the implementing agency to implement the agreed Action Plan led to a significant
improvement in fiduciary performance by closing.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
ICR Rating: Moderately Satisfactory. Overall Bank performance is rated as moderately satisfactory. The
project was unusual as it was prepared rapidly in response to demands from senior management and a
Bank Steering Committee reporting to the Managing Director and managed on a day-to-day basis by two
Vice-Presidents. While the original design contained, in hindsight, several flawed and over-optimistic
assumptions, the project team was quick to recognize the need to broaden the scope of the project (to the



                                                    - 15 -

consortium approach) and integrate the work of the DLC into the core business of the host agency (INAP)
as opposed to a reliance on revenue generated from participant fees. Several difficulties experienced during
implementation were identified and highlighted in ISRs/PSRs. The first of these related to slow
disbursement which was identified in late 2003 and largely due to the weakened state of the Cyberpark
(Component III). A Project Improvement Plan was initiated in December 2003 and led indirectly to the
project closing with over 95% disbursement. More significant problems occurring in late 2005 related to a
potential case of misuse of Bank funds were highlighted in the ISR/PSR and subsequently referred to INT.
Similarly, weak performance on fiduciary issues, related to financial management reporting and
procurement were addressed through the use of consultants and input from local and international Bank
staff.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
ICR Rating. Satisfactory. The performance of the Borrower during preparation was satisfactory. The
Government was extremely supportive of the Project and rapidly identified the location for the DLC and
facilitated it's construction.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
ICR Rating. Unsatisfactory. The Technical Secretary of the Presidency (STP) and Senior Management of
INAP in the three administrations spanned by the Project were generally cooperative and collegial, although
this was less the case under President Mejia's Administration. However, the project was not allocated any
counterpart funds during 2001 and 2002 and consistently received around 50% of identified requirements.
Common to other externally-funded projects in the Dominican Republic, this project also suffered from the
impact of an insufficient flow of funds, which led to considerable delays in the disbursement of counterpart
funds. The combined effect of all these factors had a concrete impact on the ability of the DLC to foster
local content development.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
ICR Rating. Unsatisfactory. Many of the challenges faced during 2004 were a reflection of the poor
overall management of INAP experienced under the then Director. The unsettling and often unpredictable
environment and the padding of INAP staff with poorly qualified political appointees, lowered morale and
reduced the ability of the DLC to innovate and seize opportunities, although the core staff assigned to the
DLC remained constant during this period. Integration of the DLC into the core operations of INAP and
adoption of new approaches to learning also suffered. Most significantly, lack of oversight and internal
controls within INAP led eventually to reduced effectiveness in fiduciary aspects.

The Project was extremely fortunate to have a period (1.5 years) under the current Administration and, in
particular the highly professional management of INAP that accompanied it. Significant and immediate
improvements to INAP staffing and morale occurred and the DLC and it's capacities were put to work for
the agency. Most significantly, the e-learning platform developed earlier is being widely utilized for public
sector training.

Procurement. Performance on procurement was sporadic. Given the nature of the Project, limited
procurement of goods and services were required under Components 1 and 2. Initial procurement of civil
works and equipment was undertaken under two Project Preparation Facilities (PPFs) and, in the case of
the latter, were governed by a "Procurement Agreement" signed between the Bank and the Government.
This instrument, associated with the original design of the generic DLC model, allowed the Bank to procure
and supervise installation of the DLC and associated civil works. Subsequently, procurement was largely
related to small contracts for computer software and software applications development. These were



                                                    - 16 -

administered by the Information Technology Officer then holding the position who was both knowedgeable
in the technical subject matter and keen to take on new responsibilities. The procurement of other goods
and supplies was done by the Project Accountant. These staff received basic training in the Bank's rules
and procedures and significant support from local Bank procurement staff. While there were some
challenges in identifying suitable vendors in the local market for some products, the majority of these
contracts led to the delivery of high quality deliverables (not least the e-learning platform and the INAP
/DLC portal). A procurement post review undertaken in October 2003 found no significant issues.

In early June 2004, the Bank identified several cases where contract splitting appeared to be occuring. This
was justified by INAP by the nature of the deliverables, which were typically elements of software
applications (design , development, interface or back-office components). The extent of the underlying
problem was highlighted by the incoming INAP management to a supervision mission held in early
October. It was agreed that an IT and Legal audits would be undertaken by INAP to uncover the situation.
The issue was highlighted in the Bank Project Supervision Report (PSR) and subsequently flagged for the
Country Managament Unit (October 27th). It emerged that the IT Specialist had seemingly abused his
position and the Bank's rules to sole source a series of small contracts ($5000 on average, for IT/software
deliverables), to trusted acquaintances and commonly without the appropriate documentation. While lack of
internal controls undoubtedly played a role, it is noted that the Project Accountant had typically responded
to the Bank's requests for clarifiation and the Project Manager had signed the contracts. Clarification of
these issues is pending the release of INT's report.

Under the incoming administration, the employment of the individual in question was terminated by INAP
and the IT Audit commissioned, the latter confirming the violations. A procurement post review,
undertaken in February 2005 further documented the potential violations in a number of contracts totaling
around $108,000 all which lacked competitive tendering. Following the post review the case was
documented and reported to INT (outcome pending).

Based on input from the mission and an agreed Action Plan, the new Administration put in place a more
transparent system for authorizations involving several staff and introduced improved controls. On the
recommendation of a supervision mission, an international procurement consultant was subsequently hired,
notably to handle the more significant procurement required for Component 3 (Cyberpark).

Financial Management. INAP's financial management capacity remained weak throughout the project.
Reporting initially based on Statements of Expenses (SoEs) and receiving direct payments, the project was
subsequently able to present Fianncial Managamenet Reports (FMRs) although these were only marginally
satisfactory. The quality of FMRs gradually improved towards the end of the Project thanks largely to
support from the Santo Domingo-based Financial Management Specialist (FMS).

Audits. The audits of the project fulfilled the Bank's main requirements. While there were several delayed
submissions (4 of 8 0-3 months late), the audits were largely without qualifications. The last audit, which
failed to reflect the difficulties outlined above raised significant concerns and detailed comments were sent
to the Borrower by the FMS.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
ICR Rating. Unsatisfactory. Overall Borrower performance is rated Unsatisfactory due to the issues
identified with counterpart funding (2001-2002) and fiduciary control (2004)

8. Lessons Learned



                                                       - 17 -

This project has generated a wealth of lessons and these have been applied to shape the growth of the
GDLN in Latin America and the Caribbean, almost from inception.

Evolution of the drivers for the GDLN within LCR
The challenge laid out by the Bank's senior management at the inception of the GDLN, namely to
implement a network of Distance Learning Centers in a 9-12 month timeframe led, by necessity, to the
adoption of a several generic aspects and assumptions which can with hindsight be seen as questionable, or
at least required contextualization to local country and regional conditions.

Most significant in this regard were the assumptions that the major business case for the GDLN was: (i) to
provide training for the public sector and (ii) to provide proprietary connectivity to a global network with
central services provided by the Bank. These initial drivers retain relevance for many lower-income
countries but are more questionable in a middle-income environment where viable alternatives exist.

In the case of training for the public sector, a number of local options exist in the Dominican Republic and
other countries which negate much of the need for North-South provision of these services. Second, the
existence of a vibrant and competitive telecommunications sector in many LCR countries opens to question
the need for the use of fixed cost satellite connections where locally provided ISDN or IP options exist.

Focusing on the first of these issues, it became clear at a relatively early stage (around 2001) that the major
drivers and value-added of the GDLN in Latin America and the Caribbean (LAC) would be in policy
dialogue and typically that of a South-South nature, where the countries of LAC exchange knowledge with
each other and learn from successes and failures experienced in the Region. The emergence of the Global
Dialogue instrument reflects the high value-added of these activities and the increasing demand for them by
Bank staff. Over 60% of such events are in direct response to request from Bank regional task teams or
their counterparts. However, the importance of these knowledge-based exchanges as opposed to traditional
capacity-building made the adoption of the GDLN in INAP more challenging ­ it's mandate being firmly
focused on providing public servants with basic productivity skills. While successive INAP management
teams have been open to hosting these events, it does suggest that, if the project were to be initiated today,
that the Bank would recommend a focus on knowledge-based institutions, such as the universities. The
Project has mitigated this by supporting INAP to develop a broad consortium among these institutions
(REDAD) and this has undoubtedly brought a number of benefits to all parties, notably the early adoption
of e-learning within government, and increased dialogue and exchange between these sectors.

These lesson have been applied in the other countries of LAC where the universities have taken the lead in
establishing the GDLN presence. These have both the technical and human capacity to participate without
recourse to Bank financing or connectivity. Of the existing 38 Affiliates in LAC, only three are in the
public sector and only those associated with the Bank's Country Offices (currently Brazil and Nicaragua)
use the Bank's technical infrastructure and strategies exist to migrate these to independent locations. In all
countries, including the Dominican Republic, the future lies in building a broad-based coalition between the
knowledge institutions and development partners, including donor agencies, international and local
non-governmental agencies and the private sector.

In terms of the connectivity issue, INAP was quick to suggest that the Bank look beyond the use of fixed
cost satellite solution to the use of ISDN and IP solutions. The adoption of the former has significantly
reduced connectivity costs (by over 50%) and the future undoubtedly lies in connectivity via advanced IP
networks (RedCLARA) which will further reduce costs (to a nominal amount). INAP has been
participating in the Dominican consortium seeking to make this connection and this is likely to come to
fruition with 12 months.


                                                      - 18 -

Finally in this regard, it would have been advisable for the Bank team initiating the GDLN (including
senior management) to spend more time reflecting on the objectives and drivers for the overall initiative.
While the GDLN may have initially appeared to be unprecedented and innovative, an examination of the
theoretical context and inclusion of the appropriate sector specialists (notably from the Education Sector)
might have led to better initial linkage with the emerging body of thought related to the knowledge
economy, capacity enhancement and the transformation of tertiary education. The initial over-dependence
on a technology-led model required that many of these lessons be learned during implementation. That said,
however, it is also possible that the alternative would have reduced the drive for results and the wealth of
innovation that characterizes the GDLN today.

Cost Recovery as the Basis for Sustainable Operations of a DLC
The initial generic template utilized for GDLN projects focused on the implementation of a cost recovery
model to offset the high operating costs of a GDLN facility. As a review of the ICRs for a number of the
initial set of DLCs shows (see Senegal, Cote d'Ivoire, Benin, Sri Lanka), this has met with limited success.
Some successful cases have been noted, typically where the management of the DLC is especially
entrepreneurial. In these cases, the drive for income has led to useful linkages with the donor community
and private sector to the benefit of the overall development objectives of the DLC. Similar success has been
achieved in Nicaragua where the DLC is co-located with the Bank Office. However, the need to generate
hundreds of thousands of dollars annually has in some cases exposed the fragility of the Network and the
dependence on the Bank and key individuals at the local level. At the same time, the implementation of a
high revenue earning entity within the public sector has caused some institutional jealousies and has set the
DLC apart from its host, to the detriment of achieving local integration and sustainability.

In the Dominican Republic case, the challenge of generating revenue from clients, even where there is
above average ability-to-pay, is challenged when the host is mandated and resourced from central treasury
to provide such training for free. Within this environment, intra-governmental transfers are difficult and
revenue rarely transfers to the DLC in such a way that it can be reflected as income and utilized to pay
operating expenditures. Typically, this leads to behaviors where the DLC is chasing donor projects and
these may or may not translate into the capacity-building or knowledge-related imperatives of the country.
A recent example from Venezuela reflects this. The Caracas-DLC attracted the attention of an
Inter-American Development Bank project aimed at improving the level of classical music training.
Attractive from a monetary standpoint, but far removed from the development objectives of the GDLN.

An alternative, which has been adopted in this Project and a number of others, notably in the East Central
Asia (ECA) and East Asia and the Pacific (EAP) regions, has focused on the integration of the GDLN into
the core business of the host. While it is too soon to see if this will survive future changes in
Administration, the adoption of many of the learning approaches promoted and supported by the DLC as
key pillars of their development and positioning, has reduced concerns over cost recovery. This is
exemplified in cases where the DLC is in the university sector and can be relatively easily integrated into
the expansion of continuing education departments, the development of distance education capacities and
community relations.

In this Project, reduction of operating costs, notably related to connectivity, and a move to a pay-as-you-go
solution allowed better budgeting "by event" and reduced overhead to the host. Similarly, integration of
staff into the salary structure and work flow of the agency has reduced tensions within INAP and allowed
flexible staffing, for example the use of INAP technical staff to support the DLC's technological
infrastructure. While, these lessons may not be immediately transferable to lower income situations where
options are more limited, they have been central to giving the DLC a viable chance of sustaining beyond the


                                                     - 19 -

Project.

Project Implementation Units (PIU) vs non-PIU
The on-going debate on this issue within the Bank (see recent memo from the Bank's Operational Core
Services group (OPCS)) is pertinent to this Project. While it is true that the long-term sustainability of
Bank projects argues for less use of PIUs and increased capacity-building for the core staff of
implementing agencies, this requires that suitable safeguards be put in place, particularly among smaller,
less well-endowed agencies, to ensure that core fiduciary responsibilities are undertaken in accordance with
Bank rules. This is a particular challenge in an environment where staff changes are routinely tied to
changes in administration and/or the whims of agency management and associated power relationships. The
initial (2000-2001) high turnover of staff associated with this Project led to a slow start in the substance of
the Project, while degraded internal management controls latterly laid the foundations for the poor
performance of the Project in fiduciary matters. These contrasting periods highlight the challenge of
building capacity within an entity that will sustain beyond the life of a project. This often requires
uncomfortable trade-offs between hiring: (a) high quality, highly motivated personnel who will achieve
results, but likely move on in short order, or (b) stable, yet less ambitious staff who can deliver a solid
performance over a sustained period and who are willing to accept sub-optimal conditions of service (pay,
management environment and so on). Following the initial period, this Project chose the latter approach.

In hindsight, earlier use of consultants to undertake procurement and strengthened controls within the
authorizing environment of INAP may have mitigated some of the problems that arose, although it should
be noted that the Project was performing satisfactorily to that point (as noted in the PRR) and INAP's
capacity was developing - with the active support of local and international Bank staff. The alternative,
that of lowered or non-existent, procurement prior review thresholds and closer Bank supervision would
have a significant cost to the Bank, both for international staff and local officers and work against the goals
of capacity building and ensuring the independent operation of the implementing agency following the
project.

These lessons suggest that in seeking to reduce it's dependence on PIUs, the Bank will need to focus on
providing far greater upstream support to implementing agencies and in this regard the implementation of
online fiduciary training modules and certification for implementing agencies would be a quick win,
particularly in projects likely to experience rapid turnover of staff. Reliance on post reviews to identify
problems is essential but insufficient as problems subsequently identified have, by definition, already
occured and will require escalation within the Bank and Borrower and be costly to all parties, not least in
damaging potential collegial and constructive partnerships for development.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
A report and related data was provided by INAP. These comments have been summarized (reports
available in IRIS) and incorporated in the main body of the text and Annex 8 which have been approved by
the Borrower

(b) Cofinanciers:
n/a

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
n/a




                                                      - 20 -

10. Additional Information




                              - 21 -

Endnote References

 1 - "Memoria INAP 2004-2005", INAP Annual Report, Secretariado Tecnico de la Presidencia

2 - http://www.redclara.net - While fourteen LAC countries (and their GDLN Centers) are connected to
this, the DR has yet to affiliate. This is considered a critical next step in achieving the goals of GDLN in
the country.

3 - Global Dialogues are multi-country videoconference-based events focused on policy dialogue and
sharing of cross-country knowledge.

4 - It should be noted that INAP consistently under-reported on utilization of the DLC facility ­
typically not including the multimedia room in reports. This led to some of the earlier concerns re
utilization mentioned in ISRs.

5 - It should be noted that a global effort to develop a standardized modified Level 1 evaluation for Global
Dialogues is underway.

6 - See "FY00-01 Impact Evaluation Program Brief: A Comparison Between Distance Learning
and Face to Face Approaches", WBI Evaluation Briefs, January 2003

7 - "The Global Development Learning Network: A Review of the First Two Years of Operation", OED,
January 2003

8 - Health, Education, SMEs, Rural Development, Environment, Poverty, Gender and Civil Society

9 - This trend is discussed at length in "Constructing Knowledge Societies" New Challenges for
Tertiary Education", World Bank, 2002

10 - Wikipedia def.- The Dot-com bubble (or "dot-com speculative bubble") refers to the approximately
four years (1997­2001) in which stock markets in Western nations had their value increase rapidly and
most significantly in the technology and new Internet sector. A combination of rapidly increasing stock
prices, individual speculation in stocks, and widely available venture capital created an exuberant
environment in which many new businesses dismissed standard business models, in favor of increasing
market share at the expense of the bottom line.

11 - Approximately 55% of the events carried out using GDLN in LAC were Global Dialogues.

12 - Connectivity costs in those countries utilizing this approach are approaching zero with an annual fixed
cost of affiliation to RedCLARA being viewed as a public good. and typically paid by the Government or
university consortium




                                                      - 22 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                      1
               Indicator/Matrix                               Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Increase number of people trained                 Yr 1: 1000 person/days
                                                                                                 Yr1: (VC: 125, MM: 125) Total = 250
                                                  Yr 2: 2500 person/days                         person/days
                                                                                                 Yr2: (VC: 1209, MM: 2228) Total: 3437
                                                  Yr 3: 3225 person/days                         person/days
                                                                                                 Yr3: (VC: 1208, MM: 5052), Total: 6260
                                                  Yr 4: 4625 person/days*1                       person/days
                                                                                                 Yr 4: (VC: 2284, MM:4696), Total: 6980
                                                                                                 person/days
                                                                                                 Yr 5: (VC: 3731, MM: 2164), Total: 5895
                                                                                                 person/days
Distance Learning facility utilization rate to be 60% by year 4                                  Yr3: 47.48 %
60%                                                                                              Yr4: 40.01%
DLC operating cost/income ratio 1.0               Not projected                                  Ratio ($45,000 / $220,000) = 0.2

50% of content is provided by national and        Not projected                                  Yr1: 100% international sources
international partners                                                                           Yr2: 32%
                                                                                                 Yr3: 23%
                                                                                                 Yr4: 51%
                                                                                                 Yr5: 80%
Quality and relevance of courses offered by       Not projected                                  For available data, average evaluation was
DLC is evaluated satisfactory or better by a                                                     4.59 out of 5 on scale of "very negative" to
minimum of 80% of participants.                                                                  "very positive"

Notes
1 - INAP consistently under-reported utilization of the facilities, focussing only on the videoconference room ("VC, above). The Multimedia
room ("MM, above") is include din the figures given above, in line with established practice in the GDLN worldwide
Output Indicators:
                                                                                      1
               Indicator/Matrix                               Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
ISG Operational Acceptance Test completed Target June 2000                                       Completed by June 2000
successfully..
Number of public and private professionals        Yr 1: 1000 person/days                         Yr1:250 person/days
trained.                                          Yr 2: 2500 person/days                         Yr2: 3437 person/days
                                                  Yr 3: 3225 person/days                         Yr3: 6260 person/days
                                                  Yr 4: 4625 person/days                         Yr 4: 6980 person/days


DLC self-financing: 20% in year 1, 40% in         Yr1: 20%                                       Yr4: 17%
year 2, 60% in year 3 and 100% in year 4.         Yr2: 40%
                                                  Yr3: 60%
                                                  Yr4: 100%
Business plan and monitoring and evaluation Target: Business Plan by mid 2001                    Marketing Plan completed by June 2001
systems in place by end of year 1.                                                               Business Plan by February 2004*2
Agreement exists between INAP and                 Condition of Effectiveness                     Achieved by Effectiveness
Cyberpark/ITLA
Cyberpark: Consultant Studies satisfactorily      Not Projected                                  Delayed due to PCSD capacity but 70%
completed to high standard                                                                       Completed by Closing
Cyberpark: Codetel / ISG sign-off on              Target: end 2003                               Completed
connectivity.

1End of project
Notes
2- It was agreed with the Implmenting Agency that it was Premature to undertake a Business Plan in 2001 and that a Marketing Study
woul dbe a necessary pre-requisite in defining the Business.




                                                                      - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                           Estimate       Estimate       Appraisal
                       Component                           US$ million   US$ million
1. Distance Learning Center Retrofitting                      0.39             0.55            141
2. Support for the DLC Operation                              0.68             0.63           92.6
3. Support for the Establishment of the Cyberpark             1.37             1.07           78.1
4. Refunding of PPF                                           0.95             0.90           94.7

Total Baseline Cost                                           3.39             3.15
                          Total Project Costs                 3.39             3.15
                                         Front-end fee        0.03             0.03
                   Total Financing Required                   3.42             3.18


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB            NCB                2        N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                             0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.22           0.27          0.08          0.00        0.57
                                    (0.22)          (0.27)      (0.08)          (0.00)      (0.57)
3. Services                          0.00           0.00          1.30          0.00        1.30
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (1.30)          (0.00)      (1.30)
4. Operating Costs                   0.00           0.00          1.66          0.00        1.66
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.57)          (0.00)      (0.57)
5. PPF Refinancing                   0.00           0.00          0.95          0.00        0.95
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.95)          (0.00)      (0.95)
6 Miscellaneous                      0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
                                    (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)
   Total                             0.22           0.27          3.99          0.00        4.48
                                    (0.22)          (0.27)      (2.90)          (0.00)      (3.39)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB            NCB                2      N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                             0.00           0.00         0.00           0.00       0.00
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.95           0.00         0.00           0.00       0.95
                                    (0.27)         (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.27)
3. Services                          0.00           0.00         0.16           0.00       0.16
                                    (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.14)         (0.00)      (0.14)
4. Operating Costs                   0.00           0.00         0.00           0.00       0.00


                                                 - 24 -

                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. PPF Refinancing                       0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6 Miscellaneous                          0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                0.95               0.00              0.16             0.00              1.11
                                           (0.27)             (0.00)            (0.14)            (0.00)           (0.41)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                     Appraisal Estimate                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                  Bank      Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
1. Distance Learning               0.39      0.00         0.00        0.55         0.05       0.00       141.0     0.0       0.0
Center Retrofitting
2. Support for the DLC             0.68      1.10         0.00        0.63         0.21       0.00       92.6      19.1      0.0
Operation
3. Support for the                 1.37      0.00         0.00        1.07         0.01       0.00       78.1      0.0       0.0
Establishment of the
Cyberpark
4. Refunding of PPF                0.95                               0.90                               94.7
Total Project Costs*3              3.39      1.10         0.00        3.15         0.26       0.00       92.9      23.6      0.0

   Notes
   3- excludes Front-end Fee ($34,300)




                                                           - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits




                                      - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              10/9/99                   2    Technology Specialists (2)             S               S
              10/15/99                  1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1),                  S               S
                                             EDUCATION SPECIALIST (1)
              7/7/2000                  1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1),                  S               S


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              04/28/2000                5    Task Manager (1), Financial            S               S
                                             management Specialist (1),
                                             Procurement Specialist (1),
                                             Lawyer (1), Technology
                                             Specialist (1)


 Supervision
              04/27/2001                1    Financial Management                   S               S
                                             Specialist
              08/25/2001                2    TASK MANAGER (1);                      S               S
                                             GLOBAL COMMUNICATIONS
                                             (1)
              07/28/2002                3    Senior Informatics Specialist (1),     S               S
                                             Business Development Specialist
                                             (1), Emerging Industry Specialist
                                             (1)
              01/31/2003                1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)                   S               S
              10/10/2003                1    Procuement Specialist (1)              S               S
              02/04/2004                1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)                   S               S
              10/11/2004                1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)                   S               S
              3/01/2005                 1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1),                  S               S
                                             Procurement Analyst (1),
                                             Financial Management Specialist
                                             (1)
              6/21/2005                 4    Task Team Leader (1),                  S               S
                                             Procurement Specialist (1),
                                             Procurement Analyst (1),
                                             Financial Management Specialist
                                             (1)
              9/9/2005                  3    Task Team Leader (1),                  S               S
                                             Procurement Analyst (1),
                                             Financial Management Specialist
                                             (1)

 ICR
              12/01/2005                1     Task Team Leader (1)                  S               S
              5/5/2006                  1     Task Team Leader (1)                  S               S




                                              - 27 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                6                           30
  Appraisal/Negotiation                     1                            5
  Supervision                              22                          110
  ICR                                       4                           20
  Total                                    32                          165




                                            - 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

"Estudio de Mercado de Centros de Educación a Distancia", Informe Final, Gallup Republica,

FY00-01 Impact Evaluation Program Brief: A Comparison Between Distance Learning and Face to Face
Approaches", WBI Evaluation Briefs, January 2003

"GDLN-LAC FY03 Retrospective", Latin America and the Caribbean Region Knowledge Team

"The Global Development Learning Network: A Review of the First Two Years of Operation", OED,
January 2003

"Memoria INAP 2004-2005", INAP Annual Report, Secretariado Tecnico de la Presidencia

World Bank, Project Status Reports #1-14

World Bank, Sept 15 2000, Project Appraisal Document




                                               - 31 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

"Estudio de Mercado de Centros de Educación a Distancia", Informe Final, Gallup Republica,

FY00-01 Impact Evaluation Program Brief: A Comparison Between Distance Learning and Face to Face
Approaches", WBI Evaluation Briefs, January 2003

"GDLN-LAC FY03 Retrospective", Latin America and the Caribbean Region Knowledge Team

"The Global Development Learning Network: A Review of the First Two Years of Operation", OED,
January 2003

"Memoria INAP 2004-2005", INAP Annual Report, Secretariado Tecnico de la Presidencia

World Bank, Project Status Reports #1-14

World Bank, Sept 15 2000, Project Appraisal Document




                                               - 32 -

- 33 -

