Document of
The World Bank
Report No.:   20950 DO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 3.43 MILLION
TO THE
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FOR A
GLOBAL DISTANCE LEARNING NETWORK PROJECT - LIL
September 15, 2000
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



2
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective July 14, 2000)
Currency Unit = Dominican Peso (DoP)
DoP = US$0.0625
US$ 1.00 = DoP 16.00 Pesos
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DLC                         Distance Learning Center
NGO                         Non Governmental Organization
CAS                         Country Assistance Strategy
CDF                         Comprehensive Development Framework
DROPIN                      Dominican Republic Office for the Promotion of Investment
INAP                        Instituto Nacional de Administracion Publica
WBI                         World Bank Institute
LIL                         Learning and Innovation Loan
GDLN                        Global Distance Learning Network
NPV                         Net Present Value
ERR                         Economic Rate of Return
VSAT                        Very Small Aperture Terminal
OC                          Operating Cost
PAR                         Procurement Assessment Review
SOE                         Statement of Expenditures
SA                          Special Account
Vice President:    David de Ferranti
Country Director:    Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:    Jamil Salmi
Team Leader:    David Gray



3
Dominican Republic
Distance Learning Project
CONTENTS
A: PROJECT  DEVELOPMENT  OBJECTIVE  ...........................................................6
1. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE: (SEE ANNEX  1) ...........................................................6
2. KEY  PERFORMANCE INDICATORS: (SEE ANNEX  I) ..................                                     .........................................6
B: STRATEGIC CONTEXT ..........................................................6
1. SECTOR-RELATED COUNTRY ASSISTANCE STRATEGY (CAS) GOAL SUPPORTED BY THE PROJECT: (SEE
ANNEX 1) ...........................................................6
2. MAIN  SECTOR ISSUES AND GOVERNMENT STRATEGY: ........................                                      ...................................6
3. LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT ISSUES TO BE ADDRESSED  BY THE PROJECT: ...........................................7
4. LEARNING  AND INNOVATION  EXPECTATIONS: ...........................................................8
C: PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY ...........................................................9
1. PROJECTCOMPONENTS: ...................................I.......................9
2.  INSTITUTIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS: ........................................................... 11
D: PROJECT RATIONALE: ..........................................................                                                                     12
E:  SUMMARY  PROJECT  ANALYSIS: .......................................................... 15
1. ECONOMIC: (SUPPORTED  BY ANNEX  4) ..........................................................                                                 16
2. FINANCIAL: (SEE ALSO  ANNEX  5) ..........................................................                                                    16
3. TECHNICAL: ..........................................................                                                                         16
4. INSTITUTIONAL: ..........................................................                                                                      16
5. SOCIAL: ..........................................................  17
6. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT: .......................................................... 17
7. PARTICIPATORY  APPROACH: .......................................................... 17
F: SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS ..............................................................                                                           17
2. CRITICAL RISKS: .......................................................... 1 8
3. POSSIBLE CONTROVERSIAL ASPECTS:   .......................................................... 19
G: MAIN LOAN CONDITIONS ..........................................................                                                                   20
1. EFFECTIVENESS CONDITIONS: .......................................................... 20
2. OTHER .......................................................... 20
H:  READINESS  FOR  IMPLEMENTATION  .......................................................... 21
1: COMPLIANCE  WITH   BANK  POLICIES  .......................................................... 21
Annex 1.                 Project Design Summary
Annex 2.                 Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.                 Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.                 Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Annex 5.                 Financial Summary
Annex 6.                 Procuremenlt and Financial Management Arrangements



4
Table A.      Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.      Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.      Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7.      Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.      Documents in Project File
Annex 9.      Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance
Map



5
Dominican Republic
Distance Learning Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
LCC3C
Date: Sept 15, 2000                                Team Leader: David Gray
Country Director: Orsalia Kalantzopolous           Sector Manager: Jamil Salmi
Project ID: P068753                                Sector: Education
Lending Instrument: Learining and Inniovation Loan (LIL) Theme(s): Training through Distance Learning
Poverty Targeted Intervention:   [.] Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data
[X] Loan      [ I Credit     [] Grant       [] Guarantee      [] Other [Specify]
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): $3.43 million
Proposed          [ ] To be defined    [ ] Multicurrency     [X] Single currency, specify US Dollars
terms:
[  Standard         [ ] Fixed            [X] LIBOR-based
Variable
Grace period (years):           5
Years to maturity:             17
Commitment fee:                0.75%
Service charge:            NA%
Front-end fee on Bank          1.0%
loan:
Financingplan:            l J Tobedefined
Sourc                       .      Local           Foreign            Total
Government                                               0.46              0.64             1.10
IBRD including Front-end fee of 1%                       1.60              1.83             3.43
IDA
Other
Total:                                                   2.06              2.47             4.53
Borrower: Dominican Republic
Guarantor: NA
Responsible agencies: INAP
Estimated disbursements (Bank
FY/US$M):
IFY        2000         2001        2002         2003        2004         2005
Annual        2.39        0.39         0.29         0.29        0.04         0.03
2.39        2.78         3.07        3.36         3.40         3.43
Project implementation period: 2000-2005 (5 years)
Expected effectiveness date: October 31, 2000       Expected closing date: October 31, 2005
Implementing agencies: INAP
Contact person: Ana Obalys Perez de Cabral, Directora Nacional
Address: Edificio El Huacal, Calle Francia, 14C1 Floor, Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic
Tel:                          Fax:                          E-mail:
OCS LIll PAD Form: .lanuary 5, 1998



6
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The main objectives of the project are to: (a) test the effectiveness and sustainability of a Distance
Learning Center (DLC) as part of a global knowledge-sharing network, expanding access to high quality
training, strengthening the capacity of public and private sector decision-makers and improving levels of
policy dialogue; and (b) support the establishment of a "cyberpark".
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Performance indicators will measure progress towards realization of the project. Project objective
indicators include: (a) improved access to high quality training by public and private sector professionals,
measured by the number of professionals trained in the various target groups, (b) relevance and quality of
courses and training events, as reflected in participant questionnaires and follow-up surveys, (c)
sustainability and effectiveness of the DLC, measured by demand for, and utilization of, DLC services
and willingness to pay, reflected in DLC revenue (100% of operating expenses to be covered by revenue
generation by the 4th year of DLC operation; (d) improvement in the skill mix of the civil service and the
capacity to formulate, implement and monitor economic policy and sector strategies, measured by an
annual survey of trainees and through Bank sectoral reviews, and (e) quality of policy dialogue reflected
in the quality of the performance of the Bank's portfolio and assessments of the CDF pilot.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R99-119                 Date of latest CAS discussion: July 6, 1999
The FYOO-02 CAS identifies trade liberalization, privatization and public sector modernization as key
objectives required for economic growth and meaningful poverty reduction. It notes that achieving these
long-term objectives will require the development of appropriate incentives, institutions, skills and a clear
sense of direction which can endure cyclical changes in administration. Building a broad, society-wide
consensus on the specific means to achieve these objectives will require time, as well as investments in
knowledge generation and sharing, and the continued development of a national dialogue which involves
all segments of Dominican society. The project is expected to contribute significantly to several of these
elements, (i) improving skill levels in the public service and other segments of society, (ii) knowledge
generation and sharing both within the Dominican Republic and internationally and, (iii) development of
consensus and national dialogue.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The Bank's program in the Dominican Republic as defined in the FYOO-02 CAS, recognizes the
opportunities and challenges faced by Dominican society during the next few years. The program reflects
the discipline required on the part of the Bank and the need to focus intervention in several key areas.
These include activities which identify and address knowledge gaps, through targeted sector work
emphasizing poverty reduction, and institutional improvement - rather than the physical expansion of
services. Consequently, the CAS re-defines the Bank's role, to one which highlights its comparative
advantage in knowledge generation, sharing and facilitation. The proposed Distance Learning Center and
framework envisaged for the Global Distance Learning Network (GDLN) can provide essential
mechanisms in support of this agenda.
OCS LIL PAD Form: January 5, 1998



7
While the Bank can assist in the development of knowledge and increase the availability of international
experience and best practice, strengthening the capacity of the public and private sectors to utilize and
apply this effectively will require broadening of training programs and opportunities for professional
career development. This is reflected in the Government's renewed focus on training and revitalization of
the Instituto Nacional de Administracion Publica (INAP) and development of a high technology
training/development nexus at the Cyberpark of Santo Domingo.
Established as a governmenit agency in 1991, explicitly to address issues of capacity building and skill
mix, INAP is responsible for; (i) identifying the training needs of public servants; (ii) overseeing training
of public servants in support of public administration priorities and in response to identified needs; (iii)
establishing a center for research, documentation, and information on issues in the field of public
administration; (iv) encouraging the cultural, ethical, and humanistic development of p,blic servants in
their career paths; and (v) collaborating with other government agencies to support improvement of
administrative and management processes.
The Government of the Dominican Republic and private sector investors have embarked on an effort to
develop and operate a new generation of business parks in the country. These new parks will specialize
in Information Technology (IT) and related industries including information services exports, software
development, and computer design and manufacturing, enabling the country to flourish in the global
information economy. The first of these parks, the Cyberpark of Santo Domingo ("the Cyberpark")
includes a strong educational element, the proposed Technological Institute of Las Americas (ITLA). This
center will focus on delivery of information technology training to Dominican and foreign students. The
center will be developed in partnershiip with a number of local academic institutions (e.g. INTEC), all of
which have experience in the use of distance learning. Connecting the Cyberpark to the DLC and GDLN
will allow sharing of courses and facilities and ensure the integration of the DLC into the domestic
distance learning network through the Codetel fiber optic loop.
At the same time as delivering high quality training to all segments of Dominican society, opportunities
exist to utilize the DLC to support and deepen the on-going process of national consensus building. This
process, which was initiated during the preparation of the CAS, can potentially lead to a shared national
visioIn - and strengthen support for necessary policy reform. The dialogue, which has been facilitated by
the Bank, has involved all segments of Dominican society (including government, opposition party, labor
unions, private sector, respected experts and civil society) and is being supported by an Institutional
Development Fund (IDF) grant. In keeping with Comprehensive Development Framework (CDF) pilots
elsewhere, this process is expected to provide donors with a means of prioritizing and targeting their
support and coordinating activities to ensure maximum impact.
3. Learning and development issues to be addressed by the project:
The project will test the potential of video- and Internet-based distance learning to contribute to the
professional development of public servants and other segments of Dominican society. Specifically, the
project will assess the benefits of providing broad, in-situ access to high quality courses (defined to
include formal training courses, seminars and interactive policy dialogue events) on modern development
issues and approaches provided from a wide range of international sources (includinig both North-South
and South-South exchanges). The potential to develop and deliver course contenlt to the DLC in the
Dominican Republic from any of the DLCs connected on the Global Distance Learning Network (GDLN)
as well as other institutions, both domestic and international, represents one of the most ininovate aspects
of this project - and should guarantee the availability of high quality, relevant content.



8
The project will attempt to assess the potential of this approach to substitute for, and augment, nationial
training programs in a cost-effective manner, relative to traditional methods. It will develop a business
model which tests the willinginess of government, the private sector and others (e.g. donors) to utilize
distance education to fulfill their training requirements and contribute to cost recovery and the long-term
sustainability of a distance learning facility. In focusing on matching demand for course content with
supply, emphasis will be given to development of feedback mechanisms designed to ensure the
availability of quality content and the responsiveness of the Network (the GDLN) to supply relevant
material at a price whichi clients are willing to pay.
As well as developing capacity withiin the Dominican Republic, it is expected that the project will
contribute to the overall development of the GDLN, the proposed framework for content delivery and
(potentially) governance of the country-based Distance Learning Centers. A variety of models for the
GDLN are under consideration by the Bank and partner agencies (which includes the DLCs), ranging
from a highly structured controlling entity through to those based on a loose association of members
which operate in a largely autonomous fashion and are responsible for content identification and
achieving sustainability through cost recovery. In the Latin America and the Caribbean region, in
particular, the emerging model will ensure complementarity and/or support for existing regional distance
learning networks/initiatives. The project also explicitly recognizes the potential of this approach to
contribute to national development, through domestic networks of distance learning organizations. The
project will address the latter through integration with the Cyberpark and domestic fiber optic network.
Tlhis will facilitate the sharing of content and joint development of courses.
The availability of high-quality and relevant content will effectively underwrite and dictate the success or
failure of the DLC. This places a significant level of responsibility on international and local agencies to
successfully identify client needs, both in terms of subject matter and specificity. This will be addressed
through consultant input; (i) an initial Market Analysis, (ii) a region-wide investigation of available
distance learning capacity and content and, (iii) the development of a DLC Business Plan. On-goiig
review will be carried out through evaluation of both the quality and relevance of individual course
offerings. Mechanisms will be put in place to ensure that this impacts the direction of future content
development, by the World Bank Institute (WBI) and other partner agencies, both domestic and
international. It will be particularly important to closely match demand and supply given the intenided
clientele of the DLC - senior managers in the public and private sectors. This audience is unlikely to
mnake recurrent use of facilities unless content closely matches their specific needs. Similarly, issues of
language must be explicitly addressed -the stated aim of the project to achieve high levels of usage and
penetration will be compromised if there are fundamental constraints limiting comprehensioni and the
potential for interaction. This issue will be dealt with through use of simultaneous translation (in the
Dominican Republic or Washington, as circumstances demand) and by identifying content providers in
Spanish-speaking countries.
Finally, in the case of the Dominican Republic, the project will examine the role of modern distance
learning in the development of national dialogue, consensus and partnerships. It is expected that the DLC
will enihance these by providing a forum for the participation of local stakeholders, respected internatiolial
experts and generally, by placing reforms in the context of global best practice. Such a process was used
successfully in the preparation of the CAS and continues with the recently launched CDF pilot.
4. Learning and innovation expectations:
[X] Economic: The economic viability of distance learning as a tool for capacity building in the
Dominican context is to be established. It is expected that the project will demonstrate an economically
viable method of delivering high quality training to increasingly replace or supplement high-cost, low-
impact training scholarships, study tours, and the import of trainers.



9
[X] Financial: The appropriate mechanisms to ensure financial viability of distance learning are to be
defined. Financial viability hinges on market development and cost recovery. Cost recovery, in turn,
depends on the availability of government and private sector resources committed to the project, the
quality and availability of relevant content, and development of effective partnerships. The project will
finance a decreasing share of DLC operating costs during the first three years of implementation to allow
for gradual market development and the establishment of mechanisms for identifying changes in demand
over time. An appropriate fee structure will be determined during the first year of the project, building on
the findings of the market analysis. Issues such as mechanisms for pass-through fees within the GDLN
network will be addressed by the members of the network during the start-up phase.
[X] Technical: The project will introduce state-of-the-art computer, video and satellite-based
communications equipment. This will provide a similar range and level of services found in a Bank
Country Office. Appropriate training for Information Technology staff will be provided under the
supervision of the Bank's Information Systems Group (ISG) staff to ensure proper equipment operation
and maintenance. ISG will also provide support - on a decreasing scale - over the duration of the project
as local capacity increases. Pass-through equipment warranties (both local and international) and
replacement/upgrade contingencies are included in the project. Finally, by integrating the DLC (and
GDLN) with the partners associated with the proposed Cyberpark, the project will test the effectiveness of
a domestic distance learning network and associated sharing of content and facilities.
[IX] Institutional: The Distance Learning Center will be created and operated as an integral part of INAP.
The Academic Council (Consejo Academico) will be revitalized to provide support in needs assessment
and guidance on content development and program accreditation. Arrangements will be sought for close
partnership between public, academic, donor, civil society and private sector organizations, as well as
domestic, regional and international networks involved in professional education.
[X] Participation: The project is expected to increase policy dialogue through the extension of
opportunities for government officials, private sector professionals and civil society to participate and
contribute to the development of the Dominican Republic. In addition, it is expected that the quality of
policy dialogue will be enhanced by the global nature of the GDLN - facilitating international
consultation and sharing of experiences.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components:
The project comprises three components (i) retrofitting and equipping of a Distance Learning Center in
INAP (Santo Domingo); (ii) support for the establishment and administration of the Distance Learning
Center as a fully operational traininig facility, and (iii) support for the establishment and introduction of
new skills acquisition opportunities at the Cyberpark and its integration with the DLC and GDLN.
Component I consists of retro-fitting of the INAP facilities to provide for two classrooms and supporting
offices. The facility will be equipped with communications equipment (satellite antennae, control units),
video-conferencing unit and computers as well as necessary furniture and infrastructure (telephones,
electrical and data lines, office equipment). Under the terms of the "Procurement Agreement" signed with
the Government, the Bank's Information Solutions Group (ISG) , working with local contractors, will be
responsible for the procurement and installation of this equipment. ISG will be responsible for providing
technical support in trouble shooting and advisory services. In addition, ISG will be responsible for
coordinating and delivering initial training of DLC technical staff and supplying supporting
documentation, including operational manuals for DLC equipment. Local and international warranties



10
will be put in place to cover equipment failure, while the project will accommodate funds to cover
periodic technology reviews and subsequent upgrades. The latter are likely to include connection to other
domestic agencies with distance learning capacity.
Component 1I concerns the establishment of the institutional framework and business model to be used in
the development of a viable Distance Learning facility. This will include staff costs for a Coordinator and
IT technician - to be covered oni a decreasing scale over the duration of the project, supporting consultant
costs associated with specific tasks (development of a market analysis, business plan, partnerships and
content development, financial management/ audits, and staff training). This component will also cover
other operating costs on a decreasing basis (telecommunications charges, consumables).
At the Borrower's request, WBI could be responsible for ensuring the availability of a core set of relevant
courses, teleseminars and policy dialogue events (based on discussions with DL staff and supporting
analysis) and with facilitating access by the DLC to other international sources of content, formalizing
partnership arrangements, as appropriate. These services would be provided at no cost during Project
implementation.
The working relationship between the World Bank Institute (WBI), ISG and the Distance Learning Center
would be embodied in a "Memorandum of Understanding" (MoU) that could be negotiated between the
parties during the first few months of DLC- operations. The MoU would address the following issues:
1. Delivery of learning activities by WBI (courses, seminars, discussions, etc) through the
network which will be accessible to the Center;
2. Management of the central network by ISG to facilitate participation in the network by the
Center, as both a receiver and deliverer of network content;
3. Facilitation by the Bank to ensure access for the Center to learning services provided by
content originators other than the World Bank;
4. Safeguarding of intellectual property rights
5. Services to be provided to the DLC by WBI, ISG which exceed the above.
The MoU, which would cover the first three years of the project, could be re-negotiated to encompass
required changes to the relationship and reflect the increasing independence of the DLC and the
experience gained in establishing the GDLN.
Component III consists of support for the establishment and introduction of new skills opportunities at the
Cyberpark of Santo Domingo. This will include a package of technical assistance in support of
development of a business and marketing plan, investigation of issues relating to intellectual property
rights and the legal framework and strengthening of relevant training capacity in the Cyberpark partner
agencies (universities). In addition, equipment will be procured in support of the Cyberpark notably to
equip computer labs, the "net-preneur" center and distance learning facilities. These will be connected to
the DLC via the existing Codetel fiber optic backbone. Finally, funds will be provided in support of an
internet development portal, which will be used to promote the services of the DLC and Cyberpark and
investment opportunities in the country. Table I shows the estimated costs associated with each
component/sub-component.



l]
Table 1 - estimated costs associated with each component/sub-component (inc. cont)
Component                                      %,of :inarning    8ank-
.    -. ..:L  financng
1. DLC Retrofitting and           Physical       1.12     25%        1.12      33%
Equipment
a. Civil works                                 0.33
b. Network Access Equipment                    0.18
c. Videoconference Equipment                   0.42
d. Other equipment / Furniture                 0.14
e. Logistics                                   0.05
2. Support for DLC Establishment                 1.99     44%        0.89      26%
and Operation
a. Consultant services/training                0.32
b. Operating costs                             1.67
3. Support for the Cyberpark and                1.38      31%        1.38      41%
integration of DLC into Domestic
Network
a. Cyberpark consultant                         0.83
services/training
b. Computing and network                       0.30
equipment
c. Development of Internet portal               0.25
(i) Total                                4.49     100%       3.39        100%
(ii) Total Project Costs
(iii) Interest during construction
(iv) Front-end fee                       0.03                0.03
(v) Total Financing Required             4.53      100%      3.43        100%
The project will be implemented over a five year period: July 31, 2000 - July 31, 2005.
2. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
LIL Implementation Period: 2000-2005 (five years)
Implementing Agencies: The Instituto Nacional de Administracion Publica (INAP) was established in
1991 under the direction of a Consejo Academico (Academic Council) to address issues of capacity
building and improving skill mix in public institutions.
Project Oversight and Coordination: The Instituto Nacional de Administracion Publica (INAP) will
assume responsibility for project oversight and coordination of activities associated with all Components.
The National Director of INAP and the DLC Coordinator will oversee the physical preparation of the
DLC facility, coordinate a market analysis/ needs assessment, develop a business plan for the life of the
project, and facilitate the establishment of monitoring and evaluation processes in accordance with loan
effectiveness conditions. In addition to regular supervision activities, bi-annual meetings will be held



12
between the DLC and the WBI/LAC Region GDLN team to review the availability and quality of content
as well as to discuss the evolution of training needs in the Dominican Republic.
Project Implementation: Project implementation will be the responsibility of the DLC staff within
INAP, which will consist of the DLC Coordinator, DLC Technician, and Accountant. Financial
Management will be the responsibility of INAP.
D: Project Rationale:
1. Overall Rationale.
Through the establishment of the GDLN, the World Bank and participating client countries intend to
expand access to training opportunities in support of national development objectives and poverty
alleviation. The in-situ traininig made possible by distance learning modalities facilitates change in
institutional culture and promotes the immediate application of lessons and techniques learned. The
GDLN will also promote the development of a virtual community of public administration and
development professionals that encourages the sharing of knowledge. This will extend participation in
policy dialogue to include internationally-recognized experts, whose participation would be either
impractical or unaffordable through traditional methods.
Recent and ongoing reforms in the Latin American state have already had an enormous impact on the role
of public functionaries in the region':
*  The globalization of trade and the economic system has created a new level of interdependence and
inter-relatedness between countries. These trends continue to alter the conditions within which
national governments must operate and increase the international consequences of local actions and
vice versa. They reinforce the importance of exposure to international best practice and lessons
learned.
*   The pace of economic and technological change has increased, requiring continual upgrading of
skills ("lifelong learning"). Traditional training approaches are not necessarily well suited to fulfilling
these needs.
*  A number of other fundamental changes affecting public administration are underway in the region.
These include, (i) the re-definition of the boundaries between the public and private sector, with less
emphasis on regulation and more on partnership, (ii) the growing importance of social sector
programs, (iii) decentralization of functions from national or federal levels to sub-national bodies and,
(iv) the recognition of the benefits of an active and participatory civil society
*  During the coming decade, the size of the IT industry is expected to attain $2 trillion. Even a small
share of this market will yield high leverage over initial investments, and create new opportunities for
employment and business development. The establishment of the Cyberpark will provide suitable
educational facilities and increase skilled resources. The facility will counteract a "technology drain"
of young people to better paying markets.
Proceedings of the "Iberoamerican Forum on Interactive Distance Training for Public Functionaries", Latin
American Center for Public Administration in support of Development (CLAD), November 2-26, 1999, Santa Cruz,
Bolivia



13
The establishment of a DLC and domestic distance learning network in the Dominican Republic will
respond directly to the demand by public functionaries and the private sector for training in new areas of
knowledge and provide the new skill sets now required by the challenges outlined above. The project will
offer the ability to provide high-quality, in situ access to international best practice for a large number of
public and private sector professionals. This broad-based approach should be effective at initiating the
cultural changes required to advance policy reform and respond to the challenges of globalization. There
is increasing evidence from the region that traditional modes of training public servants and the private
sector such as overseas scholarships, secondments and study tours, by influencing only a minority, have
not proven effective in stimulating changes in institutional behavior and providing an adequate response
to the evolving global economy.
Integration of the DLC and GDLN with the Cyberpark will extend the reaclh of domestic agencies
involved with distance learning and technology training. The Cyberpark aims to provide a nexus for the
development of information technology expertise and investment aimed at producing commercially
viable products and services. By facilitating access to state-of-the-art training in information technology
and nurturing these skills in an environment catering to the development of commercial products and
services (the "net-repreneur" center), the Government will ensure that the Dominican Republic can
compete in the rapidly changing global economy.
2. Lessons learned and applied in the project design:
a. The Effectiveness of Distance Learning
In recent years, significant innovations in telecommunications and information technology have
facilitated the simultaneous transmission of text, data, graphics and video. These have stimulated
advances in teaching and learning methods that serve to overcome the spatial constraints imposed by
traditional, class-room based methods. While early methods were largely "broadcast" in nature - the
student being a relatively passive recipient of material, recent innovations now allow full interaction -
fundamentally altering the relationship of trainer and trainee. Two-way interaction not only explicitly
benefits the trainees, but allows them to become trainers, bringing their experience to the event.
There is tremendous growth in the application of distance education within the LAC region, driven
largely by the promise of delivering high quality knowledge to a geographically dispersed audience. As
well as the private sector, these networks are found in academia (e.g. ITESM - Monterrey, the University
of the West Indies), secondary education (e.g. WorldLinks) and more recently, being applied to the
training of public servants (e.g. INAP -Mexico). In the latter case, there is commonly a strong interest in
developing the domestic network, providing content to provincial clients, often to counter the primacy of
a capital city (e.g., Trinidad and Tobago, Venezuela, Guatemala). There is also evidence of the increasing
development of partnerships within countries, between Universities and those serving the public service,
for example. This is providing new opportunities for content development and delivery. By connecting
the DLC (and hence the GDLN) to these domestic networks, the potential exists to reach a larger audience
and broaden dialogue and the range of relevant topics.
To a large extent, therefore, the effectiveness of distance learning per se is not in doubt, at least in the
Latin American context. The innovative aspects of this project, which are being tested, include the
effectiveness of a business model which links self-sustaining partners in a global networkand which
brings international best practice to bear on the training of professionals. These explicitly address the
lessons emerging from the recent history of distance learning in the regior{. specifically:
2 Moore, Michael G. and Greg Kearsley. Distance Education: A Systems View. Washington: Wadsworth
Publishing Company, 1996.



14
*  Institutional context: The World Bank has had extensive experience over the years with distance
education in a number of country contexts but this has been largely limited to national-level programs
(Lang, 1997),. One exception is the World Links for Development (WorLD) program, which
provides Internet connectivity and training for teachers, teacher trainers and students in developing
countries in the use of technology in education. One key lesson learned through WorLD, Chile's
Enlaces, and other similar Bank programs, is the importance of making necessary investments in
human resources to ensure the maximum benefit from investments in technology (Moore, 1996). The
model being used for the GDLN acknowledges this by identifying or establishing a strong lead
agency and training staff capable of managing the academic program, marketing and facilitation. The
emphasis on cost-recovery should allow re-investment in human resources and technology
infrastructure.
*  Matching demand with supply of high quality content: While technological constraints were the
principal limiting factors in the early development of distance learning, these have now been replaced
by content issues. The problem for course developers has shifted from finding a way to deliver all the
materials necessary, to finding enough good-quality material to deliver. (Moore, 1996). Success is
linked to identification and articulation of needs and matching this to the supply coming from
providers. This reinforces the importance of evaluation and feedback mechanisms which need to
function at all levels of a distance learning network and are key to its sustainability. These mechanism
provide feedback to course producers on unmet demand, which in turn should brings new courses into
the market. Similarly, in a market-driven network, participants should be able to choose from
available content based on infornation on the availability of material from local, regional and
international sources. Suppliers must work together to ensure that this content is both generically
applicable and locally specific (relevant) enough to satisfy the needs of participants. These concerns
will be central in the design and implementation of the GDLN.
*  Improving sustainability in a high cost technology environment. The evidence suggests that few
individual institutions have been able to generate sufficient traffic to justify dedicated wide-band
systems (such as that proposed for this project). Other alternatives cited include the use of "on-
demand" services or the use of a dedicated network, to be shared between all, traditionally
government, services. Norway has had great success with this arrangement. In either case, it has
become clear that there must be an entity responsible for developing policies and practices in network
administration -- either a unit within government or an external organization which can act as
independent consultant. (Bates, 1995). The approach being taken in this project respond to these
issues in a number of ways:
1. The recent emergence of dedicated training agencies in may Latin American countries should
provide this focus at a nationial level. The explicit focus on cost recovery and management of the
DLC as a business (either fully or partially commercial) will also provide opportunities for
sustainability not found in most previous efforts (e.g. the African Virtual University).
2. In terms of overall network administration, the GDLN, at least initially, is making use of the
Bank's proven technology solution, achieving economies of scale and allowing the focus to
remain on content / impact in the formative first phase. The tried-and-tested policies and
procedures used by the Bank will be amended to fit the needs of the DLCs, as experience grows.
Bates, A.W. (Tony). Technology, Open Learning and Distance Education. New York: Routledge, 1995.
Lang, Grace K. Distance Education and Educational Technology: A Survey of Bank Operations in the Education
Sector. Prepared for the Human Development Department and the Economic Development Institute of the World
Bank, September 1997.



15
Further, technology and support mechanisms will be reviewed during the project and be allowed
to diverge or evolve, if necessary, to fit the development of the local private sector and emerging
industry standards.
3. Finally, management of risk and potential cost-sharing scenarios will be addressed in the design
of the GDLN. A critical concern in this context, is the level of independence of the independent
the individual DLCs. Will they, for example, be allowed to fail if demand is insufficient or will
there be cross-subsidy or central support mechanisms? Much depends on the level of
responsibility assumed by the GDLN and whether this extends beyond content issues.
b. The Effectiveness of Technology Parks
Reductions in telecommunications prices and aggressive international promotion are delivering
employment opportunities and new export earnings to countries offering technology parks that especially
benefit export-oriented information service providers, including software developers, Internet and IT-
enabled services, and multimedia products. India is an example of a country where programming for other
countries is generating significant income and jobs for well qualified computer graduates, at salaries that
are considerably less than those of the developed economies. The shortages of programmers worldwide is
estimated at 2 million in 2000. Web page design, multi-lingual data entry, web page creation and
translation, multi-lingual program and systems support, remote technical support and remote consulting
are all examples of "exported" IT work available today. There are many other examples. Jamaica and
the OECS countries have for several years provided bases for offshore production of information services
and are exploring ways to extend favorable telecommunications prices to areas beyond the physically
segregated free zones.
c. The Role of the Internet in Sharing Knowledge and Promoting Investment
The dramatic rise of the Internet over the past 3-5 years supports the assertion that the rules of
international business are being redefined. Countries need an Internet presence to maintain or expand
their prominence in the global marketplace, and engage in new roles and opportunities. While developed
countries, those with large markets and access to technology have been quick to realize this potential (see
Yahoo!), developing countries, such as the Dominican Republic have much to gain from providing a
single, well structured "gateway" to their internet presence. Such a gateway can provide information on
the business environment and investment opportunities as well as facilitating communications between
local producers and foreign investors capable of partnering to develop global marketing opportunities.
Similarly, the gateway can facilitate the exchange of knowledge necessary for economic development.
Many of the challenges faced by those in development have been faced elsewhere and sharing of lessons
learned and best practices can dramatically reduce unnecessary duplication and experimentation. Finally,
the capabilities of the Internet can assist by facilitating transactions, hitherto requiring cumbersome
bureaucratic processes. One example, being adopted widely in the developed world, is government
procurement. Many of the procedures associated with contracting and monitoring of these activities can
be automated in a secure Internet environment.
E: Summary Project Analysis:
(detailed assessments for those analyses applicable to a LIL are in the project file, see Annex 8)
3 Schware, Robert and Paul Kimberley, "Exploiting Information Technologies for Electronic Commerce and Better
Public Sector Management," Global Conference on the Development Agenda for Small States, The Commonwealth
Secretariat and The World Bank, London, 17-18 February 2000.



16
1. Economic: (supported by Annex 4)
[ ]Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV=US$    million; ERR=  %
[X] Cost Effectiveness Analysis: [ ] Other (specify)
Achieving a useful analysis of the relative costs and presumed advantage of distance learning is
complicated in the Dominican Republic by the extremely low levels of public sector training activity
which currently exist and the recognition that, while cost effectiveness is important, the use of distance
learninig potential brings benefits beyond the purely economic. These include the potential which exists to
make high-quality interinationial knowledge available to a significant number of public and private sector
professionals. It would therefore be inappropriate to simply compare existing training approaches to that
which can be made available through the Distance Learning Center. The cost-effectiveness analysis
included in Annex 4 has been largely based on studies undertaken for other Distance Learning Centers (in
Africa) and a detailed cost-benefit analysis undertaken in Bolivia - where costs are likely to be similar. A
number of other factors relating to the situation in the Dominican Republic may also mitigate the risk
inherent in the strict assumptions made in the analysis for cost recovery (that it will provide 100% of
revenue by year four). These include (i) the availability of a significant core training budget within INAP
(US$ I million in FY00), which can be at least partially re-directed to the DLC and (ii) the increasingly
well developed nature of distance learning for public functionaries in the region, both in terms of
technological reach and content availability.
The analysis included in Aninex 4 consists of comparing the cost of delivering training through the
proposed DLC to the current training and course delivery system for the "target market" (high-level
government officials and private sector and community leaders). The average DLC training delivery cost
has been estimated at US$95/student-day (assuming 60% capacity usage) which is lower than, or
comparable with, the cost of training delivery under current systems in other GDLN pilot countries.
2. Financial: (See also Aninex 5)
The DLC is expected to attain financial sustainability by its fourth year of operation, by generating
enough revenue, through user fees (defined to include internal transfers of INAP core training budget and
fee-paying clients), to fully cover operating costs. Financial simulations determined that the financial
break-even point will be achieved when the average rate of installed capacity reaches 60%. This
corresponds to about 5000 person-days of training per year. For the first 3 years, DLC revenue is
expected to cover approximately 20%, 40% and 80% of operating costs for each successive year.
3. Technical:
The project will introduce state-of-the-art computer, video and satellite-based communications
equipment. This will provide a similar range and level of services found in a Bank Country Office.
Appropriate training for Information Technology staff will be provided under the supervision of the
Bank's Information Systems Group (ISG) staff to ensure proper equipment operation and maintenance.
ISG will also provide support - on a decreasing scale - over the duration of the project as local capacity
increases. Equipment warranty (both local and international, as appropriate) and replacement/upgrade
contingency are included in the project.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agency: The Distance Learning Center will be established within INAP and administered
by a Coordinator answering directly to the Director of INAP. The Academic Council will be reconvened



17
(it is described in the law which established INAP) to provide academic guidance. The role of the Council
and it's composition will be assessed during the development of the business model, with a view to
ensuring the broad participation of Dominican society. Project preparation activities will ensure that the
DLC is established and operational by project effectiveness, or shortly thereafter. The project will
gradually scale up the activities of the DLC to allow it time to increase its technical and administrative
capacity. In addition, project component II is dedicated to providing assistance to the DLC to ensure that
it can administer its functions adequately. Part III, which deals with support to the Cyberpark, will also
be administered by INAP, contingent on the borrower presenting to the Bank an acceptable arrangement
between the parties which facilitates carrying out of the component.
b. Project management: The project management team will be hired on the basis of competition.
Compensation will be in line with Government pay scales. Financial management will be the
responsibility of INAP (see Annex 6), while external auditing will be contracted to a private firm.
Monitoring and evaluation, including beneficiary and client surveys will also be contracted out.
5. Social:
Not Applicable
6. Environmental assessment:        Environmental Category  [ ] A    [ ] B   [X] C
The project will have no environmental impact.
7. Participatory approach:
a. While it is envisaged that a significant number of agencies will become involved in aspects of DLC
operations, notably as recipients / sponsoring agencies (e.g. donors) and content providers (e.g.
universities), definition of these and their respective roles will be left to the DLC team and consultants
charged with Business Plan development. Preparation activities have identified several agencies with
existing distance learning capacity (INFOTEP, Pontificia Universidad Catolica Madre y Maestra -
PUCMM, ), the Technical Institute of Santo Domingo - INTEC and several interested in utilizing the
Center (e.g. WB, USAID, UNDP, IADB, Commission for the Reform of the Public Sector). A number of
these agencies are integral to the development of the Cyberpark and the integration of the DLC with the
park will facilitate the participation of these as full partners in the GDLN - as recipients of content and in
the delivery of courses. These groups will be consulted during preparation of the Business Plan and the
role and composition of the Academic Council will be reviewed, with a view to identifying possible
changes to the composition of the Council, or potentially, the addition of other advisory committees or
working groups designed to ensure the broad participation of Dominican society.
b. While the core clientele of the DLC will be the public sector (INAP's mandated responsibility), the
Market Analysis and Business Plan will include the interests of the private sector and others and examine
ways in which they can benefit from the DLC and contribute to its development. There is evidence in the
Dominican Republic that such demand exists - the telephone company (CODETEL) successfully offers
distance learning facilities and this approach is central to the role perceived for the proposed Cyberpark.
The management of the DLC will be encouraged to aggressively pursue such business opportunities, if
these do not detract from their central mission.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1.    The sustainability of the Dominican Republic Distance Learning Center is dependent on a
number of factors, not all of which are under it's direct control, at least in the short-term. Key among



18
these is the availability of relevant, high quality content of interest to local clientele. By definition, and
assuming adequate marketing and willingness to use distance learning-based training in lieu of more
traditional approaches (overseas scholarships, classroom-based training), this will dictate the level of
demand and potential revenue available, either from the Government's core training budget or fee-paying
sources. The involvement of the private sector is seen as crucial to sustainability, a relationship which will
be greatly facilitated by integration with the Cyberpark. The latter will also ensure that the DLC is well
placed to adopt improved telecommunications technology as this becomes available.
In terms of Component 111, the sustainability of the Cyberpark is largely dependent on the degree to which
private investors and internationial firms are attracted to it and achieve suitable returns on investment. This
in turn will require that, (i) the Cyberpark is established within a sound legal framework, (ii) the
management of the Cyberpark is able to establish an attractive and stable investment environment, (iii)
that marketing efforts are adequate and successful, (iv) that the synergies envisaged for the park are
forthcoming and, (v) that a range of macroeconomic and political factors continue to encourage foreign
direct investmenit in the Dominican Republic.
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
From Outputs to Objective
Government commitment to training of professionals  M     Development of market analysis and business plan and
in public and private sectors and civil society          integration of DLC as recognized option for INAP
training program
Government commitment to pay increasing share of DLC
costs over project period.
Availability of resources for training             M      Use of broad-based participatory approach to preparation
of business plan and marketing strategy, including use by
donor community.
Internal pricing mechanisms established to record use of
INAP core budget expenditure for DLC events
Involvement with the commercially oriented Cyberpark
venture
Availability of high quality content (courses,     S      World Bank Institute (WBI) courses (some in Spanish),
teleseminars and policy dialogue events) and              at least, could be available at the Borrower's request;
relevance to local needs, particularly content offered    market study will fine tune the supply of training from
in Spanish                                                other institutions to give the broadest range of courses;
Consultants hired to work with WBI and DLC
Coordinator to identify distance learning courses in
Spanish
Provision of facilities and equipment to allow
simultaneous translation
Integration into existing domestic and regional distance
learning networks
Reliable management of satellite equipment         M      Bank will assure initial management and will assist DLC
in training of IT support staff



19
From Components to Outputs
Reliability of the technology                     M      The DLC will be under the Bank's technology umbrella
in initial period
Obsolescence / upgrade of equipment within project  M     Funds contained in project to prepare upgrade plan and
period                                                    contingency for upgrade. Bank to give guidance.
Technical integration of DLC equipment into existing
domestic and regional networks and emerging technology
infrastructure
The project will provide intensive training for technical
Appropriate equipment operation and maintenance    N      staff; maintenance will be contracted out to qualified
contractor(s).
Management team capacity                          M       A competitively selected, highly-qualified and business
oriented coordinator, with a proven track record, will be
hired, and assisted by a qualified team.
Legal and institutional framework to operate       M      Loan proceeds for Component III (Cyberpark) contingent
Cyberpark is developed                                    on presentation to the bank of an acceptable arrangement
between one or more entities and the Borrower in order
to enable the Borrower to carry out said component.
Other institutions' cooperation and willingness to pay  M  Other institutions will be invited to contribute to the DLC
(private sector, donors, etc)                             business plan and canvassed on an on-going basis
regarding training needs; marketing campaigns will be
carried out by the management team.
The DLC will be integrated into the domestic distance
learning network and benefit from involvement in the
commercially oriented Cyberpark venture.
Overall Risk Rating                                M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
There is potentially one main source of controversy with respect to the project.
The Bank, through WBI, is engaged in distance learning activities with various partners around the globe,
including Bank member countries. To the extent WBI facilities and course content are used in these
initiatives, the Bank in effect administers and controls such initiatives, relying in large part on its own
human resources and technical infrastructure based in Washington, D.C. GDLN is envisioned as a future
extension of this distance learning network, but at this point is at a nascent stage of development where
the eventual number of partners, rules of administration, infrastructure specifications and course content
standards and sources remain largely undefined. What exact role, if indeed any, the Bank will play in the
full-fledged GDLN is also unresolved at this point, although it is expected that the Bank will remain as
one of the network's key partners. Nevertheless, at present in the early history of an emerging GDLN, it
is clear and unavoidable that the Bank's influence is substantial when it comes to setting technical
equipment standards for the network, establishing contractor relationships with the network, participating
in the provision of course content for the network, providing training to network counterparts from
participating member countries and purchasing and installing network equipment for such counterparts.



20
Finally, there is some risk involved in Component 3 - which involved dealing with the Cyberpark of
Santo Domingo. This organization is in its infancy and many questions relating to its sustainability and
legal and institutional framework persist.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
*  Staff (DLC coordinator, computer specialist, accountant and office assistant) selected and employed
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
*  Completion of a Market Analysis.
*  Issuance of the Operational Manual.
*  Financial management system operational.
*  Appointment of acceptable independent auditors.
*  Acceptable legal opinion indicating that the amendment to the Procurement Agreement has been duly
authorized by the Borrower and Technical Secretary to the Presidency.
2. Other [classified according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
*  A draft annual DLC business plan (program of activities, annual budget and provisional accounts,
including replacement/rehabilitation expenses) will be submitted for review by the Bank in October
of each fiscal year, with a final version (incorporating comments made by the Bank) to be approved
by the Academic Council in December of each fiscal year.
*  DLC retains staff with qualifications and experience acceptable to IBRD.
*  The Borrower has furnished to the Bank, an arrangement, acceptable to the Bank, between the
Borrower and one or more entities that will permit the Borrower to carry out Part C of the Project.
Financial and Progress Reporting:
*  Commitment by the Borrower to cover 20%, 40% and 80% respectively of the costs of
communications satellite bandwidth rental (operating expenses) for the first 3 years of the project.
*  Commitment by the Borrower to cover 20%, 50% and 80% of other incremental operating costs
under Components I and 11 of the project.
*  DLC Quarterly Activity Report submitted to the IBRD within a month of the end of each quarter.
*  Financial Audit Report submitted to IBRD within 6 monthis of the end of each fiscal year.



21
H: Readiness for Implementation
[X] I. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
[] I . b) Not applicable.
[X] 2. The procurement documents for the first six month's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation; and a framework for agreement on standard bidding documents that will be
used for ongoing procurement during the project has been established.
[ I 3. The LIL's implementation plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[ I 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G): Adequate
Financial Management system
1: Compliance with Bank Policies
[ I 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
 Teans Leader: David Gray
..
CSector Manager: Jarsil   a Salmi
Country Director: Orsal   alantopolous



22
ANNEX 1: PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
Dominican Republic: Distance Learning Project
Sector-related CAS Goal: Sector Indicators:              Sector /Country      (from Goal to Bank
Public sector            *  Skill mix of civil service   Reports:              Mission)
modernization and support    iimproves and is reflected in  Specific surveys to be  Access to kniowledge
for national dialogue.      productivity.                conducted every year.  and information is
*  Broad participation in policy                      applied and
dialogue and development.    Performance of the    transformed into
*  Level of consensus and       Bank's portfolio and   better policies and
partnership building in      assessment of CDF    improved
development process continues  pilot              performance by
to deepen.                                        public, private and
community actors
which has a positive
impact on poverty
alleviationi.
Follow-on Development
Objective:
Mainstream the use of    *  Number of public and private    DLC Bi-Annual      Adequate supply,
distance learning as an     professionals trained        Reviews.              quality and relevance
ongoing tool to increase                                                       of training courses.
access of public and     *  Number and variety of
private sector professionals  organizations using DLC (All
to global innovations and   ministries and 30% of large and
informationi                medium organizations by
project end)



23
Project Development       Outcome / Impact Indicators:      Project Reports:      (from Objective to
Objective:                                                                        Goal)
To test the effectiveness    *  Increase number of people   Quarterly and Bi-     Trainee organization
and sustainability of a      trained (Yr. 1: 1000 person-   annual reports.       willingness and
distance learning center as   days of training; Yr. 2: 2500                       ability to pay.
part of a global             person-days of training; Yr. 3:
knowledge-sharing            3225 person-days of training;                        Acceptability of
network, expanding access    Yr. 4: 4625 person-days of                           distance learning to
to high quality training and  training)                                            public, private and
strengthening the capacity                                                        community trainees.
among government          *  Distance learning facility     Quarterly and Bi-
officials, private sector     utilization rate (60% by year    annual reports     Regular availability of
managers and civil society.  4).                                                  relevant courses and
convenience of
*  DLC operating cost/income      Year I Audit report    scheduling for
ratio (1.0 by year 4).                              trainees, particularly
course offerings in
*  50% of content is provided by    Quarterly and Bi-   Spanish.
national and international    annual reports
partners by end year 2.                             DLC Director and
team to identify and
*  Quality and relevance of       Training program      refine course
courses offered by DLC is     evaluations completed  offerings annually on
evaluated satisfactory or better   by participants.  the basis of requests
by a minimum of 80% of                              and feedback of
participants.                 Six-month follow-up   trainees.
participant surveys
Reliable satellite
equipment
management.



24
Output from each         Output Indicators:               Project Reports:     (from Outputs to
component:                                                                     Objective)
1. Fully equipped and    *  Operational Acceptance Test    MCI/Codetel report    Government willing
operational DLC.            completed successfully.                            to utilize distance
learning in training
2. Viable and cost-      *  Number of public and private    Quarterly and Bi-   programs.
effective provision of      professionals trained.        annual reports
traininlg opportunities for a                                                   Technology works
wider audience.          *  DLC self-financing: 20% in    Annual audit report of  reliably and is
year 1, 40% in year 2, 60% in    DLC.              accepted by trainees.
3. Consultant Studies.      year 3 and 100% in year 4.
DLC integrated into                                                             Willingness and
domestic network         *  Business plan and monitoring    Year I Bi-anniual  ability to pay by
and evaluation systems in place  report           trainee organizations.
by end of year I.
Relevance of GDLN
*  Agreement exists between                           training to identified
INAP and Cyberpark/ITLA                            country demand.
*  Consultant Studies                                 Cyberpark has
satisfactorily completed to high                   established legal
standard                                          framework
*  Codetel / ISG sign-off on                          Compatibility
connectivity.                                      between technology
in use in domestic
network
Project                  Inputs: (budget for each         Project Reports:     (from Components
Components/Sub-          component)                                            to Outputs)
components:                                                                     Donors willing to
1. Retrofitting and      US$ 1,120,000                    ISG/MCI Operational  allocate part of
equipping of a Distance                                   Acceptance Report    training budgets to
Learning Center in INAP.                                  and sign-off.         project.
2. Support for the       US$ 1,990,000                    Quarterly and Bi-     Managemenit team is
establishment and                                         Annual Reports.       business oriented.
operation of a DLC as a
sustainable training                                                            Course content
facility.                                                                       relevant to local
nieeds.
3. Support for the       US$ 1,380,000
establishment of the                                                            Participating
Cyberpark and                                                                   institutions willing to
integration of DLC into                                                        cover part of
domestic network                                                                operating costs.
Private sector willing
to cooperate.



25
ANNEX 2: PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Dominican Republic: Distance Learning Project
By Component:
A. Project Component I - Distance Learning Center Retrofitting - US$ 1.12million
This component comprises:
(a) upgrading facilities made available by the Instituto Nacional de Administracion Publica (INAP) for
establishment of the DLC, including:
(i) a videoconference room with a 30-person capacity,
(ii) a computer room outfitted for 30 computer stations (hardware, software and internet hook-
up)
(iii) a technical and administrative center
(iv) mechanical outfitting such as installation and/or upgrading of electrical and telephone wiring
(b) equipment of the DLC including:
(i) a Very Small Aperture Terminal (VSAT) (satellite communication terminal)
(ii) video, telecommunications and microprocessor equipment
(iii) office and classroom furniture
(iv) various other equipment for DLC operation and security
B. Project Component 2 -Support for the DLC Operation - US$ 1.99 million
This component aims to assist the DLC begin operation and become financially viable. It includes:
(a) financing of DLC operation costs on a decreasing basis over the first 3 years of operation
(b) technical assistance for the training of Center staff, periodic evaluation of Center operation
and management effectiveness and establishment of financial accounts and their annual audit.
(c) funds for the sponsoring and development of local course content and partnerships
(d) financing of technology review and upgrade
C. Project Component 3 - Support for the establishment of the Cyberpark and
integration of DLC into domestic network - US 1.38 million
This component will provide technical assistance and partial equipment needs in support of the Cyberpark
venture. It includes support for:
(a) a market study and marketing campaign to determine the real and potential market demand for
the Cyberpark
(b) a study and market survey to assess the benchmark and best practices for the establishment of
the Technology institute of Las Americas (ITLA), including the development of an on-line
training center and technical training program.



26
(c.) a study to determine best practices and benchmarks for the development of the E-Center and
Netpreneur Center.
(d) the establishment of a 'Training the trainers" and pilot technology training program and for
strengthening the current university academic curricula and the capacity of instructors.
(e) development of a Business Plan and Financial Prospectus for the consortium established to
launch the Cyberpark and related developments. This will include the legal and strategic
frameworks associated witih the proposed Venture Capital Fund.
(f) revision of the current legal framework and implementationi of best practices in the areas of
intellectual property rights and electronic commerce (e-commerce).
(g) study in support of the National Internet Infrastructure Development Strategy
(h) procurement of the partial equipment needs of the Netpreneur centre and training facilities,
including computer and network equipment and video-conferencing.
(i) development of the internet gateway to promote investment opportunities, provide information
on the business environment, provide access to government, private sector and civil society and
facilitate the exchange of knowledge.
(j) equipment required to connect the DLC to the Codetel fiber optic network
Project Implementation Framework
Given the nature of the project whicih encompasses a multitude of sectors, it was agreed that the Instituto
Nacional de Administracion Publica (INAP). will take on the overall responsibility for the preparation of
this project. Some of the key activities tied to the above preparation will include the establishment of the
DLC, the revitalization of Academic Council (Consejo Academico) which will provide support in needs
assessment and guidance on content development and program accreditation and preparation of the site
(classrooms, videoconference room, computer room, administrative offices, etc).
The Distance Learning Center will be created and operated as an integral part of INAP but will maintain
separate accounts. Appropriate interinal pricing mechanisms are key to the effective functioning and
sustainability of the center, as INAP-funded participants' fees will be paid to the DLC's account from the
INAP core budget.
The Consejo Academico is the governing body of INAP, and is presided over by the Director of the
Oficina Nacional de Administracion y Personal (ONAP). The Director of INAP acts as Secretary of the
Consejo and has voice but no vote. The members of the Consejo Academico represent govemment
ministries and agencies from each sector. It is the members from sectoral agencies who hold decision
making roles on the Consejo. Given its structure and composition, the Consejo Academico is uniquely
qualified to support the development of the DLC in terms of content development and accreditation of
programs, and its members well positioned to liaise between the DLC and the public sector institutions
the Center will primarily serve. It will be the forum for discussion of needs assessment results from the
Secretariats and the coordination and accreditation of training programming from the entire spectrum of
interested parties.
Project Implementation: INAP will take overall responsibility for the implementation of the project,
under the guidance of the Director. Daily management of the DLC will be the responsibility of a
Coordinator who will be selected on the basis of proven experience in the management of a private
enterprise and/or similar educational entities. He/she will be assisted by a team consisting of a technician
(computer specialist withi telecommunications knowledge), an accountant and an office assistant. Other
personnel will be shared with INAP. Financial Management and accounting responsibilities will be the
undertaken by INAP. All personinel shall be recruited on a competitive basis.



27
The Project Coordination Unit (INAP Director and DLC staff) will work with consultants to prepare a
Market Analysis and Business Plan for the DLC, identifying the needs of the local market (public and
private sectors) and the potential to address these through content delivered by international sources or
locally. These studies will directly address issues relating to cost recovery and intellectual property and
provide input to wider determination of the structure and governance of the GDLN. The Business Plan
will be updated on an annual basis and submitted to the Academic Council for review and approval and
to IBRD for review
The Academic Council will be responsible for monitoring the DLC, managing and establishing the DLC
development policy, approving the annual Business Plan and program of activities, assessing the DLC
financial statements and providing recommendations to help the Center become financially self-
sustaining. In addition to the annual report, the Council will be kept informed of the DLC activities by a
quarterly report submitted by the PCU within 30 days of the end of each quarter.
Project Financing: IBRD will finance DLC retrofitting and equipment and consultant services and
training related to DLC start-up. Over the project implementation period, IBRD will also finance, on1 a
decreasing basis, DLC operating expenditures. As the market for its services develops, the DLC is to
mobilize an increasing share of financing for its operating expenses, to achieve self-sufficiency within the
project implementation period. This can come both from fee-paying clients and from re-direction of
INAP core training budget. It is expected that the Borrower (INAP/DLC) will cover 20% of operating
expenses in the first year, 40% in the second year (50% in the case of non-satellite bandwidth costs), 80%
in the third year, and be completely self-financing in the fourth year of project implementation.
The DLC will submit a quarterly activity report to the Bank within 30 days of the end of each quarter. At
the end of its fiscal year, but no longer than six months after its completion, the Borrower will present to
IBRD financial audit reports of: (i) the Special Account; and (ii) DLC accounts and financial statements.
See Annex VI for a more detailed discussion of project procurement and financial management.
3. Monitoring and evaluation arrangements:
The activities of the DLC will be monitored through the annual business plans and quarterly reports and
Bi-annual reports/meetings (video-conferences) as specified above.
The quality of the DLC courses will be assessed through participants questionnaires, completed following
each course. A follow-up survey designed to indicate long-term value of the DLC and course content will
be administered six months after course completion. The general performance of the DLC and the
functioning of the GDLN will be monitored through quaterly and bi-annual reports, the latter focussing
on curriculum/academic issues in some depth. All reports will be forwarded to and discussed with WBI.
A first assessment of the financial and economic viability of the scheme will be carried out at the end of
the first year of operation.



Annex 3: Estimated Proiect Costs
A. Project Costs by Component
A. CENTER RETROFITTING AND EQUIPMENT
Clvil Works                                                                                 -                  300,000              300,000
Civil Reconstruction                                                                        -                  300,000             300,000
Network Access Equipment                                                                160,196                    -                160,196
Common Equipment for all Sites                                                           28,005                    -                28,005
Remote Baseband Equipment per Site                                                       36,491                   -                 36,491
Remote RF Equipment per Site                                                             45,700                    -                45,700
Upgrade (Year 4)                                                                         50,000                    -                 50,000
Intemational Equipment for DLC Studios                                                  392,117                                    392,117
Video Equipment                                                                          75,740                                     75,740
T. 120 Applicabon Kit                                                                    12,000                    -                12,000
Audio Equipment                                                                          17,377                                     17,377
Audio Response Equipment                                                                 11,900                    -                11,900
LAN Equipment                                                                            65,000                    -                65,000
TV Receive only                                                                          15,000                    -                15,000
PCs and Related Equipment                                                                95,100                    -                95100
Upgrade (Year4)                                                                         100,000                    -                100 000
Other DLC Equipment and Furniture                                                                              119,300              119,300
Office Furnrture                                                                                                30,000              30,000
UPS and Generator                                                                           -                   54,000              54,000
Other ElectricalElectronic equipment                                                                             7,500               7,500
Video and TV Equipment                                                                      -                    7,800               7,800
Upgrade (Year 4)                                                                            -                   20,000               20,000
Shinninc and Installation of EQuigment                                                   45,000                    -                 45.000
B. SUPPORT FOR CENTER ESTABLISHMENT
Consultant Services and Training                                                         18,000                306,000              324,000
Civil Works Supervision                                                                     -                   88,000               88 000
Market Analysis                                                                             -                    8,000                8,000
Bus ness Plan                                                                            12,000                    -                12,000
Training for DLC Staff                                                                      -                   30,000              30,000
Content DevelopmentVPartnerships                                                                               105,000              105,000
Audits                                                                                      -                   75,000               75,000
Technology Review                                                                         6,000                    -                  6,000
Operating Cost                                                                          832,780                837,000            1,669,780
Satellite Bandwidth&Servicing Cost                                                      693,480                    -               693,480
Personnel                                                                                   -                  375,000             375,000
Maintenance                                                                             139,300                260,000              399 300
Utilities                                                                                   -                   77,000              77,000
Variable ODeratina Cost                                                                     -                  125,000             125,000
C. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CYBERPARK AND INTEGRATION OF DLC
Equipment for Cyberpark                                                                 116,949                162,000             278,949
Computers and Networking                                                                 66,250                 48,000              114,250
Video-conferencing and related                                                           50,699                  7,400               58 099
Office Equipment                                                                            -                  106,600              106600
Consultant Services                                                                     836,000                250,000            1,085,000
Cyberpark market study and marketing campaign                                            150000                                     150,000
Establishment of the Technology institute of Las Americas (ITLA),                        120000                                     120,000
Best practices and benchmarks for the development of the E-Center                        110000                                     110,000
'Training the trainers' and pilot technology training program                             100000                                    100,000
Development of a Business Plan and Financial Prospectus                                  180000                                     180,000
Revision of the current legal framework                                                   75000                                      75,000
Development of Nat. Internet Information Strategy                                        100000                                     100,000
Develooment Of the internet gateway                                                            0                250000             250,000
PROJECT COSTS                                                                          2,400,042 11974.300                        4,374,342
Physical Contingencies                                                                   71,426                 58,130              129,556
Price Contingencies                                                      _
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                                                   2?471.468               2,032,430           4,503,898
Front-end Fee                                                                                                   34.000
TOTAL INVESTMENT                                                                       2.471,468              2.066.430           4.537.898



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs, continued
B. Proiect Cost by Category                                            29
Goods                                                                                 669,262                281,300             950,562
Works                                                                                      -                 300,000             300,000
Services                                                                              898,000                526,000           1,424,000
Training                                                                                  -                   30,000              30,000
Operating Cost                                                                        832,780                837,000           1,669,780
Other
PROJECT COST                                                                         2400,042              1,974.300           4,374.342
Physical Contingencies                                                                 71,426                 58,130             129,556
Price Contingencies                                                     ___
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                                                  2.471,468             2,032.430           4.503,898
Front-end Fee                                                                                                 34.000
TOTAL INVESTMENT                                                                     2,471,468             2.066.430           4,537.898
Assumotions:
Fund ng Factor of Operating Cost                                                         165%
equivalent to funding % of operating cost
year 1                                                                                   82%
year 2                                                                                   61%
year 3                                                                                   21%
year 4                                                                                    0%
Physical Contingency Factor                                                               10%
Price Contingency Factor                                                                   0%
Footnotes
(1) Project lengths is five years



30
ANNEX 4: COST EFFECTIVENESS ANALYSIS SUMMARY
Dominican Republic: Global Distance Learning Project
I.     The cost effectiveness analysis is based on comparing the cost of delivering training courses
through the Global Distance Learinig Network with the current training and course delivery practice in
its "target market". Currently, there are four main methods of in-service training of professionals: (a)
international training, i.e. outside the Dominican Republic, (b) regional training, i.e. in another Latin
American country, (c) local training by local trainers, and (d) local training by international trainers.
2.     Main Assumptions. In the absence of reliable and comprehensive data on the training market in
the Dominican Republic, preliminary data gathered in other countries make it possible to estimate the
following distribution of in-service training of professionals (mainly public sector employees who were
trained in 1997-1998): 45% of professionals are trained internationally, 15% are trained regionally, 20%
are trained locally by local staff, and 20% are trained locally by international staff.
3.     Capacity: By design, the Dominican Republic distance learning facility will have a capacity of 30
seats each for the conference and computer rooms. The Center may operate over 260 working days per
year. In the long run (by year 5), capacity utilization is estimated to be around 60%, corresponding to a
production level of 4680 student-days. For the first four years, a steady annual increase of the capacity
utilization rate is projected as follows: 8%, 16%, 33%and41%  respectively for each successive year.
4.     One of the indicators for comparing costs of course delivery in the current system of in-service
training of professionals with the one proposed in the GDLN is the unit cost of course delivery per
student-day. This indicator reflects all measurable components except the "quality and convenience of the
proposed system" as it will provide easier and wider access to state-of-the-art knowledge and information.
In a comprehensive evaluation these benefits need to be taken into account although they are difficult to
quantiify.
5.     Cost of the Distance Learning Center: The unit cost of course delivery per student per day is
defined as operating cost plus depreciation (i.e. total OC) divided by the total number of students trained
over an average course length. The estimated cost structure of the DLC is detailed in annex 5. The annual
cost is determined to be around US$440,000. Fixed cost represent 85% of total cost, indicating that a
high level of expenses will be incurred by the Center irrespective of the level of utilization of its facilities.
The cost per day and per student depends on the level of demand, and hence the rate of use of the
proposed facilities. The table below shows that the cost per student and per day is very sensitive to the
rate of capacity utilization. Unit cost decreases sharply when utilization of the center facilities increases
whereas the operating cost is remains largely unchanged due to the importance of fixed costs.
Unit cost in US$
Year               1      2       3       4        5
Capacity utilization (%)      8      16      33      41       60
Total operating cost        445    442      454     453      442
Cost-student-day            741    346      174     140       95
6.     This simulation emphasizes the importance of retaining a qualified, business-oriented manager to
develop effective marketing tools and attract sufficient clients to ensure DLC competitiveness and



31
financial sustainability. Preliminary market data suggest that an utilization rate of 60% may be attained
by the fifth year of operation corresponding to a reasonable unit cost of US$95 per day per student. This
will require an intensive marketing endeavor by the DLC management team aiming at: diversifying
Center products and services and winning customer loyalty through delivery of a steady high-quality
service, competitive pricing, and training content relevant to expressed demand and client expectations.
7.    Unit Cost of the Existing Training System: Only very limited data is available on existing training
provision in the Dominican Republic. Analysis carried out for the Distance Learning Project in Cote
d'lvoire provides some comparison - US$296 for a 10-day course and US$493 for a 5-day course.
Similarly, a Cost-Benefit Analysis undertaken for the DLC in Bolivia, provided estimates of between
US$320/5-day course/person and US$4000/course/person (overseas training).
8.    This range of cost suggests that the proposed Global Distance Learning Network (GDLN)
training system (estimated unit cost of US$95/day) will be at least as cost-effective as the existing, with
the true savings coming from the substitution of DLC services for overseas scholarships.



32
Annex 5: Financial Summary
A. Project Cost by Category
7_;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7                             0           1          2           3          4           5        Total
Investment Cost                                   Z238,562     117,000     82,000     205,000     32,000      30,000    2,704,562
Civil Wbrks                                         300,000                                                              300,000
NetworkAccess Equipment                             110,196                            50,010                            160,196
International Equipment for DLC Studios            292,117                            100,000                            392,117
Equipment for Cyberpark                             278,949                                                              278,949
Other DLC Equipment and Furniture                    99,300                            20,000                            119,300
Shipping and Installation of Equipment              45,000                                                                45,000
Consultant Services and Training                  1,113,000    117,000     82,000     35,000      32,000     30,000    1,409,000
Operating Cost                                       17,000    330,556    330,556     330,556    330,556     330,556    1,669,780
Fixed Operating Cost                                17,000    305,556     305,556    305,556     305,556    305,556    1,544,780
Satelite BandwMdth&Servicng Cost                              138,696    138,696    138,696     138,696     138,696     693,480
Personnel                                           15,000      72,000     72,000      72,000     72,000      72,000     375,000
Maintenance                                                     79,860      79,860     79,860      79,860     79,860     399,300
ULtilties                                            2000       15,000     15,000     15,000      15,000     15,000       77,000
Variable Operating Cost                                         25,000     25,000     25,000      25,000     25,000      125,000
Total Project Cost                                2,255,562    447,556    412,556     535,556    362,556     360,556    4,374,342
B. Project Financing
0          1          2           3          4           5        Total
Required Finandng
Total Prcject Cost                                2,238,562    117,000     82,000     205,000     32,000      30,000    2,704,562
Physical Investment Cost                         1,125,562        -          -       170,000        -           -      1,295,562
Services                                         1,113,000    117,000     82,000      35,000                           1,347,000
Financed by iBRD                                  2,238,562    117,000     82,000     205,000     32,000      30,000    2,704,562
C. Project Operation Financing
5t   n . o 5 _  0400i01  0  1     2           3          4           5        Total
Required Finanang
Project Operating Cost                               17,000    330,556    330,556     330,556    330,556     330,556    1,669,780
Revenue Generation                                     -        60,000     127,500    260,000    322,500     462,500    1,232,500
Financed by IBRD                                     17,000    270,556    203,056      70,556      8,056         -       569,224
Surplus                                                                                                     (131,944)    (131,944)
Note assumptions:
personnel hired in run-up to center opening t cost of  15,000
utilities etc. before operation starts               2,000
covering of operating costs in years 1,2,3,4, and onward
year 1:                                                82%/6
year 2:                                                61%
year 3:                                                21%
year 4:                                                 0%



33
I.    A financial analysis was conducted to determine the terms of financial viability of the proposed
project. In the absence of adequate and reliable data regarding the training market in the Dominican
Republic, we propose to determine the financial goals (pricing policy and cost sharing principle) and
market goals (level of demand and capacity utilization to be targeted) to be accomplished by the DLC
management team if the Center is to be financially self sustaining by the medium term (fourth year of
operation). More market research is needed to have better information on characteristics of the
Dominican Republic's training market and a precise understanding of its dynamics to help design an
appropriate marketing policy for the Center. Therefore, during the project preparation phase, a consultant
will conduct a detailed market analysis which will be available to the DLC management team once it is
in place. The main use of the market study is to serve as a key input to business plan design by the DLC
management team. The business plan will be drafted over the first two months of start-up of Center
operations.
2.     Main assumptions.
Revenue.
Income generation: the most crucial set of assumptions pertains to the revenue generation patterns. Given
the rapid pace of project preparation, only a very preliminary understanding of the market dynamics has
been obtained. An alternative approach (admittedly sub-optimal) for deriving a set of precise revenue
projections would have been to use training supply to determine the requirements for the center to be
financially viable and then analyze whether these requirements are reasonable from the demand side in
the context of the Dominican Republic. Training supply is relatively precise as most of the DLC courses
will be provided by the WBI at least for the first two years. The main assumption regards the utilization
rates for Center facilities, which are projected, over the first five years of operation, to be 7.7%, 16.3%,
33%, 41.3% and 60% for each successive year. The maximum capacity amounts to 4680 student-days of
training at a 60% utilization rate. The training fee is set at around US$100 per student per day: as this
price seems to be competitive and affordable for most public and private institutions (see Annex 4) and is
therefore expected to attract more students.
Other financial revenue: the amount of financial support to the DLC to balance its operating cost over the
first years of operation is determined by the extent to which the Center can generate its own revenue.
Hence, it is defined as the residual between the revenue generated and total funding required to cover
operating costs before depreciation.
Operating Cost.
Satellite Bandwidth Rent: the satellite bandwidth cost includes the yearly rental cost for the bandwidth
and a corresponding service charge. Bandwidth costs are fixed costs, i.e. they don't depend on capacity
utilization rates. Annual cost is estimated at US$1383700 on the basis of existing rates provided by the
supplier.
Personnel: we have assumed that the center has eight local staff including a Director (partly covered from
DLC funds), a DLC Coordinator, an accountant (part) and a technician. Aniual salary per staff is based
on current market data for similar positions and responsibilities.
Maintenance: the estimated maintenance costs are based on the following assumptions: locally procured
equipment (PCs, furniture, etc.) and civil works have a yearly maintenance of 10% of initial investment
cost; internationally procured equipment (equipment for videoconferencing room) has a yearly
maintenance cost of 20% of initial investment cost. This high rate accounts for possible contracting out
maintenance activities of sensitive equipment to a qualified foreign or regional company.



34
Utilities: utility costs include expenditures on electricity, telephone and water, which were estimated to
cost US$15,000 annually by comparison to similar computer services in the Dominican Republic.
Variable Operating Cost: These mainly comprise costs related to training and office supply, and depend
on capacity utilization. A flat cost of US$25,000 per year has been assumed (which is roughly US$500
per student per day at full capacity utilization.
Depreciation: equipment is assumed to depreciate at different rates in accordance with national
accounting standards in the Dominican Republic .
Fee/Interest and debt service: the government of the Dominican Republic would carry the interest and
principal repayment in lieu of the Center to allow for sensible and attractive training rates. However it is
envisaged that the Center assumes reinvestment and renewal cost of its equipment.
3.     Financial Statements and Results. Based on the above assumptions, basic financial statements
of the Center have been estimated for the first five years of its operation. Table 5.1 presents the income
and cash flow statement as well as its projected balance sheet. It shlows that under the above assumptions
the Distance Learning Center will be economically viable and self sustaining ( reach its break-even point)
once its capacity utilization rate attains or exceeds 42% (or 3225 student-days per year are sold). This is
the equivalent of 700 professionals attending a 5-day training per year. From the market perspective, this
requirement seems to be achievable: (i) a rate of US$100 per day per participant compares favorably with
the estimated average cost of the current training practice (see Annex 4); this rate will allow for more
participants within the same overall budget; (ii) 700 professionals trained annually represents around 15%
of the high-level civil servant population in the Dominican Republic; however private sector managers
and community leaders may also take training, either reducing the number of civil servants who would
need to be trained to maintain the assumption of 700 students per year, or increasing the number of
students who could be trained in a given year above 700.
4.     The income statement suggests that the break-even point (operating cost minus depreciation) will
be attained in the fourth year, when the capacity utilization rate reaches 42% (at a unit cost of US$140
per day per student). The overall equilibrium (including depreciation to allow for reinvestment) is attained
in the fifth year at an utilization rate of 60%. To achieve this goal, an intensive marketing campaign will
be needed from the Center management team to: diversify DLC products and services and win customer
loyalty through steadily improving quality of service, competitive pricing, and providing training courses
that meet expressed demand and client expectations. This emphasizes the importance of retaining a
qualified business-oriented manager to develop effective marketing tools and attract enough clients to
ensure Center competitiveness and finanicial sustainability.
5.    Initial pricing of the Center's services aims at promoting DLC products and attracting more
professionals and decision makers to strengthen their management and policy formation capacity, which
is difficult to quantify in economic and financial terms. Consequently, the operating deficit of the first
three years will be covered through the IBDR loan. This financial support will match the exact deficit
(without depreciation), projected to be around US$446,000 for the first three years, making up
approximately 50% of generated income over that period. This support will be provided on a decreasing
basis over this 3-year period as follows: 79% of operating cost in the first year, 56% in the second, and
11% in the third. As the initial traininig rate, US$100 per person, is in the low range, it may be raised in
relation to the market demand for certain high-demand courses. A flexible market-driven pricing policy
should improve the financial viability of the project.



35
Annex 6: Procurement and Financial Management Arrangements
Dominican Republic: Distance Learning Project
A.    General
I .    Procurement Assessment Review: The project appraisal did not include a formal Procurement
Assessment Review (PAR) as the team to manage the project was not yet in place. However, the bulk of
the procurement for this project has been carried out during the preparation phase and was handled by the
Bank under the terms of the "Procurement Agreement" signed between the Government of the Dominican
Republic, the Technical Secretary to the President (the Recipient) and the World Bank. This agreement
was established on the basis of a waiver to the Bank's procurement guidelines issued by the Managing
Director, Mr. Shengman Zhang on 07/09/1999.
2.    The bulk of procurement required under this project has been handled during the preparation
phase under two PPFs (P367-0, $550,000 and P367-1, $400,000). These have covered Consultant
Services ($50,000 and $50,000, respectively), Goods ($350,000 and $200,000) and Works ($150,000 and
$150,000). In order to be fully compatible with the Bank's own system, goods procured internationally
under the PPFs (network access and videoconference equipment for the DLC -US$402,000) have been
procured by the Bank under the same contract that the Bank uses for its own distance learning equipment
(this was awarded competitively). This arrangement was embodied in the Procurement Agreement
described in (1). Goods including office equipment and furniture procured locally under the PPFs have
been procured by the Borrower using national shopping (US$ 119,300). The contract for civil works (US$
300,000), covered under the PPFs was awarded on the basis of Direct Contracting to an existing on-site
contractor, as described in Section III, Para 3.7 of the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits. Consultant utilized under the PPFs have been selected as individual consultants.
B.    Procurement Arrangements:
3.    The following procurement arrangements, presented in Table A, will apply to all contracts
financed by the IBRD loan. These arrangements were agreed upon during appraisal and are to be
confirmed at negotiations.
4.    Unless covered under the terms of the "Procurement Agreement", as described in (1) above,
goods financed by the IBRD loan will be procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits published in January 1995 and revised in January and
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. Consultant services financed by the IBRD loan will be
procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers published in January 1987 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999.
C.    Procurement of Works/Goods.
5.    Goods: Equipment required under Component III of the project and for subsequent years of the
project (i.e. that not covered by the Procurement Agreement or procured under the PPFs), will be
procured through international competitive bidding ($300,000), national competitive bidding ($190,000)
or national shopping ($80,000).



36
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million including taxes, duties and contingencies)
Expenditure Category                Procurement Method                   Total Cost
ICB        NCB         Other      (incl. Cont.)
1. GOODS
a) Network access/Videoconference equip - Part 1   0.1         0.1         0.0V          0.28
(0. 1)     (0.1)       (0.08)        (0.28)
(b) Network access/Videoconference equip - Part 3  0.12       0.06                       0.18
(0.12)     (0.06)                     (0.18)
(c) Office furniture and other equipment - Part 3             0.11                       0.11
(0.11)                    (0.11)
2. CONSULTANT SERVICES AND TRAINING
(a) Consultant Services and Training - Parts I and 2                        0.22          0.22
(0.22)       (0.22)
(b) Consultant Services - Part 3                                            1.08          1.08
(1.08)       (1.08)
3. OPERATING COST
a) Satellite bandwidth rental                                              0.696         0.69
(0.28)       (0.28)
b) Operating expenditures                                                  0.97c         0.97
(0.29)       (0.29)
4. PPF Refinancing                                                           0.95-         0.95
TOTAL                                                0.22        0.27        3.99          4.49'
(0.22)     (0.27)       (2.9)         (3.39)
a. - shopping
b - Sole source, see Section E.
c - Personnel costs, utility charges
d - Re-financing of PPFs - P367-0 ($550,000) and P367-1 ($400,000)
e - Excluding Front-end Fee
D.      Consulting services and Training
6.      Consultant services financed by the loan are estimated at US$ 1,300,000. The services include
training and technical assistance. Technical assistance will consist exclusively of short-term
consultancies. Technical assistance contracts, including contract for training and audits, will be procured
following Bank procedures on the basis of establishment of short lists of qualified firms or individuals
agreed by the Bank. The selection procedures based on the consultant guidelines will consist of: (i)
quality and cost-based for consulting firms, and; (ii) least cost for auditing firms.
E.      Operating Costs
7.      Incremental Operating Costs: The communications system  installed during this project makes use
of a particular satellite. Space (bandwidth) on this satellite is rented on a sole source basis with the
company which operates it (Intelsat). The terms of this contract will be negotiated between the Borrower
and the supplier with Bank assistance during year I of the Project. Other incremental operating costs



37
incurred by the Borrower for the purposes of carrying out activities under the project may include office
supplies and maintenance, incremental staff, vehicle operation and maintenance, photocopies, conference
materials, audits and telecommunications costs.
F.     Prior Review Thresholds
8.     Consulting assignments, with firms and individuals, that cost US$30,000 or more and US$15,000
or more, respectively per contract, will be subject to prior review by IBRD. Review thresholds are given
in Table B below.
G.    Post Review
9.     All contracts not subject to the above thresholds will be subject to a post review.
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure            Contract Value      Procurement         Contracts
Category            (Threshold) (US$)       Method            Subject to
Prior Review
1. GOODS
2 250,000            ICB                All
50 - 250,000          NCB                All
< 50,000          3 Quotations         None
2. CONSULTANTS SERVICES
AND TRAINING                 Individuals: >15,000     QCBS                All
Individuals: <15,000                       None
Firms: > 30,000      Least cost           All
Firms: < 30,000                          None
3. COMMUNICATIONS SATELLITE      Above 50,000      Direct Contracting       All
BANDWIDTH
H.    Procurement Implementation Schedule and Advance Procurement Actions.
10.    The detailed investment implementation schedule will be presented in the Project Implementation
Manual. This timetable will be used as a basis to monitor procurement processing.
I.     Project Financial Management
11.    Financial Management Assessment:  During project preparation, a Financial Management
Assessment was carried out by LCOAA, and an Action Plan was agreed to with the borrower. Given that
INAP's financial management capacity was minimal at the time of the assessment, it was decided that the
establishment of an operational financial management system should be a condition of effectiveness for
the loan. Risk in this aspect of the project is considered minimal, given the high degree of Bank
involvement in the procurement process, the UNDP's handling of the PPFs, which was equivalent to
about 30% of the loan, and the small amount of the total loan. (Note: the financial risk related to



38
sustainability of the program is not addressed in the financial management assessment, which focuses
more on accounting, reporting, and internal control. Financial risk is addressed in other sections of this
PAD).
12.    Financial Management Arrangements including Accounting, Auditing and Reporting: The
Borrower, through INAP, will maintain separate accounting records for the project and for its own
operations. The Project Preparation Advance(s) were administered by the local office of UNDP, which
did not retain a role under the loan. In addition to its financial statements, the Borrower will submit a
quarterly Project Management Report, 45 days after the end of each quarter, presenting a summary of
sources and uses of funds, procurement/contracts schedule and statement and summary of expenditures by
component and by category. This report should be consistent with the format of the Project Management
Report (PMR) as shown in Annex 7 of the Bank's Project Financial Management Manual. Assurance has
been obtained from the Borrower that implementing agency accounts and financial statements, and the
Special Account maintainied by INAP will be audited annually in accordance with international audit
standards by experienced and recognized audit firms satisfactory to the Bank. It was agreed with the
borrower that the appointment of auditors is a condition of effectiveness. It is also essential that the audit
TOR includes the issuance of a management letter on internal controls six months after effectiveness.
13.    At the end of its fiscal year, but no longer than six months after its completion, the Borrower,
through INAP, will present to IBRD financial audit reports of: (i) the Special Account as well a special
opinion on the SOEs; and (ii) DLC accounts and financial statements.
J.     Disbursement Arrangements
14.    The proposed allocation of the loan is shown in Table C. The IBRD Loan will be disbursed over
a period of 5 years (from 2000 to 2005), with a closing date of October 3 1, 2005 to allow for a close
follow-up on the project activities.
15.    During negotiations, it was agreed that $30,000 could be provided in retroactive financing, to
cover costs associated with the project during the start-up of the DLC under the Project Preparation
Advances. These funds, which cover the period from June I", 2000 through to effectiveness, represent
staff costs and miscellaneous charges, including utilities.



39
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                Amount                   Disbursement Percentage
(US$)
1. GOODS
a) Network access/Videoconference equip - Part 1  280,000   100% of foreign expenditures: 100% of local expenditures
(ex-factor costs); 85% of other local expenditures
b) Network access/Videoconference equip - Part 3  180,000   100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of local expenditures
(ex-factor costs); 85% of other local expenditures
c) Office furniture and other equipment - Part 3  116,000   100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of local expenditures
(ex-factor costs); 85% of other local expenditures
2. CONSULTANT SERVICES AND TRAINING
a) Consultant Services and training  Parts I and 2  215,000   100% of local and foreign expenditures for services of
consultants
b) Consultant Services - Part 3                  1,085,000  100% of local and foreign expenditures for services of
consultants
3. OPERATING COSTS
a) Satellite bandwidth rent                       280,000   80% until $110,000 have been disbursed in aggregate; then
60% until $190,000 have been disbursed in aggregate; then
20% therafter
b) Operation expenditures                         289,700   80% until $80,000 have been disbursed in aggregate: then
50% until $250,000 have been disbursed in aggregate; then
20% thereafter
4. PPF Refinancing                                  950,000   Amounts due
5. Front-end Fee                                    34,300   100% payable to the Bank upon effectiveness
a_-~~~~
TOTAL                                              3.430,000
1 5.    To facilitate project implementation, a Special Account in US dollars will be established by the
Borrower in the name of the DLC of the Dominican Republic in the Central Bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to IBRD. The DLC will operate this Special Account, which will have an
authorized allocation of $160,000 (or 4.7% of the loan amount).
16.     For contracts not subject to IBRD prior review, specifically; (a) goods contracts estimated to cost
less than $50,000 equivalent, (b) contracts for the employment of consultant firms costing less than
$30,000 equivalent, (c) employment of individual consultants costing less than $15,000 equivalent each;
(d) contracts associated with incremental operating costs (other than bandwidth rental) and training as
set forth in Table 6, disbursements will be made against Statements of Expenditure certified by the
Financial Manager of the DLC (or authorized signatory). Otherwise, all applications to withdraw the
proceeds of the loan will be fully documented for contracts subject to prior review by IBRD. The
minimum application size for payments to be made directly by the Bank to the contractors and suppliers
or for issuance of Special Commitments is 20% of the authorized allocation to the Special Account.
Applications for replenishment will be submitted monthly or when 33% of the initial deposit is disbursed,
whichever occurs first. Replenishment applications will be supported by the necessary documentation
including the SA statement and a reconciliation of the Special Account statement to the project's records
based on invoices and other documents. The Special Account will be audited annually by auditors



40
acceptable to the Bank. Due to its small size and up-front disbursement schedule, it is not anticipated that
the project will disburse via PMRs - however, this will be considered depending on the progress of the
project and the DLC's ability to generate comprehensive PMRs in a timely manier.



41
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Dominican Republic: Distance Learning Project
Project Schedule                      .Actual
____________.__________.____   (At final PCID s!tage)            _____
Time taken to prepare the project (months)  6                     9
First Bank mission (identificationi)       06/15/99               06/15/99
Appraisal mission departure                11/30/99               11/30/99
Negotiations                                12/18/99              09/14/00
Planned Date of Effectiveness              2/18/00                10/14/00
Prepared by: National Institute of Public Administration
Preparation assistance: PPF Advance
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name
David Gray                                         Team Leader/Knowledge Management Coordinator
Juliet Maria Litterer                              Education Specialist
Abrao Grynglas                                     Senior Information Technology Officer
Juan Padron                                        Senior Information Technology Officer
Guillermo Cintron                                  Resident Mission Liaison
Ferenc Molnar                                      Senior Counsel
Reynaldo Pastor                                    Counsel
Daria Goldstein                                    Counsel
Edward Daoud                                       Disbursement Officer
Xiomara Morel                                      Disbursement Officer
Jacqueline Marie L. Demars                         Financial Management/Disbursement Officer
Vladimir Jadrijevic                                Procurement Specialist
Daniel Boyce                                       Financial Management Specialist
Patricia de la Fuente                              Financial Management Specialist
Robert Schware                                     Senior Informatics Specialist
Michael Foley                                      Senior Distance Education Specialist



42
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
Dominican Republic: Distance Learning Project
- Country Assistance Strategy for the Dominican Republic, June 9, 1999, Report No. 19393 DO
- User Needs Assessment - Bolivia Distance Learning Center
- Cost Effectiveness Analysis and financial model
- BTO of Reconnaissance Mission, June 13-16, 1999
- BTO of Technical Mission , October 10-13, 1999
- BTO of Financial Management Mission, February 16-18, 2000
- Cost Effectiveness Analysis
- Signed VSAT License Autlhorization, October 19, 1999
- Signed Building Permit (to locate satellite dislh), November 8, 1999
- Signed PPF (P367-0), November 11, 1999
- Signed contract (DOM/00/002) with UNDP, January 17, 2000
- Signed PPF (P367-1), April 5, 2000
- Signed Revision (DOM00/002/B) with UNDP, June 27 2000
- Signed Aide Memoire/Action Plan from Financial Management Mission, June 6/16/2000
*Including electronic files.



43
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
Dominican Republic
Distance Learning Project
Status of Bank Group Operations in Dominican Republic
Operations Portfolio
As of 1 0-January-2000
Closed 23
Projects
Difference Between
Board Date Fiscal Year                             Last PSR                                                                  Expected and Actual
Supervision Rating b/      Original Amount in US$ Millions               Disbursements at
Active Projects                          Development  Implementation        IBRD         IDA     Cancel.   Undisb.       Orig. Frm Rev'd
Objectives     Progress
1995    P007020    IRRIG LAND & WATERSH                S              S                28           0           0       22,5     11.96       4.39
1996    P035494    BASIC EDUCATION                     S              S                37           0           0      24.0      20.01      12.61
1997    P035722    NATIONAL HWY. PROJ.                 S              S                75           0           0       50.4     32.33      12.33
1998    P035733    ENVIRONMENT POLICY                  S              S                 3           0           0        2.0      0.27          0
1998    P007015    PROV.HEALTH SERV.PRJ                S              S                30           0           0       17.5     -7.36          0
1999    P063201     EMERGENCY OPERATIONS               S              S             111.11          0           0        45       3.89       -2.5
2000     P052736    TELECOM REG. REFORM                S              S               12.3          0           0       12.3         0          0
2000     P059510    WASTEWATER DISPOSAL IN             S              S                5.0          0           0        5.0         0          0
TSM CENTERS (LIL)
Source: The World Bank.
OCS LIL PAD Form: January 5, 1998



Dominican Republic
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 8/31/99
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                    Disbursed
FY Approval  Company          Loan  Equity Quasi Partic Loan  Equity Quasi Partic
1991/94      DTC                  0       0     0      0     0      0      0     0
1998 Flamenco Bavaro     14       0     0  21.7 13.55       0      0 20.15
1993 Hotel Flamenco     3.15      0     0      0  3.15      0      0     0
1995/96      Smith-Enron          0       0     0      0     0      0      0     0
Total Portfolio:      17.15      0      0  21.7  16.7       0      0 20.15
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan  Equity Quasi Partic
1997 GILS                10      6      0      0
2000 HOSPITEN             11      0     0    11
Total Pending Commitment:      21      6      0    11
OCS LIL PAD Form: January 5, 1998



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
Dominican Republic at a glance                                                                        0118/200
Latin    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                 Dominican   America   middle-
Republic   & Carib.   income       Development diamond'
1998
Population, mid-year (mililons)                           8.3        502       908                    Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                      1,770      3,940      1,710
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                         146       1,978      1,557
Average annual growth, 1992-98
Population (%)                                            1i.        1 6        1 1
Labor force (%)                                           2.6        23         1.5      GNP                                 Gross
per                                primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1992-98)                                   capita                           enroIment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)      21
Urban population (% of total population)                   64         75        58
Life expectancy at birth (years)                           71         70        68
Infant mortality (per t 000 live births)                   40         32        38
Child nalnutrition (% of children under 5)                  6          8                            Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                     73         75        75
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                       17         13        14
Gross primary enrollment (% of school age population)     103        113       103              -Dommncan Repubhc
Male                                                    103                  105                 Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                  104                  100
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1977     1987       1997       1998
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                              46        58        151        159
Gross domestic investmentUGDP                  21 8      24.2       22 0       25 88                         de
Exports of goods and services/GDP              20 0      256        31.4       306                        Trade
Grossdomesticsavings/GDP                        176      124        173        169
Gross national savings/GDP                      189      186        21 0       236
Current account balance/GDP                     -2 8      -6.2       -1 1      -2.2                         j
Interest payments/GDP                            11       1 9        1.2        1.1     Domestic                         Investment
Total debtVGDP                                 24 5      67 3       281                 Savigs
Total debt servicelexports                      13 2     184         7 7
Present value of debtUGDP                                           25.5
Present value of debVexports                                        64.6
Indebtedness
1977-87  1988-98      1997       1998   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                    3 0      4 2       8.2        7 3        6.8               - Domincan Republic
GNP per capita                         01       2 2       6 3        4 9        51                  Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services          81       60       10 8        4 4        7.7
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1977     1987       1997       1998      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                    201       11.9       124        11 6
Industry                                       295       20.7       32 3       328 6    2
Manufacturing                                 190       128        170       166           i--6- _
Services                                       504       67 4       553        55 6                          
Private consumption                            78 3      81 9       75 0       74 9     -20
General govemment consumption                   41        5 8        7 8        8.2                        G02    '0OGP
Imports of goods and services                  24 2      37 4       36.2       39.5
1977-87  1988-98       1997       1998      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growtfh)                                                                Got  ae  feprsadsprsgb
Agriculture                                      0 7      2 0        3 4        0.8    30
Industry                                        -1 7      56        10.6        8 6     20
Manufacturing                                 -1 4       5.3        7.9       47 7              -
Services                                         57       4 0        7 9        7 5     10
Private consumption                             2 8       2.8        3 3        7 2     o
General government consumption                  86       16 4       61.0       12 9             93    95             5 ss  9      98
Gross domestic investment                       34       13 1       25.8       30 3    -10
Imports of goods and services                   48        4 8       10 2       17 1                 -.   Exports     0"lmports
Gross national product                          2 4       41         8 3        6 8
Note 1998 data are preliminary estimates
*The diamonds show four key Indicators n the country (in bold) compared with its Income-group average It data ar missing, the diamond will
be incomplete






IBRD 19599R
72   -                                                                                      I~~~~~~~~~E?PBUC~~7777
20         ATL         A NTI   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 
tAontf                  --JLupero&                                              -
Pe Illo  NTE  RISTI              ~~~~~~PUERTO   P/ATSsGO                     Py
D  ~bon   ehI                                            (I \SP  M/A              ARIA                                 W jA~4~             
- , A SANCHEZ
de~~osMot02  -  7,I-..  *, ~Son Froncisclode Mocorfs                           "-                                       , 
Restaur2cion    $,                      A NT/A~ GO 0 
5'ELIAS PINA                                                   -  Fotn                 I                                                                    -k<'>
00                         de        %~~~~~SowoGode-
5AN    JUAIV  ~~MN~                                          --                             2*/AYR'          LSEIB       \                              -
7?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MPLATA-
BAORUCO       VIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OLMI'
Azw                                                                                  A,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~19



