Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4581-DO
Loan Agreement
(Global Distance Learning Network Project)
between
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated October 31, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 4581-DO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 31, 2000, between DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has expressed to the Bank the Borrower’s 
desire to participate in the Global Distance Learning Network (GDLN), an 
emerging network of distance learning centers throughout the world 
interconnected with each other as well as through a hub operated in the 
District of Columbia, United States of America, by the Bank’s World Bank 
Institute (WBI);
(B)
the Borrower has indicated to the Bank the Borrower’s desire 
to carry out such participation through the linkage of the Distance 
Learning Center (DLC), operated by the Borrower’s Instituto Nacional de 
Administración Pública (National Public Administration Institute) (INAP), 
to the GDLN;
(C)
the Borrower has indicated to the Bank the Borrower’s intent 
to cooperate in the design of the operating rules and procedures of the 
GDLN and to abide by those rules and procedures and adhere to the 
technical and system specifications for distance learning centers 
connected to the GDLN;
(D)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility 
and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
Page  2
(the Project), has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project which is designed in part to support the Borrower’s participation 
in the GDLN; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 
30, 1995 (as amended through October 6, 1999) with the modification set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is 
modified to read as follows in its entirety:
“(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or 
such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and 
the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably 
request, on the execution and initial operation of the 
Project, its  cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment 
of the 
purposes of the Loan.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Academic Council” means the Consejo Académico referred to 
in Article 94 (VI) of the Borrower’s regulation No. 81-1994, dated March 
29, 1994;
(b)
“Cyberpark” means the technology park under construction in 
the Andrés, Boca Chica area outside of the Borrower’s capital city of 
Santo Domingo;
(c)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(d)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, 
works and services referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(e)
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date 
herewith from the Borrower to the Bank setting forth the monitoring and 
evaluation indicators for the Project;
(f)
“INAP Law” means the Borrower’s law No. 14-1991, dated May 
20, 1991 on civil service and administrative careers, as well as such 
law’s regulation No. 81-1994, dated March 29, 1994;
(g)
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 
3.04 (a) of this Agreement;
(h)
“Procurement Agreement” means the agreement among the Bank, 
the Borrower and STP (as hereinafter defined), dated October 4, 1999, 
with respect to the provision of services by the Bank to the Borrower in 
support of implementation of Part A of the Project;
Page  3
(i)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(j)
“Project Preparation Advances” means the project preparation 
advances granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter 
agreements signed on behalf of the Bank on October 26, 1999 and March 31, 
2000 and on behalf of the Borrower on November 6, 1999 and April 5, 2000, 
respectively;
(k)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(l)
“STP” means the Borrower’s Secretariado Técnico de la 
Presidencia (Technical Secretariat of the Presidency).
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the 
Project implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to INAP.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount 
equal to three million four hundred thirty thousand Dollars ($3,430,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in 
respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the 
amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation 
Advances withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid 
charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the 
Project Preparation Advances shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be October 31, 2005 or such 
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly 
after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate 
for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total 
Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this Agreement to, but 
excluding, 
the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, 
and after the initial period, each period from 
and 
including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding 
the next following Interest Payment 
Page  4
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in 
Section 2.07 of this Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, 
the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits 
in 
single currency for value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the 
Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period:  
(A) three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) 
minus 
(or plus) the weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank 
offered rates, or other reference rates, for 
six-month 
deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to 
fund single currency loans or portions thereof 
made by 
it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by 
the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and 
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the 
determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting 
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, 
the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a 
whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank 
may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the 
Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new 
basis.  The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its 
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the 
Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable 
semiannually in arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out: (i) Parts A and B of the Project 
through INAP; and (ii) Part C of the Project through INAP and in 
accordance with the arrangement referred to in paragraph 3 (b) of Part A 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, all with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, technical, 
educational and environmental practices.
(b)
The Borrower shall provide or cause to be provided, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
Page  5
procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be 
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Bank and the Borrower shall comply with the terms of the 
Procurement Agreement.  The Bank and the Borrower agree (and the Borrower 
shall cause STP to agree) that the Procurement Agreement is hereby 
amended by deleting paragraphs 22 and 23 thereof.  If the Procurement 
Agreement is terminated or suspended or for any reason ceases to remain 
in effect, the Borrower shall nevertheless remain obligated to carry out 
the Project.
(c)
The Borrower may request Bank support (in the form of 
training, technical assistance and provision of DLC course content) for 
the carrying out of Part B of the Project, and the Bank shall take such 
request under consideration.  If such support were given, it shall be 
provided by the Bank free of charge during the course of Project 
implementation, and under terms and conditions specified in a contract 
with the Borrower (which contract, if entered into, shall become an 
integral part of this Agreement through amendment, signed by the Borrower 
and the Bank, of this Agreement).
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall, through 
INAP:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; 
and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower, through INAP, shall throughout the 
course of Project implementation:
(a)
maintain and operate the DLC within INAP, according to the 
terms of an operational manual issued by INAP, amendable from time to 
time and in any case satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)
manage the DLC through a coordinator working as such on a 
full-time basis, reporting to the Director of INAP and assisted by a 
team, also working on a full-time basis as such, consisting of a computer 
specialist with telecommunications knowledge, an accountant and an office 
assistant, all (including the coordinator and the Director of INAP) with 
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank;
(c)
maintain separate records and accounts for the DLC so as to 
permit the DLC to operate and be subject to audit and financial/economic 
analysis as a distinct cost/profit center within INAP;
(d)
without limitation to any of its other obligations set forth 
in this Agreement, promptly compensate DLC for courses offered by DLC to 
students from among the Borrower’s public sector (national, provincial, 
municipal or parastatal) staff, at a rate, acceptable to the Bank, and 
amendable from time to time on terms satisfactory to the Bank; and
(e)
deposit such compensation in the separate accounts referred 
to in paragraph (c) of this Section.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, throughout the course of Project 
implementation, ensure that at least a majority of the positions in the 
Academic Council are occupied by their respective incumbents, that the 
Academic Council is fully operational and that the Academic Council 
fulfills its role under the INAP Law so as to, inter alia, provide 
Page  6
policy, course content and program accreditation guidance and 
recommendations to the DLC and generally monitor DLC activities and 
development.
Section 3.06. Throughout the course of Project implementation, and 
without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain or cause to be maintained procedures adequate to 
enable monitoring and evaluation on an ongoing basis, in accordance with 
the indicators set forth in the Implementation Letter, of the carrying 
out of the Project and of the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
furnish to the Bank, through INAP:
(i)
one month after the end of each calendar quarter 
(beginning for the quarter commencing on the 
Effective 
Date and ending for the quarter in which the 
Closing 
Date falls), a progress report on 
implementation of the 
Project, in a format satisfactory 
to the Bank, each of 
which reports shall be based on 
the indicators referred 
to in paragraph (a) above, shall 
also be furnished to 
the Academic Council and may form 
part of the Project 
Management Reports furnished 
pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(ii)
each October during the course of Project 
implementation (beginning in October 2000), a draft 
annual business plan for DLC operation, each of which 
plans shall be based in part on annual market studies 
carried out by INAP with respect to actual or 
proposed 
DLC course offerings, shall specify actions to 
be taken 
by DLC to achieve self-sufficiency through cost 
recovery and shall address intellectual 
property issues 
relating to DLC operation; 
(iii)
each December during the course of Project 
implementation (beginning in December 2000), a 
definitive annual business plan for DLC operation, 
each 
of which plans takes into account comments made by 
the 
Bank on the draft annual business plan furnished the 
prior October pursuant to subparagraph (ii) of this 
paragraph, is amendable from time to time and in any 
case is satisfactory to the Bank, has been approved 
by 
the Academic Council and INAP and shall be complied 
with in implementing Parts A and B of the Project 
during the calendar year immediately subsequent to 
such 
plan’s preparation; and
(iv)
one month after the end of each twelve-month period 
(beginning for the twelve-month period commencing on 
the Effective Date and ending for the twelve-month 
period in which the Closing Date falls), an annual 
action plan for Cyberpark operation and development, 
amendable from time to time and in any case 
satisfactory to the Bank, each of which plans shall 
be 
complied with in implementing Part C of the Project 
during the twelve months immediately subsequent to 
said 
plan’s preparation; and
(c)
have INAP and DLC officials meet bi-annually with the Bank, 
every month of June and December throughout the course of Project 
implementation (beginning in December 2000), to review the availability 
and quality of course content offered by DLC and the evolution of 
distance training needs in the Dominican Republic. 
ARTICLE IV
Page  7
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain within 
INAP a financial management system, including records and accounts, and 
prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate 
to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures for and in 
connection with the carrying out of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall, through INAP:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section and the 
records and accounts for the Special Account, as well 
as the DLC records and accounts referred to in 
Section 
3.04 (c) of this Agreement, for each fiscal 
year 
audited, in accordance with auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six months after the end of each 
such year: (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
for such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion 
on such 
statements, records and accounts and report of 
such 
audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, 
including as part of the information to 
be provided in 
such report, a management letter 
concerning INAP’s 
internal controls; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time 
to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or 
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall, through INAP:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which 
the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, 
all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the 
procedures and internal controls 
involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
4.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower, through INAP, shall carry out a 
time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for the strengthening of 
Page  8
the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said 
Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than March 31, 
2001, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly 
Project management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i) 
(A)
sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said 
report; and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan during the 
period 
covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
during the 
six-month period following the period 
covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A)
describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively and for the period 
covered by said report; and (B) explains variances 
between the actual and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project 
and expenditures under contracts financed out 
of the 
proceeds of the Loan, as of the end of 
the period 
covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance 
with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later 
than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management 
Report for such period.
Section 4.03.  The Borrower, through INAP, shall not later than six 
months after the Effective Date furnish to the Bank a management letter, 
acceptable to the Bank, reflecting the results of an examination carried 
out by independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank, concerning INAP’s 
internal controls.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
The INAP Law shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in the 
opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower, through
INAP, to 
perform any of its obligations with respect to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower and/or any party to the arrangement referred to 
in paragraph 3 (b) of Part A of Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall have 
failed to comply with any of their respective obligations under said 
arrangement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
The event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
(b)
The events specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days 
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
Page  9
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning 
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the coordinator and the computer specialist with 
telecommunications knowledge, the accountant and the office assistant of 
the DLC team referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement have been 
selected and employed under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank 
and have assumed their positions within DLC;
(b)
the financial management system referred to in Section 4.01 
(a) of this Agreement has been established and is operational in a manner 
satisfactory to the Bank, and the accountant referred to in Section 3.04 
(b) of this Agreement has been fully trained with respect to such system;
(c)
INAP has issued the Operational Manual; 
(d)
a market study satisfactory to the Bank, of the type 
referred to in Section 3.06 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, has been prepared 
by INAP to help guide the first year of DLC operation; and
(e)
the independent auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) 
of this Agreement have been hired by the Borrower, through INAP, in a 
manner acceptable to the Bank.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, 
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be 
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, 
that that the Procurement Agreement (as amended pursuant to Section 3.02 
(b) of this Agreement) has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower and STP and is legally binding upon the Borrower and STP in 
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date January 30, 2001 is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Technical Secretary of the Presidency of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes 
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretariado Técnico de la Presidencia
Palacio Nacional
Avenida México
Santo Domingo
República Dominicana
Facsimile:
(809) 
695-8432
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Page  10
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, as of the 
day and year first above written.
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
By /s/ Rafael Calderón
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Marco Mantovanelli 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
Part A.
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   % of
Loan Allocated
Expenditures
Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods (other than as
covered by Category 
(3) (b) below):
(a)
GDLN access and
)
videoconference
)
equipment:
)
)
100% of foreign
(i) under Part A of
280,000)
expenditures; 100%
the Project
)
of local expenditures
)
(ex-factory cost);
(ii) under Part C 
180,000)
and 85% of local
of the Project
)
expenditures for other
)
items procured
(b)
other goods under
116,000)
locally
Part C of the Project
)
(including office furniture)
and other equipment)
)
Page  11
(2)
Consultants’ services and
training:
(a)
under Parts A and   215,000)
B of the Project
)
)
100%
(b)
under Part C of   1,085,000)
the Project
)
(3)
Incremental operating
 
costs under Parts A and B
           of the Project:
(a)
communications
280,000
80% until
satellite bandwidth
disbursements under
rental
this Category have
reached an aggregate
amount equivalent to
$110,000; 60% until
disbursements under
this category have
reached an aggregate
amount equivalent to
190,000; and 20%
thereafter
(b)
other
289,700
80% until
disbursements under
this Category have
reached an aggregate
amount equivalent to
$80,000; 50% until
disbursements under
this category have
reached an aggregate
amount equivalent to
$250,000; and 20% 
thereafter
(4)
Refunding of Project
950,000
Amount due pursuant
Preparation Advances
to Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement
(5)
Fee
 34,300
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
TOTAL
3,430,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the 
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term “training” means expenditures incurred by the 
Borrower in connection with the carrying out of training activities under 
the Project, including the travel cost and per diem of the trainees, 
rental facilities and training equipment, and training materials; and
(d)
the term “incremental operating costs (other)” means 
Page  12
incremental costs incurred by the Borrower for the purpose of carrying 
out activities under Parts A and B of  the Project, including office 
supplies and maintenance, incremental staff, vehicle operation and 
maintenance, photocopies, conference materials, audits and 
telecommunication costs.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding 
$30,000 may be made in respect of Category (3) (b) set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Part A on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after June 1, 2000; and
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (a) (ii) 
and (b) and (2) (b) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Part A 
unless the Borrower has furnished to the Bank, an arrangement, acceptable 
to the Bank, between the Borrower and one or more entities that will 
permit the Borrower to carry out Part C of the Project.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) 
contracts for goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each; 
(b) contracts for the employment of consulting firms costing less than 
$30,000 equivalent each; (c) contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants costing less than $15,000 equivalent each; and (d) 
incremental operating costs (other than bandwidth rental) and training, 
as set forth in Categories (2) and (3) of the table in Part A of this 
Schedule, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.
Part B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a separate special 
deposit account, in its central bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of 
amounts to be deposited into said Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project 
Management Report referred to in Section 4.02 of this Agreement; and (ii) 
a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project 
Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the 
provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report 
pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from 
the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the 
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the 
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project 
Page  13
Management Report does not adequately provide the information required 
pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan 
Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (A) the records and 
accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this 
Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in 
its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of 
the Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible 
Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into said Special 
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount 
equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be 
made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit 
or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover payments 
for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following such 
determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the 
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) 
or (c) of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Not Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex the term “Authorized Allocation” 
means an amount equivalent to one
hundred sixty thousand Dollars 
($160,000) to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex.
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the  
Special Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not 
Page  14
exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the Bank shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such 
request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to Part B. 3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as 
shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the 
Loan Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible 
Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the 
Special Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of 
expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to 
said Categories, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Special Account’s Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the 
Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to 
said Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date 
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, 
all withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement.  Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the 
Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit 
into the Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management 
Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the 
lesser of:  (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the 
Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report accompanying 
said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added 
to the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining 
in the Special Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of two hundred 
thousand Dollars ($200,000).
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Page  15
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) test the effectiveness 
and sustainability of a distance learning center in the Dominican 
Republic as part of the GDLN, focused on expanding access by public and 
private sector decision-makers to high-quality training opportunities 
offered by said center in the fields of policy, management and 
administration, thus strengthening the human capital base and improving 
the level of policy dialogue in the Dominican Republic; and (b) support 
the establishment of a cyberpark in the Dominican Republic.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
DLC Retrofitting and Equipping
Upgrading of facilities made available by INAP for the DLC, 
through:  (1) upgrading of a DLC video conference room with a 30-person 
capacity, a DLC computer room outfitted for 30 computer stations (with 
hardware, software and internet hook-up), and a DLC technical and 
administrative center; (2) mechanical outfitting of the DLC, such as 
through installation and/or upgrading of its electrical and telephone 
wiring; and (3) purchase and installation for the DLC of a Very Small 
Aperture Terminal (VSAT) satellite communication center, video, 
telecommunications and microprocessor equipment, office and classroom 
furniture and other equipment necessary for DLC operations and security.
Part B:
DLC Operation
Provision of support for the operation of the DLC through:  (1) 
training of DLC staff in the use of DLC facilities; (2) establishment of 
systems and procedures to evaluate DLC operations and management 
effectiveness; (3) establishment of a sound financial management system 
for the DLC; (4) design and implementation of a sound business plan for 
the DLC aimed at achieving DLC financial self-sufficiency; and (5) 
development of local course content by the DLC and establishment of local 
and international partnerships for the design and provision of DLC course 
content by other providers.
Part C:
Cyberpark
Provision of support for the establishment of the Cyberpark 
through:  (1) carrying out of a market study and marketing campaign to 
assess the market demand for the Cyberpark; (2) carrying out of a study 
to determine best practices/benchmarks for the establishment of a 
technology institute within the Cyberpark and to develop an on-line 
training center and technical training program as part of said institute; 
(3) carrying out of a study to determine best practices/benchmarks for 
the development of an electronic commerce center (E-Center) and internet 
entrepreneur center (Netpreneur Center) within the Cyberpark; (4) 
establishment of a pilot technology training program (including a program 
for training trainers) to operate within the Cyberpark, for purposes of 
strengthening university curricula and instructor capacity with respect 
to electronic commerce, internet, and software topics; (5) development of 
a business plan and financial prospectus for the launching of the 
Cyberpark; (6) analysis of the current legal framework in the Dominican 
Republic with regard to intellectual property rights and electronic 
commerce, recommendation of improvements thereto and implementation of 
best practice in these fields in the operation of the Cyberpark; (7) 
carrying out of a study to support the design of a national internet 
infrastructure development strategy for the Dominican Republic; (8) 
provision of equipment for the above-cited Netpreneur center and for the 
Cyberpark’s training facilities; (9) development of an internet gateway 
for external access to the Cyberpark; and (10) provision of equipment 
required to connect the DLC to the Cyberpark and to the local Dominican 
Republic fiber optic network.
* * *
Page  16
The Project is expected to be completed by April 30, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
   (Expressed in
Date Payment Due
Dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning April 15, 2006
through April 15, 2017
145,000
On October 15, 2017
 95,000
__________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be 
repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General 
Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section I, goods 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
Page  17
thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
this Part B:  to the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be 
grouped in bid packages estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or more 
each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract 
or per bid package, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $140,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Communications satellite bandwidth to allow the DLC to be connected 
to the GDLN, which must be obtained from the communications satellite 
enterprise already serving the GDLN to be compatible with existing GDLN 
communication connections, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
4.
Procurement Agreement
Notwithstanding Part A of this Section I, the terms of the 
Procurement Agreement shall apply to the procurement of goods covered by 
such Procurement Agreement.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the 
proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods 
shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall 
have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 
1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods procured under Parts B and 
C.1 of this Section I, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Page  18
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of 
Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Financial audit services, estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Procurement Agreement
Notwithstanding Part A of this Section II, the terms of the 
Procurement Agreement shall apply to the procurement of consultant 
services covered by such Procurement Agreement.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms  estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $15,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the 
said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
Page  19
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
