Docmet of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIL USE ONLY
RepwtNo. 12091
PROJECT COMLETION NOTE
DOMICAN REPUBLIC
SANTO DOMINGO MNICIPALITY
TECENICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2292-DO)
JUNE 28, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 12091
Type: PCR
Country Operations I
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Tu: document has a restricted distribution ad may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUWALENTS
Currency Unimt Dominican Peso (DR$)
Official Foreign Exchasige Rate
US$1.00 = DR$1.00
DR$1.00 = US$1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICLIL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.SA.
Offioe of Diretor-General
Operations Evaluation
June 28, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECI?ORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Note on the Dominican Republic - Santo Domingo
Municipality Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2292-DO)
Attached is the Project Completion Note on the Dominican Republic - Santo Domingo
Municipality Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2292-DO) prepared by the Latin America and the
Caribbean Regional Office. This is a Project Completion Note (PCN) rather than a full Project
Completion Report because the project was canceled shortly after becoming effective with no
disbursements having taken place. The Government did not provide any comments for inclusion
in this Note.
The project objective was to develop the institutional structure and strengthen the
administrative and managerial capacities of the Municipality of Santo Domingo. Out of a total
project cost of US$17.5 million, the IDA credit was planned to provide US$7.1 million, with other
donors to provide US$3.1 willion and the Municipality US$7.3 million. In the event, a combination
of political and economic developments led to the canceliation. The PCN mentions in particular
(i) a loss of commitment by the Government to implement a number of financial measures (e.g.
stricter enforcement of the land tax and of accounting measures) required as project conditions; and
(ii) worsened macroeconomic conditions that led to the Government's decision not to provide
counterpart funds.
Given this outcome, the project's institutional development impact was nil and there were
no benefits to be sustained. The overall project rating is unsatisfactory. No audit by OED is
planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o their offical duties. Its
contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SANTO DOMIGO MUNICIPALITY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2292-DO)
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
1.   This Project Completion Note has been prepared in lieu of a Project Completion
Report for the Santo Domingo Municipality Technical Assistance Project. The US$7.1
million Loan for this project (Loan 2292-DO) was approved in May 1983, became effective
in November 1983 and was cancelled in July 1984. There were no disbursements under the
Loan, except for the front-end fee (about US$17,700).
B^ckgrpnd
2.    Between 1950 and 1980, Santo Domingo grew at an average of 6.7 percent per year.
The city had grown from a small administrative and comnv.rcial center of about 200,000
inhabitants to a complex and disorganized metropolitan area with a population of 1.3 million,
or about 25 pecent of the country's total populaw.on. The structure of municipal government
did not allow the uty to manage the needs of an increasingly complex urban system.
Responsibility for planning, constructing, maintaining and operating infrastructure and
services was split among the central government, autonomous agencies and the municipality
itself. The Municipality's finmcial resources came from: (a) local taxes, service charges,
property sales and rentals; (b) Central Government transfers; and (c) direct borrowing. In
practice, however, Central Government legislation had limited the Municipality's freedom to
mobilize resources for current expenditures, as well as capital investments.
3.          The country's tradition of highly centralized decision making and reluctance to
allow the municipality much financial autonomy contributed to the failure of infrastructure
and services to grow in line with expanding needs. Management of urban services had
become a major issue in Santo Domingo. There was dissent as to which level of government
should do what and which financial arrangements would be most appropriate. Partly as a
result of groming criticism, the Central Government began to show interest in redefining
responsibilities for urban management. A policy of reducing Santo Domingo's financial
dependence on the Central Government and improving its ability to plan and deliver services
equitably was emerging. It was within this context that the Mayor of Santo Domingo
approached the Bank in mid-1982 for assistance in improving the Municipality's planning,
programming and management capability. The Bank responded to this request by fielding an
identification mission in October 1982. The project was appraised in January 1983.
4.    The project was processed in the midst of a period of economic deterioration in the
Dominican Republic. Growth was declining, the balance of payments situation had been
deterioratng, arrears of external payments were growing and the deficit of the consolidated
public sector was increasing. The Government which took office in August 1982 was
concentrating its efforts on containing the balance of payments and fiscal crises. The Bank
considered that the Government's economic recovery program was consistent with the
country's longer-term growth needs. It also recognized that the country's fiscal problems



posed risks to successful project implementation. In particular, the possibility of obtaining
counterpart funds was viewed as a potential problem. The potential for opposition to the
recommended increased taxation and introduction of revised user charges was also
recognized. The Govemnment had assured the Bank that the necessary funds would be
provided and had demonstrated its commitment to the project despite the risk of resistance to
revenue-generating measures.
PSect Dbjectives
5.   The project's objective was to develop the institutional structuire and administrative
and management capacity of the Municipality of Santo Domingo to enable it to: (a) plan for
the city's growth; (b) rationalize and program resource use; and (c) deliver essential services.
The project was also intended to address the need for improved cocAination between the
Municipality and other agencies involved in metropolitan management. In the longer run,
the improvements in management and planning cmacity to be derived from the project were
expected to strengthen the Municipality's ability to meet the needs of a growing metropolitan
aea.
lectw DZQdWfflo
6. The project comprised hfree main components: (a) institutional development; (b) pilot
programs; and (c) implementation support systems. Technical assistance under the
institutional development component was to strengthen the Municipality's urban planning
unit, organize a financial programming and budgeting system, revise and operate the city's
cadal system, and study and prepare projects related to food markets, solid waste disposal
and traffic management. The pilot programs to be financed under the project, some of which
were to be based on the studies conducted under the institutional development program,
included solid waste management, market upgrading and traffic management. The
implementation support system component was to provide technical assistance to study, plan
and execute community action programs to support the pilot components.
Project Costs and Financing
7. The total project cost was estimated at US$17.5 million, including contingencies and
the Bank's front-end fee. The Bank's US$7.1 million Loan was to cover US$6.1 million of
foreign costs and about US$1.0 million of local consultants' costs. The remaining foreign
costs (US$3.2 million) were to be financed with bilateral aid from France, Sweden, Italy and
Spain. At the Bank's request, arrangements for the bilateral financing were formalized
before the Loan was approved. The Municipality's contribution of US$7.2 million was to
cover incremental staff services, local expenditures and the cost of land to be acquired for
the solid waste pilot program.
Rationale fr Cadncellation
8. The Loan became effective in November 1983, five months after signature. A
November 1983 supervision mission detected a basic loss of commitment on the part of the
Central Government toward the strict financial measures required at the local level. Without
these measures, attainment of project objectives was jeopardized. In January 1984, the
Government confirmed that the municipality would be unable to provide counterpart funds to



-3 -
implement the project and that the Loan might have to be cancelled. In February 1984, the
Municipality requested that the Loan be cancelled for macroeconomic reasons. The
Govemment, as Borrower, formally notified the Bank that it did not intend to use the
proceeds of ihe Loan in June 1984.
9.   Although the Bank did not discount the country's difficult macroeconomic situation, it
felt that political considerations were more to blame for the project's demise. The project
called for a disciplined approach to municipal management. The Loan Agreement contained
covenants requirng stricter enforcement of land tax and other financial and accounting
measures. In addition, the project suppomied a reduction in the city's blue collar work force.
The Bank concluded that the project was too politicaly sensitive to be implemented and that
insistence on meeting the conditions would jeopardize implementation of macroeconomic
adjustment measures. The Bank cancelled the Loan as of July 13, 1984.
Lessns Ieared
10.  The Bank's experience with this project illustrates the pitfills of attempting tu deal
with a Government characterized by highly centralized decision malcing, lack of clear
economic policy, uncertain comnmitment to refonn and weak institutional capacity. The Bank
has learned to move cautiously in the Dominican Republic. This approach is being followed
at present. The Bank is currently heading an effort to assist the Government with
preparation of a medium-term economic framework which should provide the basis for
frther assistance to the country.



