Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3496-DO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$7.1 MILLION
TO THE
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FOR A
SANTO DOMINGO MUNICIPALITY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
May 9, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency is expressed in Dominican Pesos (DR$) or US Dollars (US$)
at the official foreign exchange rate. The Dominican Republic has also a
legal, parallel foreign exchange market, where the US dollar is traded at a
premium.  During April, 1983 the premium was about DR$1.54 = US$1.00
Official Foreign Exchange Rate
Average calendar year 1982
US$1.00 = DR$1.00
DR$1.00 = US$1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CAASD     -    Santo Domingo Water and Sewerage Corporation
(Corporacion de Acueducto y Alcantarillado de Santo Domingo)
CDE       -    Dominican Electricity Corporation
(Corporacion Dominicana de Electricidad)
CEA       -    State Sugar Council
(Consejo Estatal del Azucar)
DN        -    National District of Santo Domingo
(Distrito Nacional de Santo Domingo)
IDB       -    Inter-American Development Bank
(Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo)
INAPA     -    National Potable Water and Sewerage Institute
(Instituto Nacional de Agua Potable y Alcantarillados)
INDRHI    -    National Institute of Hydraulic Resources
(Instituto Nacional de Recursos Hidraulicos)
INFRATUR  -    Institute for the Development of Tourism Infrastructure
(Instituto para el Desarrollo de Infraestructura Turistica)
INVI      -    National Housing Institute
(Instituto Nacional de la Vivienda)
ONATRATE  -    National Office for Surface Transport
(Oficina Nacional de Transporte Terrestre)
PN        -    National Police
(Policia Nacional)
SEDEFIR   -    Secretariat of Recreation and Physical Education
(Secretaria de Estado de Deportes, Educacion Fisica y
Recreacion)
SEEBAC    -    Secretariat of Education and Arts
(Secretaria de Estado de Educacion, Bellas Artes y Cultos)
J.   SESPAS    -    Secretariat of Public Health and Social Assistance
(Secretaria de Estado de Salud Publica y Asistencia Social)
SEOPC     -    Secretariat of Public Works and Communications
(Secretaria de Estado de Obras Publicas y Comunicaciones)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
SANTO DOMINGO MUNICIPALITY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       The Dominican >public
Beneficiary:   Municipality of Santo Domingo
Amount:         US$7.1 million equivalent, (including a capitalized front end
fee of US$18 thousand).
Terms:          Repayable in 15 years, including a grace period of four years,
at the standard variable interest rate.
Relending
Terms:          The Bank loan would be made available to the Municipality of
Santo Domingo as a grant, under a subsidiary agreement between
the Borrower and the Municipality.
Project
Description:   The proposed project would help the Municipality of Santo
Domingo in handling complex issues of city management, plan-
ning and development arising from rapid growth. Technical
assistance would be provided to: (i) strengthen the system for
metropolitan planning; (ii) establish a system for financial
programming and budgeting; (iii) improve the collection of
existing taxes and service charges using an improved urban
cadastral system as a revenue generating tool; and (iv)
develop the Municipality's project preparation capabilities.
The project would also finance pilot developments in: (i) a
rmetropolitan solid waste collection and disposal component to
test the capacity of the municipality to plan, coordinate and
deliver a major service;  (ii) a market rehabilitation compo-
nent which would implement physical and administrative
improvements in one of the eight zonal markets which form part
of the city's food distribution network and (iii) a traffic
management component which would include low-cost improvements
in the transit network.
Risks:          The foreseeable risks are three.  First, in the light of the
country's current financial position, there could be an issue
of adequate counterpart funding. The size of the project
takes into consideration this risk, and it does not represent
a large burden on public finances. Appropriate funding for
1983 has been included in the Municipality's budget, and
assurances have been obtained from the Government that
counterpart funding will be made available for the project, as
needed. Second, there is a risk that the proposed use of the
revised cadaster as a basis for increased revenues and the
introduction of revised user charges for municipal services
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
theirofficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
would encounter popular opposition. Both the Central and
Local governments are fully aware of this potential risk but
are nonetheless determined to take these measures to increase
the financial autonomy of the Municipality. The expected
results of the implementation support program would also
reduce this risk, by the increased awareness of improved
delivery of services. And third, there is a chance that the
effects of the technical assistance and pilot developments
would not be sustained beyond the life of the project. The
strong commitment to improve the efficiency of urban
management, careful planning of the technical assistance to be
provided, the fact that counterpart staff would be trained who
would remain with the Municipality, and the financially
self-sustaining nature of the improved services, reduce this
risk.
Project Cost:
% of
-------US$'000------       Total
FOR.    LOC.   TOTAL   Base Cost
Technical Assistance
Studies, Technical Assis-
tance & Training         2,866  1,049   3,915          24
Material & Equipment             269    -         269         2
Subtotal                 3,135  1,049   4,184          26
Pilot Development of
Urban Service Systems
Material, Equipment,
Vehicles                 5,210      65   5,275         34
Civil Works                      215    431       646         4
Land                              -      579      579         3
Subtotal                 5,425  1,075   6,500          41
Start-up Expenses
Staff & Operation                -    5,141   5,141          33
Subtotal                   -    5,141   5,141          33
Total Base Cost                8,560  7,265  15,825         100
Physical Contingencies           146    237       383         2
Price Contingencies              490    771   1,261           8
Subtotal                   636  1,008   1,644          10
Total Project Cost             9,196  8,273  17,469         110
Front End Fee                     18      -        18        -
Total Financing Required    9,214  8,273  17,487            110
1/         Project is exempt from taxes and duties.



- iii -
Financing Plan:
-------US$'000…
FOR.    LOC.   TOTAL
Municipal Budget                 -    7,264   7,264
IBRD                           6,091  1,009    7,100
Bilateral Donors               3,123    -       3,123
Total                    9,214  8,273  17,487
Estimated
Disbursements:        Bank FY                      1984   1985    1986
-- In US$ Millions --
Annual                        3.5    3.1       0.5
Cumulative                    3.5    6.6       7.1
Economic Rate
of Return:            N.A.
Staff Appraisal
Report:               N.A.



I



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$7.1 MILLION
TO THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
FOR A SANTO DOMINGO MUNICIPALITY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Dominican Republic for the equivalent of US$7.1 million, including a
US$18 thousand capitalized front end fee, to help finance a Project for the
Institutional Development of the Municipality of Santo Domingo. The Loan
would have a term of 15 years, including a four-year grace period, at the
standard variable interest rate. The loan proceeds would be passed on to the
Municipality of Santo Domingo as a grant.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.         The last economic report, Report No. 3446-DO, entitled "Economic
Memorandum on the Dominican Republic", was distributed to the Executive
Directors on May 15, 1981. Bank economic missions visited the Dominican
Republic in 1982 and in 1983, and the findings of the missions are reflected
below.  Country economic data are presented in Annex I.
Economic Performance
3.         During 1968-74, the economy enjoyed buoyant growth spurred by high
investment--foreign and domestic--favorable terms of trade, and the rapid
expansion of both export-oriented mining and inward-oriented manufacturing.
During that period, the average GDP growth rate was 11 percent per year. The
rhythm of economic activity diminished after 1974; the average growth rate
between 1974 and 1980 was about 5 percent per year.  In 1981, however, the
GDP growth rate declined to 3.5 percent, and to an estimated 1.5 percent in
1982.  The 1981 slowdown was caused by a decrease in activity in construction
and services, as a result of tighter credit policies toward the private
sector, and a slow public investment pace. The further slowdown in 1982 is
attributable to the impact of the worldwide recession on the Dominican
economy. Over the medium term, however, the main factors impairing the
economy's growth prospects are low prices for the country's major exports; an
outdated industrialization strategy based on import substitution, coupled
with Government controls as a substitute for market mechanisms; and a weak
public administration.



4.         The balance of payments situation has consistently deteriorated in
the past five years. The overall deficit averaged US$100 million yearly from
1976 to 1980. By 1982, it had grown to US$350 million. Arrears of external
payments were also growing; at the end of 1982, these were about US$600
million. The premium on the U.S. dollar in a parallel foreign exchange
market, which had averaged 25-35 percent in 1980 and 1981, had increased to
over 50 percent by end-1982 and has remained at that level since then. The
reasons for this performance include low international prices of the
country's main commodities (sugar, cocoa and coffee), an adverse market
situation for minerals, and weather conditions. Perhaps as important has
been the protective foreign trade regime, with high tariffs of finished
goods, a cheaper official foreign exchange rate and lower tariffs on most
intermediate and some capital inputs, price controls, and export quotas and
prohibitions. The result has been to deter export diversification and
expansion, while the dependence on imported inputs has been encouraged.
5.         Public finances have also been affected.  The deficit of the
consolidated public sector increased from 1.5 percent of GDP in 1977, to an
estimated 7.5 percent (about US$600 million) in 1982. The deterioration has
been due to an important erosion of the tax base and absence of new tax
measures, real increases in current expenditures, and long delays in
adjusting public utility tariffs. The state sugar corporation, and the
electricity company, faced large production costs not matched by
international sugar prices or tariff rates. The price stabilization
institute incurred a large deficit in 1981 because of storage and marketing
problems, and the state enterprises holding company also incurred large
losses in 1982, mainly as a result of employment increases.
6.         Inflation has been modest in the Dominican Republic by Latin
American standards--12 percent average per year in the period 1970-79.  The
Consumer Price Index rose by 16.7 percent in 1980, the largest increase in
the last decade, due to the impact of hurricanes which produced severe short-
ages in late 1979.  Since 1981, however, consumer prices have risen at an
annual rate of about 8 percent.
7.         Many Dominicans did not share in the benefits of the economic
expansion of 1968-74. Based on a 1976-77 survey, over 2 million people (or
44 percent of the population), were under the absolute poverty standard.l/
Moreover, relative poverty2/ was one third below the absolute level, and the
urban poor were almost as badly off as the rural poor; the latter index
1/         The absolute poverty standard is defined as the sum of the annual
per capita cost of a minimum diet and of proportional non-food
expenditure component--DR$451 in the urban sector, DR$263 in the
rural sector.
2/         Defined as one-third of national average per capita personal
income.



- 3 -
suggests that poverty is more a problem of general deprivation than income
distribution. Adult literacy (67 percent) in the Dominican Republic compares
unfavorably with other Latin American countries. Primary school retention
through the sixth grade is extremely low. Health needs are enormous as
reflected by high infant mortality, widespread endemic diseases as a
consequence of poor water and sanitation, and malnutrition. Since 1979, the
Government increased budget allocations for education and health - personnel
was expanded and salaries raised. The Public Health Ministry adopted a
low-cost approach of rehabilitation, repair and maintenance of existing
clinics, expanded construction of rural clinics, and improved in general the
provision of rural health services.
The Government's Stabilization Program
8.        The present Government of the Dominican Republic took office on
August 16, 1982 for a four-year term. Its attention has so far been devoted
to containing the present balance of payments and fiscal crisis. In February
1983, the International Monerary Fund approved a US$450 million Extended Fund
Facility (EFF) cum Compensatory Financing Facility, for the Government of the
Dominican Republic. The EFF arrangement aims at achieving a viable balance
of payments position in the context of economic recovery. Fiscal policy has
been assigned a major role in achieving this objective. The Government's
program has some important quantitative targets. The authorities expect an
overall balance of payments deficit of not more than US$20 million in 1983,
and surpluses in the next two years. Central Bank foreign arrears will be
reduced by US$100 million in 1983 by direct payment. An even larger portion
of the arrears is expected to be renegotiated (para. 10). The public sector
deficit in 1983 will be reduced to 4.5 percent of GDP, to 3 percent in 1984,
and to 2.5 percent by 1985. A new tax package that includes a new sales tax
and a surcharge on imports is already in place, as well as a reduction in
public salaries and substantial cuts in subsidies to decentralized public
enterprises.
9.        The parallel foreign exchange market has been expanded continuously
to include a greater share of imports, and the Government's stabilization
program includes a further net transfer of US$85 million during 1983. Access
to this market has been limited to service flows and to non-traditional
exporters, the latter receiving a partial exemption from the requirement to
surrender foreign exchange at the official rate. The new Government has
promoted the institutionalization of that market by allowing banks to operate
in it. It has recognized the need to preserve the viability of traditional
exports by guaranteeing that sugar exporters will receive 20 percent of total
receipts (other traditional exporters will receive 10 percent) at the
official exchange rate for inputs that otherwise would be imported through
the parallel foreign exchange market.



- 4 -
10,       The Government is negotiating with private foreign banks the
refinancing of a US$660 million package to cover some commercial debt
arrears, some short-term debt, and the medium-term debt amortization due in
1983 to commercial foreign banks. Medium- and long-term debt service
payments, excluding amortization to commercial banks, will total about US$250
million in 1983.  Even if the refinancing is successfully completed, the
country will need to accelerate its net foreign capital inflows, particularly
from official sources, if it is to meet 1983 medium- and long-Cerm foreign
debt obllgations.
11.       The economic recovery program is consistent with the country's
longer-term growth needs. Nevertheless, additional Government actions will
be required if the Dominican Republic is to ultimately recover beyond the
growth levels now expected for 1984-85 (about 0.5 percent per capita GDP
growth). Particularly useful would be more realistic trade and pricing
policies; the adoption of a public investment plan which emphasizes
export expansion and diversification, employment creation and adequate
delivery of social and support services; the rationalization of industrial
incentives with an emphasis on greater use of domestic raw materials; and a
rational public sector employment policy.  Having almost completed its
immediate tasks with the adoption of a recovery program and renegotiation of
a short-term debt package, the Government now expects to concentrate its
efforts on a medium-term economic program which would cover many of these
points. In its first half-year, the new Government has demonstrated an
ability to adopt immediate measures to confront the nation's financial
crisis; and it now seems well aware of the need to implement additional
policy measures to ensure economic recovery.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
12.       The Bank's role in the Dominican Republic was limited until 1978.
The absence of clear Government investment priorities, inadequate project
preparation capability, and reluctance on the part of the Government to
address sectoral issues in the context of project financing were the major
causes, combined with extremely conservative Government policies as regards
external borrowing. From FY1970, when the first Pank operation was approved,
to FY1978, a total of US$64 million in Bank loans and US$22 million in IDA
credits were approved. Bank group lending included projects in education,
population and rural health, agriculture (livestock and irrigation), industry
(ferronickel), tourism and road maintenance.
13.       Bank efforts during the FY1979-82 period concentrated on two main
areas. Through a stepped-up lending program, the primary objective has been
to strengthen a weakening balance of payments with projects designed to
increase productivity of major agricultural products, and thereby maintain
their export volume; and to increase tourism receipts through the development
of a new tourism pole in the north coast. The Nizao Irrigation/Agricultural
Development and Coffee and Cocoa Development Projects have, in addition
concentrated on assistance to predominantly small farmers. The Second
Tourism Project includes assistance for the development of a rational tourism
development policy, and the Sugar Rehabilitation Project supports measures to



- 5 -
strengthen the financial and managerial efficiency of the Borrower, the State
Sugar Council (CEA). Bank support has also included projects for highway
reconstruction and maintenance, to strengthen the Government's capability to
preserve substantial investments previously undertaken in the road network,
as well as a post-hurricane Urgent Import Requirements Loan. A Sites and
Services Project approved in April, 1982, will provide shelter for the urban
poor. Bank lending to the Dominican Republic during the FY1979-82 period
amounted to US$221.4 million, which represents about two-thirds of total
lending to the country to date.
14.       Project execution has been generally disappointing.  In some cases,
delays in Congressional ratification of Bank loans contributed to starting
delays, and administrative weakness of some executing agencies adversely
affected project implementation. More recently, the very difficult fiscal
situation has virtually brought project implementation to a halt. The new
Government has taken important steps to improve the situation. Although the
tight fiscal situation in 1983 does not permit but a "minimum" investment
pace, the Government has selected several projects as targets for concentra-
ted action: it is providing adequate counterpart funds, and is bringing
about institutional improvements. By way of example, Bank-financed projects
in tourism, education, cocoa and coffee rehabilitation, sugar rehabilitation
and road reconstruction and maintenance have recently received this type of
support and they have already begun to show improvement in their execution.
The Sites and Services Project has suffered delays in its start as a result
of staff turnover of the execution agency (INVI), but project implementation
is expected to accelerate soon with the recent selection of a contractor for
civil works in one of the project sites.
15.       There remain some serious project implementation problems, particu-
larly as regards the Nizao Irrigation Project. The Executing Agency, the
National Institute of Hydraulic Resources (INDRHI) has suffered frequent
turnover at the executive and technical level which has, as a result,
weakened its managerial capacity. A recent reduction of public sector
salaries has resulted in loss of the remaining small number of experienced
staff, and it is unlikely that INDRHI will, in the short-term, be able to
attract the appropriate technical staff required to carry out the project. A
second major issue is lack of local counterpart funds, with the consequent
effect on project execution. Given these difficulties, the Government has
recently issued a decree creating a Project Management Unit outside INDRHI's
administration, which will be staffed with experienced staff to be contracted
for the duration of project implementation. The Government is negotiating
with the contractor to determine the period required to complete works and
has given assurances that it will provide DR$8 million counterpart funds for
1983. Given the past project delays, counterpart fund requirements will be
much larger in 1984 and 1985. In view of the tight fiscal situation, the
Government is also considering implementing the project in two phases. A
forthcoming Bank mission will review these proposals with the Government.
16.       IFC's ongoing operations in the Dominican Republic consist of a
US$6.0 million loan, and the provision of US$1.4 million in equity for a
cement plant approved in 1974, a recently approved loan of US$3.4 million to
finance a cotton production and ginning project and a US$1.4 million loan,



and US$500,000 equity investment for a milk sterilization project. The first
project encountered financial difficulties after the Governmert established a
ceiling for domestic cement prices. The loan was refinanced in early 1981
after the Government agreed to remove the ceiling, and additional equity of
the order of US$0.4 million was also provided.  Two other loan and investment
activities (US$3.0 million line of credit approved in 1978 and US$2.0 million
for a poultry breeder farm approved in 1980) were cancelled by the borrowers
due to the availability of more favorable financial alternatives and/or loss
of interest on the part of investors. A leasing project is under considera-
tion by IFC. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC
investments as of March 31, 1983 and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
17.       Future Bank lending to the Dominican Republic will be reviewed
after the Government has had the opportunity to put together its medium-term
development program. At present, the Bank is processing a proposed Third
Education Project to provide basic education in rural areas, in addition to
the proposed Santo Domingo Municipality project.   Consistent with the
Government's efforts to reduce foreign exchange losses because of system
inefliciencies and dependency on imported oil, the Bank is also considering a
first power project, which would include creation of a maintenance system and
rehabilitation of the generation and distribution systems; and a coal
handling facility at the port of Haina to allow for the timely provision of
imported coal to a power generating plant under construction near Haina and
to two additional coal generating plants to be constructed at the site.
18.       During the 1970-78 period, external lending to the Dominican
Republic, predominantly from the USAID, the International Development Bank
(IDB) and the Bank, totalled US$335 million. IDB's assistance concentrated
on irrigation and multipurpose dams. USAID assistance concentrated on
agriculture, education, health, and PL480 food assistance. Since 1979, IDB's
lending has expanded considerably, and has concentrated on agriculture,
industry, water supply and multipurpose dams. Future I'DB assistance is
expected to include agriculture, road transport, power and education. Future
USAID assistance is expected to emphasize non-tradlitional energy resource
development, agricultural development programs, including reforestation, and
rural health and nutrition.
19.       The Bank Group's share of the Dominican Republic's medium and
long-term external public debt outstanding and disbursed, (excluding
arrears and short-term public debt), was estimated. at 11.5 percent at the end
of 1982, and the Bank Group's share of public external debt service was
estimated at 4 percent at the end of 1982. It is estimated that the Bank
Group's share of outstanding public debt after reschedu-Ling of arrears would
stand at 9 percent by 1985, while its share of external public sector debt
service would increase to about 6.6 percent.



PART III - SANTO DOMINGO AND THE URBAN SECTOR
Recent Urbanization
20.        In the last 30 years, the urban population of the Dominican
Republic increased at an average annual rate of 5.3 percent from less than
0.5 million to 2.9 million. In 1950, when the urbanization level was less
than 24 percent, only three cities had more than 20,000 inhabitants, Santo
Domingo, the capital, with some 200,000, being the largest. By 1980, when
the urbanization level was 51 percent, there were 19 cities of over 20,000
and Santo Domingo with 1.3 million accounted for 45 percent of the total
urban population. This reflected its average growth rate of 6.7 percent over
three decades. It is nearly five times larger than the country's second
city, Santiago, which had a 1980 population of 278,000.
21.        In a short period, Santo Domingo has changed from a small adminis-
trative and commercial center growing at a relatively manageable pace to a
complex and disorganized metropolitan area, containing 25 percent of the
country's population and an even larger share of the national economy.
Available data do not permit spatial disaggregation of GDP, but the city's
dominance in the Dominican economy is illustrated by its 74 percent share of
commercial bank deposits, the fact that 73 percent of wholesale trade and 68
percent of retail trade are conducted there, and by the fact that it accounts
for 56 percent of recent industrial and construction activities. It is, in
addition, the headquarters of all branches of the National Government.
22.        For many economic functions, Santo Domingo serves the whole coun-
try. For other functions, its hinterland covers only the southern region
which is defined by an urban subsystem of 11 relatively large and 27 small
towns. The northern region is defined by an urban subsystem centered in
Santiago which contains seven larger and 20 smaller towns (Map 1). The
population of the southern subsystem has recently grown much faster (average
growth rate in 1970-80, 3.4 percent) than the northern subsystem (1.9
percent).
Urban Policy
23.        The highest economic policy making body in the Dominican Republic,
the National Development Council (CND), is chaired by the President of the
Republic.   The Technical Secretariat of the Presidency, acting through the
National Planning Office (ONAPLAN) is the secretariat to the Council,
preparing and presenting socioeconomic policies and plans for its
endorsement. To date, neither the Council nor ONAPLAN has acted to develop a
coherent urban strategy although there is recognition of the social and
economic importance of urbanization and keen awareness of the special
problems associated with the dramatic growth of Santo Domingo. A policy to
reinforce rural investment as a means of attenuating this trend has,
therefore, been formulated. To date, it has not been effective. The Council
also recognizes that existing patterns of rural land-use limit the further
growth of agricultural employment and that the lack of extensive mineral



- 8 -
resources curbs the absorptive capacity of other primary sectors as alternate
sources of non-urban jobs. The Government has promoted major tourism resort
developments but their scale has not been sufficient to support significant
populations. Apart from measures to strengthen a string of small towns along
the Haitian border, efforts tc develop spatial policy instruments have been
few and ineffective. A coordinated spatial policy does not exist. Neither
are there clearly defined policies to deal with the issues of rapid
urbanization which are particularly obvious in Santo Domingo and affect
smaller cities too. Some progress, on the other hand, has been made towards
developing a policy to provide affordable housing to low-income families on a
sound financial basis (para. 34). But there has been little success in
resolving the issue of low productivity in many urban jobs and of a high
level of unemployment.
24.       There is nonetheless increasing awareness that urban growth will
continue, that the management of urban services is already a major issue in
Santo Domingo (and on a smaller scale elsewhere), and that it will become a
more serious one as urban growth continues. The situation is aggravated by
the great disparities in levels of service provided to different income
groups.
25.       Partly in response to growing criticism, the Dominican Government
has shown increased interest in redefining responsibilities for urban manage-
ment between itself and the Municipality of Santo Domingo. A policy is
emerging which would have the Municipality reduce its financial dependency on
the Central Government whilst increasing its efficiency in planning and
delivering urban services. For this policy to be realistic, it will be
necessary to strengthen the technical and administrative capacity of the
Municipality and to develop its financial resources. The emerging policy
does not point in the near term to new municipal functions, but to the
clarification of areas where its responsibilities and those of the Central
Government are confused, and to the need to strengthen the Municipality's
capacity to fulfill the responsibilities it already has, but for which it is
not well equipped. In the longer run there may be need for the 'Municipality
to absorb other functions now performed by the Central Government or by other
public agencies.  This issue will be addressed with assistance provided by
IDB.
Municipal Government and its Functions
26.       As in many other cities in Latin America and in other smaller
cities in the Dominican Republic, the growth of infrastructure and services
in Santo Domingo has not kept pace with the growth of its population.
Neither has the structure of city Government changed in such a way as to
enable it to manage increased needs in an increasingly complex urban system.
Highly centralized decision making in the Central Government, past decisions
to remove certain functions from the municipality and historical reluctance
to allow it much financial autonomy have contributed to the difficulties.
The result has been dissent as to which level of government should do what
and as to which financial arrangements are most appropriate. The recent move
to define responsibilities for urban management in a rational and consistent



- 9 -
way and on the basis of comparative advantage is an important first step
towards overcoming these difficulties.
27.       The existing framework of municipal Government in Santo Domingo is
partly defined by law and partly by practice. The responsibi]4ty for plan-
ning, constructing, maintaining and operating infrastructure, facilities and
services of different kinds falls to different bodies, some national, some
local, and to the municipality itself.  Responsibility for the major physical
networks of the urban system is divided. Electric power is managed by the
Dominican Electricity Corporation (CDE).  Water supply and sewerage networks
are managed by the Santo Domingo Water and Sewerage Corporation (CAASD) which
was formerly a branch of the municipal government but is now an autonomous
local agency.  Responsibility for the transport network is shared between the
Secretariat of Public Works and Communications (SEOPC) which plans, designs
and builds major city roads; the Municipality, which maintains and repairs
roads and streets and is responsible for traffic management systems,
including traffic lights and signs, and for regulating and licensing private
cars; the National Office for Surface Transport (ONATRATE), which regulates
public transport systems; and the National Police (PN), which enforces
traffic regulations. Education, health and some recreation services are the
responsibility of the Secretariat of Education and Arts (SEEBAC), the
Secretariat of Recreation and Physical Education (SEDEFIR) and the
Secretariat of Public Health and Social Assistance (SESPAS). Finally, the
Municipality of Santo Domingo is directly responsible for solid waste
collection and disposal systems, and for food markets. To summarize, the
Municipality of Santo Domingo is directly responsible for some aspects of
physical networks (including storm drainage in addition to traffic systems
and road maintenance), and for several services and facilities which include
solid waste management, markets, cemeteries, parks, and community centers.
28.       The organization of city management is based on a 1958 law which
established the National District of Santo Domingo (DN). This Law has been
periodically amended. The policy making body is the (elected) Municipal
Council. There are four administrative tiers: the Mayor, who functions in
agreement with but has some autonomy from the Council; an intermediate level
comprising the general secretary, the treasurer, the auditor and the
comptroller; 12 executive directorates responsible for specific functions;
and the operating units reporting to each directorate (Annex V).
29.       The staff of the DN numbers about 6,300.  This total has not
changed significantly since 1979. Only 27 are professionals, about 2,300
have some training, and 4,000 no training at all. About half have regular
appointments but little job security. The other half, working under
renewable, short-term appointments, are mostly hired for garbage collection
and disposal. Personnel hiring has been dependent on political criteria; on
the job training and career development are nonexistent; salaries are
generally low and benefits minimal. As a result, staff quality is generally
inadequate.



- 10 -
30.       The administrative structure of the Municipality has not changed
greatly since the formation of the DN, nearly 30 years ago. Its statutory
format gave the Municipality certain advantages including a large geographic
area which, until recently, was sufficient to bring all related and dependent
communities and urban functions within its jurisdiction, avoiding fragmented
local governments of lesser size. Unlike other areas of the country, where
there is a two tier government structure of provincial and local levels, in
Santo Domingo, the National District is the only sabnational level of
government, extending its general jurisdiction over 1,476 km2, of which only
167 are presently urbanized. There is, however, no coherent body of
municipal law and over 70 different laws affect the Municipality.
31.       Besides carrying out the specific functional responsibilities which
have been described (para. 27), the DN is responsible for its integrated
physical and economic planning. This implies effective coordination both
within the Municipality itself and with autonomous local and national
agencies. Up to now such coordination has been conspicuously weak.
32.       The DN also establishes and maintains administrative linkages with
its communities through specific local bodies (Delegaciones). Its financial
resources come from: (i) local revenues (taxes, service charges, property
sales and rentals); (ii) Central Government transfers (ordinary and extra-
ordinary subsidies and specific revenue allocations); and (iii) direct bor-
rowing. While its charter gives the DN autonomy over tax and service
charges, Central Government legislation has imposed limitations on its free-
dom to mobilize resources with which to finance capital and current expendi-
tures.
The Main Issues
33.       The outstanding needs for improved urban management capacity in
Santo Domingo may be summarized in terms of four issues:
(i) Metropolitan Planning and Coordination: In 1975, a municipal plan-
ning law granted powers to the DN to: (a) carry otlt metropolitan
planning and zoning and to create an urban planning unit in the
Municipality; (b) define, within its jurisdiction, the extent of
the urban area for urban planning, service delivery, and taxation
purposes; and (c) determine the degree and nature of additional
coordination efforts that would be needed as the city expanded.
While the planning unit has become efficient at zoning and land use
enforcement, as it applies to formal land development, it has
neglected its wider planning functions because it has not been
adequately financed. Informal and illegal settlements are common
and are not controlled. Relations between national and local
agencies jointly engaged in the same fields, such as traffic
management, have been erratic and unstructured. The Municipality
lacks the institutional mechanisms and the technical capacity to
develop solutions to interagency problems, and to gain acceptance
for them. As a consequence, the Municipality has no effective



- 11 -
voice in such important issues as the location of schools, health
facilities or major roads, and cannot relate such facilities to
those needed for its markets, garbage services or municipally
regulated subdivisions. The need to devise and implement
appiopriate physical expansion and functional development
guidelines, to establish a more coherent planning process, and to
introduce an effective coordination mechanism between agencies
charged with public services for the urban population, has become
critical.
(ii)  Programming and Budgeting:  These key functions of city management
have been nonexistent or neglected. Resource allocation, both for
operational expenditures and for capital investments has been dis-
orderly, responding mostly to sporadic pressure, and lacking a
broad rationale. As a result, yearly budgets have had limited
validity, and serious investment programming has not been under-
taken.
(iii) Municipal Resources: Central Government support for the Munici-
pality has recently declined because of financial difficulties,
while demand for, and the costs of, services have increased.
The Central Government budget for 1982 only allowed for DR$9.1
million in transfers to the Municipality while local revenues
came to DR$9.5 million. Scarcity of local revenues, and decreasing
Central Government transfers caused the Municipality to incur DR$ll
million in short-term domestic debt between 1977 and 1982.
Expected revenues for 1983 and budgeted Government transfers would
not be sufficient to allow the Municipality to repay its debt. To
assist the Municipality in improving its short-term financial posi-
tion, the Central Government has assumed the Municipality's debt.
A critical need in the short run is to increase the local revenues
of the Municipality.  These are now derived from garbage collection
fees (15 percent); a tax on undeveloped land and building permits
(8 percent); mortgage and land title and other filing fees imposed
by the Registry Office (12 percent); market fees (8 percent);
gasoline tax (10 percent), and more than fifty other sources which
account for the remaining 47 percent. Each of these areas has been
reviewed to determine the extent to which there is substantial
potential for increased revenue collections in the short run. One
conclusion is that, in addition to the possible increases to
service charges and collections based on improved and dependable
service, the power to tax unused land could be a major source of
municipal revenues. It is now enforced only when applications for
building permits are made, at which time land owners must pay three
years of back taxes, but are not liable for longer-term back
payments. Nor, because of the lack of a cadaster covering the
entire city, is there any assessment or collection of taxes on
undeveloped properties. An improved cadaster would be one means to
increasing tax revenues, and there is also an urgent need for
detailed studies of other possible sources of increased revenues
from new taxes (such as a developed land tax), tariffs, fees and
charges. Some of these are closely related to the reorganization
of urban services.



- 12 -
(iv)  Services.   From among the various functions for whicn the Munici-
pality is directly responsible, four stand out as requiring special
attention: waste disposal, market facilities, the efficiency of
the transport network, and project preparation and implementation
capabilities.
(a)  The largest single municipal activity in Santo Domingo is
solid waste collection and disposal, which accounts for
approximately 50 percent of municipal employment and 30 per-
cent of its expenses. Despite this major expenditure of
municipal funds and effort, only 50 percent of the city is
covered. Many areas are ill served if at all, disposal is
improperly done, creating sanitation and environmental
hazards, and only about 20 percent of households pay for
services received. No differentiation is made in charges
between users, all of whom are expected to pay the same,
irrespective of the size and use of their property or the
quality of service they receive. Tariff collection is done
through the water supply and sewerage agency (CAASD), which
makes no systematic effort to collect from delinquent users
and whose policies are not controlled by the Municipality.
(b)  Another major municipal activity is the operation of eight
municipal retail markets, one of which has informally and
inadequately expanded to perform a much needed wholesale func-
tion. They f,rm the 'oackbone of the city's food marketing
network. Occupying inadequate physical facilities, these
markets are inefficiently organized and operated. Much food
is wasted by spoilage, and dangers of disease arise from
inadequate handling of food.  The marketq are not likely to
become major sources of revenue for the Municipality. But
improved, more efficient market facilities would provide the
basis for increased charges, to sufficiently cover
expenditures related to market administration.
(c)  The expansion of the city has brought about increased vehi-
cular transportation and more complex traffic management
issues. Their solution needs a specialized traffic
engineering approach in order to plan, design and operate the
required integrated, synchronized traffic control devices and
measures. At present, the Municipality lacks the technical
capacity to plan and execute such measures.
(d)  A formal task of the Municipality in performing its service
delivery functions is the preparation of projects, e.g., the
design and construction of markets, traffic control systems,
or landfill sanitary engineering. The Municipality now lacks
the capacity to undertake such work, and no branch of the city
government has clear responsibility for it. Partly as a
result of this but also reflecting financial constraints,
virtually no expansion has occurred in city facilities in
recent years.



- 13 -
Bank Involvement in the Urban Sector
34.        The Bank has not been previously involved in the urban sector at
the municipal level in the Dominican Republic. Because of the importance of
the city of Santo Domingo in the economy, and the need to address the severe
urban problems of the metropolitan area, the proposed project is viewed by
the Dominican Government as a priority for Bank assistance. Th= only pre-
vious urban operation was a US$25.4 million loan for a Sites and Services
Project (Loan 2104-DO), located on the fringes of Santo Domingo, approved by
the Board in April 1982. The loan became effective on October 22, 1982. The
project has had some initial implementation delays, mainly because a new
Government took office in late 1982; civil works are expected to begin soon.
PART IV. THE PROJECT
35.        In mid-1982, the newly installed Mayor of Santo Domingo requested
Bank assistance to help improve the management of the National District. He
did so in the context of the government's objective of enhancing the
efficient and equitable delivery of services in the city and of making it as
well planned and managed as possible. After a review of possible alternative
approaches, the Government, the Municipality and the Bank concluded that the
most appropriate strategy would be to focus on the development of selected
urban systems. Project preparation by the Municipality, in the final months
of 1982 involved an analysis of the administrative relationship between the
Central and Local Governments, a review of existing administrative and
operational systems and their strengths and weaknesses, and a diagnostic
assessment of the ways in which these systems could be improved. Following
receipt of a report on these topics in December 1982, Bank appraisal took
place in January 1983 and the loan was negotiated on April 29, 1983.  The
Dominican Delegation was headed by Mr. Fernando Mangual, Senior Advisor of
the Technical Secretariat to the Presidency.   Annex III contains a
supplementary project data sheet.
Project Objectives
36.        The project's main objective in the short-term would be to develop
the institutional structure and the administration and management capability
of the Municipality of Santo Domingo to enable it: (a) to plan for the city's
growth; (b) to rationalize and program its resources; and (c) to deliver
essential urban services. This would be accomplished through the
strengthening of key management areas and the implementation of pilot urban
system components. The project would also address the need for improved
coordination between the Municipality and other agencies involved in
metropolitan management.



- 14 -
In the longer run, the strengthening of the Municipality - technically,
managerially, operationally and financially - would enable it to take over
some of the functions now performed by other agencies. A study of the
Municipality's organization and management to meet these longer term needs
is expected to be carried out with grant assistance from IDB (para 67). This
study would complement the metropolitan planning and programming and
budgeting components of the proposed project.
Project Description
(a) Institutional Development of the Municipality
37.       (i) Metropolitan Planning.  The project would reactivate the plan-
ning functions of the urban planning unit of the Municipality, separating
them from its land use control functions. A total of 182 consultant months
would be allocated to strengthen the unit's technical staff and to provide
expertise the unit lacks. This assistance would reinforce the metropolitan
planning process. The unit would formulate guidelines for metropolitan
expansion, review physical development control mechanisms, including the
appropriateness of zoning and building regulations; propose further
coordinating mechanisms for overall planning; and design and test their
implementation.
38.      (ii)  Financial Planning and Management.  There would be two
activities under this heading. First, a recently created division in the
Municipality (para. 51) would receive about 51 months of technical
assistance to organize a financial programming and budgeting system.
Operational equipment and materials would be provided and counterpart staff
would be trained by consultants. This component would establish internal
administrative mechanisms to coordinate budget preparation in each branch of
the Municipality and to define criteria for investment and operating
expenditures.
39.       Second, given the potential importance of the cadaster as an
instrument for urban management in general and for resource generation in
particular, about 119 months of consultant time would be allocated to
formulating, preparing and operating a revised cadastral system. This would
draw on the purpose-specific cadasters which already exist, which contain
useful information, and which are available to the Municipality.  The urban
planning unit of the Municipality has been legally but not financially
empowered to prepare and maintain the cadaster which could, if well
maintained, have various uses. Resources would be provided for support,
materials, equipment and vehicles needed to set up the cadastral system. It
is expected that the revised system could begin to operate as early as the
second year of project implementation (1985).  There would be a potentially
significant impact on the flow of financial resources which would be expected
to become a major source of additional revenues for the Municipality.



- 15 -
40.        (iii) Project Preparation.  About 119 months of consulting services
would be allocated to study and prepare projects in: the metropolitan food
distribution system; the organizational and administrative structure of
retail and wholesale food marketing; the design for physical upgrading of one
of the markets; the design of a wholesale food marketing facility; a solid
waste disposal system; and an integrated approach to traffic management.
Some of these _tudies and designs would be subsequently tested in the pilot
components (paras. 41 - 43). Studies, designs and engineering could be
contracted out to consulting firms, provided they complied with the training
requirement (para. 47) to build up the Municipality's capacity for project
formulation and evaluation.
(b) Pilot Programs
41.        (i) Solid Waste Management.  The largest pilot component would
involve a city-wide intervention in an improved metropolitan solid waste
collection and disposal system. This would test the capacity of the Munici-
pality to plan, coordinate, and deliver a service on this scale, which would
be an instrumental step in developing the capacity to support other metro-
politan service functions in due course. It would include setting up plan-
ning, management, regulatory and enforcement arrangements; providing solid
waste service using appropriate technology; and establishing adequate user-
charges (para. 65). Two sanitary landfills, planned to become conveniently
located metropolitan green areas upon saturation, would eliminate existing,
environmentally unsound and insanitary ditch disposals. Garaging and main-
tenance facilities would provide decentralized support to daily activities,
and maintenance for service vehicles and equipment (Map 2). The system would
be equipped with appropriate collection, transfer, haul and disposal vehicles
and equipment; some of these would be provided through the loan, and others
by bilateral agencies (para. 67).
42.        (ii) Market Upgrading.  The market rehabilitation component would
include civil works to upgrade and expand physical infrastructure in one of
the eight zonal markets which form part of the city's food distribution
network, after engineering design in (iii) above is completed. It would also
establish a pilot organization to operate and administer the rehabilitated
facility, designing and testing administrative and technical improvements for
future expansion throughout the market network. The costs of these
improvements would be recovered from users (para. 65). It would also
provide on the job training for municipal staff involved in these activities.
43.        (iii) Traffic Management.  Works would include the implementation
of low-cost minor works to rehabilitate city roads and the installation,
operation and maintenance of an integrated system of traffic signal and light
controls in selected transit-intensive problem areas. The objective would be
to demonstrate an effective approach as a basis for future replication on a
larger scale throughout the city.



- 16 -
(c) Implementation Support System
44.        About 50 months of technical assistance would be dedicated to
study, plan and execute community support action programs concurrent with the
implementation and operation of the pilot components. Specific training
activities would be programmed to augment the support programs. The programs
would be designed to engage the support of the population as users of urban
services, by informing them of the Municipality's tasks in the delivery of
improved services, and of the responsibilities of the community, particularly
as regards tariffs and user charges. The Community Development Unit of the
Municipality would be charged with executing this component. The programs
would be designed to reinforce the Unit's technical expertise and provide it
with materials, equipment and vehicles to carry out the support programs.
Project Cost Estimates
45.        The total financial requirements of the proposed project, including
contingencies and the Bank's front end fee, is estimated at US$17.5 million,
of which US$9.2 million, or 52.8 percent of total cost would be foreign
exchange.  The Municipality's contribution to the project, amounting to
approximately US$7.2 million would consist of: (a) incremental staff services
for project execution; (b) financing of local expenditures (including the
corresponding parts of civil works and start-up costs of pilot systems); and
(c) land costs for the solid waste component. The share of local project
costs corresponding to 1983 has already been approved in the Municipality's
budget. Adequate budgetary provisions for future years would be made by the
Municipality. Cost estimates were based on January 1983 prices (Annex IV).
Price contingencies used for foreign costs in 1983, 1984 and 1985 were 8, 8,
and 7 percent, respectively. The corresponding percentages for local costs
were 10, 10 and 9 percent. Physical contingencies used for 1984 and 1985 are
8 percent yearly for costs of materials, equipment, vehicles and civil
works. No physical contingencies were considered for 1983 because the costs
involved are already firm.
46.        The loan of US$7.1 million would finance 66 percent of foreign
costs (US$6.1 million and the front end fee of US$18,000), and would provide
about US$1.0 million to finance local consultants. The remaining 34 percent
(US$3.2 million) of foreign costs would be provided by bilateral donors
(para. 67). The Bank share of total costs would be 41 percent. Local cost
financing is recommended in view of the tight fiscal and balance of payments
situation described in paras. 4 and 5. Up to 10 percent of the loan amount
would finance retroactively expenditures incurred after January 1983 to
ensure an early start to implementation.
47.        Approximately US$7.0 million would be for consultant services
(foreign and local), studies, training and equipment costs. The project
would provide about 564 months of consulting services. Because the project
aims at developing permanent local capability, maximum use would be made of
Dominican staff and consultants, and on the job training of local staff would
be an integral part of the regular terms of reference of expatriate
consultants. To supplement and reinforce locally available skills, about 41
percent of total consultant time or 231 months would be expatriate, at an
estimated cost per month of US$9,000, which includes salaries, travel and
subsistence. Local consultants have been estimated to cost about US$3,150



- 17-
equivalent for a total of 333 months input. The distribution of local and
foreign costs for consultants reflects the judgement that while certain
skills will be available in the local market, others will have to be obtained
from abroad.
Project Execution
48.       The Municipality would be responsible for project execution which
would have an expected duration of 24 months. The Municipality has set up a
project management unit consisting of a director whose qualifications and
experience are acceptable to the Bank, and who has already been selected, and
a staff of three professionals. The unit would be maintained throughout the
life of the project (Draft Project Agreement, Section 2.02). This unit would
have administrative responsibilities for coordinating all parts of the
project and would also coordinate related activities financed by other
sources (para. 67). The project unit would establish and maintain working
relations with the departments of the Municipality invoived in project
execution (paras. 49 - 57). It would also coordinate the work of relevant
departments and agencies in the Central Government and with autonomous
agencies whose activities in the city are linked to those included in the
project. During project execution, the project unit would monitor progress
and ensure adherence to established schedules, procedures and budgets by the
relevant operating divisions of the Municipality (Draft Project Agreement,
Section 2.02 (a) and Schedule 3). It would be responsible for seeing that
feasibility studies, designs and detailed engineering were prepared by
experienced and qualified local and foreign consultants, both firms and
individuals, recruited in accordance with Bank "Guidelines for the use of
Consultants" under final terms of reference acceptable to the Bank (Draft
Project Agreement, Section 2.03). Outline terms of reference and schedules
for the work of consultants were reviewed during appraisal. The Project
Implementation Program prepared by the Municipality, including final terms of
reference and of a detailed schedule for project execution, was approved by
the Bank during negotiations. While the project unit would be responsible
for the administrative aspects of recruiting consultants, the choice of
consultants would be made by the divisions of the Municipality with which the
consultants would work directly (para. 49 - 57). The project unit would be
responsible for ensuring that the initial reports of consultants together
with draft studies, engineering designs and proposals would be submitted to
the Bank for review and comment prior to finalization and, on the basis of
the recommendations of the studies and the comments of the Bank, would
prepare and carry out programs (Draft Project Agreement, Section 2.04).
49.       Under the coordinating umbrella provided by the project unit,
responsibility for execution and monitoring of specific consulting
assignments, studies, operations and pilot works would be divided among the
operating divisions of the Municipality, as follows:



- 18 -
(a) Development of Administrative Systems
50.       The Urban Planning Division would implement the metropolitan
planning component (para. 37) and, in conjunction with the tax and revenues
division, would participate in the preparation and implementation of the
revised cadaster. The division is now staffed with 10 professionals, 8 of
whom would be assigned to the existing work program on land use control and
on the cadaster. This staff would be augmented by five professionals loaned
by other agencies and institutions which have prepared partial cadasters for
their own uses. Two other staff would work directly with consultants on the
development of a strategy plan for the metropolitan area and appropriate
planning instruments.
51.       A new Programming, Budgeting and Organization Planning Division
would be responsible for the development of a financial programming and
budgeting system, a municipal information system and of organization
planning. The division would be staffed with six professionals, two of whom,
with the guidance and support of consultants, would formulate and review
programming and budgeting procedures, criteria for determining priorities,
methods of assessing the need for and availability of financial resources,
and coordinating and monitoring the municipal investment plan. The other
four would work on information and organizational planning.
52.       The Tax and Revenues Division would be responsible, with the
assistance of consultants, for developing a program to increase the
collection of taxes on unused urban land based on the revised cadastral
system.
53.       Project preparation studies would be the responsibility of the
respective operating divisions, which would coordinate with the project unit
to determine the choice of consultants (para. 48). The divisions involved
would be the Environmental Sanitation Division, which would execute studies
and engineering for the improvement of solid waste services, the Urban
Transit Department of the Public Works Division, which would be responsible
for the traffic management studies to be carried out by consultants in
conjunction with three of its professional staff, and the Urban Planning
Division, which, in collaboration with the Markets Division, and with the
advice of consultants, would be responsible for food marketing studies,
designs and engineering work in connection with the market upgrading scheme.
(b) Development of Municipal Services
54.       The Environmental Sanitation Division would be responsible for
implementing, operating, and maintaining the improved solid waste service
system. Eight staff members would be assigned to this work, including four
sanitary engineers, one planner-sanitary engineer, two business administra-
tion specialists and one accountant. This division would also receive
complementary bilateral assistance (para. 67). The project is seen as a
vehicle for reducing the present number of staff in this division from about
3,000 to about 1,900 over a two-year period. Provisions have been made to
assign some of the redundant staff to environment protection functions.



- 19 -
55.       The Market Division would be responsible for executing the market
rehabilitation scheme, and for the operation of the improved facility. It
would use this facilitiy for on-the-job training of staff.
56.       The Urban Transit Department would be responsible for implementing
the pilot traffic engineering measures.
(c) Implementation Support
57.       The Community Development Division would be charged with the com-
munity support program. It would plan and implement the program in close
collaboration with the divisions charged with the pilot operations. The
existing staff of three professionals would be increased to five and would
receive support and guidance from consultants.
Institutional Arrangements and Special Account
58.       The Central Government would be the borrower.  It would transfer
the loan proceeds to the Municipality of the City of Santo Domingo as a
grant. A subsidiary agreement, acceptable to the Bank, would be signed
between the Central Government and the Municipality for this purpose, as a
condition of loan effectiveness (Draft Loan Agreement, Section 6.01 (a)).
The Municipality has signed specific contracts with Government Agencies and
private land-owners holding title to two parcels to be used by the
Municipality as sanitary landfills for the solid waste component (para. 41).
These contracts give the Municipality the right to use the parcels for a
period of at least ten years on a lease or transfer basis. The Municipality
has also acquired ownership of two of the three lots necessary for
maintenance and servicing facilities of the solid waste service equipment. A
condition of disbursement for part of the civil works under this component is
that the Municipality had acquired ownership of the third lot (Draft Loan
Agreement, para. 4 (b) of Schedule 1).
59.       To make loan funds available to the Municipality in a timely manner
and expedite project implementation, a Special Account would be established
at the Central Bank (Draft Loan Agreement Section 2.03). An initial deposit
of US$1.0 million from loan proceeds, equivalent to four months of expected
project expenditure would be deposited in the Special Account (Draft Loan
Agreement, Schedule 1). The Special Account would be replenished through
normal reimbursement of project expenditures. The Department of
International Agreements of the Central Bank would manage the Account.
Satisfactory procedures for the operation of the Special Account have been
agreed with the Government, the Municipality and the Central Bank. A
condition of loan effectiveness would be that the Account had been opened
(Draft Loan Agreement, Section 6.01 (b)).
Procurement and Disbursement
60.       Procurement for Bank financed packages of equipment and vehicles in
excess of US$250,000 would be awarded through international competitive
bidding.  Packages below this amount for an aggregate amount of US$500,000
would be awarded through local competitive bidding, under procedures
acceptable to the Bank, which would be open to foreign participants or
through comparative shopping. Studies, design, engineering and consultant
services would be contracted in accordance with the Bank Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants.



- 20 -
61.        Disbursement would be on the basis of (i) 100 percent of expendi-
tures on consultants, studies and training services; (ii) 100 percent of
foreign expenditures on contracts for equipment and vehicles imported
directly; and 95 percent of total expenditures for equipment and vehicles
imported but acquired locally; and (iii) 35 percent of expenditures for civil
works.
Accounts, Auditing and Reporting
62.        The project management unit of the Municipality would keep separate
records for all expenditures attributable to the project (Draft Project
Agreement, Section 3.01 (b) and Schedule 3). Such records, which would be
available for review by Bank staff, would be maintained in a manner
compatible with the general system for recording expenditures of the
Municipality, permitting cross-referenced identification. Annual audit
reports of the project accounts, (Draft Project Agreement, Section 3.02 (a)),
and of the special account (Draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.02), would be
prepared by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
63.        The project management unit, acting on behalf of the
Municipality, would monitor the design and establishment of (a) the tariff
and user-charge mechanisms which would accompany the improvement in solid
waste and market services, and, (b) in conjunction with the Urban Planning
Division and the Tax and Revenues Division, of the revenue generating scheme
resulting from information provided by the cadaster (Draft Project Agreement,
(Sections 2.05, 2.06 and 2.07 and Schedule 3).
64.        The project management unit would prepare quarterly progress
reports for the project, for submission to the Bank no later than thirty days
after the end of the respective quarter. These reports would include moni-
toring information on general project-related procurement and contracting,
progress on technical assistance tasks, studies, works and operations, and,
starting in the sixth quarter, on the measured evaluation of user-charge
mechanisms (Draft Project Agreement, Schedules 3 and 4).
Cost Recovery and Affordability
65.        Two subcomponents of the project - the solid waste collection and
disposal scheme and the pilot market improvement scheme - would require that
the cost of the services provided be recovered. The details of the cost
recovery plan for solid waste services would be studied during the initial
phase of project execution. Terms of reference for the study would include
the possibility of recovering capital costs on the basis of affordability,
and of the costs of services. The cost recovery plans would be agreed with
the Bank by January 31, 1985.   A revised structure of charges, satisfactory
to the Bank would then be put into effect and maintained. (Draft Project
Agreement, Section 2.06 and 2.07). The approved plan for solid waste
services would allow for cross-subsidies between -households in different
income groups on the basis of appropriate surrogate indicators (property
values and densities) and would reflect the level of service provided to
households and to commercial and industrial establishments.



- 21 -
66.       Preliminary studies undertaken during project preparation and
reviewed at appraisal, indicate that the proposed changes in user charges
would not give rise to issues of affordability, particularly if cross-
subsidies are involved with respect to solid waste services. There may
nonetheless be some opposition to the changes. The firm commitment of the
municipal authorities to carry them through and the proposed community
support program (para. 44) should minimize this risk.
Other Assistance
67.       The IDB is expected to provide a technical assistance grant of
US$0.7 million to finance a total of 66 months of expert services, in the
following fields: Municipal Law, Municipal Administration, Mechanized Systems
for Tax Collection, Public Accounting and Budgeting, and Informal Education
Programs. This assistance, which would complement that provided under the
Bank financed project, would be delivered over 18 months starting, in
principle, late in 1983. Terms of reference for this assistance have been
prepared in consultation between the Bank, the IDB and the Municipality. The
Municipality has negotiated bilateral grants for equipment purchases and
services to be obtained from the donor countries concerned. They would be
used in part to supplement and expand the effort incorporated in this project
and in part to support other municipal functions. Non-reimbursable assistance
from France, Sweden and Italy would provide a total of approximately US$2.4
million in equipment, vehicles and spare parts for the solid waste collection
and disposal system. Furthermore, from these three countries and from Spain,
there would be a total of approximately US$0.8 million in technical
assistance, training, and related expenditures.
Project Justification
68.     The benefits to be derived from the project cannot be quantified.
Still, the assistance to be provided would result in important qualitative
improvements. More specifically, the proposed project addresses the
institutional development issues associated with rapid urbanization in a
metropolitan area which contains a quarter of the country's population. It
would strengthen the technical, managerial and operational expertise of the
Municipality and enable it to plan and deliver the services for which it is
directly responsible and to better coordinate those provided by autonomous
agencies. It would have short run benefits in the form of increased
efficiency in the operation of the Municipal government, increased financial
resources, and improvements in solid waste services, markets and traffic
management. In the longer run, enhanced management and planning capacity in
the Municipality would provide a stronger basis for coping with the demand
arising from the future growth of the metropolitan area. Whilst many of
these benefits would take the form of gains in efficiency, the project would
also have a direct impact on equity. Improved solid waste services would
have a disproportionate impact on the welfare of low-income households which
presently have no service at all, while the envisaged cross-subsidy schemes
to be used in cost recovery would be equitable. The improvement of market
facilities would also have a positive effect on the poor who are the main
users of zonal markets.



- 22 -
Risks
69.       The forseeable risks are three but they are not unduly
serious.  First, in the light of the country's current financial position,
there could be an issue of adequate counterpart funding.  The size of the
project takes into consideration this risk, and it does not represent a large
burden on public finances. Appropriate funding for 1983 has been included
for the project in the Municipality's budget, and assurances have been
obtained from the Central Government that counterpart funding for the
project, as needed, will be provided in subsequent years. Second, there is a
risk that parts of the project could encounter opposition, including the
proposed use of the revised cadaster as a basis for increased taxation and
the introduction of revised user charges for municipal services. This would
be attenuated by the fact that both the Central and Local Governments are
fully aware of these potential issues but are nonetheless determined to
increase the financial autonomy of the Municipality, and by the expected
results of the implementation support program, which is expected to increase
popular awareness of improved delivery of services (para. 44). And third,
there is a chance that the effects of the technical assistance and pilot
developments would not be sustained beyond the life of the project. The
strong commitment to improve the efficiency of urban management, careful
planning of the technical assistance to be provided, the fact that
counterpart staff would be trained who would remain with the Municipality,
and the financially self-sustaining nature of the improved services, minimize
this risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.       The Draft Loan Agreement between the Dominican Republic and the
Bank, the Project Agreement between the Municipality of Santo Domingo and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement, are being distributed separately.
Special Conditions of the Loan are listed in Annex 3. Special conditions of
effectiveness are that a Subsidiary Agreement, acceptable to the Bank,
between the Government and the Municipality has been signed; and that the
Special Account has been opened at the Central Bank. A condition of
disbursement for part if the civil works under the solid waste management
component is that the Municipality has acquired the lot mentioned in (para.
58). I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
May 9, 1983



- 23 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                           Page  1  of   5
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC             REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE%AGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                  - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL              48.7                                   MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       27.3                1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN               EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    250.0        420.0    1160.0                     1902.0                     2323.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       155.9        365.4      489.2                    1259.9                      2107.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  3047.0         4006.0    5431.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 30.2           40.3       51.0                      65.7                        47.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                           8.9
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                            17.1
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                     2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         62.5         82.2      108.2                      35.2                        83.3
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    149.4          159.5      193.2                      92.5                       155.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           47.8         49.0       45.1                      39.7                        31.1
15-64 YRS.                           49.3         48.3       52.2                      56.1                       61.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     2.9          2.7        2.7                       4.2                         7.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                3.6           2.7       3.0                       2.4                         1.6
UREAN                                6.0           5.6       5.4                       3.8                         3.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       50.3         44.7       36.1                      31.4                        23.6
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        16.1         11.6       8.6                       8.4                         9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.7          3.3        2.3                      2.1                         1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..        17.2       88.9/c
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..       31.Oc*
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)            98.0        100.0       94.0                     110.0                      116.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     96.1         95.8      102.0/c                   108.4                      125.1
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            46.5         46.6       47.1/i                    66.0                       92.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         24.8         26.1       21.0/c                    34.0                       35.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       20.0         10.1         5.6                      5.6                         9.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    50.9           56.6       61.4                      64.2                        67.6
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
TliOUSAND)                           119.5         90.0       68.3                      64.2                        65.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                8.1/d       37.0       55.0/e                    65.6
URBAN                               22.97i       72.0       88.0/;                    78.9
RURAL                                1.47-d      14.0       27.0/1                    43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  *-        58.0       42.0/e                    59.3
URBAN                                            63.0       74.0/;                    75.3
RURAL                                  ..        54.0       16.0/5                    30.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            8216.8/f    2070.3          ..                    1617.3                      1105.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            . .     1923.2         ..                    1063.5                       634.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              405.0        343.2         ..                     477.4                      286.8
URBAN                                  ..       215.2         ..                     679.8                      192.0
RURAL                                  ..      2610.6         ..                    1903.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..        33.0/g    30.0/h                     27.3                        20.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.0          5.3
URBAN                                4.8          5.2
RURAL                                5.1          5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                2.0           ..
URBAN                                1.6           ..         ..
RURAL                                2.2           ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               20.0           ..         ..
URBAN                               57.7            . .
RURAL                                3.0            . .



- 24 -                                         ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                        Page  2  of  5
DOMYNICYNEPUBLIC - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA9ES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)  -
MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN          EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                98.0        95.0      96.0/e                  104.3                    102.9
MALE                 99.0        95.0      95.0 .                 106.4                     107.1
FEMALE               98.0        96.0      96.O/e                 103.3                      99.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 7.0        18.0      28.0/e                  41.3                      60.2
MALE                  7.0        18.0      29.067                  40.4                      66.4
FEMALE                7.0        18.0      28.07ie                 41.8                      54.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY) 43.8         10.1       9.3/e                  33.7                      31.6
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           57.7        55.4      50.4/e                  29.9                      25.8
SECONDARY                         16.3        25.6        ..                    16.7                      22.2
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       64.5        67.2      67.0                     79.1                     75.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         3.6         9.8      16.0/i                  42.8                      51.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        33.5        40.9      40.8                   270.5                     157.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         3.2        25.0      56.9                   107.7                     123.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 26.9        36.0      41.7                    63.7                     112.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  1.7         1.2       1.4/e                   2.7                       4.0
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      854.3      1060.1    1503.5
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  10.5        11.1      12.3                    24.4                      36.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             66.5        61.2      49.0                    31.3                      38.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                12.2        14.0      18.0                    23.9                      25.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               28.0        26.5      27.7                    33.6                      44.5
MALE                                49.4        46.5      48.0                     50.4                     56.3
FEMALE                               6.0         5.9       6.9                    16.8                      32.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.8         2.0       1.7                      1.3                      0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    451.0
RURAL                               ..          ..    263.0                    184.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    268.0                    518.0
RURAL                               ..          ..    186.0                    371.1                     406.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      45.0
RURAL                               ..          ..      43.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d Percent of housing units with piped water only; /e 1975; /f 1962; /g 1972;
/h Government hospital establishments only; /i 1976.
May, 1982



- 25 -                                            ANNEX I
W       sAIwTM tor  zcamu                                  Page  3 of  5
att .oLly t=.optL. MoAts  of ott 1ob  c 0 oooooodtod dstitott -o  ovA  -Ootart  06 Ol 010f-tvo -.ooooto   to tollocto1 t   doto.  Thr. daaU                                r.rot
Sottor t  ott  colotlc  toi L.   Sroo  Ott Iota  o   t: htbdtto            it-c  Ito c-toS. of coolotot aOOg toocotaco I_                   ono    toh,  vlal  t   ldt
lalaoIal-  et.,u  '.00  of-tottt10  oe   toqot-tPy at to- -ooty                                0510  Ot   oSJ    o   o  00   oootroptOlotOrooo   ot
..... ro    ...pooot  ta. ooo.    kft-toi  sedat  or to tOo fottora  1910 doc.                    oofotlooatr. Oeloaooco.ttot   otoot                                        tfe
IAUPt c                  =       P.10 1  fCl   .ot  ...t I.o .t.  00cttttto    tt.,.. co-                tol.ct  OtflP toltt    ooo                  -plaa    co . toLoto6  hosItt
tolctod  ay to  ooytrtto  inotoo  ao lote  Moo Otto. (I107-40 at)   1060                         so-sto    eto   o   atoottcAt fo  ty0fhtt a   (boo 07
1970. ood 1940 ot.-olta .. ttOt.   oo,000.   t     000oft                                                                                                              totton
09337 C0t7t)tlD   itt112174     Maot cooo~too   f toottl  o0035- coo                   tOtal oooo    Otlootl   al                     t  trtoo-opallStoro,.      sptoo
tttittl) It atlo1tao l.ofot  ootot I                capIta; 1060. 1910. an  1970                        otr.tolllr    optl    0  00110001 01017   .I,.00
r10001I fcooa01o Ototo   POtaOr                  *o  Jolt L; 1900. 1070, aol 19W0                  H0101.17
dtlff-ra   tottlo            of ott. o        eap afot.  -ot-lltty  of otto                          otd oMtoO  solo  -.ol.  A booor  0Iceoto   0  a   ttI  loot toteId  i
oto  mte;1000  107). tad 1000 do.                                                          oh. hd-ootod fo-,oltoe    oyao
Poroattt foOso 2a O                                                                                0000-041rCf ooOOato    tl  -000,  ct0,al ort      voag   fc
M.oo   fo   tol  t  o,alobtItoototoooAbo   ela   lo                                               ofOooet  ocOt-. .0Mroc i tooltooet         oo..octt...          ...       ....
faicotr   s tO  -itOtto  otoo   tOotl. -j lott   col .oooo   of tatosItty          00PC....
Yce..  ot  IotOIoo             L. - faooooot   pooloo    toI   t1000to.?ttr    cot-otl  atl Ool  - lots   oto-Ita, at    -tpata
-   h0  O  otbeod   nl   foo  ot0.oo  tte  4011..00ontet~ocoo-bonooOtooo   ooot-t.oot.  cldto                                                     ... 11
000tpoootlot   fat    a   orotcco   t,00  teat o-ototot                                       oot.  ct .1-1.0         to-tfcotLo-tco  fottoo   ecolo"P   Io..         ta
Otatotat otoot olcOOtOOo  a te JtMi-  704too   that. ororoo  -y pnoltoc                      otot.Oonl.ctnoot   00000Oaot   Otoho.t. Lat  to o.                                l
"oa teo14.tll   000 10Pto..lco. -                                                                  0000-00.1.Otooa,a   ooooorooolOocc    oo.ot
col;10.  90al  91dra                                                                               ol1-octsotln-  olt.  t -oool-toa    ocsoootoltt
PopooantotOat Soconoc Ipootott- oblttte.10-1400000. eoolao-0e  It-  yoOar~  ot oototao,tantotttotad byooa*t.oftocooero fon
tO yott, .1 oelot tf  yc.o ct oerl  0 ptOOtOa   f ot-yo- tPc-Vo.e---tOo   tatoo
latto   190.197,  at  90  Ioa.OtttoIlttoo 0001000.0)-tIierfoo.oto   aoo  o oaOaolotte
Pootnoo   ntt a.  tnaol-  oo   -ttotsotO9oooofoto   l-                                 0       aooa0o   oa    tl  ocOtoo00   bcioalo
oooo_totoco     .19. 1070. aodl 00lae                                                                .ltto     . ldOt..
oto   e    ptoooOn-d'oooo    o._    o  Osoc- atota a   Zrs  19011OoItttet t...a-retoI--   aos  o  -oaote   ot u                           a0.-    00trLteto    f  o
o     A f.tt-ooto   doL.et .k4   auero    off-toofeat         ,deto  p1-1..                   ooortpooll to  oboooto  ropbolotecll.allooe   o                              oot
Focotloto-  ot toot  of F              tootb     000)     o.aoo o-a,o                                 ncocoOtot1 -os. ph,-Lo;.tatot  -0 otcto   to  ttt
of, _  ttlbaia    e   l.Ooyoo thto-oo  ttot. toao    cotooc                                   totot    O;toto    toooatlttlto)-Stu    t   00
alt c.oooo  oato.o to   90 pop.colatloc of  '4010 totrol Itttoot latotatot. O-flolousttttotto4
ot" L91? d.,7                                                 1970~~~~~pol ooto   tooto BOtalootcott etoalor- Itoc ttte
bltof -o tooatlo -ott tortbo 11009-y1USDA p- td.b of-ptcpo   aoa                              toc  ooltttot  too t                 fpIto 00    tr      oo  0   00oc
onlotttfolfo  oot-oles            u  . Poooottolooco  sotE.       foo   aloat  cold Lotso o. tost.- 101001 a..daoa O   to ...o-t  10.                                     0
too ottotolaol).   Muoeato  ottosoloo ofa yl FMtto         to boos  oit               1410            -d40 001310fIN-L                                 1         6
-o.tIda  *o-   s   po- ;        19 ooo  eoot;     0-I.17.o 1100  oo.                               ool  Oo  Potcl ttE      coos      ccoo f__tepe o,10.00
oaoolot.  too  00  004  too_ooo. ot-  'ooo  toE       ottoot. 07.1:                          jfslot_jnoot  ftobot Oorto- Is                   ...r 1 .oo. en...   4000.ot
toot,    d veto  oootelO   1   oeda o-oooos olite  for ooofll ,000L9.o  00 pahl ..                                   03    ltnllbrfnt   00   101ot19    to
2    00Llarbotnf-oo.oo.  o   ttrotI   tm   tto7t   t                                                   0  -tlcOf000  sdjt  op,oO0do  ftllab                                  ftt
fooceoald tttO. 101-fl b910 ho 190.1770as                                                        106.  47  tl  09  000
Poooo te cop1,of  totOs otoo  00  dol -teotto  00000  f po  otplt   Po. Icosoo.  ototoctta t -plt...     ot.,s.d.            aelt-Ptcal-a  ta
ot  t.pt  o   oo  poda.   0  eorl  o  tc  1  tfOo  c   000.t-               0191.Z     ob    n . .....         00001,a        -. ot   otl   atn   doco
Won-O -  -,0   Poo 1..-.     5  190 04-1007 toco                                                     to nba nota  taboo..Otto..
L.on    -  iLdtlotooor.tot  to.000  ot-  polo. -            L_o.o . mopl  o-f-t



- 26 -                                          ANNEX I
-  Page 4 of 5
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC - ECONOMIC DATA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1982                                             ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (% in constant prices)
US$ Million      %                       1960-75      1970-75      1975-82
GNP at Market Prices                       7,703.7      100.0                       6.1          9.2          4.0
Gross Domestic Investment                  1,665.0       21.6                      13.4         17.6          5.9
Gross National Savings                     1,231.0       16.0                       4.7         16.0         -0.2
Current Account Balance                      434.3        5.6                        -            -            -
Export of Goods, NFS                       1,141.4       14.8                       3.5         11.1          0.8
Import of Goods, NFS                       1,467.9       19.1                       4.3         12.5         -1.4
OUTPUJT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1982
(Constant 1981 prices)
Value Added
US$ Million      x
Agriculture                               1,674.4        21.8
Industry                                  2,043.2        26.6
Services                                 3,952.7         51.5
Total                                 7,670.4        100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                     Central Government
DR$ Million      % of GDP                 DR$ Million    % of GDP
1982        1975    1982                 1982        1975      1981
Current Receipts                            750.0        21.6      9.4               670.0        18.2      8.4
Current Expenditures                      1,005.8         8.5    12.6                785.5         8.0      9.8
Current Surpluses (+) or Deficit (-)   -255.8            13.1    -3.2               -115.5        10.2    -1.4
Capital Expenditures                        329.5        11.6      4.1               204.4         9.1      2.6
External Assistance (net)                    95.9        n.a       1.2                61.3         0.3      0.8
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1970        1977      1978      1979      1980      1981      1982
(DR$ million outstanding End of Period)
Money and Quasi-Money                       283.7    1,240.9  1,376.0  1,653.1  1,803.0  2,064.3  2,353.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector                213.1       302.8    426.7    552.8    652.8    995.6  1,459.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector               174.9       779.2    828.9    893.1  1,044.5  1,019.9  1,086.4
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi-Money as % of GDP            19.1        27.1      29.1      29.9      27.1      27.3      29.4
Consumer Price Index (Base 1976-77=100)  57.0           100.0    107.1    116.9    136.3    146.8    158.3
Consumer Price Index in
Annual Percentage Changes                  3.8         8.7       7.1       9.2      16.6       7.7       7.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector                  7.4         9.4      40.9      29.6      18.1      52.5      46.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector                18.3         7.9       6.4       7.8      17.0      -2.4       6.5
March 1983



- 27 -
ANNEX I
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC - TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS                             Page 5 of 5
SALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                                             MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (Average 1978-82)
1976     1977      1978     1979     1980      1981     1982                                                 USS Million         %
7US Milion)                           _I            Sugar                                      291.3         33.0
Coffee                                    79.6           9.0
Export of Goode, NFS                      840.4    917.9    828.0   1134.9   1271.3   1512.6   1025.7              Cocoa                                      61.2           6.9
Import of Goode, NFS                     1005.0   1109.1   1154.0   1484.3   1918.7   1818.4   1335.6              Tobaeco                                    46.8           5.3
Resoarce Gap (- - deficit)                 646   -1 91.2        -326.0   -349.4 -647.4   -305.8   -309.9           Ferronricel                                84.7
Dori                                      165.3          18.7
Net Factor Iroone                        -123.8  -123.4  -135.7  -187.7   -210.0  -293.1   -309.7                  Other                                     154.8          17.5
Net Tranofere                               46.5     50.1    149.8    205.8    187.8    193.0    201.9               Total                                   883.7         100.0
-241.9  -264.5  -311.9  -331.3         -       -405.9  -417 .7
Direct Foreign Inveotment                  60.0      45.9     39.6   -13.4       62.7      79.7     45.0           YATRS!L DEBT, DECEIBRR 31, 1982           US$  lli .
Net MLT Borroeiog                          93.3    104.3      97.7    128.7    252.7    153.6    180.0             Public Debt including guaranteed             1747.1
Disburseeents                         (131.3)  (150.5)  (192.7)  (361.7)  (382.2)  (320.2)  (372.3)             Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                   238.8  2/
A-orti-ti-on                           (39.0)   (46.2)   (95.0)  (233.0)  (129.5)  (166.6)  (192.3)             Total Outetending and Diebaureed             1985.9  3/
Other Ite.= n.e.i,                         45.4    185.5      79.5    128.5    236.6       21.7  -116.3            DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1982
Change in Net Reserves (- - increase) 3/  43.2   -71.2        95.1     87.5    117.8    150.9    309.0
Public Debt, including guaranteed  4/           24.6
Groes Reserves                             165.0    224.0    199.3    339.1    402.5    555.8    200.0             Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                      n.a
Net Reeerves                              -11.0      60.2    -34.9   -122.4   -240.2   -391.1   -700.1             Total Outtaoding and Disbursed  5/              54.0
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                                         IBRD/IDA LENDING  - Dec. 31, 1982         US$ Million
Tmporte                                170.0    176.7    199.0    314.9    448.9    497.4    n.e.
Exports                                                                                                         Outstanding and Disbursed                      137.6
Undisbureed                                    148.9
Outatanding including Undiabursed              286.5
t/  Estimate.--
7/ Registered; unregistered private debt could nore than duplicate thi aaount.
3/ Includes arr-ers.
Sf Only medium ood long tern.
5/  Includes on eotinuto for ohort tern debt.
Srch 1983.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of March 31, 1983)
Loan or                                                       US$ million
Credit No.  Year          Borrower        Purpose    Amount (Less cancellation)
Bank      IDA      Undis.
Four  loans and three credits fully disbursed            59.0      22.1 1/    -
1051-DO    1974   Central Bank           Tourism I       21.0        -        0.3
1142-DO    1975   Dominican Republic Education II   8.0                       1.6
1655-DO    1979   Dominican Republic Irrigation II 27.0                      21.7
1699-DO    1979   Central Bank           Tourism II    25.0                  17.9
1760-DO    1979   State Sugar
Council              Sugar Rehab.  35.0                  35.0
1783-DO    1980   Dominican Republic Emergency Rd. 25.0                       1.0
1784-DO     1980   Dominican Republic Highways II   35.0                     16.4
2023-DO    1981   Dominican Republic Coffee and
Cocoa Rehab.  24.0                 24.0
2104-DO    1982   Dominican Republic Sites and
Services       25.4                23.5
Total                                        285.3      22.1
of which has been repaid                   20.8        0.2
Total now outstanding                        264.5      21.9
Amount sold
of which has been repaid                  _
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/            264.5      21.9
Total Undisbursed                            141.4       0.0    141.4
1/   With exchange adjustment.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (As of March 31, 1983)
Fiscal                                  Type of          Amount in US$ Million
Year           Borrower                 Business         Loan    Equity   Total
1974   Cementos Nacionales, S.A.        Construction
Material         6.0       1.7       7.7
1978   Financiera Empresarial S.A.   Industrial
Credit           3.0        -       3.0 1/
Total Gross Commitments                       9.0       1.7      10.7
Less Repayments and
Cancellations                               3.8        -        3.8
Total Commitments now held
by IFC                                      5.2       1.7       6.9
Total Undisbursed
1/   Cancelled.



- 30 -                           ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C.  STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION (As of March 31, 1983) 1/
Loan 1051-DO:   Tourism I Project; US$21.0 Million Loan of November 6, 1974.
Date of Effectiveness:  November 7, 1975.  Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
The project is designed to provide infrastructure and other
facilities for tourism development in Playa Dorada and Playa Grande near
Puerto Plata. The Puerto Plata Airport, one of the major components, was
completed in 1979, and is in full operation with three airlines operating
regular and chartered flights. A 225-room bungalow hotel has been completed
and an apart-hotel is under construction at Playa Dorada.
The project has been almost completed. The Bank agreed to exclude
from the project some works at Playa Grande, which include landscaping and
beach improvements; golf and beach facilities; stables and riding school and
soilid waste disposal facilities, to enable the Government to concentrate
first in the development of Playa Dorada. The Governmen has agreed to
undertake the development of Playa Grande at a later date. The Bank also
agreed to finance the above-mentioned hotel, and will honor disbursement
requests until June 30, 1983 for commitments made before December 31, 1982.
Loan 1142-DO:   Second Education Project; US$8.0 Million Loan of July 17,
1975. Date of Effectiveness: October 8, 1975. Closing
Date:  June 30, 1983.
The project was intended to finance the construction, furnishing
and equipping of 204 rural community learning centers, 4 agricultural
training centers, 3 vocational training centers; equipping of 14 secondary
schools and of 4 vocational training centers, a textbook feasibility study,
and training.
The project has suffered execution delays of over three years,
partly because of repeated changes in the past of the Manager and Staff of
the Project Management Unit, and more recently because of inadequate
counterpart funds. There have been important cost overruns that could not be
met by the Government because of fiscal constraints and the Bank agreed to
reduce the project scope to exclude: (a) furnishing and equipping of 14
secondary schools; and (b) expansion of four vocational training centers and
purchase of eight mobile vocational training units. Execution of the project
schools stand now at about 80 percent of total works, but progress in
1/   Because of a change in administration in August 1982, these notes have
been updated to include more recent developments. They are designed to
inform the Executive Directors regardig the progress of projects in
execution, and in particular to report any problems which are being
encountered and the action being taken to remedy them.  They do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
implementation again slowed almost to a halt for lack of counterpart funds,
and staff changes. The Government has recently provided the necessary
counterpart funds and has assigned to the project competent, and experienced
staff to permit project completion by June 30, 1983.
Loan 1699-DO:   Second Puerto Plata Tourism Development Project; US$25
Million Loan of November 12, 1979.  Date of Effectiveness:
September 9, 1980;  Closing Date:  December 31, 1984.
The project will provide a line of credit for hotel accommodations
and tourist services in Playa Grande, Playa dorada and Puerto Plata; urban
works in the low lying area of Puerto Plata near the tourism pier; a
handicrafts center for the training of artisans; technical assistance to
INFRATUR, the Secretariat of Tourism and the handicrafts center.
The loan became effective in September 1980, following
Congressional ratification almost one year after loan signing. Disbursements
are about 35 percent the level predicted at appraisal for March 1983.
Nevertheless, disbursements will accelerate by mid-1983, with the recent
completion of a second hotel at Playa Dorada and several small hotels under
construction in Puerto Plata. Additional sub-loans totalling US$14.8 million
are ready to be committed, and the Bank has agreed to extend the commitment
date to June 30, 1983.
Loan 1655-DO:   Nizao Irrigation Project; UJS$27.0 Million Loan of
February 16, 1979. Date of Effectiveness: January 16, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project is designed to increase agricultural productivity and
exports by rehabilitating and expanding the Marcos A. Cabral/Nizao: Najayo
irrigation system, including construction of 72 km. of roads. The loan
became effective after four extensions of the Date of Effectiveness and one
year after Loan signing. The project is three years behind schedule and cost
overruns are estimated at about 20 percent. The principal causes for this
delay are the weakening of INDRHI's managerial capacity and financial
difficulties. The Government is considering a number of actions outlined in
Para. 15 of this report to permit the normal execution of the project. These
will be discussed during a forthcoming Bank mission.
Loan 1783-DO:   Emergency Road Reconstruction Project; $25 Million Loan of
January 8, 1980. Date of Effectiveness: September 19, 1980.
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project will permit the reconstruction of two roads, totalling
150 km: the 86 km Cruce de Guayacanes to Santiago, the country's second
largest city, and the 64 km Azua-Barahona road linking the southwestern part
of the country to the capital city.
Reconstruction works on the two project roads are well advanced.
Initial delays were due to the fact the loan only became effective on
September 19, 1980. Because of its emergency nature, the project was



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
approved without adequate design standards, and these were revised during
1981. As a result of these revisions, the project faced an unfinanced gap of
US$17.4 million. The Bank has approved a Government request to finance this
gap from proceeds of the Second Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project.
Loan 1784-DO:   Second Road Maintenance and Reconstruction Project;
US$35 Million Loan of January 8, 1980. Date of
Effectiveness: September 9, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1985.
The project will: (a) pursue the strengthening and expansion of
maintenance capacity; (b) initiate a high priority reconstruction program for
primary and secondary roads; (c) demonstrate the application of
labor-intensive techniques for rural roads; (d) upgrade personnel through
training; and (e) strengthening SEOPC's planning and programming capacity.
Final engineering designs for the reconstruction works were
completed in mid-1980, but a review of these indicated that revisions calling
for a reduction in the design standards were necessary. The Ministry has
renegotiated contracts for civil works in the light of re-design of these
works. Maintenance and traiing equipment is in operation. The
Reconstruction Planning Unit has been adequately staffed and the Labor-
Intensive Construction Unit has made progress in the construction of labor-
based rural roads.
Loan 1760-DO:   Sugar Rehabilitation Project; US$35 Million Loan of
October 26, 1979. Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
The loan suffered delays in effectiveness of about two years,
principally because of the Dominican Congress' refusal to ratify a US$90
million private bank co-financing loan which was to enable a restructuring of
the State Sugar Council's (CEA) short-term debt. Execution of the
co-financing loan was to be a condition of effectiveness. CEA's financial
situation deteriorated in the absence of the co-financing loan, and as a
result of higher production costs in the face of declining international
sugar prices.
Because of the project's importance to the country's economy, the
Bank and the Government agreed to two-stage project execution plan. Phase I
includes hiring of consultants to assist CEA formulate and implement
management reorganization, financial control and planning, and the long-term
rationalization of the industry; hiring of consultants to assist CEA in the
preparation of equipment requirements and bidding documents for the factory



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
and rail components; establishment of a pilot system of payments to sugarcane
outgrowers on the basis of sucrose content; initiation of a cane reduction
program; and the preparation of detailed annual investment planF. Phase II
would only begin after CEA has satisfactorily taken actions to ensure its
long-term financial viability.  It is expected to convert its domestic
short-term debt with Government banking institutions into long-term debt and
equity, and to reschedule its short-term debt with private foreign banks,
into medium-term debt. Other financial measures are being considered by CEA
and the Government. Phase II would include purchase of equipment for the
rehabilitation of the factories and rail system. Implementation of Phase I
is progressing satisfactorily. The Bank, CEA and the Government will review
CEA's financial position and adopted measures to ensure its viability before
September 1983.
Loan 2023-DO:   Cocoa and Coffee Development Project; US$24 Million Loan of
September 24, 1981. Date of Effectiveness: March 31, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
A loan of US$24 million was approved on June 23, 1981, for a cocoa
and coffee development project which would support the Government's
objectives of increasing: (a) productivity and incomes of small-scale coffee
and cocoa producers; and (b) production and export of these commodities.
Starting of the project was delayed, mainly as a result of the
change in Government. Nevertheless, the project has been recently provided
with adequate counterpart funds, and as a result, the credit program has
started.
Loan 2104-DO:   Sites and Services Project; US$25.4 Million Loan of April 14,
1982. Date of Effectiveness: October 22, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1987.
The project consists of off-site infrastructure; on-site
infrastructure; construction of 6,000 shelter units in two project sites;
provision of loans to beneficiaries; community facilities; consulting and
extension services. The project would include a study of future low-income
housing policy and measures to strengthen INVI's finances.
Execution delays were mainly due because of delays in effectiveness
and the change of Government and managerial and technical staff changes of
the executing agency. More recently, the contractor for one of the project
sites has been selected, and consultants have been hired for the preparation
of studies to improve INVI's long-term financial viability.



- 34 -
ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.         Timetable of Key Events
(a) Project Preparation - Appraisal
Project Prepared by:    Municipality of Santo Domingo
Initial Request for Bank Financing:            July 1982
First Bank Mission to Consider Project: October 1982
(b) Appraisal Mission Departure: January 1983
(c)  Negotiations Completed:            April 29, 1983
(d)  Loan Effectiveness Planned:   September, 1983
II.        Special Conditions
Conditions of Loan effectiveness would be that a Subsidiary
Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, be signed between the
Government and the Municipality of Santo Domingo, detailing terms
and conditions of project implementation, and the corresponding
grant (para. 58); and that the Special Account has been opened at
the Central Bank of the Dominican Republic according to provisions
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 59).
Conditions of Disbursement. A condition of disbursement for part
of the civil works under the solid waste management component is
that the Municipality has acquired the lot mentioned in (para. 58).
Project conditions
(a) the Municipality would maintain, through project implementation,
the Project Management Unit. The Unit will be staffed with
experienced staff, and would maintain a project coordinator. The
Unit will monitor project execution and prepare and submit to the
Bank progress reports (para. 48);
(b) the Municipality will have annual audit reports prepared by
independent consultants acceptable to the Bank, for the project
accounts (para. 62);
(c) for purposes of institutional strengthening, the Municipality will
contract consultants whose qualifications and terms of reference
are satisfactory to the Bank (para. 48);
(d) the Municipality will study and initiate modifications to tariffs
and user charges relating to the solid waste and market
rehabilitation components (para. 65).



CV0   0) Ca C 0CACCC 0C  U) CCC   r- CCC) C-IC  .-1A)  CCO  VC (A) U) C CCC  CU)CCCCCCCC    -V                            C)
CCC   C CCC  CCC  0111CC  0- CCC  CC  CCC  CCC  C- C CCC  CC  C C C CCC  C C COOCCOC CC  C  I C                            C   I-Il
4-A-CC CCC  C-ICC  C       U)C 1)4CC  U)-bCCCCU)  C-.) C CCCC-4    C CCCCCC-M  C)                                      C
II - 0CC   C C)CC  o-)C0C.  C-A  C)U)C-C-)                                         -  -                                      
CC  C.    C C    CrflflCC0  C C C)    C   CCC  rn-Il       o C-   C).  6 --:  M  -m.                                           C C
II-)    C        C) C C-A  C.") -   CI       -I   CC  -. -A   C)         4 C CCC    -A C  --AC  C..   C  i-I                        I -
IC- 9CC   C CCU)   COCICO          CCC  C    CC       C        C CU)              C    C  CCCC.C)C  C   ..             C            CC
CC-I      CC-I COCOCCOC              C   CCC  CCC  C    CC-A         C-  C             CCCWVOCCC  -.              C)             C
-A--IC  C) -ICC  CCC  CC-CC  C C-AU) C   C Cl C C C C C-I-AC  C-  C C CC-CC  C C CCC  - CC-CC                       C
-        CCI  CCC  -CC CC     -         C C CC   C    CCI  -AC  lA C-AC C   - C CCC   -ICOC                       C             C
CC        CCC) C)C  C        CCC  C   C    -ACC  C    CCC  CC         CC   - C    C-AC   C   -4
* -       . .  .  C  C    C    -  -  C   -       C   C     -  -  C.     -  C     -     -  C   C   -                 C)
0     I  I  C          --IC  A   I  I               o           -4                        C
CC   C           . C C    CC                  C                                     C
C  C                       C
U)                             C     NI'          t)       C     C      C              A   C      NA       I hI       C
C  C C                            C  C            C        C C C        C CaC       CCCCCCCCMCC             CI
CCC   C CCC  CCCCCCC   tfl CCC  C   CC   CC             CCCCaCCCCCC    C C CCC(MCCCMC                   IC I        C      CC
C aCO    C CCC  CCCCCCC    C C-ICC  C   CC   CC            CCOCCCUACCC    C C CU)-AU)Ca-A                  IC IC       C      CC
- U)CC   C CCC  CCCCCCC   C CC-A  C   -AC   CC             CaCaCCaCOC C   - C CCCCOOCC                      - I C      C      0-C.
U)Ca   CCC    C                C    C 121  0               a    a                      a       CCC            I    C C
C a C   OCaCOCI  I-AC lA   C    C C   a    C              a C C                    C C U)    CCC          IC-I     C C C
C CCC   C CCC  C CCCCC    C CCC  -O  CC   CC               C CCC  CC  C 0000   C 0 COCOCOCO                 CI      C
--IC)I 
C U)CO-   a a C C CCCCrACM    C CC-A  C   CC   CC          -A -AC-A  CC  0 00CC    C Cli CCC CCCCC          CI    44, C C   CC
O CCC   C CCC  CCCC0-00   C CCC             -AC   CC       C CCC  CC  0 00CC    C C COCCaCCO               IC I    C C) C   CU)
C    C                         C    C                      C    C                                             I    C)
O CCC                          a C  C             CC       C C C        C           C C        C aIC       IC I    C C
C CCC                          C *CC        CU)   CC       OCCOCaC                  C a CC   CC-AC         I           C
C -AC-A   C CCC  COOCCCC   C Cat) C   Ca   CC                 CCCCCCCCCC    CM C CCCCCCCC                  I           C      CC
C Ca-A   0 CCC  00000CC    C CCC  C   CC   CC              tI' CCC  CC  C CCCI-)  0CC-COCOa-A-A            ICC C          C   CC
C CCC   C CCC  CCCC0CC    C CC   C   -AC   CC              CCCaJICCCC  C   C C OCCCCCCC                       I C   C C C   CC
a    C   C    C   C                                                                                           I    C C C-
C t'lCtIl   a   CC             C    CM      CC             a    a                      a       CCC         I C         C C
C CCC   C aCO  CaN) CCC   C aIJO            aCM   C        = C C                    0- C -A    CCC         IC I    -A C C)
C a-AC   C -OCO. C CCCCAlC   C CaC  C   CC   CC            C -AC-A  CC  0 00CC    C C CCCCCCCC             IC I    C C        CC
C  CCC   U) CC-A  C CU)CCCM    C CCC  C   Ca   CC          C CC-A  CC  C CCCC   C -A CC0CCCCC              IC I    C C        CC
C CCC   C U)CC  000-00-CC   tfl CCC  0   tIC   CO          C CCC  CC  0 00CC   CM C CCC CaCC0               C-C        C      CC-  C
C C C                          C    C             C              a                     a          C        I           C
C CaC                          C aCC              C        U) C C       -A CCC      0 C   C    CCC         I           C
NIl aCO   C CCC  CCCCOCC    C C-AC  C   CC   CC            C CC-A  C CCCCMCJ1CM    C-0-CC                  I           C      CC
IA CCC   C C C C CCOCCCC   *O CCIA  C   CC   CC            C C aC- 0-a C CaCC   I-fl C aCaa0CCC            I           C      CC
CM .CC    0 CCC  COCOCCO    C COO  C   CO   CC             NIl CCC  aC- C C0OC  CM C OCCOCOCO                         -A     CC
C C C   CCCCCCCC    C    C                        C        U) a a                   a a C    -AC-A         I
C aCC   CCCaCCCCCC    C CCC  C   CC   CC                   C aC-C  CC  0 00CC    a C COCOO-.oaO            I
tfl NI,U)a   CCCCMCCCC CC   a C-AC  C   CC   CC            C CCC  C C 0 00CC    C C CCCCCCCC                I                 CCCI
a CCC   C NICa CoaCoaC    C -A-AC  C   CC   CO             CI' CCC  C C C OCOC   C C COOCCOCO                                 CC
C aCa                          a CCC        C    CC       tI' C CM      C   C       C C   C   C  Ca        I
CI' C.C                        NIl  CC      CU)   CC       CCCaCC   CU)CCC    OCC.CCCCaCAI                 I
C  Ctfl    C CCC  OCOCCOC   C CCC  C   Ca   CC             C C-AC  C-A  C   CCC   C C CCCCOC tIC           I
CCC C CCC C C C CCC C C aCC C CC aC U) CCC CC C 00CC a a COCOCOCO -…- -…I
C CaC   C CCC  C 0000CC    U) CCC  0   00   CC             C aCO  CC  C 00CC    a C COCOCCCC
C CCC   C 1)1CC   CC           C                           C C C                    C C C    CCC            I
C CCC   CCCaCCCC  CC   C 121CC C   C   C                  C C a                    CM a a    Ca C
C CC-A   C CCC  CONICCOC   C CU)-A  C   CC   tIC           C CCC  CC  C 00CC    C C COCOCCC                 CI
C a-AC C CCC -ACCOaCa C CCC C a aC C CCC 00 0 0000 C C CCCCCOC IC --- --IC) I
C  CO    C CCC  00000CC    C CC   U)  00   CC              C CC-A  CC  0 00CC    C Cli U)CCOtI'CtI'0        C- I
*.0
H
a    C    C  NIl  Cli  a       a     a            l.A      C     C                     C          C        C    C
C CCC   C LIlAC   CC           CCCCaC             CC       C C  CM    IM   C        C C CC   tIlaCa        C CC
C CCC   CM CCa  CCCCO0-             LI-C C   CC   CC       C CCC  CC  CCCC    aCCaCC-ACC-A                 C-CCC-               fl
NIl CCC   C CCC  CO-ACCOC   C CCC  C   CCI'  CO            C C-A-AC-A  C -ACCO   OCCCCOC CC                01110
CCC   C C CCU)CCCaCa   C aao  C   Ca   CC              C U)00  CC  C 00CC    C C 0000C-ACO
C CCC   C CCC  0000000    C CO tI' LI'  CC   CC            C C Ct) C C 0 00CC    C NIl 121CC CtI'C (AC     CC  -C



- 36 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT SANTO DOMINGO MUNICIPALITY
BILATERAL ASSISTANCE (US$ TH)
1983 1/       1984      1985       Total
Components:
A. Inst. Dev.
A.1. Tech Ass.
Waste Mngt.
Spain                       125           250        125
Italy                        58           172
Sweden                                     57
183          479        125         787
B. Pilot Interv.
B.1. Mat. Equip. Veh.
Traffic Mngt.
France                      197
Waste Mngt
France                      269
Italy                       465           219
Sweden                                  1,207
932         1,426                 2,358
Total Bilateral Assistance                                             3,145
1/   Calendar years:  approximate date of delivery of bilateral equipment,
materials and vehicles, from:
France: second half of 1983
Italy:   end of 1983, and beginning of 1984
Sweden: beginning of 1984



OPERATING UNITS                                                               DIVTSIONS
Org-niaati-_
Family Prot-ction.,
C-unity A.eitelce                                   ,
iattyOrientation                                                             Comuelty
Sptorts                                                                    LPoe                        
Museum. Arts and Culture
Library                                                                                       _
Public Regsirtryr5 
Area Relegatesi                            Delegations                      DelegationsB       _r                                              
C 11 .. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ld  ~~~~~ntt I                                                                                                 eeC
Culture rind Arte                                                           Rutr rabn        a_   ou  Vt                    
Nuet -o                                                                                                                                                                                     n t
llodelo 
Ln      s HiCrs                                                               Manrets
gee Anton
Vills Cn.esel                                                                                                                                                                               E
CInaiyIn
Las C.nba.
Na i...I 
Independencis                                                                                                                     
earri Obse                                                                   Cetenteriee                      e_
La/r Ylarn
ClteSs   Redeetn-
deavy Equ.ipent
Light Eq ipr
ruel Station                                                                               0Ii
Urban D-eign
Urban Flatting                                                                                                                                   t       
Ubrsi El tui.g                                                                                                                          I     I      l
Tnp-graphy and Cadts|
onetenl and luvarviswn                                                                                                                              .J                                                  C  
Filer  ..l                                                                                                                                         
teapectionralI     
RDad Mi-ntot..re  .u
Ruin Se-.e" ,
IepectioI7
Urben Tr-nsit                                      |n
DUsigo oud Budgetn
Nuildina Materirls Plat
Aapbult FReont                                                                                                  
Wareho.ue
Parka
Gardening                                                                                        
S  SuntatIon      1                        
Private Docom 
Public iRtenuvI
Itepection                                        |                    [ Muniripal lanes
Public Rorertin. Revenues                                                 uud Revenues
Ciche Nline.
Childr-n,  or                - P-k
Ravenues                                                                                                             v     ll.        
Inaepectionr  oat
Control ot raymanint                                                                                                    Rb 
Equity                                                                                                                  -u ^n 
nert1roest Fsnd              1_____



I



72'                                                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 17130
72-              71                                                                                           ~        ~         ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S.AX  APRIL 1983
ONTE C                                                                     DOMINICAN  REPUBLIC                              1J                                         A
T    ;   L O P,Az, >      URBAN  SYSTEMS                                         <                 A
DAJA    E Bi-6   ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0M1CNANTIGUA
Q *           , -    -~  '   A D 
JA AICA-1                              - BRBD
DOMINICA'~
SA\  |   \  tS\l 2 t \    IO N  ECO\DE MACORIS /0    0   20  30  40  20
,- _1 9 /\h,                                                                                                                               d .   L o   \Ml. ,     a=u=  '\ 
I9-
Pli\A                                                                                                 d Bo,L    A /
wb <  ,, .,       X                     9~~~~~ Ove.jr 2it,000<                     150 InhobitrrniB per sq.km.              POPULATION   DISTRIBUTION
AN JUAN                                                             7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NRHRNSSEMSUHRNSSE
\   \   //        *   6,000 to 20,000                                                      1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2,188,064 lnhob,tontsI  13,415,462 Inhabitants I
L I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8
-18- ! X \ , 69 kv Transmission Lines _ 0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 10 ScnLogo C,i.                                                  =D 18g
< >  \4t    Selected Secondory Roods                                              4        kXLargerCities         t Rvfa   | DSo_ OgO 8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ciie
72-          71-                                                    7t0O                                                 ~~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6°-  Tpownt<6000



s - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i



IBRD 17131
IUSA  ~~~     A /,,ic69-50'                                                                                                                                                                                                  APRIL 1983
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
CITY OF SANTO DOMINGO
-. _  ,lseI.NICAN                                         X URBAN GROWTH AND PROJECT LOCATIONS
JAMAICA&                    IL>
7000'
A                                                                                                                                                V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1825~_                                                                                                                     City Growth up to 1950 I25.29km2)                        150                            brn.dr.vv..v,    t82
/ /: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~City Growth 1950-1981 (162 08 kmb2                                                                          1  100 "rmtt7hO  82
X    |/   <)   i   2   3     4          s                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Moin Access Roods and Streets   1t-5                                  v
KILOMETER5S                                                                          ieso~ 
70'00'                                                                                69-55'                                                                                  69q50'
I   0



