LO8,t 6V0-CO
FILE  COPY                     ItRESTRICTED
Repor No. PTR-44a
This report was prepar*4 for use within the Bank and its Afliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its occuracy or compless. The report may
not be published nor may It be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCIION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
THE SIXTH HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
COLOMBIA
April 28, 1970
Transportation Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTSs     February 1970
Currency Unit         -  Peso (pa.)
U.S. $1.00            =   Ps. 18.00
U.S. $1 million       -   Ps. 18 million
Ps. 1 million         -   US$55,555
FISCAL YEAR
January 1             -   December 31
UNITS OF WEIGHTS AND HEASURES:   Metric
Metric:     British/U.S. Equivalents
1 meter (m)             - 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)        - 0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2). 0.386 square mile (sq. mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)      1.1 US short ton
- 0.98 long ton
ABBREVIATIONS USED IN THE REPORT:
ADT                  - Average Daily Traffic
CNR                  - Colombian National Railroads
DANE                 -  National Department of Statistics
INTRA                - National Transport Institute
MOP                  - Ministry of Public Works
TAMS                 -  Tippetts-Abbett-NkCarthy-Stratton
(Consulting Engineers, U.S.)



COLOMBIA
APPRAISAL OF SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .............   ..... . ,. ............    i-i
1. INTRODUCTION .. . ......... 
2.   BACKGROUND INFORMATION.. *...........                                     2
A.   General ............   . .   .            .. .                 2
B.   The Transportation Sector                      .3
C. Transport Coordination.                                          5
3.   THE HIGHWAY SECTOR ........................                              8
A. Highway Network                        .          .8
B.   Highway Administration . ........                              8
C.   Highway Planning and Financing.                                9
D. Highway Engineering   .                   .10
E.   Highway Construction.                                        10
F.   Highway Maintenance              .... .. .... ...            11
G.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic                   11
4. THE PROJECT.                            ....  12
A.   General Description..                             ...         12
B.  Bridge Construction                         .                 12
C.   Road Reconstruction and Improvement              .           13
D.   Consulting Services for Supervision.                         13
E.  Cost Estimates and Financing   . .14
F.   Execution .....  ...............                             17
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION    ..18
A. General                          ...18
B.   The Project Roads and Bridge.                                 19
6. RECOMMENDATIONS                      . . .21
This report was prepared by Messrs. Migliorini (engineer) and Shields (eco-
nomist) on the basis of an appraisal mission during November/December, 1969.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
ANNEX A   Bank Lending in the Colombian Transport Sector
CHART
1. Organisation of Ministry of Public Works
MAP
1. Location of Project Roads and Bridge (IBRD 2792R)
TABLES
1.  National Highways by District
2. Departmental Roads
3. Consultants Employed in the Project
4. Air Traffic 1964-1968
5.  Imports and Exports Through Major Colombian Ports 1958-68
6. Sources of Revenue for 1969-72 Highway Program
7. Past and Projected National Highway Expenditures
8. Ministry of Public Works - Highway Design Standards
9. Vehicle Registration 1958-1967
10. Motor Fuel Consumption, 1958-1968
11. Project Design Standards
12. Paving Program
13. Weighted Vehicle Operating Costs on Good Paved Road Over
Level Terrain
14. Operating Cost Coefficients for Different Highway
Conditions



COLOMBIA
APPRAISAL OF THE SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Bank has been closely associated with highway development in
Colombia since 1951, and the proposed loan will continue the upgrading of
the national highway system. The project will include a major highway
bridge, the paving of 1,618 Km of highway, the construction of 9.5 Km of
highway and consulting services for construction supervision. The comple-
tion of this paving program, which will add over 30% to the existing paved
network (Tables 1 and 2) will provide, for the first time, paved links
between all the major inland cities of the country and their.respective
ports.  The program will upgrade most of the heavier trafficked, presently
unpaved, sections of the national network.
ii.       The total cost of the project, including contingencies, is es-
timated at US$62 million equivalent. The Bank loan of US$32.0 million
equivalent will finance the estimated foreign exchange cost of construc-
tion and 50% of the cost of consultants' services. The remaining funds
will be provided by the Government.  The proposed participation in con-
sultants' costs entails local currency financing of about US$0.8 million
equivalent.
iii.      The project will be the sixth highway project financed by the
Bank in Colombia since 1951. Bank/IDA financing has totalled $103.55
million equivalent. The Bank has also assisted the railways in Colombia,
having provided loans totalling $94.6 million equivalent over the same
period. The most recent highway loan was made in 1968 and is still under
execution; progress is in general satisfactory, although construction is
rather slower than expected. The Government has, during negotiations,
given further assurances regarding reorganizing the Ministry of Works,
which was initiated under the 1968 loan.
iv.       Consultants (mainly local, supplemented by US firms) have been
responsible for the detailed engineering of the project. The same consult-
ants will assist the Government in prequalifying contractors, analysing
bids and supervising construction. The cost estimates are considered
accurate and adequate contingencies have been included.
v.        The project is technically and economically sound.  The economic
rates of return for the different works range from 10% to 25%.
vi.       Construction contracts have been, or will be, awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding. Execution of the project will
be the responsibility of the Ministry of Public Works.



- ii -
vii.      The possibility of imposing tolls on Barranquilla bridge traffic
has been raised by the Government. The Government has agreed that, upon
completion of the bridge, a study based on variations in rates will be
undertaken to test the effect of different levels of tolls on bridge traffic.
The Government will subsequently agree with the Bank on the criteria to be
employed in determining the structure and level of tolls to be charged.
These criteria will be consistent with achieving the economic benefits
from the construction of the bridge which were forecast in the feasibility
report.
viii.     The project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$32.0
million equivalent. An appropriate term for the loan would be 25 years,
including a four year period of grace.



COLOMBIA
APPRAISAL OF THE SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Colombia has requested a loan to help finance
a project (see Map) costing about US$62 million equivalent including (a)
the construction of a major highway bridge, (b) the paving of 1,618 km of
national highways, (c) the construction of 9.5 km of multi-lane highway and
(d) consulting services for the supervision of the above works.
1.02      The Bank has been closely involved with the improvement of Colom-
bia's transportation facilities since 1951, when it made a loan for the
emergency rehabilitation of an important part of the national highway sys-
tem. It has since made four other loans and IDA has made one credit for
highways, and, in all, US$103.55 million has been provided for this purpose
as follows:
Loan/Credit             Date Signed                         Amount
Loan  43-CO                1951                  $16.5 million fully disbursed
Loan  84-CO                1953                 $14.35 million fully disbursed
Loan 144-CO                1956                  $16.5 million fully disbursed
Loan 295-CO                1961                  $19.5 million fully disbursed
Credit 5-CO                1961                  $19.5 million fully disbursed
Loan 550-CO                1968                  $17.2 million; $6.0 million
disbursed as of 3/31/70
TOTAL   US$103.55 million
1.03      The history of Bank lending in the transport sector is described
in Annex A. In brief, the Bank has tried to help create a viable national
highway system and a healthy highway administration; the former aim has to
a large extent been achieved, and present investment is mainly for improving
the network to meet increasing traffic demands. As regards the administra-
tion of highways, the Ministry is in the process of reorganizing itself
following consultants' recommendations; this reorganization is being assisted
under the most recent highway loan (550-CO in 1968) but progress has been
uneven. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that it would continue
to implement the Ministry reorganization. Progress otherwise under Loan
550-CO has been satisfactory although construction was hampered somewhat by
bad rains in 1969 and is a little behind schedule.



-2-
1.04      This report was prepared by Messrs. Migliorini (Engineer) and
Shields (Economist) on the basis of feasibility and final engineering
studies prepared by Colombian consultants INGETEC (in association with
TAMS, U.S.), INTEGRAL (in association with Gannett, Fleming, Corddry and
Carpenter, U.S.), and several other Colombian consulting firms (see Table
3), and on the basis of an appraisal mission which visited Colombia in
November/December 1969.
2. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      The Republic of Colombia occupies an area of more than one mil-
lion km2, roughly equivalent to that of all six members of the European
Economic CormAunity. It is bordered by Venezuela and Brazil to the east,
Peru and Ecuador to the south and Panama to the northwest. It has coasts
on both the Caribbean Sea and the Pacific Ocean. With 21 million people,
it has the third largest population in South America and the growth rate
of 3.3% p.a. will shortly make it secoud to Brazil. Urban population is
now about 50% of total population and is growing much more rapidly
than the national average.
2.02      Because of its topography, with altitudes ranging from sea level
to almost 6,000 a, climate and vegetation vary widely.  The greater part
of both urban and rural populations is concentrated in the elevated Bogota-
Cali-Medellin triangle which is about one-fifth of the country's area. The
only other large concentrations of population occur around the Atlantic sea-
ports of Cartagena and Barranquilla, where considerable industrial activity
is located.
2.03      Agriculture accounts for nearly 30% of Colombia's GDP (compared
with 37% in 1958). Manufacturing industry accounts for about 17% of total
GDP. Commerce, with 14% is the next mDst important sector. Mining, ser-
vices and other activities make up the remainder.  The principal mineral
resource so far discovered is oil, which at present supplies 10% of the
country's total exports as well as domestic requirements.  There are also
extensive deposits of coal, which, in the area of Paz del Rio, where iron
ore is also found, support a steel mill.
2.04      Colombia's GDP increased by almost 5% p.a. between 1958 and 1968,
while the population grew at more than 3% during the same period. Per cap-
ita income is presently estimated at about US$280. A shortage of foreign
exchange persisted in the decade to 1969, due to the low level of coffee
prices in that period. Rising coffee prices during 1969 and their probable
continuation in the near term presage an improvement in the foreign exchange
situation. The country's reliance on coffee exports has been steadily de-
clining over the last decade, but this commodity still accounts for 64% of



- 3 -
the total value of exports compared with 74% in 1958. There have been sub-
stantial increases in other exports, notably in oil, cotton, sugar, cattle,
and tobacco. The Government's present objective is to achieve a sustained
growth rate of about 6% in GDP. This was almost achieved in 1968, and it
has been estimated that a rate of at least 6.5% was attained in 1969.
B. Transportation Sector
2.05      The three mountain ranges of Colombia present formidable barriers
to movement between the main areas of population, which until recently de-
veloped as separate, almost isolated communities. The advantage of having
coastlines on both the Atlantic and the Pacific is offset by the difficulty
of movement from the coasts into the interior.
2.06      The distribution of freight traffic between modes of transport in
1966, the latest year for which data are available, was as follows:
Year    Rail   Truck   River   Coastal Shipping   Air   Pipelines   Total
1958     10%      29%    12%            7%           0.8%    41.2%       100%
1966     10%      32%    10%            7.5%         0.6%    39.7%       100%
Railways
2.07      The Colombian National Railroads (CNR) operate a network of lines
totalling some 3,400 route km.  The system has access to the Pacific at Buena-
ventura and to the Atlantic at Santa Marta. Traffic from the other Atlan-
tic ports of Cartagena and Barranquilla is transferred to the railway from
road and water routes. The Atlantic line, financed by the Bank (Loan 199-CO)
and opened in 1961, is the most important. Traffic on the main trunks aver-
ages about 500,000 ton km per route km p.a. and in 1968 total traffic achieved
a record 1,125 million ton-km. However, completion of some major highway
projects, in particular the new Buenaventura-Cali highway in 1970, is ex-
pected to result in substantial diversion of traffic from some routes. Pas-
senger travel has been declining at 6% p.a. for several years, and the CNR
is currently rationalizing its passenger services. About 260 km of apparent-
ly uneconomic line are being studied for possible closure. A ten year rail-
way rehabilitation program 1963-72, with partial Bank financing (Loan 551-CO)
is in progress. The operating ratio for 1969 was 99 and, if pressure to
increase social benefits to railway pensioners can be staved off, financial
prospects for the next few years are, generally, favorable.
Highways
2.08      Colombia has some 45,000 km of roads of which about 5,000 km are
paved, principally with asphalt. The total number of road vehicles --
260,000 in 1968 -- has been increasing by about 6% p.a. in recent years,



-4-
and trucks by about 4% p.a. This is a fairly slow rate of growth compared
with that in other countries at a similar stage of development, though
there has been a slight trend towards larger vehicles, so that total trucking
capacity has consequently been expanding at a somewhat faster rate than the
number of trucks. On the major trunk highways, truck traffic predominates.
2.09      About two-thirds of public investment in the transport sector is
being devoted to highway construction and reconstruction. To a large ex-
tent, the highway network has complemented the railway system rather than
competed with it. As shown above, the railway's share of total traffic was
the same in 1966 as in 1958. The provision of modern highways has resulted,
nevertheless, in considerable diversion of traffic from rail to road in
particular cases. In some cases this was due to the rundown condition of
the railway; however, on the Paz del Rio-Bogota route steel traffic formerly
lost is returning to rail now that a reasonable service can be offered. On
the other routes, particularly Bogota-Espinal-Ibague, Cali-Medellin, and
Cali-Buenaventura, improved road transport is likely to offer sufficient
advantages for many products to attract more traffic from the railway. Dev-
elopment of communications in southern and eastern Colombia will be in the
form of highways, and the Government has prepared a feeder road program to
complement the primary and secondary highway programs now underway.
Air Services
2.10      Colombia's very difficult terrain encouraged the early develop-
ment of air services for internal as well as international transportation.
There are about 650 landing facilities in the country. In addition to the
four international airports at Bogota, Barranquilla, Medellin and Cali,
there are some 25 other airports each handling at least 1,000 passengers a
month. Internal passenger traffic increased by 4.6% p.s. between 1964 and
1968, but internal air freight movement, as shown in Table 4, is negligible
and static. In 1968, only 103,000 tons of traffic, generating 72 million
ton-km, were handled. There is evidence of recent over-expansion of invest-
ment in airport facilities, although selective investment (such as, at
Medellin, where the present site is operationally difficult) can still
probably be justified. In 1967, Avianca cancelled its Bogota-Popayan jet
flight and the new airport at Popsyan is almost unused, because a good
road now connects that city with Cali. Other recent improvements in sur-
face transport facilities have led to a decline in air traffic on certain
routes.
Ports
2.11      About 86Z of dry cargo foreign trade is handled by the ports of
Buenaventura on the Pacific and the three Caribbean ports of Santa Marta,
Barranquilla and Cartagena. The tonnages involved for the period 1958-
1968 are shown in Table 5. Total exports have been growing at an average
of 5.4% p.a. while imports have in recent years been substantially less
than in the mid 1950's, reflecting both foreign exchange difficulties and



- 5 -
import substitution effects. When present additions at Buenaventura and
Santa Marta are in service, the Government considers that it will have
adequate port capacity for the next ten years. There is evidence in the
ports, particularly Buenaventura, of inefficient practices which lead to
very slow truck turnaround time. During loan negotiations, it was agreed
that the Government would undertake a study, to be completed by mid 1971,
to determine methods of improving cargo handling operations in its major
ports and especially reducing the turnaround time for trucks serving the
port of Buenaventura. The Government will consult with the Bank on the
recommendations resulting from the study and their implementation.
River Transport
2.12      There are several navigable rivers in Colombia, but 96% of the
inland shipping is on the Magdalena and most of the rest on the Cauca.
River shipping is dependable in all seasons on the lower regions of the
Magdalena, but upriver from Gamarra (478 km from the mouth) navigability
is seasonal. The volume of traffic varies from year to year according to
the condition of the river, and in recent years there has been competition
from the Atlantic line of the railroad, over the whole haul but especially
in the northern reaches of the river.  Pipelines also provide competition
for petroleum products, which constitute the main traffic on the river.
Nevertheless, a record 2.8 million tons of river traffic was recorded in
1968. Passenger traffic has suffered much more from the improvement of
road and rail services in the Magdalena Valley. In 1956, 363,000 passengers
were carried on the river. In 1966, the last year of record, only 7,000
travelled by this mode.
Pipelines
2.13      Petroleum products, Colombia's second largest export earner af-
ter coffee, are mainly transported by pipeline. From the oilfields located
near Barrancabermeja, crude oil pipelines supply five refineries, including
one at Cartagena, whence- refined products are shipped via the Panama Canal
to Buenaventura for distribution to western Colombia. The new Caldas line
from Dorada to the Manizales area may affect this distribution pattern.
Another line supplies crude oil to Santa Marta for export. Refined prod-
ucts are also moved by pipeline from refineries to Bogota and Medellin,
and from Buenaventura to the Cauca Valley. The Trans-Andean pipeline from
the Orito field in Putumayo to the Pacific port of Tumaco was put into
operation early in 1969. It was expected, within a year, to carry 100,000
(and ultimately 150,000) barrels per day, reversing a drop in Colombian
exports of crude which fell from 31.1 m barrels in 1967 to 18.5 m in 1968.
C. Transport Coordination
2.14      Responsibility for the administration of the transport system is
divided among a number of agencies and decentralised organizations. The
Ministry of Public Works is responsible for the national highway system and
finances the construction and maintenance of national roads through the Na-
tional Highway Fund. The Ministry is also responsible for the National



-6-
Feeder Road Fund, although local Government bodies also contribute to this.
The National Transport Institute (INTRA), created in 1968, is responsible
for regulatory policy and its execution. Port construction and operation
are the responsibility of the National Port Authority (COLPUERTOS). Transport
on the Magdalena River is controlled by the National Shipowners Association
(ADENAVI), which is responsible for maintenance and improvement of the river,
most river ports and the Canal del Dique which runs between the port of
Cartagena and the Magdalena. The National Shipping Company (NAVENAL) operates
on the rivers in the eastern part of the country and on the Amazon. The
Colombian National Railroads (CNR) are responsible for all railroads.
2.15      Decree No. 3160 of 1966 was an attempt to tie in the various en-
tities responsible for transport with the Ministry of Public Works. How-
ever, although the Minister is an ex-officio member of the boards of these
agencies, there is no central coordination of the different modes, except
through the Government's central planning department, Planeacion Nacional.
Recently the responsibility for airport construction and operation was
removed from the nominal control of the MOP and the Departamento Admininis-
trativo de Aeronautica Civil (D.A.A.C.) was reconstituted as a separate
entity.
2.16      In spite of the looseness of the coordinating machinery, major
mistakes in investment planning have been avoided. The Government is aware
that problems such as labour productivity and utilization of existing equip-
ment are more serious than lack of capacity, especially in ports. In the
current 1969-1972 investment plan, the need is acknowledged for studies
prior to investing in extensions or improvements, particularly where there
is close modal competition. INTRA and the recently established Highw-y
Planning Office in the MOP should also contribute to improved coordination.
Work is continuing on the development of a model to compare the system
effects of alternative transport investment programs. This is a cooperative
effort between the Planning Office, MOP, the University of Los Andes and the
Bank, and it is hoped to have the model operative in Colombia in 1971.
2.17      In 1966, when the National Road Fund was established and new ad
valorem gasoline and diesel taxes were introduced, road users were paying,
in the form of these taxes, about 50% of the Government's national road
expenditures. However, from 1970, due to the combined effects of inflation,
failure to adjust the exchange rate applicable to payments to petroleum
companies, and a greatly increased highway program, the contribution of
these taxes to the highway account will be only 30% to 35% of total antici-
pated expenditures on highway construction and maintenance.
2.18      The current pump price of gasoline, at US 15¢ equivalent per
gallon, is probably the cheapest in the world. This low price for gasoline
is possible because of the artificial exchange rate applicable to payments
to petroleum companies for crude oil refined for domestic consumption. This
rate has been fixed at nine pesos to the dollar since 1962, although the



- 7 -
current market exchange rate is about eighteen to the dollar. Thus, there
is a direct government subsidy to highway users, which in 1969 was about
307 million pesos. Moreover, since both gasoline and diesel excise taxes
are on an ad valorem basis, the yield is about 60% of what it would be if
the ex-refinery price of gasoline reflected a proper market price for crude
oil. If the exchange rate is unified, as the Government has indicated it
intends, road users would be paying for between 60% and 70% of the annual
outlays on national highways by 1972.
2^19      The unification of the petroleum exchange rate clearly has impli-
cations for the Government's fiscal strategy as a whole, as well as for the
transport sector. Furthermore, the CNR has been trying to rationalize its
railway operations, both by physical improvements and a flexible pricing
policy; these efforts are undermined by the subsidy of road transport.
2.20      As part of its policy for simplifying its foreign exchange system,
the Government has studied suitable methods for the adjustment of the crude
petroleum exchange rate with a view to its unification with the market rate
over two or three years. A change in the rate to 17.0 pesos to the US dollar
would raise ton km rates for truck transport by less than 9%. Ajustment of
the rate would probably be gradual; below, a comparison is made of estimated
revenues from the gasoline and diesel taxes with and without the proposed
changes if carried out in three steps by 1972:
Revenue No              Revenue with       Subsidy
Market    Change (in   Petroleum  Change (in   To Central Bank
Exchange    million      Exchange    million   Foreign Exchange A/C
Year      Rate        pesos)        Rate       pesos)    (in million pesos)
1969      17.5         693         9.00         693              307
1970      18.8         806         13.30        970              168
1971      20.10        855         17.60       1185                78
1972      21.30        904         21.30       1412



- 8 -
3. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A. Highway Network
3.01      Colombia has a road network totalling about 45,000 km in length,
of which about 19,000 km form the national highway system, a further 19,000
km are departmental, and the balance are municipal (linking towns with out-
lying communities and farms) and private (such as to oil concessions). The
departmental system includes about 3,000 km of "caminos vecinales", which
are low standard feeder roads built under a national program started in
1960; materials and labor for these are furnished by the local community as-
sisted financially and technically by the departmental and central author-
ities. About 20% of the national system is paved, against less than 5% of
the departmental roads (Tables 1 and 2). The national highway network over
the years 1962 to 1969 has increased from 16,500 km to about 19,000 km.
3.02      Due to the difficult terrain (which leads to high construction
costs) and to the isolation and traditional independence of the various re-
gional centers, only in the last two decades has there been any real effort
to link the main population and economic centers of the country by good
roads.
3.03      The national highway system includes the basic trunk network
which connects the main centers of population and a number of secondary
roads linking the smaller towns to the primary network, as well as some
minor roads of at present purely local importance, but which may in fu-
ture form part of new long distance routes.
B. Highway Administration
3.04      The MOP is responsible for planning, constructing and maintaining
the national highway network. The Minister also has separate but more ten-
uous responsibilities through semi-autonomous agencies for railways, river
transport, ports, INTRA and for technical advice on the construction of
feeder roads. The national highway system accounts for about 90% of MOP's
efforts and expenditures.  MDP's organization is shown in Chart No. 1.
3.05      Since efforts to create a modern transport system started in the
early 1950's, limitations have been imposed by organizational difficulties
within the MOP which operated with archaic procedures and systems. Since
it first became involved with highways in Colombia, the Bank has encouraged
the modernizing of the highway organization, and in 1966, the Government
engaged management consultants to review the Ministry's operations, to make
recommendations for improvement and, subsequently, to help implement these
recommendations. The consultants appointed were COMEC (Mexico) in joint
venture with Frederick R. Harris (U.S.). The contract expired at the end
of December 1969, but COMEC experts are continuing to advise in the organi-
zation of highway maintenance. The implementation phase is, however, still



- 9 -
in progress. Progress has been achieved in almost all the Ministry's
activities, and particularly in maintenance, but not in all cases at the
pace which the Government had foreseen at the time the Fifth Highway Loan
(550-CO) was made. The main reason for this has been the difficulty of
recrutting sufficient staff of high calibre, government salaries generally
being unattractive and not competitive with the private sector. During
negot.ations, the Bank reviewed progress on the reorganization program with
the  o-ernment which reaffirmed its intention to reorganize the Ministry
and  indicated its plans for certain key areas where progress has lagged --
speclfi:d21y, in personnel administration, organization of the Design Divi-
sion, and improverient of workshops, equipment maintenance and spare parts
procurement.
C. !Llgz_ lani   and Financing
3.06      The management consultants helped MOP to inventory the national
highway system. About 7,000 km have so far been covered, and it is ex-
pecteui that the inventory will be completed during 1970; it will facilitate
future highway pianning and operations, and help to establish the basis
for classifying roads. The first national traffic census was conducted in
l968; the results were used together with the inventory and field inspec-
tions and some additional counts to plan the highway paving program which
is part of the present project. The analysis of similar traffic counts
for 1969 is in progress, and counts will be continued on an annual basis.
Confirmation that the Government will continue to collect data needed for
highway operations and planning was obtained during negotiations.
3.07      In the past, highway projects undertaken by MOP were numerous
and often overly ambitious. As a result, many were never completed. The
--Licy of the last four years has been to curtail expenditure on less ec-
onomic improvements and to concentrate on completing projects already
begun. Funds for further feasibility studies to prepare a pipeline of
economically attractive projects were provided in Loan 550-CO but have not
yet been committed, as a study program has not yet been agreed upon and,
therefore, no additional provision for this purpose is made in this project.
The Government has proposed a list of highway studies and these are present-
ly under review by the Bank.
3.08      One of the main causes of poor performance on earlier highway
projects was the inadequate provision of local funds by the Government
for ambitious road programs; this not only forced construction contrac-
tors to gear their output to known availability of funds, but led direct-
ly to the financial failure of some firms. The establishment of the Na-
tional Highway Fund at the end of 1966 provided a more assured source of
financing for highway works. However, greater dependence will in future
be placed on the general budget contribution, because, unless the petroleum
exchan-e rate is reformed (para. 2.18), revenues to the Fund from fuel taxes
will fall short by between 1,300 m. pesos and 1,600 m. pesos p.a. between
1970 and 1973 (Table 6). Table 7 shows recent and projected expenditures
on the national highway system.



- 10 -
D. Highway Engineering
3.09      The standards for new highway construction introduced in 1967
are shown in Table 8. Although these were used as the basis for design,
not all the roads in the paving program will be improved to the full stand-
ards since the roads to be paved already exist and upgrading to meet stand-
ards for new construction would in some cases be uneconomical or impracti-
cable because of difficult terrain (para. 4.05).
3.10      In Colombia, pavements have frequently been overdesigned to
overcome deficiencies in drainage. However, MOP is being assisted by
an expert from the Road Research Laboratory (UK), whose main task is
to review and advise on pavement design in the country. The services
of this expert are being partially financed from Loan 550-CO.
3.11      Although many of its personnel are competent, the Ministry has
limited design capacity and uses consultants for this purpose. While re-
organization of the Ministry could increase its engineering capability
and thus enable some design to be undertaken directly, it will continue to
be necessary to use consultants for much of its design work.
3.12      Consultants have frequently been engaged by Government on con-
tracts written in very general terms which can result in high engineering
costs. Under the proposed project, tighter contracting arrangements are
being made which will simplify administration, improve control of consult-
ants and keep costs at reasonable levels.
3.13      The consulting profession is now well established in Colombia,
and there are a number of large and capable Colombian engineering firms,
some of which have developed as a result of their participation in Bank-
financed projects in highways, power supply and other fields.
E. Highway Construction
3.14      Modern methods of highway construction were first introduced in
Colombia in the early 1950's, when experienced foreign contractors were
employed on the first Bank highway project. Mountainous terrain and cor-
responding heavy earth moving led to extensive use of heavy equipment which
had not previously been operated to any extent in Colombia. There are now
several local firms capable of undertaking contracts worth US$4 to $5 m
equivalent, and many smaller firms. In the current Loan 550-CO, all road
construction is being carried out by Colombian contractors. However, the
Colombian contracting industry may be strained to handle the new project
together with othgoing work and additional projects likely to start in the
forthcoming fiscal year, and foreign contractors should have more opportunity
to participate.



- 11 -
3.15      Construction equipment for works financed by foreign loans can be
imported free of duty, provided a financial guarantee is given that it will
be re-exported immediately after completion of the work. The Government
has agreed to facilitate the licensing of imports of equipment needed for
the project.
3.16      Major highway construction is now almost invariably carried out
under unit price contracts let after competitive bidding. Delays formerly
experienced in legalizing contracts have been overcome; contracts can now
become effective within thirty days of award, The Government agreed during
negotiations that foreign contractors would have the right to obtain the
foreign exchange necessary for their operations.
F. Highway Maintenance
3.17      The quality of maintenance work on the national highway system
was in the past uneven; central control was loose and results were depend-
ent on the interest and ability of individual district engineers. The
activity of the maintenance division was mainly geared to the reconstruc-
tion of pavements which had deteriorated because of deferred maintenance;
the introduction of extensive routine maintenance has taken place only
recently. In more recent years, however, many improvements have been made
(Annex A). Management consultants helped to establish a pilot program in
one of the maintenance districts which has already yielded considerable
benefits, and the results of this program are being extended now to other
districts. Accounting controls have been established, standard maintenance
procedures have been introduced, and routine maintenance is now planned
centrally on an annual basis.
3.18      Most districts have now been staffed with mechanical engineers,
and workshop facilities are being slowly improved; however, much more
remains to be done to improve equipment maintenance and COMEC experts are
now advising the Ministry on this. The Ministry is using the proceeds of
US and British credits to procure highway equipment worth US$21 m equivalent,
which should more than meet the needs of maintenance.
3.19      During loan negotiations, the Government confirmed that it will
maintain the national highway system properly.
G. Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
3.20      The road vehicle fleet grew at an average annual rate of 5.6%
p.a. between 1958 and 1967 (Table 9). The number of trucks increased at
a lower rate of about 4%, with trucks of less than 3 ton capacity increas-
ing at 8% and heavier trucks at 3.2% p.a. There is evidence of a trend to-
wards heavier trucks, but the effect on the total truck fleet is not very
significant. The statistics show somewhat quicker growth for motor fuel
consumption than vehicle registrations; 6.6% annually for gasoline and 7.2%
for diesel (Table 10). The increased motor fuel taxes introduced in 1966
had no discernible effect on fuel consumption. Fleet growth has been



- 12 -
largely limited by import restrictions. The motor industry is limited to
assembly of cars, buses and trucks, but plans for manufacture are now being
discussed with foreign interests.
3.21      A draft law on vehicle weights and dimensions has just been pre-
pared to replace Law No. 0102 of 1955, but the maximum allowable axle loads
are unchanged, i.e., 8.2 m tons for single axles and 14.5 m tons for tandem
axles. All trucks will be required to carry a certificate issued by INTRA
describing their dimensions. The proposed law is acceptable and the prob-
lem, as with the existing law, will be enforcement. About 95% of trucks
are still single-axle vehicles, and overloading is common. The government
has banned the import of trucks with dimensions and axle load capacities
above legal limits and has indicated that it will not license replacement
of engines for such trucks imported during an earlier period of lax en-
forcement of loading standards. INTRA has recently introduced highway
patrols to enforce compliance with the law. The steps are generally in
accordance with those agreed with the Government in 1968. During loan
negotiations the Government reaffirmed its intention to ensure that vehicle
weight and dimensions will be properly regulated on national highways.
4. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
4.01      The proposed project consists of:
(i) The construction of a major bridge across the
river Magdalena at Barranquilla;
(ii) The reconstruction to higher standards of 9.5
km of highway between El Pailon and Buenaven-
tura on the Buga-Buenaventura highway;
(iii) The paving of 1618 km of primary and secondary
highway; and
(iv) Supervision by consultants of (i), (ii), and
(iii) above.
B. Bridge Construction
Barranquilla Bridge
4.02      This bridge will replace the ferry service across the Magdalena
(the largest river in Colombia) on the highway between Barranquilla and
Santa Marta. This is part of the Trans-Caribbean highway, the eastern
section of which is currently being constructed with assistance from IDB.



- 13 -
The basic design for the bridge was of steel on steel piling, but it is now
proposed to award the construction contract for an alternative design in
prestressed concrete on cast-in-place concrete piles. The length will be
about 1499 m with access ramps of 1014 a and 1335 m connecting the structure
to the existing highway system. The main span of the bridge will be 140 m
and will have a vertical clearance of 16 m to permit river navigation. The
design standards are shown in Table 11.
C. Road Reconstruction and Improvement
El Pailon - Buenaventura Road
4.03      This 9.5 km road is the last section of the new highway connecting
Buenaventura, the main port of the country, with its hinterland. The Bank
under Loan 550-CO is financing the completion of the eastern portion of this
highway, which is expected to be open to traffic in 1971. The road from
El Pailon to Buenaventura crosses a thickly populated area, and the improved
alignment selected is the only technically feasible solution because the
port and town of Buenaventura can be reached only along a natural isthmus
through mangrove swamps.
4.04      The improvement will be to a two-lane paved highway with an em-
bankment sufficient in width to permit the provision of two additional lanes
in the future when required (possibly 1982) and for widening the existing
El Pinal bridge from 6.1 m to 7.9 m. Design standards are in Table 11.
Paving Program
4.05      This program covers 1618 km of national primary and secondary
highways. In addition to paving and drainage the works include upgrading
(where this is desirable and economically justified). Improved drainage
will constitute a primary component of the program as lack of proper drain-
age is a major cause of pavement failure in Colombia.
4.06      The 48 sections contained in the paving program, and the antici-
pated 1970 traffic volumes and design standards, are in Table 12.
D. Consulting Services for Supervision
4.07      A list of the consultants who will be employed on supervision is
given in Table 3. In all cases they are the firms which earlier carried
out the detailed engineering.
For Barranquilla Bridge
4.08      The feasibility study for this project was carried out by
INGETEC/TAMS, financed from Credit 5-CO. The bridge siting and layout
were agreed with the consultants to the Ports Authority on river pro-
blems affecting port operation (Sir Alexander Gibb, U.K.) and with the



- 14 -
French advisers to MOP on hydraulics and river training. INGETEC/TAMS also
prepared the basic design and the bidding documents, have evaluated bids,
and will supervise construction. The alternative bridge design submitted
by the successful bidder was made by Professor Morandi (Italy); it has
been reviewed by INGETEC/TAMS and found acceptable.
For El Pailon-Buenaventura
4.09      The engineering for this project was prepared by INTEGRAL/Gannett
Flemming, Corddry and Carpenter, who had also did the feasibility study.
MOP intends to retain these firms for supervision, and this is acceptable.
For the Paving Program
4.10      The engineering for this program was prepared by seven local con-
sultants (see Table 3). INGETEC/TAMS acted as coordinating consultants and
prepared the feasibility study for the whole program. It is proposed to
retain the services of the same consultants for supervision of construction,
and INGETEC/TAMS will continue to coordinate the work of the other consul-
tants in harness with MOP staff and its advisors, in particular the paving
expert provided by the U.K. Road Research Laboratory.
E. Cost Estimates and Financing
4.11      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$62.4 m equival-
ent, including allowances for quantity and price escalation. A summary
follows:



SUHMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
(December 1969 Prices)
Colombian Pesos                      US$ Equivalent            Bank Participation
(Million)                            (Million)                US      lion
Local      Foreign         Totaal ooreign                     Tta          Equivalent
CONSTRUCTION, RECONSTRUCTION
AND PAVING
a. Barranquilla Bridge                             61.0         86.C         147.0          3.4         4.8       8.2      4.8        (5B %)
b.  El Pailon-Buenaventura Road                    20.0         20.0          40.0          1.1         1.1       2.2      1.1         (50%)
c. Paving Program                                 353.8        353.8         707.6         19.7        19.6      39.3    19.6         (50%)
d. Quantity Contingencies (10%)                    45.0         47.0          92.0         2.5          2.6       5.1      2.6        (51%)
e. Price Escalation (7%)                           36.o         378           73.8          2.0         2.1       4.1      2.1        (51%)
TOTAL, Item 1                     515.8         544.6       1,060.4        28.7        30.2       58.9    30.2
CONSULTANTS FOR SUPERVISION
OF 1
a. Barranquilla Bridge                              3.6          7.2          10.8         0,.2        0.4        0.6     0.3         (50%)
E E1 Pailon-Buenaventura Road                        1.8          0.4           2.2         0.1         0.02       0.12    o.o6         (50%)
C        Paving Program                              36.0          9.0          45.0         2.0         0.5        2.5     1.25         (50o)
d. Contingencies (10%)                              3.6          1.8          5.4         0.2          0.1        0.3     0.15        (50%)
TOTAL, Item 2                         45.0         18.4          63.k        2.5          1.0        3.5     1.8
TOTAL                               560.8         563.0       1,123.5       31.2        31.2        62.4    32.0
NOTE: Rounded Totals
The exchange rate used in this Table is
18 Colombian pesos to US$1.00.



- 16 -
4.12      The coat estimate for the Barranquilla Bridge is based on bids
received. The cost estimates of the El Pailon-Buenaventura highway by
INTEGRAL/Gannett, Fleming, Corddry and Carpenter, were confirmed during
negotiations, when detailed engineering was nearly completed. Cost
estimates for the paving program were based on detailed engineering and
were confirmed during negotiations.
4.13      A 10% contingency item has been provided in the cost estimate
for possible quantity increases. This is considered reasonable in view
of the advanced stage of engineering.
4.14      About 7-1/2% has been allowed for global price increases during
the course of the project. Local cost increases will be accommodated by
an acceptable escalation formula, and it is assumed that adjustments in
the foreign exchange rate of the peso will reflect changes in the relative
purchasing power of domestic and foreign currencies.
4.15      The cost of consulting services has been estimated on the pro-
bable number of man-months required, applying average local and foreign
man-month rates. A contingency allowance of 10% has been added to the
estimated cost of these services.
4.16      The loan will finance the foreign exchange component of construction
cost, estimated as follows:
(i)  58% for Barranquilla Bridge; and
(ii)  50% for El Pailon-Buenaventura and the Paving Program
on the basis that the foreign exchange component would
approach 44% if all works are carried out by local con-
tractors and about 58% if they were to be carried out
entirely by foreign contractors. On the assumption
that about one-third of the works would be awarded to
foreign contractors, the foreign exchange component
would be about 50%.
4.17      It is proposed that the loan will finance 50% of the cost of con-
sulting services. The supervision of the program will be largely undertaken
by Colombian firms. The Bank should encourage the use of capable local con-
sultants where these exist, as in Colombia, and should be prepared to finance
a substantial part of the cost, as would have been the case if foreign con-
sultants were employed. It is therefore proposed that the loan will finance
all consultants in about the same proportion as that applied to the construc-
tion works. This will entail local currency financing of the order of US$0.8
million equivalent.



- 17 -
4.18      On the basis of the construction schedule, the tentative annual
breakdown of expenditures between the Government and the Bank is as follows:
(US$ Million Equivalent)
Total      Government Share        Bank Share
1970             7.9               3.9                4.0
1971            20.5              10.0               10.5
1972            22.4              10.9               11.5
1973            11.6               5.6                6.0
TOTAL           62.4              30.4               32.0
It is possible that contracts for the bridge and some of the paving works
will be signed prior to loan signature (expected to be at the beginning
of June 1970) but no expenditures are likely to be incurred before that
time. Some expenditures are, however, expected to be incurred prior to
loan signature in respect of consulting services connected with bidding,
but these will be small, and no provision is made in the loan for retro-
active financing. It is proposed that any surplus remaining in the loan
account on completion of the project will be cancelled.
4.19      Adequate local funds will be made available through the National
Highway Fund (supported as necessary by budgetary allocations) for the
execution of the project. It was agreed during loan negotiations that the
Bank would review the annual budget of the Fund and receive periodic
statements indicating the status of the allocations made for the individual
items to be financed by the loan.
F. Execution
4.20      The executing agency would be the MOP assisted by consultants.
The Government has negotiated draft contracts with the supervisory consult-
ants along the lines indicated in para. 3.12. These have been reviewed
and found satisfactory. The conclusion of these contracts will be a con-
dition for effectiveness of the loan.
4.21      The construction period will be about 30 months for the Barran-
quilla Bridge, 24 months for the El Pailon-Buenaventura road, and about
40 months for the paving program. For bid purposes, the 48 sections of
roads comprising the paving program have been grouped into 13 packages
(Table 12). These packages have been selected on the basis of geographical
proximity and are of a size to make them attractive to both local and
foreign contractors; six contracts will be between US$1 and 2 million,
five between $2 and 4 million, and two over $8 million.



- 18 -
4.22      International competitive bidding (permitting submission of
bids for alternative designs) has been held for the Barranquilla Bridge;
the consultants have recommended award to the lowest evaluated bidder
(Lodigiani of Italy, in association with Cuellar Serano Gomez of Colombia).
The Government and the Bank agree with the recommendation and a contract
should be signed in May 1970 and work should start in July. Prequalification
has been completed for the paving program -- eleven foreign firms were pre-
qualified - and bids have been received for the first stage of the program.
It is planned that all paving contracts will be started by July/August 1970.
Bids for El Pailon-Buenaventura will be invited by mid-1970.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
5.01      The initial selection of road sections for the paving program
was made after a study of the results of the 1968 MOP traffic census. Some
road sections with low traffic volumes were studied further because their
paving was expected to attract substantial traffic from other, longer routes.
The Barranquilla Bridge and the El Pailon-Buenaventura highway were pro-
posed for construction because present and prospective traffic volumes at
these locations are leading to congestion.
5.02      The project works are expected to reduce costs of transport by
lowering vehicle operating and time costs, shortening travel distances
and eliminating some serious bottlenecks. As a basis for estimating be-
nefits, the coordinating consultant (INGETEC/TAMS) prepared estimates of
vehicle operating costs in Colombia which are shown in Tables 13 and 14.
In general, their use indicates that road user savings resulting from the
paving of highways in Colombia are about 30 percent, and this is in accord
with Bank experience elsewhere. When the paving leads to the attainment of
a long, continuously paved route, for example between Bogota and the Carib-
bean Coast, there will be other potential savings in inventory costs, vehicle
utilization and rationalization of service, which cannot as yet be quantified.
These systems effects would make some of the sections in the paving program
more attractive than the calculated rates of return indicate.
5.03      The forecasts of traffic increase used in economic analysis ranged
from 3 percent to 7 percent p.a. and were based on the consultants' study
of growth in regional vehicle registration rates. For the Barranquilla
Bridge, the consultants forecast that traffic will rise by 9 percent p.a.
between 1973 and 1980, and then the rate of increase will decline gradually
to 5 percent p.a. in 1994. This appears reasonable. Only in the case of
Barranquilla Bridge is an estimate made of traffic generated by the im-
provement. Actual traffic growth in Colombia will be closely linked to
vehicle import policy since current utilization rates of all types of



- 19 -
vehicles are high. With improved balance of payments prospects it appears
probable that future growth will, if anything, be higher than recent his-
torical growth rates.
B. The Project Roads and Bridge
(i)  Barranquilla Bridge
5.04      This bridge will replace an existing ferry service maintained
partly by the Colombian National Railroad and partly by the MOP. The be-
nefits from the bridge are attributed to the net differences between the
value of vehicle and comercial driver time spent to cross the river via
the bridge and via the ferry and between imputed operating costs, includ-
ing stops and starts, incurred in crossing by the two modes. The value
of passenger time was not included in the analysis.
5.05      Current traffic using the ferry system is about 1,000 vehicles
per day of which 50% are commercial vehicles. A study by consultants
(INGETEC/TAMS) forecasts that constraints of ramp availability and stream
navigation would impose a limit of 1560 vehicles per day on the ferry
operation by 1984. The bridge will remove the physical constraint on
traffic growth and a great deal of generated traffic will be induced to
use the crossing for both short and long journeys. The east bank of the
Magdalena is today virtually undeveloped, and it is anticipated that port
related activity and the development of the nearby Salamanca island for
both tourist and industrial purposes would be stimulated by the new facil-
ity. The three ferries currently in use will be transferred to other
locations on the Magdalena to improve transversal connections in the
interior of the country.
5.06      Traffic is forecast to rise from 2,675 vehicles per day in 1973,
after the bridge is opened, to 5,920 vehicles per day in 1984 and 10,450
in 1990. This development depends upon the following assumptions or pre-
conditions:
1)   Completion of La Ye-Santa Marta-Rioacha-Paraguachon
Highway to the Venezuelan border;
2)   Completion of relocation of 100 km of Santa Marta-
Bucaramanga-Bogota, highway between Las Pavas and
San Roque and the paving of other sections;
3)   Exploitation of the tourist potential of Isla
Salamanca and the Santa Marta area;



- 20 -
4)   Expansion of port activities in Barranquilla and
extension of port related activity to the east
bank of the Magdalena; and
5)   Continued growth of cattle and cotton production in
the Departments of Magdalena and Cesar.
All the above are currently funded, programed or at a sufficiently
advanced stage of planning (with the exception of the industrial and
port development on the east bank of the river) to make their realization
probable within the forecast period. When the paving program in the
current project is completed, the journey between Bogota and the Caribbean
coast can be made completely over paved highways. There is, however, a
stretch of about 70 km between La Ye and Fundacion which may require both
realignment and repaving. This might be considered for a future. loan.
5.07      Based on the consultant's traffic forecasts and assumed percent-
age of trucks, buses and cars, the investment in the bridge would have an
internal rate of return over a 20 year economic life (i.e. the period over
which analysis is meaningful) of 17%. Using more conservative estimates,
an internal rate of return of between 13% and 14% would be obtained.
5.08      The Government is considering charging tolls on the bridge but
the level of these tolls has not been decided. The Government agreed
during negotiations that it would undertake a study over the first year
the bridge is open to test the effect on bridge traffic of varying the
tolls, and will base the criteria for determining the structure and level
of tolls to be charged on the results of this study. It has been agreed
that tolls would be levied in a manner consistent with achieving the
economic benefit forecast in the consultant's feasibility report. Receipts
from tolls would be credited to the National Highway Fund.
(ii) El Pailon-Buenaventura Highway
5.09      The Buenaventura-Buga highway has been under construction for
over 20 years. Its completion (expected in 1971) to El Pailon, where it
joins the existing Buenaventura-Cali road, is at present being financed
under Loan 550-CO. Between El Pailon and Buenaventura port there is at
present an unpaved road which is unsuitable for present traffic, which
ranges from 2,000 vehicles per day at one end, where it is predominantly
long distance, to 4,000 near the port, where there is a great deal of
local traffic. When the Buga-El Pailon road is open to traffic, some
increase in highway traffic at the expense of the railway is expected,
although no definitive study has been made of this.



- 21 -
5.10      The earlier reconstruction of the El Pailon-Buenaventura section
was delayed because of uncertainty about the standards to which this road
should be built and also to protracted discussions between the port, railway
and highway authorities on what bridge, railway and public utility reloca-
tion might be required and whose responsibility it should be. The consul-
tants, INTEGRAL/Gannett, Fleming, Corddry and Carpenter, have recommended
provision of a highway graded for four lanes, but with only two lanes
paved. The additional paving would be undertaken when traffic warranted
and, for purposes of economic analysis, this was assumed to be in 1982.
The government has confirmed that the port and railroad authorities are in
agreement with the recommended solution;
5.11      The economic benefits considered were road user savings resulting
from the improved geometric and surface conditions of the reconstructed
road, together with savings from reductions in congestion due to frequent
stops and starts. Relocation of the railway line and the construction of a
new railway bridge is unnecessary at present, but might be undertaken later,
perhaps when the four lane pavement is provided, with no disruption to
existing highway traffic. With a conservative traffic increase forecast of
6% p.a., the investment would yield an internal rate of return of 11.8%
which is acceptable. There would be additional, unmeasured, amenity bene-
fits to the people living along the road.
(iii) The Paving Program
5.12      The roads selected for the paving program have 1970 traffic vol-
umes ranging from 220 to 1,460 vehicles per day. Because some of the im-
provements consist only of paving with little or no geometric improvements,
the economic analysis was restricted to a 10 year life. If traffic growth
on these roads in the next 10 years is higher than anticipated, a more rad-
ical form of improvement including widening and realignment, will then be
advisable. Other roads are carrying sufficient traffic to warrant more
than paving, and still others, while presently carrying fairly low
volumes of traffic, are on trunk roads expected to carry heavy traffic in
the near future; in such cases the improvements will be up to full trunk
road standards. On the last two categories of road, a 20 year economic
life was assumed and the rate of return calculated accordingly; the roads
concerned are indicated in Table 12. On almost all sections, the first
year benefit exceeds 10%, which means that the traffic forecast is not
critical.
6. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government
on the following principal points:



- 22 -
(i) a study of truck turnaround time at Buenaventura
port (para. 2.11);
(ii)  the reorganization of the MOP (para. 3.05);
(iii) the facilitation of import licenses for contractors'
equipment (para. 3.15);
(iv) the ability of foreign contractors to obtain foreign
exchange needed for their operations (para. 3.16);
and
(v) a study of the effects of varying tolls on traffic
on Barranquilla Bridge (para. 5.08).
6.02      The drafts of contracts negotiated with supervisory consultants
have been reviewed and found satisfactory. A condition for loan effective-
ness will be that consultants have been employed accordingly.
6.03      The proposed project is suitable for a Bank Loan of $32.0 mil-
lion.  A term of 25 years, including a grace period of four years, would
be appropriate.
April 28, 1970



ANNEX A
BANK LENDING IN THE COLOMBIAN TRANSPORT SECTOR
1.        The Bank has been closely involved with the improvement of Colom-
bia's transport facilities since 1951, when it first made a loan. It has
since made four other loans and IDA has given one credit for highways. Al-
together, $103.55 million has been provided for this purpose.
2.        The first loan (43-CO) was for the emergency rehabilitation of
some 3,000 km of the most important trunk roads - basically to establish a
continuous all-weather main road system. The program was highly ambitious,
and the difficulties which were to be encountered in carrying it out (cli-
matic, geophysical, personnel and institutional) were seriously under-esti-
mated. With rudimentary engineering and project preparation, construction
costs increased drastically and work progressed very slowly. The second
and third loans (84-CO and 144-CO) were made to enable the original program
to be continued and amplified by the addition of other important roads.
The originial construction standards were also improved in several cases..
3.        The fourth project (Loan 295-CO and Credit 5-CO) was for the com-
pletion of certain parts of the original project (still unfinished after
ten years), the const-ruction of another 450 km of road and the upgrading of
other roads (many of which had been constructed originally to relatively
low standards under the earlier loans) to meet the requirements of the rap-
idly increasing traffic volumes. This project also provided funds for pur-
chasing a large fleet of maintenance equipment in recognition of the need
to improve highway maintenance practices. In 1965, as a condition for ex-
tending the Closing Date of the loan and credit, the Government agreed to
employ management consultants to reorganize the Ministry of Public Works
(1OP).
4.        The fifth project (550-CO) was for (a) the construction or recon-
struction (with paving) of about 510 km of four national highways, (b) the
construction of a major highway bridge, (c) consulting services for supervi-
sing (a) and (b) above, for preinvestment studies and for detailed en-
gineering of further priority roads, and for assisting the reorganization
of the Ministry of Public Works, and (d) the purchase of equipment needed
for effective reorganization of the Ministry. Progress on the highway con-
struction is a little slow largely because of bad rains in 1969; however,
the quality of work is acceptable. Contracts for the remaining sections
and La Virginia bridge were awarded in mid-1969 and work is only now gain-
ing momentum. Consulting services for supervision of construction are
satisfactory, and procurement of equipment is underway. The government
has prepared a list of pre-investment studies for future highway projects;
this is now being reviewed by the Bank.



ANNEX A
Page 2
5.        From 1964, until his retirement in 1969 the Bank stationed an en-
gineer with long experience of Latin American highway problems in Colombia
to provide closer supervision of the Bank project. This arrangement was
of much value in identifying and correcting problems as they arose, but
the progress of internal improvements was sufficiently satisfactory to
warrant its discontinuance.
6.        Although the execution of the previous highway projects had been
largely unsatisfactory, the Government that came into power in 1966 quickly
took important steps to correct the situation by the imposition of addition-
al taxes on road users, the creation of the National Highway Fund with ear-
marked revenues and the appointment of consultants to help reorganize the
Ministry of Public Works. The services provided jointly by COMEC/Harris
(Mexico/US) have expired but the Government has extended contracts of
experts in the important field of highway maintenance. The reorganization
is not complete, but continued general improvement justifies proceeding with
the loan now under consideration.
7.        In addition to the lending for highways mentioned above, the Bank
has made five loans totalling US$94.6 million equivalent to Colombia for
railways. The last loan was made in 1968 (551-CO, for US$18.3 million) for
track rehabilitation and maintenance and procurement of rolling stock. The
track rehabilitation is six months behind schedule, due to the late deliv-
ery of rail from Poland, but some of the delay is expected to be recovered
by the end of 1970.
8.        Other international or national lending agencies have not until
recently been particularly active in the highway field in Colombia. How-
ever, USAID provided funds and equipment for the "Feeder road" program in
its early stages and in 1968 IDB made a loan for US$12.7 million for the
construction of the Cienaga-Santa Marta-Paraguachon road which will link
Colombia and northern Venezuela.  IDB has recently agreed to finance a
1550 km feeder road program with a loan of US$17 million and has made
loan of about US$15 million for the construction of the Popayan-Pasto
highway. Another loan of about US$16 million for the Santuario-Puerto
Triumfo highway is being considered. Recently, the Bank of London and
South America opened a sterling line of credit for E4 million for the
purchase by MOP of British road maintenance equipment, and the Export/Import
Bank and two New York banks have made loans totalling US$10 million for
the purchase of road maintenance equipment in the United States.



COLOMBIA: SXITH HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS
|           a3:   D    lort' 1a  
ITl0ftian Tns:itute for
Electr: c Power
, ~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _
I    -u n l rhd for  I
|    Cal Roads  -  
iYst -ra nstuare        
General Construction    |Cosuziti'.ef    ltn      m -rt-2            Srecial       OInforet        ? n          ,    Of;       | rganisation and
|at-onal Shipping Line          Scecif Iations Conp.ttee  on Design         ~ort tee                Assessmllen                                                    M    ods
I olomian Ntional I
iw:lvays ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Sude in
*-utv utB tp itur dgcreearv tenera                                          et
|   onstructio    |                                                  ain enance  i|AdAirnistrative                                                      La Ibor keltations 
|Deoartmento   l7 a|tier nt   ||                                                                                   Department   J|                         DeJJrtimen' 
Design Division  ?rograms &      Suoe-V sion |Public:   ||Eng;nerix4ngil ''^r   Distric-s |Hydraulic |       |squl?on            iac  ||rcrm2t                    Cpu er  rsonnel||ia 
Contracts                   Bul'g -aeil = !    !o                                           and 4oic I       IvI ision and ctores               Division|               ordn
|* Highway Design | Programs  |                 ||ldings| | G.logy    ||Programs anz  | Progras|                | Program  and |                                      oe-ram  ¢£ries 
ff            1^~~~~ and   |                                              ,1l    tudies  ||and              |Studies        *                                             1-I
40 Structures      ||uaget    |  S%upervisionl              t1             l|Studies   |B |(udget  |                                                                           |Qualms-|
H Hydraulics                                      Nat:onal    Foundations                                                                   |Prc has,ing            iRecords
0 11                         Monuzsents  |and Pa-ini *                                                                  1
Topography        Bids                                                    Suoervision      O%erations                          1
0 & Photogrnm-                     Progress &                                                                     0                Account 
Petry                          Inwestaeot   *                                                                Central dork-    ing
1* Drafting       11 Unit      l l             1 1ance and | |iLaboratory  1                       ment            0              Disbank-
|   || Prices    i {      | |Adminis-                 Linterance                             Supervision  |      ent                                        sociAl
1- Specifications 11l                          1            ll             1                ll         1 R      il lt                                     |Serctrat
- ource:   Mzistry of Public Works
Hote:   This chart represents the structure of the Ministry as established by LFcree 3160                                                                            ISRO - 4730
of December 25, 196i






4~~~~ ~     ~~~- - - =- - --  =- - - - --f   -f-S   -  =-- -f  - i- - - - -    - - - ---- L-  --  -  --  -- -- -     -
t -   -  -   - -  - ' - -                                                                 /   -   -   -
f - - --  - - - - - - - --z -  -      -- - -     X- --  - - - -            '- -- - - - - - - - -                   A-   -;-
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-     -    -                          -    -   - E -     -   -             -     -     -  - = -   -     -     -    --2 -   - : -   -L 
;---                                  NX                              -                                    M  -Cf-,   -_Raracalbo>_--__
_=_--_-_-- f Xii   -=   =i--_--s;;k----------! 
,~~~~~~~ z-    -              -    -     --          -    -   -    -    -    -    - -    -    -   ---   -    ---  L-----   -   ' r--- ---=
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -                                            - =-   -   -   -   -   -   -   - y -  
- --_-- ----___-  - -zN -   - -- --D                n     Valledupor
~~~~~10                  0 I2O+I-                ~              rCalamar    or2iong
,=_ gang e                                        I0 -  -   - -    -              -   -   -   -   -
-  - --    -    --  -  --- ---------  -Sincelej X    San    oque /---  -
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a4
4     $V- 2T~~- -=-  - - f=-= - - -                                 ....
_   +      ;;   =  -=-__D~~ -_     -L  -eet - - - - - - -  -                                      
4/4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~y
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
--  -X$0i    h   1  <               /      ~~~~~Ploneta        Gainrra .a _cMta
-. -  ----          \         ITurbo   v         o> Rica               Agu shca,      od O!llro
VleuOan         Atlro
-   -   - = -   -   -     -   -    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -S a n                   A lber   C u cu ta
_   --  _   - --     _-d -   -   -   -  'I -   -2                               \            I          -
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B s                                                                      - _-     -   -  -0 -< -  -  Ml
~-  -        P          :- - -                        A Antioqul  i   Sarbosa              - -o-i-c-e-
0~~~~~~~ - -  0-- - - - --                                               Sa  Bqueo  Cptnj
; ~~~=<~ -~=~  Am  gr 0EDELLIN                                                      *4 Oi-&ba 1
-  Qul bda                 La Unto     Boyaca~~~~~~~aMat
Planeti                             a 
f~~~~~~~~~~ub 71                                                                       0    Az tiib bero
=~~~~~~u TFPIendonueva
P:L = Crug SpP,HrtoTejoda             {jf COLO MBIA
____-__-   __         ;\/                  ,Neiva    SIXTH  HIGHWAY  PROJECT
__----7Popoyain;                                ;                    LOCATION  OF  PROJECT
~~ .                            lGorzon                        ROADS B  BRIDGE
_ _    Ata S7Guadalupe  Puerto Rico             Paved highways
--ATUQCo          **t         Pitalito                                      _________        aldg       hays
Tuqu           1l resreBqre
.    Montanita             *pavin  projects
GuachucoiValPedreNi I1 Ki23
E C U A D O R                                                                                      B:t idgeol
APRIL 1970                                                                                                                  IBRD 2792R






Tab  j
OOOMBIAs SIXTh HIGWY PROJECT
NATIONAL HIOH!S BY DISTRICT
DISTRICT H.Q.          PAVED            GRAVEL          TOTAL
MEDELLIN                320              1,345          1,665
CARTAGENA               396                309           705
TUNJA                   261              1,720          1,981
MANILALES               530                606          1,136
POPAYAN                 116                891         1,007
M)NTEIA                 168                329            497
BOGOTA                  513                518          1,031
QUIBD                                      225            225
RIOHA CHA                                  435           435
NEIVA                   226                803          1)029
VALLEDUPAR              319                957          1,276
VILLAVICENCIO            58                878            936
PASTO                    20              1,316          1,336
B3UCARAMNaiA            345              1,150          1,495
CUCUTA                  188              1,666          1,854
IBAGUE                  352                909          1,261
PAL4MA                  413                4              827
FOREPCIA                 66                198            264
SAN ANDRES               12                 48             60
TOTAI     4,303             14,717         19,020
==la==           anutw=e        own==
HISTORIC COMPOSITION OF NATIONAL HIGHWAY NErW~RK
Year             Length (Kx11)      %PaVed
1962             16,512             U15
1963             16,692              13.7
1964             17,054              14.6
1965             17,479              15.0
1966             17,564              15.4
1967             17,997              16.6
1968             18,842              22.5
1969             19,020              22.6
Sources HOP, Planning Office, December 1969



Thle 2
COLOMBIA: SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
DEPARTMENTAL ROADS
DEPARTMENT                 KM           PAVED       GRAVEL        EARTH
ANTIOQUIA                2,461.0          -        2,481.0          -
ATLANTICO                  552.4        338.2        180.0          34.2
BOLIVAR                    204.1          -           95.1         109.0
BOYACA                     860.0          -          552.0         308.0
CALDAS                     880.0         -           862.0          18.0
CAUCA                      426.9          -          364.9         162.0
CESAR
CORDOBA                    267.0          -          155.0         112.0
CUNM1NAMARCA             2,981.7         95.1      2,499.6         387.0
CHOCO                       _
GUAJIRA                    342.2          -           30.0         312.2
HUILA                      617.5         -           350.5         267.0
MAGDALENA                  181.0          -           28.0         153.0
META                       787.0          -          352.0         435.0
NARINO                     771.0         -           643.0         128.0
NORTE DE SANTANDER         179.0         -            68.0         111.0
QUINDIO                    426.0         -           344.0          82.0
RISALRALDA                 507.0         -           497.0          10.0
SANTANDER                1,861.5         -           837.4       1,024.1
SUCRE                      164.0         -            76.0          88.0
TOLIMA                   1,353.0         -           707.0         646.o
VALLE                    3,276.6        79.0       2,929.7         267.9
TOTAL ....... 19,118.9       512.3     13,952.2       4,654.4
_ w Xmom*n    
Source: MOP, December 1969



Table i
OOWNBIA
SIXTH HIMRWA PROJECT
COINSULTANTS E:lIPED IN THE PROJEC
BARRANQUILLA BRIDGE
INGETEC - TANS (Colombia/USA)
EL PAIL.ON - BUENAVENTUtRA
INTEGRAL - GANNETT FLElG CORMDRY & CRENTER (Coloabia/ISA)
PAVI?I PROGRAM
INGETEC - TAM (Colcmbia/USA)
NTGRAL - GANNETT FLEOIM  CORDDRr & CARPENTER (Colomb±a/JSA)
RESTREPO I URIBE (Colombia)
C. E. I.   (Colombia)
PLANES     (Colombia)
SAMEL      (Colombia)
VILIADAD    (Colombia)
April 28, 1970



COLOMBIA
SIXTH HIGHhAY PROJECT
AIR TRAFFIC 1964-1968
INTERNATIONAL                                            DOMESTIC
PASSENGERS                 TONS             Passengera(m) Passengers-Km(m)   Tons(m)        Ton-Klm(m)
IN           OUT           IN         OUT
1964      115,127      124,723       5,017       2,350             2.58           1344             .109          71
1965      111,423      124,028       3,356       3,090              2.54          1337             .111          64
1966      132,516      138,038       4,932       4,402             2.53           1430             .119          74
1967      151,280      157,227       4,266       6,057             2.46          1526              .106          69
1968      184,721      197,339       5,351       5,861             2.50          1611              .103          72
Source: DANE, December 1969
CH,



!C2W112IA
SIXr ;HIIGT,MAY ?ROJ2CT
IMPCRIS AI) EXRLCS .?CUGTH MAJOR COLOMBU!.T   ?O-RWTS 193-68 i-il1ion Metric Tons
Barranquilla               Cartagena                Santa Marta         Buenaventura             Total
Year      In     Out    Total       In     Out    Total       In    Out  Total    In    Out   Total    In    Out    Total
.36    .05      .41      .18     .C0      .21     .02    .18    .2c   .69    .27        .76   1.30   .55     1.81
1959      .28   .-O       .32      .22     .c0      .25      .01    .21     .22   .56    .34      .90   1.07   .65      1.72
1960      .30    .04      .34      .28      .05     .33      .02    .20     .22   .52    .31      .83   1.12   .62      1.74
1961      .31    .04      .35      .32      .06      .38     .03    .21     .24   .64    .3C      .94   1.29   .63      1.92
1962      .33    .04      .37      .27      .c8      .35     .c6    .17     .23  .58    .39       .97   1.24   .70      1.95
1963      .21    .05      .26      .28    .c8        .36     .14    .21    .35   .52.   .36       .87   1.14   .73      1.87
1964      .33    .04      .37      .19     .09       .28     .31    .18     .49   .58    .34      .92   1.41 .69        2.10
1965      .26    .04      .30      .12      .09      .21     .21    .20      .41   .46    .38     .84   1.05   .73      1.77
1966      .41    .03      .44      .25      .08      .33     .33    .17      .50   .71    .47    1.18   1.70  .75       2.4S
1967     .25    .06       .31      .12      .07      .19     .20    .16      .36   .38    .56     *94   O.95   .85      1.80
1968     .35    .06       .41       .20     .98      .28     .31    .16      .47   .53    .65    1.18   1.39   .95      2.34
1/  Public Terminals only, excluding petroleum
Source: Colpuertos, Boletin Informativo, September 1969                                                                      H



Table 6
COLOMBIA
SIXTH HImHWAY PROJECT
SOURCES OF REVEN  FOR 1969-72 HmHWAY PROGRAM
(Mil1ion Pesos)
SOURCE                                  1969     1970       1971         1972
Gasoline & Diesel Taxes                 693.0    720.0       740.0       760.O
Equipment rental                          6.0      3.0         3.0         3.0
Sale of Equipment and Materials           6.0     10.0       10.0         10.0
Toll fees                                 5.0       -        10.0         13.0
Petroleum royalties                        -      34.0         8.2         8.2
Miscellaneous                             2.8     14.7        2e0          2.0
Savi.ngs                                126.0    172.5          -           -
Foreign construction loans 2/           171.0   362.2        493.0       527.0
Equipment Loans                           -      360.0          -           -
National Budget Contributions          1400._8  _390.2       7299.5    1066.8
TOTAL 2/1,410.5  2,066.6    2,065.7             2,390.0
Source: MOP, December 1969 and MOP, Fondo Vial Budget 1970.
1/   These estimates are substantially more conservative than
-those made by the National Planning Department and quoted in
para. 2o20*
2/  Subject to revision as further information on foreign credits becomes
available.
2/  Some of these funds are used for river training works and as a
contribution to the national feeder road program.



Table ?
COLOMBIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
PAST AND PROJECTED NATIONAL HI HWAY EXPENDITURES
(M<llion Pesos)
Construction      Ihintenance           Total
1963                     -                _                557e6
1964                     -                -                616.3
l965                     -                -                711.4
1966                     -                -                643.7
1967                     -                -                873.9
1968                     -                -               1088.3
1969                   711.0            388.0             1099.0
1970                 13.178.9           744,O             1922.0
1971                  1326.3           4t32.5             1758.8
1972                  1427.0            604.8             2031.8
Sources: National Planning Department and MP, National Road Fund,
Budget 1970.
Note:     The raintenance estimates include provision for equipnent
in the year acquired, The construction expenditure forecasts
are based on very tentative timing of projects. Planned
expenditure on feeder roads is not included. Expenditure is
shown in current prices and therefore actual historical growth
is overstated.
April 28, 1970



COLOMBIA: SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
MINISTRY OF PUiBLIC 'ORKS - HIGHWAY DESIGN STANDARDS
LIGHT TRAFFIC                         MEDIUM TRAFFIC                                   1D&VY TRAFC
USS]CTION            _      _       LT  - 1               LT  -  2             MT  -  3              Mr- 4                     EIT - 5                    Z - 6
Up to   250         250 - 500            500 - 1000            1000 - 2000               2,000 - 5.000                          5.0o0
ER1RAIN                                H    1! I R I-F    H H         R    F    H       | R    F       H    N    R  [F         H/M     R    [  -                   K      100
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                             _    _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ w J   7 8 0~~~~~~~6  o  06        80       100
_ESIGN SPEED _Kph W    501 6C   70   60   5OT60   70                                  601 80   100   40.         80   100      /80     /100      /120     /80      /100    /120
WIdwrT OF PAVXT P             _              6.00                 6.00                  7.00                  7.00                     7.00                        2 of 7.00
050 1,00 1.00 1.50 1.00 1.   1.00 1.50 1.001                .1.50 1.5012.00 12-50   2.50   1 2.50    |3.°         1.00      1.00     1.50
3HDULDR    RIGHT                       O5  1.00 1.00 l.5C l.co 1.O  L.00 1.50 1.00 1.00 1.50  2.00 1.50 1.50 12.00  ?2,5   2.50        2.5C     3.00    2-5o      3.00      3.00
IOTAL WIDTH                       m    7    8    8    9   8    8    8    9    9    9   10    11   10   10   U    12           12        12       13    10.50       11      11.50
U       510SLOPE                  %    8    7    6    5    7    6    5    L    6    5    4    3    6    5    4    3           5        4      |  3        5         4        3
M_    I _                               __          ___                          _/2            0      , 50      /75II0 
urINIMU) RA.DIUS OF CURVES        m    50   80 120  17o   50   80  120  1'C   50- 120 250   45 I5   120  250 1               120 ' 250 1          /50      95               %
[,ON-PASSING SIGHT DISTANCE       m    50   70  80   100   5C   70   8c  100   50   80  120   io   50o  80| 120   180    /120           /180     /250    /120               1251 ....I 2&
350      50          0
0SSING SIGHT DISTANCE             -  20C            J 45O  -   3    3530   450  200  350  500   600  200  3501 500 I600    ,500        /600|   /800         _
fIDYr OF BRIDES            (< 10  m    -|                                          Same as total width
|JlWdEEl CUlRlKS           >_ 111_m                                8                    9                        9                      12 Of 9
DESIGN LOADING FOR BhRI;;B                                                    H20-S16-LL
Sour:e: Ministry of F-iblic Works - Dece:mber 1969
:3 - Rolling
F  -  Flt



COWNBIA
Sixth Hihway Project
Vehicle Registration 1958-1967
Passenger vehicles     Euses      Jeeps      Panels and Piekups  Light Trucks    Trucks    Others    Total
1958          67,761            12,283    ll,414           25,092            4,991        36,949       895   159,385
1959          68,808            13,358    12,375           27,578            5,155        39,275       927    167,476
1960          72,353            15,030    14,539           30,601            5,336        43,061       998   181,918
1961          84,605            15,850     17,225          31,043            5,696        44,1145    1,037    199,601
1962           n.a.              n.a.      n.a.             n.a.              n.a.         n.a.       n.a.    n.a.
1963          85,273            17,911     23,315          41,980            7,270        39,381     2,210    217,340
1964          86,423            18,341    24,936           40,673            8,o049       43,880    2,450   224,752
1965          87,977            19,345    27,037           41,994            8,724        455,171    2,643   232,891
1966          95,654            20,719     29,831          44,991            9,830        47,286     2,786    251,107
1967          98,216            21,344      n.a.            n.a.              n.a.         n.a.       n.a.   259,608
Sourgei Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estadistica. (DANE) December 1969.



Table 10
COLOMBIA - SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Motor Fuel Con8uption, 1958- 1968 (u gal)/
Annual                   Anmal
Gasoline    % Increase    Diesel   % Increase
1958                      303.5        -             95.0        -
1959                      317.7       4.6            99.0        4.2
1960                      354.7      u.6            113.5       14.6
1961                      399.6      12.6           124.5        9.6
1962                      434.5       8.7           134.9       8.3
1963                      442.0       1.7           135.5        0.4
1964                      460.5       4.1           151.5      u1.8
1965                      491.3        6.6          166.0        9.6
1966                      527.6       7.3           176.9       6.6
1967                      535.0       1.4           166.9     - 5.7
1968                      583.8       9.1           190.7      14.2
Average 1958/68                 6.6                       7.2
1/ Converted at 1 barrel - 42 U.S. gal.
Source: Colombian Petroleum Information Center, December 1969



COLOMBIA
SIXTH HflHWAY PROJECT - IESIGN STANDARDS
BARRANQUILLA BRIDGE                                                 EL PAILON-BDENAVENTURA ROAD
A. APPROACH RAMPS                                                  A. Highway
Design Speed                   kph       65                        Design Speed                       kph.      100
Width of Pavement              m.        7.30                      Width of Pavement                  m.         7.3
Width of Shoulders             m.        3.00                      Width of Shoulders:
Maximum Slope                  %         1.5                            km o.946 to hm 9.000          m.         3.5
km 9.000 to km 10+400        m.         2.0
Minimum Radius of Curves       m.        573
Maximum Grade                      %           3
Width of Embankment            M.       13.30
Minimum Radius of Curves           m.        327
Width of Embankment:
kcm 0946 to km 2+700        m.        19.2
km 2+700 to km 44300          me.      J4.3
km 44p300 to km 9+000        m.        19.2
km 9+000 to kh 10400        me.       11.3
B. BRIDGE STRUCTURE                                                B. BRIDGE EL PINAL
Width of Pavement              m.       8.00                       Width of Pavement                  m.         7.9
Width of Sidewalks             m.        2.25                      Width of Sidewalks                 m.         1.0
Total Width                    m.      12.50                       Total Width                        m.         8.9
Maximnum Slope                 %        3.0                        Mxiimum Slope                      %          0.0
Design Loading                   HS20-44                           Design Loading                       HS20-44
Source:  INGETEC/TAMS - October 1969                               source:  INTEGRA r - Gannet Flemming Corddry  and
Ca.rpenter., December 1969



C 0 L 0 H B I A - SIXIE HIGRWAY PROJECT
P A V I N G P R O G R A H
CONST. COST /      ADT      RATE OF                                                                          CGNSTR. COST         ADT           RATE OF
KM   PAVEMENT        SHOULDER                 -      1970      RETURN                                         Km   PAVESMENT        SSDULDER                         1970          REMTUR
P R O J E C T                  a    Type          a         (Hi-iion Peaos)                                    P R O J E C T                 x     Type         *         (Hllion Peso-)
December 1969                                                                                                Dcember 1969
GROUP 1                                                                                                        GROUP 8
PEDEANIL - TUQUlES           30    5      ST                         9.3            260       12.2              PRIMAVERA - AMAGA           10   8.5   AC                           6.9            11.60           25.0.
IPIALES - GUACRUCAL          23    7      ST                         8.2            760       14.3              B0QUEROH - ANTIOQUIA        40   5.5   ST                          15.3              240          11.2
SUB-TOTAL           53                                     17.5                                        LA CEJA - LA UNION          14    5.5   ST                          3.6              480           25.0
GROUP 2                                                                                                 HATILLO - BARBDSA           10    7     AC          1.0             5.2              630          25.0.
GARZON-ALTAMIRA              29    7      RN                         7.1            760       15.0                      SUB-TOTAL           74                                     31.0
ALTAHIRA - PITALITI          47    5      RH                        15.2            240       14.3                     GROUP 9
ALTAMIRA - GUADALUPE         10    7      RH                         3.5            450       25.0              CAPITANWO - HALAGA          35   5       ST                        20.0              270          11.0
FlORENCIA - HIIZTANITA       32   6       RH                        11.3            710       25.0              LA LEJIA - PAMPLONA         10   5.5   ST                           4.4              240           11.0
HONTANITA - PUERTO RICO      68    5      R4                         5.9            220       25.0              ZULIA - ASTILIROS          27   6       ST                         8.8              440           22.7
FIORENCIA - BELEN            44    6      R4                        14.9            280       17.0                      SUB-TOTAL           72                                     32.2
SUB-TOTAL         230                                     57.9                                               GROUP 10
GROUP 3                                                                                                 LIMITIS - SAN AL3ER         35   7      AC          1.0            22.0             490           22.0.
CRUCERO PANCE - PTO.TEJADA    17   6-7   R1                          8.4            530       25.0              SAN ALBERM - LA MATA        90   7      AC          l.5            45.1             180           21.0.
YUMY3 - SAN MAROOS           10    7      AC         1.0             6.6            510       15.41             LA,HATA - SAN ROQUE        87    7      AC          1.5            69.0            370            14.1.
PALMIRA - TIENDANUE7A        10   7       1M                         3.9            945       25.0              AGUACHICA  - PIATANAL       22   7      RM                          8.8            600            21.0
CRUCERO - GINEEA              6   6       ST                         2.6            370       19.0              PLATANAL - RIO DE ORO       29    5     ST                         12.6             280           10.4
SUB-TOTAL          43                                     21.5                                                SUB-TOTAL          263                                    157.5
GROUP 4                                                                                                        GROUP 11
LA UNION - TORO              10   6       ST                         4.9            370       13.7              LA ESTACION -FUNDACION      59    7     AC          1.5            56.0             600           17.0.
ARHENIA - MDNTENEGRO         10    7      RM         1.5             7.6            840       25.0.             SAN ROQUE - LA FSTAC1N      98    '     AZ          1.5            50.1             300           12.0.
NEIRA - ARANZAZU             30   6       ST                        10.5            250       10.2              SAN ROQUE - ECEURIL         59    7     ST          1.5            19.8             230           11..C
LA VIRGLNIA - NAPOLFS        18   6       R1                         6.4           1450       21.0              BECEPRIL - OODAZZI          32    7     ST                         13.2             470           20.0
SUB-TOTAL          68                                     29.4                                        MARIANGOLA - B03CONIA      43   6.5   RH            1.0            18.2             390           20.C
GROUP S                                                                                                         SUB-TOTAL          291                                    157.3
LA UNION - GUAKAL            30    7      1M         1.5            22.6            620       25.0.                    GROUP 12
GUAMAL - SAN MARTIN          23    7      RY4        1.5            20.4            360       15.0              TOLUVIEJO - SAN ONOFRE    140   7       RM          1.0           ]14.3             330           18.Cl
RESTREPO - CUMARAL           10   6       ST                         3.0           1430       25.0              SAN ONOFRE - SOFIERIN       59    7     RM          1.0            27.0             510           20.0-
SUB-TOTAL         63                                     46.C                                        HONTERIA - PLANETA RICA     16   6      RR          1.0             6.1             450           23.8.
GROUP 6                                                                                                         SUB-TOTAL          115                                     47.7
K 23 - UBATE                 28    7      AC         1.5            33.6            760       23.0                    G5RUP 13
UBATE - CHIQUINQUIRA         53    7      ST                        22.2            530       23.2              PUERTA DE HimmRO-mAGANGUE  46   6.5   RH            1.0            14.3             400           14.0
SUB-TMTAL         81                                     55.8                                        CERETE - TOLU               70   7       RM         1.0            36.3             390           l1.O.
GROUP 7                                                                                                 PONEDERA - PTO. GIRALIM     20    7     AC          2.5             7.1             600           25.0.
ALVARADO - LA SIERRA         30    7      R4         1.5            3L..0           500       214.3.            PTO. GRLIO _ CAIAMAR        36    7     AC          2.5            11.1             480           25.0.
PTO. SAILAR - RIONEGRO       32    8      R4                        11.2            510       25.0                      SUB-TOTAL          172                                     68.8
RIONEGRO - PTO. BOYACA       31   6.5  R1                           10.5            350       25.0                      TOTAL             1618                                    778.3
SUB-TOTAL         93                                     55.7
NOTES: ST- Surfa.e Tre.tmsent
AC- Asphalt Concrete
RM- Road Mix
y/ Construction cost iroludes 10% quantity cootinge=cies.
.Indicates Rate or Return oser 20 year lire.
-ere e orild-~ widths -ot specified, exist'o.g variable shoulder widths
.ill be used.
April 277, 1970



Table 13
COLOMBIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1LGHTE  VEHICLE OPERATING COST ON GOCW   PAVED
ROAD OVER LEVEL TERRAIN
Vehicle Type      Basic Cost    Weighted Cost
Distribution        1970            Ps$ /M.
Li ,ht Vehicles
Small automobile                               10%            o.68                0.068
Large automobile (publi-c service)             30%            0-95                0.285
Large automobile (private)                     20%            0.95                0.190
Jeep, station wagon, Pick-up or
Panel Truck                                    40%            1.22                0.488
100%                              $1.031
Average cost of light vehicles Ps$1.023/n.
Uleavy Vehicles
Trucks 4-6 metric tons                         10%            1.36                0.136
6-8 metric tons                         25%            1.56                0.390
8-1-0 metric tons                       35%            2.11                0.739
10, or more metric tons                  5%            2.46                0.123
Large bus                                      25%            1.56                0.390
100%                                1.778
Average cost of heavy vehicles: Ps$1.78/hn.
Sources INGETEC/TAMS, Paving Program September 1969.



Table iL
COLOMBIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
OPERATING COST COEFFICIENTS FOR DIFFERENT
HIGHWAY CONDITIONS
1.  TYPE OF SURFACE                                                     Coefficient
Pavement                       Good condition                            1.00
Deteriorated range                    1.05-1.50
Gravel                         Average condition                        1.30
Maximum range                         1.10-1.5o
2. GEOMETRIC DESIGN STANDARD6
Standard    Normal Speed      Roadbed    Mlnimum       Maximum      Coefficients
Light vehicle     Width        Radius       Grade
Kh              m            m            %
Good            50-- 80         6.5+          70        7 - 8             1.00
Intermediate    40 - 60         6+            40        7 - 8             1.10
Poor            20 - 40         4.5-6       20-40       7 - 9             1 20
3. GRADES
COEFFICIENTS
Grade                           Percentarge of Heavy Vehicles
0              20          40       60        80       JOO
0 - 3%        1.00           1.00          1.00    1.00       1.00     1.00
3 - 5%        1.02           1.04          1.07    1.10       1.12     1.15
5 - 7%        1.06           1.13          1.20    1.26       1.33     1.40
7 - 9%        1.12           1.25          1.37    1.50       1.62     1.75
Source:  INGETEC/TAMS, Paving Program September 1969.



