Documentof                   I
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repwt No. 8870
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ECUADOR
FIFTH DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT-
(LOAN '2096-FC)              _
JUNE 29, 1990
Trade, Finance and Industiry'Division
Country Department IV'
Llatin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This doumeutl has a restrited distributio and may be used by rerpipents hly in tOm performanc of
4bteir othdlal duties Its 'contents way not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authorzaftio..



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit - Sucre (S/.)
Exchange Rates
December 31, 1981    US$1   -  SI.  25.0
December 31, 1982    US$l   -  S/.  33.0
December 31, 1983    US$1   =  S/.  54.0
December 31, 1984    US$1   -  8/.  66.5
Decembeil31, 1985    US$1   -  S/. 123.0
December 31, 1986    US$1   -  S/. 143.0
December 31, 1987    US$1   -  SI. 221.0
December 31, 1988    US$1   =  SI. 432.61
-- -          Acronyms and Abbreviiations
BCE          Banco Central del Ecuador
COPIEC       Compaflia Financiera Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo S. A.
-PM          -corporacin itinanciera Nacional
CENDES       Centro deDesarrollo Industrial
-ECUFINSA     Ecuatoriana de-Financiamiento S. A.
TFIN  QUI1    Financiera de Guayaquil S. A.
FINANSA      Financiera !4acional S. A.
FINANSUR     Financiera del Sur S. A.
FINIBER      Fi#anciera Iberoamericana S. A.
FOPINAR      Fondo de Fomento para la-Pequefa Industria y la Artesania
(Development Fund for Small Scale Enterprises (SSEs) and
Artisans)                                                -
POPEX        Fondo de Promoci6z de Exportaciones
(Export Developme4t Fund)
MICEI        Ministerio de Inddetria, kComercio, Integracion y Pesca
PFIs         Participating Financial Intermediaries
SB           Superintendency of Banks
SC           Superintendency of Companies
TA           Technical Assistance



1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
POR OFFKCIL IMS ONLY
TO* WORLD ANK - --
Wash.gton. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
June 29, 1990
-MEPORA?I=  TO THE MEECUTIVE DIECTORS  n T   PESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Ecua4or
Fifth Develodoment Banking Project'
(Loan 2096-EC)
Attached, for infonmation, is a copy of a report entitled *project
Completion Report on Ecuador - Fifth Development Banking Project (Loan
2096-EC)" prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office.
No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachment
rTh document has 4  _sut disibuton and may be used by ISdPiots only in the proam
of their offcidl duties. Its contents may notherwise be discksed without Word ank. authorization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COHPIETION REPORT
IZCUADOR
> FIF DEVELOPM~Nr BANRING PROJECT
(LOAN 2096-BC)
TAMLA  OP CO
BASIC DATA SHEET ................................ ..................        -iii
EVALUATiON SUMMERY ................... .............................          v
I.  FINANCIAL SECTOR BACRGROUND ....... .........................         1
II.  PROJECT OVERVIEW .....3..............                                 3
III.  !RQJEt MPAT..&gI ******** *************** ** ** *** *** *** * * *** * ***  4
IV.  PROJBCT   I,LEI&ILgN ...*..**** *.......    .................         6
V.  CONCLUSIONS ..................... ***** *** ** *** *********....      9
ATTACENENT As Aide Memoire on Interest Rate Policy                            11
I.  Characteristics of Subprojects                                       31
II.  Summary Analysis of Selected Subprojects                             33
III.  Economic Impact of Subprojects                                       51
IV. Pinancial Characteristics of Subprojects                              55
V.  Interest Rates and Economic Indicators .....................         58
VI.  Projected and Actual Loan Disbursements                              59
VII.  Distribution of Loan Use by DFC                                      60
VIII. Finnmcial Condition of Participating DFCs ..................          61
Ix.  Profit Margin Summary ........***.         ......................    63
1.  Commento Received from CPN ..................,* ..**   *             67
2.  Comments Received from BCE ...................                       73
Thei doument lci    a rest icted distribution and may be dsed by recipients onrl in the perforiatie
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authofization.1



FIFTH DEVKLOPERNT BANaING PROJECT
(LOAN 2096-EC)
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Fifth Develop-
ment Banking Project in Ecuador, for which Loan 2096-EC in the amount of
US$60.0 million was approved on February 23, 1982. The loan was closed on
December 31, 1986. The project disbursed US$59.13 million and the last dis-
bursement was on November 1, 1988. The loan was extended to the Corporacion
Financiera Nacicnal (CPN) and to six private development finance companies
(DECs). Of the participating seven financial institutions, CFN and Compania
Financiera Bcuatoriana de Desarrollo S.A. (COFIEC), the largest private DFC,
used about 65X of the loan resources.
The PCR vas prepared by the Bank's Trade, Finance and Industry
Division of Country Departmet IV, Latin America and the Caribbean Region,
and is based, inter alia, on supervision reports; correspondence between the
Bank and the Borrowers; internal Bank memoranda; statistical information
provided by the DPCsg and a project completion mission conducted in Ecuador
during April 1989. Given the three-year lapse since the closing of the loan,
and the fact that many of the Borrowers' staff involved in managing the
project entities have retired or moved to new assignments, the Borrowers'
role in the retrospective review process of this PCR v*. limited.
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower for comments. Comments
received from CIN and the Banco Central del Ecuador are reproduced as
Appendices to the Report.



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  --*  - ----
C>UAM
(LOAN 2096-IC)
I        ~~BA5IC D42A SlHIRT
(amts  In US$ million)
AM of May. 31. 1990
OrQial    isbguesd   Cancelled   Reoaid    Outstanding
Loan 2096-EC       80.00         59.13         0.87       9.78         49.35
-          ~~CUATMV LFN    AN AG     PISBAM
an    nu , La   E S                 fin    U0
A!pr8a,sl Estimte (USS a)    6.00  22.  .     5.30  59.S  60.00  60.00
Actual (US       .       0.0   1.     4.30   55.50  57.60  59.06  59.13
Actul as X of   aa1X)      0      a             95S    971    992    99
te Of Lat 0Dssmt: *,vie 1, 196
, .                     C~~~RORT  DATS        
Zr1il               Agtual
Appreisal Mission                                03181               04181
Post-appraisal (co-financinS disc.)               n.a.               07/81
Negotiations (in field and by mail)              10/81              111/81
Board Approval                                   09/81             02/23/82
Loan Sioning                                     03/82             04/22/82
Loan Bffectiv.ne's                             06/22/82            10/05182
Project Completion                             12131/84            12/31/84
Loan Closing                                   12131186            12/31/86
(staff veeks)
fUR   ,~  £0               ZIB  flAl  1ZD&  flU .EJ  flt  LJ mJ f Total
Prewiprafsat  0.4  4.9  0.1       15.4                                     -  20.8
Apprasa             - set         34.7  DiZ    -    -    -                     57.9
Ue.tlatfens    -    .    -  -    l    19.S    .           .    -    .S
Srst8fo                        -  3.5  38.6  40.5  9.4  7.1 3.9  1.3  109.3
Total       X tf                IN 3i    li   -4520   iZ4ou FS 7T.; i       211.2
La  Mo tim was recorded during 1Y74-FY78.



- iv -
MISSION DATA
No. of     No. of              Staff    Date of
lintiIXaix  Weeks      Persons   Weeks~   Re_ort
Appraisal                 04/81                    3       20        --
Post-appraisal            06/81        1           2        2        --
Post-appraisal            07181        3           1        3    12123181
Negotiations la           11/81                    2       16        --
Supervision I             06182        4           1        4    06114/82
Supervision II            12182        2          2         4    12129/82
Supervision III           03/83        4          3        12    03/25/83
Supervision IV            05183        3          2         6    05104183
Supervision V             07183        2          2         4    07107183
Supervision VI            09183        3          2         6    09/23/83
Supervision VII           11/83        1          2         2    11130/83
Supervision VIII          01184        4          2         8    06101184
Supervision IX            05184        4          2         8    05/04184
Supervislon X             04/85        2           1        2    04/10/85
Supervision XI            06185        4           1        4    08/20/85
Supervision XII           07/85        2          2         4    08116/85
Supervision XIII          08/86        2           1        2    08/16185
Supervision mXV           12186        2           1        2    12/22/86,
Subproject Reviews       !- 19#3-84   32           1       32        --
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Borrover: Republic of Ecuador
Executing Aesacy: Corporacion Financiera Nacional
-ollow-on Prolectt
Project:        Industrial Finance Project
Loan No.:       2672-EC
Amount:         US$115.0 million
Board Dates    March 27, 1986
La  In field and by tsil.
/b Nc detailed record was kept on tine spent in subproject reviews. An
estimate was made based on interviews with project officers.



-v -
PROJECT C(naLET=OU RWPORT
FIFTH DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
(LOAN 2096-EC)
VALUAION SUMMY
1.       Obiectives.  Wlile the Loan was designed and instrumented as a
credit line with objectives to provide term credit for expansion of medium
and large scale industries and to finance technical assistance,
improvements in interest rate policy, capital market development, and
broader DFC participation were also envisaged. These broad-based
objectives can be summarized as followss (a) to progress towards an
interest rate regime more flexible and responsive to market influences;
(b) to increase over the longer term the strength, diversity and efficiency
of the Ecuadorian capital markets by encouraging Ci) the issuance and
purchase of longer-term debt instruments (specifically those of the DFCs)
and (ii) the creation of an effective secondary market for such
investments; and (c) to encourage greater initiative and competition among
DFCs through broader participation of the newer and smaller DFCs. The Loan
assigned US$39 million to 'non-export* subprojects; US$20 million to
*export" subprojects; and US$1 million for technical assistance.
2.       Results.  The Loan4s-principal objectives as a credit line were
achieved, i.e., sound projects were financed by Sank funds, which were
committed and disbursed approximately as expected over a five-year period.
Performance of the technical assistance component was mixed. Many of its
activities had been accepted only reluctantly by the Government and/or the
DFCs at the time of appraisal and, as a consequence, were only partially
executed. A study of industrial incentive measures, including export
promotion (which should have been completed by the end of 1982) was only
undertaken in 1984185 and the program of action and timetable, required by
the Loan Agreement, were never submitted. This study, while providing a
basis for the 1986 tariff reduction (in the context of the follow-on
Industrial Finance Loan 2672-IC), had little or no influence in reshaping
Ecuador's industrial policy or tariff system. Similarly, the Ministry of
Finance, as required under the Loan, did not hire a long-term consisltant to
assist the DFCs' management and staff on the requirements and methodology
of project appraisal. The strengthening of CFN's financial management and
accounting systems was also severely delayed. It took CFN from 1982 until
1986 to reach an agreement with a consulting firm to review and recommend
ways to establish a new management information system (MIS). Even though
studies on the financial system and a program to strengthen the supervisory
and analytical capabilities and the information system of the SB began late
(1986187), the results have been positive.  Today, the SB displays much
more control and level of information about the operational environment of
banks and DPCs than it did in 1981182, at the time of project preparation.
3.       The design of the project did not provide the necessary tools for
implementing the Loan's broad-based objectives of seeking improvements in
interest rate policy, capital market development, and broader DPC



1vi 
participation. Progress was achieved only on interest rate policy.
Reviews of interest rate policy (see Attachment A), required under the
Loan, opened a dialogue on financial matters between the Government and the
Bank at a time when the Ecuadorian financial system had reached a critical
juncture. The Bank offered suggestions for a new set of financial policies
to deal with the radically changed environment. The principal elements of
the policy package directed toward domestic resource mobilization were: (a)
positive interest rates in real tems; (b) more frequent changes in
interest rates (or variable interest rates); and (c) introduction of a
capitalization of interest in long term contracts. Subsequently, the
Government acted on the recommendations, fully or in part, in the context
of other Bank lending operations.
4.       The capital market development and broader DFC participation
objectives were not achieved.  The Loan aimed at increasing the strength,
diversity, and efficiency of the Ecuadorian capital market as well as
OtUengthening and reinforcing the DFCs. To this end enterprises and
financial institutions were expected to issue long-term debt instruments
with a secondary market to be established for those instruments.  Each
DYC's use of Bank funds was therefore meant to be contingent on its
mobilization of domestic medium or long-term resources (e.g., bonds) in
specific proportions. Macroeconomic events of 1983 made compliance with
these conditions impossible. Contrary to expectations at appraisal, of the
thirteen DFCs in the financial system, only seven (CFN and six private
DFCs) participated in the loan. Of these, only one DFC was new and had not
participated in the Fourth Development Banking Project (Loan 1731-EC).
5.       Because of the recession in the Ecuadorian economy, combined with
tight credit policy, major devaluations, and the impact of the
sucretization program, the financial condition of the DFCs deteriorated
sharply. By mid- 1983, the debt/equity (DIE) ratios of the DFCs jumped to
levels between 15 to 1 and 20 to 1. At the end of 1983, all six
participating private DFCa were In violation of the 10 to 1 D/E ratio
covenant of the Loan Agreement. In view of the deteriorating situation,
the Government and the Bank, agreed in November 1983 to waive the DIE
provision and to continue authorizing subloans, against a plan for
recapitalization of the DFCs.
6.       In early 1984, despite the positive actions taken by the
participating DFCs to strengthen their financial structure, it was clear
that the DFCs would not be able to generate profits or raise additional
equity in amounts sufficient to reduce debt/equity ratios to the 10 to 1
required by the Loan Agreement and by Ecuador's banking law. With the
proviso that the DFCs would continue to make efforts to strengthen their
financial position, and in the expectation that the Government would
quickly change the banking law to adjust appropriately the D/E to reflect
the changed circumstances, the Bank waived the DIE covenant all together,
and fully cammitted the balance of the loan. As it turned out the banking
law was not changed until after loan implementation. i
7*       While the government-owned Corporacion Fi4naciera Nacional (CFN)
maintained a seemingly conservative 5 to 1 D/E ratio (provisions for
portfolio losses were inadequate), it also encountered financial
difficulties.  CFN's 1983/84 precarious cash flow position was a result of
poor debt collection, shrinking net financial margins, and tight credit
conditions. About 7OZ in value of CFN's bad loans were accounted for by



- vii -
half a dozen major public or mixed (publiciprivate sector) industrial
companies which had to be restructured or closed. To compound CFN's
problems, the Government interpreted the Loan Agreement condition that it
should bear the foreign exchange risk only for principal and not for
interest payments and exchange losses suffered under previous Bank loans.
The Bank reques9ed the Government to settle this matter but to no avail.
8.       Major institutional rebuilding of the DFCs has been in process for
the past two or three years, under the jurisdiction of the Superintendency
of Banks, but may not be successful in all cases. Today, the DFC system is
more dependent on Central Bank funds (69X of total liabilities) and foreign
multilateral resources than in 1982. Some of the DFCs are confronting the
financial crisis by evolving into more diversified financial organizations
(engaged in leasing, real estate and comercial paper operations).
9.       Implementation.  The Bank had assumed the monitoring and control
functions for subprojects that are usually discharged by an apex
institution. Bank staff had to review yearly financial statements for
deciding DYC eligibility; review and approve DFC entitlements to Bank funds
before the authorization of each subproject; and r- riew subproject
eligibility even under the free limit. Since it b - me obvious at an early
stage that improvements in capital market development and broader DFC
participation would be unlikely, the policy dialogue, principally on
interest rate issues, also proved to be manpower intensive. As a result,
estimates show the amount of time directly spent by Bank staff in the
supervision of the Fifth Loan was more than 100 staff-weeks or 20 staff-
weeks per year.
10.      Most subprojects turned out to be financially viable, and show
very little, if any, arrears in the repayment of subloans. One explanation
is the subsidy of the fixed interest rate on subloans (171-20Z). In a
climate of rising inflation, projects with fixed interest rates will be
committed quickly and the repayment record will be excellent.
11.      Lessons Learned.  The lessons emerging from this PCR can be
summarized as follows: (a) the Bank was not realistic in its expectations
regarding the achievement of policy objectives through a credit line
operation; (b) the Bank appears to have been overconfident that
macroeconomic conditions would remain stable; tc) a reappraisal of the
usefulness of the ERR analysis is called for; (d) in a climate of rising
inflation, there is a need to move towards real and variable intereat
lending rates to reflect changing macroeconomic conditions; (e) the Bank is
not in a position to assume the apex institution's role for subproject
monitoring and control; and (f) in the design of future technical
assistance components, those studies agreed to without a real commitment
from the borrower will probably be postponed or executed but not
implemented.



n2T caawmox 
PIF  R VELOPSE T  ANN tISAPR JC
(LOAN 2096-iC)
I. FINANCiAL SECTOR BACKGROUND
1.01     Macroeconomic Framework.  The availability of oil in Ecuador at a
time when international commercial banks were recycling petrodollars,
increased the countr-'s creditworthiness and the supply of dollars. At the
time of appraisal, access by Ecuadorian firms to external commercial banks
loans soon compensated for the scarcity of sucre loans. Generally, though,
a foreign commercial bank would lend to the Ecuadorian firm with the
guarantee of a local financial institution, rather than directly to the
Ecuadorian firm or financial institution. DKF, benefitted from these
transactions since they generated a fee of around 41 of the loan value and
the loan remained as contingent assets. Earnings could therefore be
increased without actually lending. A rough estimate ef the amount of
guarantees carried out by the Ecuadorian financial system for 1981 was
US$600-800 million, or 18X-24Z of the direct credit outstanding at the end
of that year. The risk of borrowing in dollars was ignored because the
exchange rate had remained fixed since 1970. Hence, the growing real
appreciation of the exchange rate was underestimated, or not considered a
major constraint by both borrowers and lenders, including foreign banks and
subsequent Bank missions. Beginning in 1983, the financial system suffered
grave liquidity problems as foreign resources dwindled and economic
conditions deteriorated. After the devaluation of the sucre, these factors
combined to diminish the ability of borrowers to meet dollar-denominated
obligations guaranteed by the banks.
1.02     Sector Performance Overview.  The financial sector in Ecuador for
many years had exhibited weaknesses in the areas of resource allocation,
institutional strength, and mobilization of domestic resources for long-
term lending. These problems date back to the 1970s, when the financial
system grew rapidly, fueled by profitable guarantees for foreign loans to
the private sector. In addition, lending growth was stimulated by negative
real interest rates charged to final borrowers as well as attractive
margins and commissions provided to intermediaries. However, there was
little incentive for financial institutions to mobilize domestic resources
on their own; thus, they became increasingly dependent for resources on the
Central Bank of Ecuador (BCE) credits and foreign borrowings. This
structurally flawed financial system became even more fragile because easy
granting of bank licenses led to the establishment of many small,
undercapitalized banks. Between 1973 and 1984, the number of private banks
increased from 21 to 32 and development finance companies (DFCs) from 2 to
13, including the government-owned National Finance Corporation (CFN). By
appraisal, the Bank had made four loans to Ecuador since 1970 for
development banking projects, using DFCs as intermediaries, for a total of
US$86 million. Only CPN and COFIEC participated in the first two of these
loans; in the third and fourth, other never DFCs participated to a limited
extent.



-2-
1.03     Sector Structure.  The structure of the financial sector in
Ecuador shows a very close relationship between banks, DFCs, and large
industriallcommercial groups. Until the early 19809, when the
Superintendency of Banks (SB) began strengthening its regulatory control,
lending to firms within the groups was common practice among banks and
financieras. Because bank ownership allowed access to profitable and
subsidized BCE credit lines, financial groups were encouraged to establish
new banks and private DFCe. As they grew in number, DFCs became
increasingly important as sources of credit to industrial and commercial
firms between 1972 and 1982s their share of the total credit to the private
sector increased from 10.5 in 1972 to 18.42 in 1982 or from St. 330
million in 1972 to SI. 12,600 million, respectively. The private DFCs
operated mainly in the industrial sector, and by 1980 were providing 52.92
of the total volume of industrial credit. During the 1972-82 period,
private sector investment increased by almost lOX p.a. in real terms.  The
financial system was, therefore, providing a rapidly expanding economy
while its ability to capture domestic savings was limited. It was in this
environment that the Fifth Development Banking Loan was initiated to
address the need for financial deepening as perceived by both the
*Government and the Bank.
1.04     Rationalo for Financial Sector Intervention.  A broad objective of
the Fifth Loan vas to increase the strength, diversity, and efficiency of
the Ecuadorian capital market as well as to strengthen and reinforce the
DFCs. To this end enterprises and financial institutions were expected to
issue long-term debt instruments with a secondary market to be established
for those instruments. The objectives sought by the Government and the
Bank with regard to resource mobilization required a strong inducement for
the DICe to make vigorous and imaginative efforts to tap the mediumllong-
term market and genuinely to test the quantum of resources potentially
available and the interest rates (or discounts) required to elicit a good
response. Each DFC's use of Bank funds was therefore meant to be
conditioned on its mobilization of domestic medium or long-term resources
in the following proportions:
Resulting
Entitlements to
Type of Domestic Resources                                   Bank Funds
(for US$1 of domestic
resources)
(a)  borrowings with maturity of over 3 years                 -  0.2 times
(b)  certificates with maturity of 6 months to 3 years        -  0.4 times
(c) bonds with maturity of over 3 years or more up to
7 years, and intermediation of shares                    -  0.8 times
(d)  incremental maturity                                     -  0.5 times
(e)  bonds with maturity over 7 years or more                 -  2.0 times
(f)  underwritting of shares of enterprises                   - 0.6 times



1.05     Macroeconomic events of 1983 made compliance with these conditions
impossible. The first supervision mission after loan effectiveness in
March 1983 found that under prevailing conditions term bond sales to the
private sector were not possible and would be unlikely for some time. The
Bank amended the formula for fund entitlement to permit participating
intermediaries US$2 for each additional dollar (equivalent) in paid-in
capital or profits integrated into capital, which was a much simpler and
realistic formula.
1.06     The devaluation of the sucre, one month after loan signing, was a
major departure from the previous fixed exchange rate policy.  It caused
major financial distress for the DFCs which had most of their liabilities
denominated in dollars. Beginning In 1983, the financial stress was
exacerbated as oil revenues dwindled, external credit dried up, public
expenditures increased and various other shocks (the 1983 floods and
droughts that destroyed important food and fiber export crops) hit the
economy. Long accustomed to the stability provided by a fixed exchange
rate, easy access to foreign resources, and to a moderate rate of
inflation, the financial system had to adjust to the new crawling peg
regime, to a sharply reduced inflow of oil revenues and foreign credit, and
to a higher rate of inflation.
1.07     Reviews of interest rate policy (see Attachment A), required under
the Loan, opened a dialogue on financial matters between the Government of
Ecuador and the Bank at a time when the Ecuadorian financial system had
reached a critical juncture. The dialogue was facilitated by the frequency
of Bank/Government contact during supervision and by the availability of
financial and economic studies around which policy dialogue could focus. A
reportl was prepared by Bank staff that focused attention on the major
issues of resource mobilization and interest rate policy. The Bank offered
suggestions for a new set of financial policies to deal with the radically
changed environment. The principal elements of the policy package directed
toward domestic resource mobilization weres (a) positive interest rates in
real terms; (b) more frequent changes in interest rates (or variable
interest rates); and (c) Introduction of a capitalization of interest in
long term contracts. Subsequently, the Government acted on the
recommendations, fully or in part, In the context of other Bank lending
operations. For example, the shift from fixed to variable interest rates
would be achieved under the follow-on loan - Industrial Finance (Loan
2672-EC).
II. PROJECT OVERVIEW
2.01     Project ObJectives.   While the Loan was designed and instrumented
as a credit line with objectives to provide term credit for expansion of
medium and large scale industries and to finance tecbnical assistance,
improvements in interest rate policy, capital market development, and
broader DFC participation were also envisaged. These broad-based
objectives can be summarized as followss (a) to progress towards an
interest rate regime more flexible and responsive to market influences;
(b) to increase over the longer term the strength, diversity and efficiency
of the Ecuadorian capital markets by encouraging ti) the issuance and
11 Ecuadort A Brief Financial Sector Report prepared by J. Hanson on the
basis of operational missions in March 1982 and June and August 1983.



-4-
purchase of longer-term debt instruments (specifically those of the DFCs)
and (ii) the creation of an effective secondary market for such
investments; and (c) to encourage greater initiative and competition among
DFCs through broader participation of the never and smaller DFCs. The Loan
assigned US$39 million to non-export  subprojects; US$20 million to
*exportu subprojects; and US$1 million for technical assistance.
2.02     The loan's principal objectives as a credit line were achieved,
i.e., sound projects were financed by Bank funds, which were committed and
disbursed approximAtely as expected over a five-year period. The design of
the project did not really provide the necessary tools for implementing the
Loan's broad-based objectives of seeking improvements in interest rate
policy, capital market development, and broader DFC participation.
Progress was achieved only on interest rate policy. Performance of the
technical assistance component was mixed. Many of its activities were only
reluctantly accepted by the Government andlor the DFCs at the time of
appraisal and, as a consequence, were only partially executed.
2.03     Proiect Description.  The Fifth Loan (2096-EC) was designed to
build on the achievements of the first four loans by providing term
resources to the industrial sector, expanding the size and scope of DFC
activities, and improving their capability to appraise and supervise
projects. In addition, the project's emphasis focused on the development
and expansion of the financial system as a whole. The proceeds were to be
used to finance mainly larger and medium-size companies, with a maximum of
US$3 million of Bank funds going to individual firms or a group of related
firms, with an aggregate of not more than US$5 million of Bank funds from
the Fifth Loan or any previous Bank loans. Most subprojects were expected
to be in key resource-based sectors such as food processing, textiles and
wood. One-third of loan funds, or US$20 million, was earmarked for export
industries. About 60 subprojects were to be financed, with an average Bank
fund allocation of around US$1 million each and average ERU of over 202.
2.04     During loan preparation the Bank initiated discussions between the
DPCs and foreign commercial banks to arrange cofinancing to meet projected
needs for additional resources of US$40-SO million at medium-term maturity.
Funding was to be provided directly to final subborrowers with a DFCs
guarantee. This cofinancing was to mark the first time DFCs were able to
obtain 8-year funds from commercial banks. However, the cutoff of foreign
private lending to Ecuador closed all cofinancing posshbilities.
III. PROJECT IMPACT
3.01     Subproject Financing.  Seventy-four subloans were financed (target
of 60) of which the largest number were financed by CPU and COFIEC (34 and
23, respectively). The average loan per firm was US$700,000, lower than
the anticipated US$800,000 (see Annex I for distribution of loans by type
and size). Contrary to expectations, average subloans by CFN were among
the lowest (US$577,000) while some of the small DFCs showed much higher
averages (FINANSA US$1.55 million an5 FINANSUR US$1.2 million).
3.02     Impact of Subproiects.  The Fifth Loan followed the geographic
concentration of other loans with more than 80 of the subprojects in Quito



-5-
or Guayaquil (see Annex I). This was expected given the concentration of
activity in those industrial centers and the linkages between DFC
management and the major industries there. Important exceptions were a few
large subprojects located in less-developed areas of the country
(Palmoriente in the Amazon basin, EPACEM and FORESA near Santo Domingo de
los Colorados, and Aglomerados Cotopaxi and Textil Rio Blanco in rural
towas neqr Lstacunga - see Annex 1I). Estimated (ex ante) economic rates
of return (ERR) and financial rates of return (FRR) were in line with
expectations--arouad 30Q on average (see Annexes III and IV). Es post ERR,
however, could only be estimated for a few subprojects because of the time
elapsed since initial implementation and in view of the many changes in the
recipient firms. The lack of more ex post ERR is due partly to inadequate
in-situ information about present status of the enterprises.
3.03     Investment decisions in Ecuador reflected the relatively high
incentives offered to import substitution enterprises or established
industries rather than to export activities or the creation of new medium
or large-size enterprises. Under the Fifth Loan the majority of
subprojects were for expansionlmodernization of existing, generally export-
oriented firms. Most subprojects generated little employment. An extreme
case was a textile plant which, despite being a new inptallation. generated
only 24 new jobs (a cost per job of over US$200,000). As vith the Third
and Fourth DFC Bank Loans, beneficiaries under the Fifth Loan were mainly
resource-based and consumer goods industries. Food (including fish
products) and beverages, textiles and footwear, and wood products accounted
for more than 502 of all beneficiary firms. Only CFN and COFIEC
diversified their portfolio, showing eight export-oriented industries amon&
their clients. The intent to use at least one-third of the loan for
export-oriented projects was about 80% realized. In April 1984, the
Government asked the Bank to waive this covenant so that the remaining
funds could be used for nonexporting projects. The Bank agreed on the
basis of a supervision mission which had reviewed the pipeline and had
found that whereas possibilities existed for many efficient import-
substitution projects to help rehabilitate existing firms and debottleneck
the economy, there were few export subprojects (partly due to the closure
of Andean Pact markets). Additionally, the Bank felt substantial success
had already been achieved with export development under the loan, since
about US$15.3 million out of the US$20 million set aside for that purpose
had been committed, and the proposed action would permit more rapid
resource transfer to the country.
3.04     The technical quality of economic analysis for subprojects under
the Fifth Loan improved over previous DFC projects and was judged
acceptable by subproject reviewers, who were interviewed. At the same
time, subloan evaluation by financial intermediaries was oriented toward
engineering and production while market risks, macroeconomic risks, and
management capabilities were dealt with in less detail. However, most
projects now are doing well, despite project analysis shortcomings.
3.05     Current Status of Subprojects.  The initial phases of most
subprojects under the loan occurred in a contractionary economic
environment. During a full supervision of the Bank loan, in 1985, a
detailed review of subloan recipients was conducted. The mission found
that virtually every subproject suffered initial delays and/or cost
overruns.  Subloans in sucres, when devaluation began, and with fixed
interest rates when Inflation started its upward spiral, ultimately led to
advantageous interest rate differentials for the DFCs (see Annex V).



-6-
3.06     Institution Building.  One of the important achievements of the
project was the reinforcement of the supervisory and regulatory
capabilities of the Superintendency of Banks (SB). Initially the SB was to
be supported only through an earmarked activity under the TA component. In
fact, that activity began very late, in 1986, when most of the loan was
counitted and about 902 disbursed.  However, the real support to SB took
the form of direct loan supervision, in the form of discussions with Banlg
staff during loan supervision and seminars by Bank staff during project
preparation and the initial stages of loan implementation. A joint program
of cooperation was agreed whereby SB would provide to the Bank on a
periodic basis information about the financial status of DFCs. Such
information indeed was regularly sent to the Bank and today constitutes the
basis of the reporting system of DYCs to the SB. While SB can still
benefit from further strengthening, the level of information about DMCs,
available today is substantially better than at the beginning of the Fifth
Loan.
3.07     During preparation of both the Fourth and the Fifth Loans, the
Bank attempted to establish a second-tier discount facility to assess the
eligibility of new DFCs and to provide assistance to all participating DFCs
in subproject review and supervision. The rationale for such a scheme
(according to the findings of the appraisal mission) was to avoid the
growing demands on Bank staff that direct supervision of the loan would
imply, considering the expected increase in the number of participating
DFCs and thus of subprojects. The Bank tried unsuccessfully to persuade a
unit within BCE to assume an 'apexs role for the DFCs. In retrospect,
BCE's judgment in 1981 about its capability to serve as a subproject
evaluation intermediary and local counterpart institution in Bank loan
administration was accurate.  Further Bank missions confirmed that BCE did
not have a well trained team of project specialists; moreover, there was
little prospect that it could hire local professionals who could make a
substantial contribution to the work being done by the specialized DFCs.
3.08     The Bank's role as an apex institution, assuming the monitoring
and control functions for subprojects, was satisfactory under the first
four loans because of the smaller number of DFCs and subprojects, but such
an arrangement proved completely unmanageable under the Fifth Loan. Bank
staff had tos (i) review and qualify yearly financial statements;
(ii) review and approve DFC loan entitlements before the authorization of
each subloans (iii) approve subprojects above the free limit; and
(iv) supervise loan/project implementation on a regular basis. The amount
of direct time spent by Bank staff only in supervision of the Fifth Loan
exceeded 100 staff-weeks, or 20 staff-weeks per year, a commitment far in
excess of similar Bank operations.  In addition, the lack of one main
counterpart institution in the country created an excessive flow of
information between: the Bank and every potentially participating DFC, and
caused delays in the data-gathering and assessment process for the
preparation of this PCR.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
4.01     Disbursements.  Ecuador's Fifth Development Babking Loan (2096-EC)
was signed on April 22, 1982 and became effective only on October 5, 1982,
after the Government of Ecuador (GOE), BCE and the DFCs had completed



lengthy procedures of clearing of agreements and legal opinions.
Additional delays ocurred due to the signing of the subsidiary agreements
between BCE and each of the potentially participating DPCs. Futher time
elapsed until the conditions for the participation of each of the DFCs were
fulfilled. Due to the macroeconomic changes that occurred in late 1982 and
1983, and to delays in the fulfillment of complicated participation
requirements, the project disbursements began one year late, in the second
quarter of 1983. Disbursements picked up very rapidly in 1984185, and by
the expected loan closing, in December 1986, the loan was essentially
disbursed (see Annex VI).
4.02     Subloan lecipients.  CFN and COFIEC took the bulk of the loan
funds (34.5Z and 29.12, respectively) although not as much as under
previous Bank loans (see Annex VII). Contrary to expectations, of the
thirteen DFCs in the financial system, only seven, including CEN and
COFIEC, participated in the loan: FINIBER (11.52), ECUFINSA (5.12),
FINANSA (8.42), FINANQUIL (2.62) and FINANSUR (9.OZ). Of these, FINANQUIL
was the only one not represented in the Fourth Development Banking Project
(Loan 1731-EC) and, thus was the only new DFC.
4.03     DebtlEquity Ratios.   Because of the recession in the Ecuadorian
economy, combined with tight credit policy, a major devaluation, and the
impact of the sucretization program, the financial condition of the DFCs
deteriorated sharply. By mid- 1983, the debt/equity (D/E) ratios of the
DFCs jumped to levels between 15 to 1 and 20 to 1. At the end of 1983, all
the six participating private DFCs were in violation of the 10 to 1 D/E
ratio covenant of the loan agreement (see Annex VIII). In view of the
deteriorating situation the Government and the Bank, after a supervision
mission in November 1983, agreed to waive the DIE provision, and continued
authorizing subloans, against a plan for recapitalization of the DPCs.
4.04     In early 1984, despite the positive actions taken by the
participating DFCs to strengthen their financial structure, it was clear
that the DFCs would not be able to generate profits or raise additional
equity in amounts sufficient to reduce debt/equity ratios to the 10 to 1
required by the loan agreement and by Ecuador's banking law. Profit margin
summAries for individual DFCs are attached as Annex I%. With the proviso
that the DFCs would continue to make efforts to strengthen their financial
position, and in the expectation that the Government would quickly change
the banking law to adjust appropriately the D/E to reflect the changed
circumstances, the Bank waived the DIE covenant all together, and fully
committed the balance of the loan. As it turned out the banking law was
not changed until after loan implementation.
4.05     Technical Assistance.  The project sought to accomplish important
institution-building and sector-reform objectives, and this included a
substantial technical assistaAce (TA) component of US$1 million. The TA
component could only begin execution at the end of 1984, when most of the
funds under the credit component had already been committed; hence, it was
only partially executed. The overall results can be summarized as follows:
(a)    Provision of advisory services through the Ministry of Finance
to the DFCs with the preparation and appraisal methodology for



investment projects (resident advisor for 2 years). The
advisory service to DFCs was the subject of endless
discussions with each new authority in the Ministry of
Finance, which questioned the validity of the service, the
need for foreign consultants, and the capabilities of the
Minlistry to house and agree on the expenses of the consultant.
In the end, the consultant was never hired and the service
never provided.
(b)    Carrying out studies through the Superintendency of Banks of
the financial system and a program to strengthen the
supervisory and analytical capabilities of the SB information
system (3.5 person-years of foreign consultants). The
strengthening of the SB took the form of courses and seminars-
-some of them with active participation of Bank staff. The SB
purchased computers to reinforce the processing capabilities.
SB used nearly US$400,000 of the TA component. Although most
of the SB activities began late (they were executed in
1986187), the results have been positive and the quality and
quantity of information about the DFCs currently in the SB has
contributed significantly to better regulate the financial
sector.
(c)    Carrying out a study through the Ministry of Industry of
industrial incentives, including export promotion measures and
their consequences (16 months of expatriate consultant's
services). According to the Loan Agreement, the Government,
with the help of consultants, should have completed a study of
industrial incentive measures, including export promotion
measures, by the end of 1982. Also, it should have furnished
to the Bank, by March 1983, a program of action, including the
measures to be taken on the basis of the recommendations of
the study, and the timetable for the carrying out of such
measures. However, the study about industrial incentives also
was the subject of endless discussions concerning its content,
the type and nationality of consultants to be used, and the
organization responsible for its execution. The study was
finally executed by a team from Boston University (Center for
Latin American Development Studies - CLADS) and a group of
Ecuadorian consultants in 1984185. The study (three volumes
and a 100-page executive summary) was made available to the
Ecuadorians and the Bank in March 1985. The program of action
and timetable were never submitted. This study, while
providing a basis fer the 1986 tariff reduction (in the
context of the follow-on Industrial Finance Loan 2672-EC), had
little or no influence in reshaping Ecuador's industrial
policy or tariff system. Most Ecuadorian officials and Bank
staff, which had reviewed the study, believed it was too
detailed and academic to be of practical use to policy-makers
in Ecuador.
(d)    Strengthening the financial management and accounting systems
of CFN (US$100,000 for consultant support plus additional
resources from other loans). The strengthening of financial



management of CFN  also was severely delayed.  It took CuN
from 1982 until 1986 to select consultants and then to reach
an agreement with a reputable firm to review and recommend
ways to establish a new management information system (MIS).+
Finally, the contract was signed in February 1987 and is still
under execution. In the first stage a review was undertaken
of existing procedures and facilities for decision-making at
a cost of US$100,000, which was covered under Loan 2096-EC.
The second stage, designing and implementing the new MIS, has
a preliminary budget of US$400,000, which is being covered
under loan 2672-EC and by CPU's own resources. The total
program is behind schedule and not meeting original
expectations under Loan 209fi_EC.
V. CONCLUSIONS
5.01     Perhaps the most salient lesson is that the Bank was not realistic
in its expectations regarding the achievement of policy objectives through
a credit line operation. The design of the project also did not provide
the necessary tools for implementing improvements In interest rate policy
and capital market development. The characteristics of a credit line are
not suited to achieving further policy improvements during loan
implementation because of the declining leverage as the loan is being
disbursed. Therefore, improvements in the policy environment have to be
achieved upfront with specific conditions on the maintenance of this
environment to permit use of the Bank's remedies in case of a deterioration
in the policy environment of the loan. The initial progress of opening a
dialogue on financial matters between the Government of Ecuador and the
Bank did not materialize into a program of reform until much later with the
Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (Loan 2897-EC), approved December 1987.
Similarly, the linkage of the Bank's onlending rate to a market determined
reference rate and the shift from fixed rates to variable interest rates
was only made under the follow-on loan--Industrial Finance (Loan 2672-EC).
5.02     In hindsight, the Bank appears to have been overconfident that
macroeconomic conditions would remain stable. Loan design was based on the
presumption that the economy would grow at a modest (4Z) but sustained rate
during the life of the loan and that there would be no major devaluations
of the sucre, which had maintained the same parity for nearly 12 years.
These assumptions did not materialize, and the scope for broadening DFC
participation was curtailed sharply. Ecuador's DFCs were meant to operate
best in an expanding economy, with low levels of business failures and a
stable exchange rate. Their financial structure, with a high dependence on
BCE and foreign multilateral resources, proved relatively inflexible to
adapt to changing economic conditions. The deterioration of their
financial condition could not be averted, as evidenced by the increase of
their DIE ratio from 10 to 1 to levels between 15 to 1 and 20 to 1.
5.03     DFCQ  were reluctant to rely on econdmic appraisal techniques in
their selection of projects. The ERR calculation, even when done
conscientiously, is usually of doubtful value because of inherent
difficulties in establishing 4orrect shadow prices in a distorted
environment.  A reappraisal of the usefulness of ERR analysis is called
for. For instance, the Bank could encourage DFCs to try to better



- 10 -
understand the overall implications of potential projects in light of major
specific distortions affecting the various subsectors and of the country's
economic development prospects. In future lending, conclusions vhich
emerge from the Bank's industrial sector studies, could be used by the DFCs
for this purpose.
5.04     Most subprojects turned out to be financially viable, and show
very little, if any, arrears in the repayment of subloans. One explanation
is the subsidy of the fixed interest rate on subloans (172-202). In a
climate of rising inflation, projects with fixed interest rates will be
committed quickly and the repayment record will be excellent. An
additional effect has been a substantial bias toward capital-intensive
investments. Most subprojects went to modernize plants. Emerging from
this PCR is the lesson, nov standard Bank practice, that there is a need to
move towards real interest lending rates as well as adjustments of subloans
to reflect macroeconomic conditions.
5.05     The institutional arrangements under the Fifth Loan--i.e., direct
dealings of the Bank with individual DFCs--proved excessively time-
consuming. The lesson, already recognized in follow-on operations, is that
the Bank is not in a position to assume such responsibilities. A second-
tier mechanism needs to function locally, with the SB handling the
eligibility and control of financial intermediaries, and a specially
created unit, handling subloan approvals, subproject supervisions, and data
on subproject impact.
5.06     In the design of future technical assistance components, an
important lesson is that those studies agreed to without a real commitment
from the borrower will probably be postponed or executed but not
implemented. For example, in the case of the study on industrial
incentives it was delayed until the loan had been completely committed and
supervision efforts had been substantially reduced. The study was
considered too academic and not action-oriented and did not have any major
impact on reshaping the country's industrial policies.



- 11 -                    ATTACHMRNT A
Page 1 of 12
ECUADOR
PROJECT CORPLETION EPORT
FIPTH DEVELOPMENS IANWNIG PROJECT (LN. 2096-EC)
Aide Memoirs on Interest Rate Policy
SummarY and Conclusions
*1.       This document Is a response to a request from the Ecuadorian
Government to discuss the on-lending terms to final borrowers under World
Bank loans, as well as a part of the periodic dialogue on Interest ratce
poWlcy agreed to in World Bank Loans No. 2096-EC and No. 2221-EC. The
document contains a suamry of the recent financl, sector mission's
recommendations on interest rate policy. Other recomendations of the
mission regarding such important issues as reserve requirements, costs of
interediation, and financial structure '411 be presented later, during the
coutinuing dialogue between the Ecuadorian Government and the World Bank.
ii.       The Ecuadorlan financlal system has reached a critical juncture.
During the seventies the Ecuadotian financial system was able.to increase
real credit much faster than real GOP. However, this growth was based on
the weak foundations of Central Bank lending and international borrowing,
rawbhr than on resource cobilization from domestic savers. In the next few
years these two sources of re',ent credit growth will b restrieted severely
by the stabilixatioa program, by the tlghtness in International capital
srokets, and by the depressed world oal market. Consequently interest rate
policy will have to be directed toward domestic. resource mobilization to
prevent a severe contraction of credit and toward more efficient allocatibl
of credit to aake the optimum use of limLted real resoces. While the
approptate level and structure of interest rates to achleve thes"
objective  varies from councry to country, experience suggescs that rat"
sbould-be posicive In real terms and provide for a spread which covers tbs.
costs and risks of intermediatlon.  Such an Interest rate policy, ill aw
the adjustment. of the financial syste to the new conditions by limiting
the contaom of real credt and improving Its utiLization.
*                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~4.-
ii.       The princlipl elements of the policy package to achieve thee
gols ar e: (1) Ligher rea intecrst rates, achieved by raising nomlial
rates in stepwise fasbion until domestic resource nobilization resebaes
satisfactory levels.  The ultimate iuterest rate is lkely to be positive
1a real terms. (2) More frequent changes In Interest rates, ro assure both
a growth In financial savings In real term and a declining intorest cate
i ofladton falls. This could be dons by following the Meican system of
a*ugncaing a base race to which all other rates are tied. (3) Introduction
cf capitalization of interest in long term contracts, to permit safer term
transformation and to ease the initial debt service burden. Such a
capitalization sysct has been used with some success in the U.S. aortage
*arket and in Brazil and ColombLa. Calculations suggest that a reasonable
ateu of c4pitalization a.nd a 40  p.a. aosinal ioteras: rate actually imply
lower Initial deb: service paoyoncs than the cirreat system and a 20Z p.a.
nominal interest rate.  Ad Licidental benefit of this policy packag is the
reductioa of the governmnt's coat of bearing foreign exchange cisk on



ATTAT 
-12-                           Page 2 of 12
loam from tih  World Bank en  other international institutions.  While it
is a matter of judgemwt how soon this policy packagoe can be Xiplemented,
so9s actiou is needed soon to prevent a severe coatraction of real credit
during the next year.
iv.       The alternative policy of roughly maintainiag the current level
of intercst rates is a less desirable option. Its costs, in terme of
contraction of real credit, will be great, wile its benefits, in terms of
lower inflation, are likely to be smlL.  Higher interest rates wil  have
at most a one-tims effect on the price level, and that effect Is likely to
be smll. Interest costs represents only a small fraction of working
capital at normal rates of inventory turnover. Moreover prices are related
more to the costs of the average borrower, than to those few borrowers with
access to the limited supply of cheap credit. Higher interest rates also
tend to promote saving, reduce speculation and force inventory liquidation,
thereby reducing the upward pressure on prices. The empirical association
between high interest rates antd inflation reflects the pressure which
Inflation puts on Interest rates, rather than the reverse. This is
evidenced by the fact that rises in inflation precede rises in interest
rates In most developing countries. Moreover low interest rates are no
protection against inflation as the current situation illustrates. It is
true that a prolonged period of high interest rates could squeeze corporate
profits and should be avoided. However, the cash flaw effects of the
recom_nded interest rate policy could be eased until the current recession
ends by the recomuded capitalization of interesto  In the longer run real
interest rates can be redueed only by following a policy package that
invorvves a reduced fiscal deficit and a realistic exchang rate.
Quito, July 1983



- 13 -                      ATTACEMW  A
Page 3 of 12
AIDS KE   0          ST RATE POLICY
1.        The Ecuadorian financial system has reached a critical juncture.
Long accuatomed to the stability provided by a fixed exchange rate, to an
easy access to forelgn resources, and to i moderate rate of inflation, the
ficsucial system must now adjust to the new crawling peg regime, a sharply
reduced ifhflow of oil revenues and foreign credit, and sharply higher
inflation fueled by devaluation. Unless action is taken, this adjust6an
will be made more painful by certain pre-existing structural flaws. ThiE
aide meamoire briefly analyzes the recent development 'of the financial
system and diagnoses its problems.  It then offers suggestions for a new
set of financial policies to deal with the radically changed environment.
An incidental benefit of this new set of policies is the reduction of the
government's cost of bearing the foreign exchange risk on loans from the
World Bank and other internatlonal lending institutions.
Recent Development of the Ecuadorian Financial System
2.        The financial system of Ecuador has grown in many ways since the
early 1970s.y  The number of banks and financieras has increased from 21
to 32 and from 2 to 13 respectively. The knowledge and sophistication of
the staff and management of financial institutions have expanded. Value
added in financial services has grown at a real rate of 111 p.a. from 1973
to 1981 and bas increased from 2.22 to 3.3S of GDP. The ratio of the
assets of private banks to GDP likewise has grown from 26Z in 1973 to 372
of GDP In 1981.
3.        Nevertheless, the Ecuadorian financial system suffers from severe
structural flaw and is in many ways weaker now than 10 years ago. The
four major, interrelated weaknesses are:
(a) the inadequate growth in domestic resources mobilized from the
public;
(b)- the increasing dependence on resources from the Central Bank
(BCE) and the publlc sector generally, particularly since 1982;
(c) the dangerous level of dependence on foreign resources;
(d) the virtual disappearance of long term resources except from the
public sector and international institutions.
4.        Historically and across countries the principal mechanisa for
increasing the resources of a financial system has been the growth'in
non-osnetary labilties mobilized from domestic savers. Therefore the
I/  Unless othevise noted, the "financial systaem  and  financial
institutions* means the Central Bank, commercial banks, financieras
and savinpg  banks (Xutualistas).



-14 -A                             T 
Page 4 of 12
performance of this variable is a god measure of the underlying strength
of a financial system and the policies govering it. By this weasure the
Ecuadorian financial system ha not perfomed well in the decade since
1973.  Domestically mobilized resources, consisting of savings and time
deposits, mortgage boas, stabilization bonds, and bank acceptances sold on
the security exchanges, grew at only 2.52 in real terms over this period.
This growth was considerably less than that of the economy and so the ratio
of these resources to GDP fell from 9.12 in 1973 to 6.9% in 1982. Most of
this decllne is explained by the stagnation in quasi money, whose volume
actually declined slightly in real terms over the period. The actual
performance is even vwrse, given that most of the growth in stabilization
bonds and mortgage bonds is accoaute4 fAr. by holditgs of the Ecuadorian
Social Security Institute (tESS), 5t privace savers. By 1982 tESS held
over 302 of mortgage bonds.
5.        Financial institutions have increased their dependency on the
Banco Central de Ecuador at the same time as domestic resource obilization
from private savers has lagged.  In the case of the Banco Nacional de
Fomento the percentage of its cred&.t coming from BCE rose from 26% in 1973
to 342 in 1981.. The increase in the dependency of commercial banks was
even sharper, rising from 12 in 1973 to 282 in 1982. By the sam token
financieras, which got almost no BCE credit in 1973, received 352 of their
total credit from the BCE In 1982.
- 6.        While petroleum revenues have contributed to the increased role
of ths Central Bank in credit allocatton, other forces are also at work.
One factor which has increaed the              of the financial system on
the BCE is the growing importance of the Finacial Funds. Most of the
rediscounting done by these Funds (902) represents Central Bank emission of
credit.
7.        Another factor in the increasing dependency of the financial
system on BCE has beea the growing external indebtedness of the Ecuadorla
public sector. The public sector borrowed abroad, but in the aggregate
* imports were not increased correspondingly. As a result, international
reserves tended to increase, whlch eased the balance of payment constraiAt
on the BCE and permtted It to offer domestic loans more freely. Thus the
depndency of the system on foreign loans grew but the growth was
disguised. Not disguised was the increase in the external debt of the
-private sector, much of which was goaxateed by domestic financial
institutiona.,2 This private debt inereased from 0.6? of GDP in 1973 to
10.22 in 19827, with most of the increase comintg since 1978.
8.        Data on the term structure of credit does not exist in Ecuador
but Indirect evidence indicates that the share qf long term credit has
declined since 1972. Mortgage bonds, the com_rcial banks' ouly source of
long term resources, have decrersed e a percentage of total liabilities.
The growt1 of the financieras' lending has been most rapid in the short end
*f the spectrum. The lack of long term credit also is reflected in the
3/ And hence because of reporting methods does not appear in either
credit or libilitles in the suinq financial statities.



- 15 -                       ATTACEUT A
Page 5 of 12
high proportlon of auto-financed construction and In the low ratlo of debe
to equlty that existed in most private Ecuadorean corporations prior to the
recent devaluation. Most longer term credit that is granted by the
financial system ultimately corns from foreign public sector sources. In
partlcular, financieras are dependTe t on either the World Bank or tCE
("agricultural bonds-) for their limited long term credit.
9.        The paradox of increasing size but growing weakness is explained
by a complex of financial policies that have thwarted the development of
the financial system. Virst, expansionary monetary and fiscal policies
kept inflation rates above 122 p.a. in 1975-1980, pushed it to 1.3X p.a.
in 1981 and 1982, and to over 40% in the 12 months ending March 1983,
during which a sharp devaluatlon was required. A basic task in promoting
financial development will be the restoration of peice stability, which in
turn requires a reduction In the public sector deficit. Second, financial
institutions were not allowed to offer attractive real interest rates to
savers and depositors, nor to charge (openly) interest rates which would
bave covered the cosc of intermediation and provided for a higher return to
the saver. Between 1975 and 1981 the average deposit rate was one to three
percentage points below inflation and the saving deposit rate three to six
points below inflation. These low average real rates, which have rseently
declined even further, limited domestic resource mobilization. Third,
the fixed exchange rate and optimistic projections of oil revenues
encouraged excessive foreigp borrowing by the private sector by
contributing to a false sense of stability and an Incorrect estimate of the
foregp exchange rIsks involved. When the oil market suddenly worsened and
It became Impossible to rollover foreign loans, a sharp devaluation became
necessary to correct the balance of payments. This produced a liquidity
crisis at those firma which had borrowed heavily abroad. Since most of the
foreign currency debts were guaranteed by banks and financieras, these
institutions (as well as the foreign banks) must bear part of the
responsibility for having allowed the borrowers to asum  growlng, short
term foreign exchange risks for what were in many cases medium- and
long-term uses of the funds. Fourth, subsidized credit for a range of
supposedly especially worthy sectors (exports, farming, construction,
fshbLng, small industry, inventories of codities) was granted by the
ICE, although In practice credit diversion enabled banks to channel a large
part of these subsidies to their best customers. Fifth, IESS and, more
receatly, the BCE have come to dominate the market for long-tern mortgage
boads by setting their yields at levels completely unattractive to the
private savers.
10.       The Ecuadorian financial system has reached a critical juncture.
It may even contract for the next year or two, requiring many paianul
adjustments. The government has begun a program which will encourage thase
adjustms and set the stage for long term growth.  The principal steps
taken thus far are:
(a)  lntitution of the crawling peg exchange rate;-
(b) efforts to control public spending and subsdio.,



ATTACHRNT A
Page 6 of 12
(t) higher intceest rates for savers (but still far less than current
inflation rates);
(d) simplifucation of the interest rate structure.
Policy Options
11*       In broad terms the policy options for furthering additional
adjustment in the financial sector are as follows:
(1) Maintaining interest rates at roughly current levels
(2) Raising deposit rates to roughly the expected rate of inflation
aod resetting them frequently to maintain that real level
(3) Raisins real deposit rates to world levels or above, to attract
foreigt capital
12.       In the next few years the finuacial system's ability to use
foreign credit will be restricted, as both foreigm lenders and domestic
borrowers seek to reduce their exposure to each other. A consistent, even
If gradual, stabilization program will require the BCE to reduce its credit
to the private financial institutions. Thus the two principal sources of
recent credit growth will be limited. Consequently, interest rates which
encourage domestic resource mobilization will be necessary in order to
limitthe financial system's contraction. Interest rate also should be
conducive to efficient allocation of financial savingp. While the
sppropriate level and structure of such interest rates varies from country
to country, experience suggets that they should be positive in real terms
and provide for a spread which covers the costs and risks of financial
intermediariese Thus, in general terms the mst appropriate strategy ile
(1)-raising deposit rates to roughsy the curmret rate of inflation and
resetting them as necessary.
13.       To effectively implement this general strategy the following
specific measures should be adopted:
1.   aighbr real intarest rates.  Rates should be iacreased in
stepwise fashion until domstic resource moblUxatioa reaches
satisfactory levels. This ts Liely to require a rate In excess
of inflation and perhaps oae as high as 35 to 40S if the rate of
crawling peg devaluation is incueased to produce a further rise
In the real exchange rate.
2. Much more frequent changes in Interest rates, to assure both a
growth in finanial savings in real tem  and declning interest
rates as inflation falls.
--               3. * ntroduction of systems that allow adjustable interest rato
contracts in long term leniang, so that financial institutions
may safely transform shorter term resources or mobLlize longer
tera  resources with adjustable rate instruments.



ATTACHMENT A
-17 -                         Page 7 of 12
4.   Elimination of subsidized credlt from BCE, at first by gaising
Interest rates to *on-preferential levels and later by phasing
out the allocation of VCE credit to specific activities.
5. Gradual introduction of flexibility in interest rate setting to
alloy financial lnstitutions to determine market-clearing rates.
Discussion of the Policq Options
14.       Ecuador seems to have entered an era of muct higher and more
variable inflation. Altbough monetary and fiscal policies will no doubt
attempt to bring inflation uader controL, experience in other Latlin
American countries indicates that this effort is unlikely to be successful
immediately. Stabilization is seldom achieved without high costs in terms
of slo8 growth and unemployment and therefore efforts are sometimes
abandoned temporarily before they produce results. During this interim of
greater inflation, which may last for several years, higher and more
variable interest rates, will be required.
15.       Experience in many countries shows that Interest rates
approximating the rate of inflation are needed to maintain real incentives
for holdLag assets denominated in domestic currency. Otherwise, inflation
will erode the real value of these assets and encourage savers to seek
assets with higher real returns, such as foreign exchange, precious metals
-ad land.  Experience also shows that interest rates must reflect the
expected rate of devaluation in order to minimize capital flight.
Llkewise, experience shows that on tha loan side, positive real interest
rates are needed to improve credit allocation. While preferential rates
for favored sectors are a common practice, it is doubtful that they are an
effective way to provide assistance in the face of capital scarcity. Nor
can net increases In credit to the favored sectors be assured by these
mans, given the fungibility of saving. Thus support for these sectors is
better provided through other mans, which are less disruptive to the
financial system. Moreover, if projected inflation substantially exceeds
loau interest rates for very long, then damands for credit multiply,
allocation of credit becomes mve difficult, and some socially productive
projects are likely to be displaced by others which are profitable only
because of the negative real interest rates. Finally, the experience of
many countries shows that the actual allocations of low interest credit are
like1 to havc adverse distributional consequences. Low cost credit
encourages capital intensive rather than labor Intensive production
processes, reducing the demand for labor and slowing growth. Moreover,
limitations on interest rates encourage financial intermediaries to
concentrate their lending on their best clients-those with the most-
assets and the largest guarantees-to the detriment of medium and small
borrowers. Thus limitations on interest rates imply that a large number of
small depaoitors end zp subasidzing a few, wealthy borrowers. Por all of
these reasons Ecuador should try to maintain interest rates above their
current real levels. Moreover, more frequent changes in rates will be
required to follow variations on inflationo
16.       The proposed policy package mak  the best of a bad situation; it
will be difficult to develop a strong financial system until inflation



ATTACHMENT A
-18-                        Page 8 of 12
falls substantially.  The principal alternative to the proposed
package-malntaining the interest rates at roughly current levels--is a
second-best choice. If current interest rates are maintained, then capital
flight will increase and fintncial savings will fall, sharply reducing the
availability of real credit as occurred in Mexico in 1982. While a few
firim wiLl benefit from working capital at low interest rates, this benefit
will be atr-the expense of the far more numerous depositors and of the
non-privileged borrowers who will have to pay exhorbitant rates for the
sharply reduced anunt of real credit.
17.       One of the principal benefits often claized for low interest
rates is that they hold down inflation. However, this argument provides a
tenuous rationale for maintaining low rates. First, interest rates on
working capital represent only a small fraction of costs. Thus increased
rates would produce only a small, one-time effect on prices, and one which
would be reversed as inflation and interest races fall. Second, the
limited amount of credit available at low rates means that average costs
and prices in the economy mainly reflect the costs of those without access
to cheap credit. Thus the principal effect of the low interest rates is to
permit those with privileged access to credit to enjoy lower costs and
higher profits than the average borrower. Certainly the recent experience
of Ecuador, where inflation shot up despite an enormous rise in the
proportion of low interest credit, provides little support for the view
that cheap credit can restrain inflation by lowering costs. Third, the
argument neglects the effect of higher real interest rates on demand.
Higher, real ates slow demand and force more rapid liquidation of
inventories, tbereby puttitg downward pressure on prices. Thus, the
maintenance of the current level of interest rates is likely to sharply
reduce real credit, squeeze numerous borrowers, and generate distributional
problems, while restraining prices only margiually.
l8.       These arguments refer 8nly to the one-tim effects on prices of a
chbage ia iaterest ratese An empirical correlation between interest rates
and inflation also has been used to argue that high rates are
inflationory. While high nominal interest rates often coexist with
inflation, low nominal iaterest rates also have occurred during periods of
high inflation, for example in Brazil in the fifties and early sixties,
Uruguay in the sixties and early seventies, and Ecuador recently. Thus low
interest rates are no guarantee against inflation. To the extent that a
correlation exists between inflation and interest rates, It reflects the
effects of inflation on severs, who seok to protect their real capital; on
borrowers, who increase their demands for credit as real interest rates
fall; avA ultltsely on governmeat rate-setters, who recognize the dangers
and problems involved ia highly negative real intarest rates.  Thusthe
causation is foam inflatiou to interest rates, rather than the reverse.
This view is supported by the fact that major Increases IA interest rates
usually follow increases La inflation, and that very negative real rates
have exit6d for long periods in many countries, but real rates of even teu
percentag  poins are rare and relatively short llved.  In sum, there is
little evidence that a one-tim rise in incerest rates produces the
continuous rise in prices which constitutes inflation.



ATTACHMMNT A
-19-                          Page 9 of 12
19.       Real rates whlch are too bigh can create problems.  Consequently
too high as well as too low real rates must be avoided. The main potential
problem created by bigh real rates is a squeeze on profits. This occurs
because higher rates drive up the costs of rolling over the short term
debts which have been used to finance long term Investment. Rowever the
immediate cash flow problem of higher rates can be alleviated by
capitalisztion of interest, as discussed below (para. 25). Nonetheless
firns eventually must be able to cover their interest payments or they will
drown in a sea of debt. In the Ecuadorian case the potential risk from
this direction is reduced because:  (a) Much investmeht was financed abroad
and already has experienced an effective rise in Interest rates-the
devaluation-which Is now being capitalized in the renegotiation. As a
result the rise in local rates may not increase the cash flow pressure In
firms very such, especially compared to the potential alternative that some
loans may not be renewed because of the credit crunch provoked by capital
flight, (b) The relatively low debt-equity ratio which prevailed in most
fir=s before 1982 will permit them to take on wore debt until the current
recession ends. Nonetheless the risks of too high real interest rates
should be minimized. This will require a macro policy package -which
includes not only adjustments of the deposit rate to maintain an adequate
flow of domestic resources, but also a reduced fiscal deficit and
maLntenance of a realistic excha4ge rate.
Details in Operating the New System-Setting Interest Rates
20.       T The easiest way to make the needed changes in Interest rates
within the present institutional structure would be to define interest
regulations In terms of a base rate which could be reset fairly
frequently. Deposit and lending rates could be tied to the base rate by
fixed (but not unalterable) margins. This approach has been used in Mexico
with some success. A good candidate for the base rate is the rata paid on
the shortest maturity savings instruments - banks and mutualista pass book
saving.  Initially, both the base rate and margins would be regulated by
the Junta Mouetaria. The base rate should be increased in stepwise fashion
until domestic resource iwbilization reaches satisfactory levels, i.e. at
something approximating a market clearing rate. Ultimately, this is likely
to require a positive real rate of Interest. If xpectations of a faster
*devaluation develop, then it may even be necessary to raise the interest
rate further to prevent capital flight. Thus the base rate should ba
varied frequently as expectations of inflation and devaluation, capital
ifflows and outflows and resource mobilization change.
21.       iegulated interest rate differentials on loans of the same
maturity between sectors should be reduced or eliminated. While afgumsnts
can be mad for trying to insure a certain minimum amount of credit for
such activities as exports, agriculture or small scale industry,
preferential Interest rates are harmful in achieving this. Thus the Fondoas
Financler4. and other special lines of BCR credit would remain in
operation, subject to the lmits of the monetary program, but preferencial
iaterest rates on these credits should be phased out. The elimination of
preferential iaterest rates on special credit lines reduces both the
implicit tax on depositors and the poliltical pressure to expand ICE credit



- 20 -                      ATTACHMENT A
Page 10 of 12
lines, which would be inconsistent with the need for macroeconomic
stabilization. It also reduces the problems of monitoring such cedit to
avoid bank takeovers by industrial groups seeking access to cheap credit
and corporate takeovers by industrial-financial groups using cheap credit.
22.       Over time private financial institutions should be allowed a
gteater degree of discretion in setting interest rates and in negotiating
margins with their clients. They need greater flexibility in three areas:
(1) flexibility In setting Taces (and other terms) for depositors that will
enable institutions to design wobltization instruinents wich are most
attractive to depositors at the lowest coset to the institution and its
borrowers; (2) flexibility in setting rates to borrowers that enable the
institution to thereby preventing risky, high cost borrowers (perceived by
financial institutions to be agriculture and small scale industry) from
being cut off from credit; (3) flexibility in setting margins between loans
of different maturities Lo allow institutions to find the premium that
firms attach to the security of having longer rather than shorter maturity
loans.
Details of Operating the New System-Variable Rates and the
Capitalization of Tnterest
23.       Iong term lending at fixed rates under a system of fairly high
and rapidly changing short tern interest rates (as this aide mamoirs
concludes Is necessary) wucld face almost insuperable problems. If the
fizea long tern rate is set at the level of the short term rate plus a
margin, it can easily reach a level that borrowers would not be prepared to
risk being locked into paying over the long term.  On the other hand if the
danger exists that the long term rates would be below short term rates for
any substantial period, theQ no financial institution would have a
reasonable expectation of being able to cover the costs of interaediation
plus the high and variable cost of mobilizing resources. The problems
created by attempting to term transform short-term resources while lending
at fixed rates are shown up with the distressing clarity In the experience
of the Mutualistas. The only escape from this dilemma is probably to cove
toward a system of long term lending at variable rates that permlts
financial Intermediaries to term transform resources mobilized at short
tern (or possibly mobilized at longer term but also at variable rates).
24.       The first problem to be overcom  in establishing varlable rate,
long term ledming is one of finding a proper legal form for writing the
contract under Ecuadorian lay and regulation.  Such a contract would
involve two partst: First, the lender's legal commitment to make a certain
amount of credit available over a specified period, and second, a pethod
for setting the Interest rate which will accrue during each subperiod of
the loan. For example, this could be the base rate plus the appropriate
margins and commissiona.
25.       The contract also mast deal with the short term cash flow
implications of variable rate lending when rates are fairly high, as they
will need to be for at least the next year or two. Firms borrow long term
rather than short and pay a premium for a long teor commitmat pr4ciely in



-21-                       ArcUMENT A
Page 11 of 12
ordsr to better match repaymeat terms with the resl cash flow of the
prjeact being financed. High nominal Interest rates and equal noamnal
paymnts of principal destroy this correspondence. Under these terms the
lintial debt service payment is equal to a large fraction of the loan, in
effect cutting the term of the loan. In succeeding years the nominal debt
service paymut declines rapidly and, because of inflation, the real
payment decUnes even faster. This front-loading of real obligations
creates serious cash flow problems for borrowers.  In the same way, in the
case of mortgage loans it creates an initial liquidity squeeze on the home
buyer, since initially payments are a much higher fraction of the buyer's
income that in later years.
26.       One solution to these liquidity problems lies in the partial
capitalization of interest payments, which can largely reconcile the
borrowers' and the lenders' interests. Such an approach has been used in
Per and for c,rtgages in the U.S.31 The schem works by dividing the
lending rate into two parts - a cash payment rate and a capitalization,
oraecrual rate. Actual interest payments would be equal to the cash
payment rate multiplied by the principal, following conventional
practices. The accrual rate, the excess of the lending rate over the cash
paymet rate, is used to increase the principal. The principal can then be
amortized as desired. In Ecuador, the Monetary Board would set the lending
rate using a spread over the base interest rate, as discussed above. ThLs
rate would change frequently, as the base rate changed. The Monetary Board
would also set the cash paymeant rate and thua, implicitly, the
apitalization rate.
27.       Partlal capitalization of interest substantially reduces the cash
flow problems of debtors in the first few years of a loan as compared to
the current system. This is shown in the Annex. which presents general
formulas for calculating payments and outstanding principal on such loans
and some sample payments schedules. In particular, the closer the accrual
rate is set to the inflation rate, the more closely the interest paymnts
would resemble a series of constant real payments.j/ Ia contrast, the
current system Imposes a high, real llquLdity burden Initially (see Annex
Table 2); which deters long-term borrowing. Consequently, the design of a
system of variable rate, partial capitalization lending for housing finance
and the long-ter credit to the agricultural and industrial sectors should
begin as soon as possible.
31 1n the United Kingdom variable rate mortgages are the rule, with the
borrower having the optlon of extending the term to lower the monthly
paymat.  In Brazil an the Colombian uPaC system  the inflatiot
adjustment of loans is capitalized.
41 This cnn be seen Intuitively by noting that if there were no
amortization, thean the principal would grow at the accruaL rate. Tf
this were set equal to Inflation, then the real p-incipal would be
constant. Since cash payments are a constant percentage of the
principal, they too would be constant in real terms. However, lt is
iportant to note that partial capitalization of Incerest does not
affect the present value of the loan, only the timlng of payments.



-22-                         ATTACNT A
Page 12 of 12
28.       Th* proposed system bas the incidental beneit of reducing the
governmnt's cost of bearing the forelg  exchange risk on loam  from the
World Bank and other international institutions, as compared with cuerent
lewls of Interest rates. For example, if loans were passed on to
intermediaries at the base rate plus a margin, and if that total rate were
equal to the rate of devaluation plus the loas interest rate (in foreign
currency), then the government would sustain no losse.1 In general, the
govermwet 's losses (or gains) over the life of the loan would be small,
provided the base rate plus on-lending margin remains roughly equal to the
rate of devaluation plus the interest rate of the foreign loan. Thus, the
size of the loss will depend on the management of the base rate and the
exchange rate, relative to che foreign currency interest rate.
29.       The machanism outlined above wlll not always and in each
subpertod exactly cover the government's foreign exchange risk. The only
mec'7anisu that would completely remove the government's exposure to the
foreign exchange risk would be for the government to pass resources on to
the financial institutions on exactly the same terms as it receives thom.
The ualti-currency denomination of these loans makes this alternative
unattractive. Given this constraint the above practice ls probably the
best approach for reducing the cost to the goverucnt of passing on foreign
currency loans.
30.       An alternative to variable rate lending for mutualistas and other
housing financing institutions (BEV and IESS) is a system of loans indexed
to the price level. This system has worked reasonably welU in Braz and
in Colombia, where It is known as UPAC (Unldad da Poder Adquiuitivo
Constante). However, experience has sbown that keeping returns and costs
of a price indexed system in line with Interest rates in the non-indexed
portiOn of the financial system Is fairly difficult and requires periodic
re-regulation. Thus price level indexaing may hinder the long term movement
toward greater flexibility and market determination of interest rates.
Nonetheless, price level Indexing of housing loans and deposits of
imutualita deposits would probably be an Improvemeant over the preseut
system.
31.       It would also be unwise to generate exaggerated hopes for the
success of variable rate leading. It Is a system designed to make the best
of a bad situation (high, variable inflation) and wlll encounter stiff
resistance from borrowers. Therefore the government should push ahead as
rapldly as possible with a stabilization program that reduces tha public
sector's deficit and inflation. In the curent circuuatances the
recommendations of this side memoirs on higher interest rates and variable
rate lending can limit t      je   i tO the financial system and the peal
econoqy. Their justification is that the alternatives are even worse.
T For oemple, suppose th  lending rate from the international Institu-
tion La 102 and the rate of devaluation i 352. Then a base rate 40%
plus a 52 margin would approximately cover the cost of the loa.



- 23 -
ATTACMEN A
Ancex
Page 1 of 8
Ch^CULATION CV UMEST AND PRINCIPAL ON LOANS WITH CAPITALIZATION
AND A COMPAARISON WITH THE CURRENT SYSTEM
This Annex describes the formulas used in partially capitalizing
interest payments on a loan.1, A principal, Po, is borrowed at a variable
Interest rate in each period J, rj. Tf interest rates are changed withLi a
period, then r is the compounded rate over the period. Thus, the sum of
principal and accrtwa interest is Pj-l (1 + rj). This accrued principal is
reduced by cash iuterest payments on the original principal, ade at the
cash payments interest rate, ij, and by the amortization, Aj, and then
becomes the priucipal at the end of period J, Pj. In other words, debt
service, DS, is ijPj-l + Aj and the principal is increased by the
capitalization rate, (rj - ij), less amortization. A simple way to
amortize the loan which is analogous to the current Ecuadorian system of
equal amortization paysmnts, is to pay I/nth of the accrued principal less
cash interest paymeats, where n is the number of years remaining on the
loan, plus one. Thus, the formulas for amortization, debt service and
principal are, respectively:
A4    A (1 + ri-ij) Pj_i/n
- (ij) Pj.I' +Aj
pi       Pi-  (17+ rj-i) - Aj - Pj-I (I + rj - ij)(l-(1/n))
-    These formulas can easily be computerized to calculate interest
rates, cash payments and loan amortization for various combinations of
interest rates, cash paymnt rates and loan maturities.
Annex Table I sumarizes the difference in debt service paymeats
between a system of capitalization of interest and the current Ecuadorean
system. To simplify the illustration, a constant iaterest rate of 40
percent per annum and a 30 percent inflation are assumed.  Obviously, the
approach recoinended in this document would imply variatios in the rates
of interest and capitalization as inflation changed. This can be easily
hadlted by using an index of principal as Is done in Peru. Two different
cash payments rates are illustrated, 10 and 30 percent, yielding
capitalization rates of 30 and 10 percent per annum respectively. The
table shoas paymats for-a five-year loan and the first five years of a
fifteen year loan; the complete str m  of payments and the outstanding
priAcipal at the end of each year are shown in Annex Tables 3 through 7.
1/ Fotr convenience the fornulas are expressed in terms of simple interest,
but equivalent formulas ar easily derived in tertm of logarithmic
iaterest rates.



i~~~~~~~~~~~~~
- 24-                             A-AHNN  A
A24e
Page 2 of 8
SW of Da1b Serice Pawmc
aDeb Savnce                                Debt Sev,ee
5 yewIar 30.                                Jyes3Ion
_ _  ___te_wt                               402 inteest
OA-tat 44bd                                 Nweckettd
Capializaclx  C   atzatim  (iithoaCapital- Captaliti    Cdtalizmt4w   Wthoucs Cetc-
Year   ate 302        ats 1Q2       ian)          ?ate 30z      Pats 1          ±la )
3       36.00        5200          60.00           18.67           3.33          46.67
2       44,M         50.60         52.00           23A0            38.87         44.00
3       54.08        46.40         44.00           V.00            40.36         41.33
4       65.91        45.23         36.00           36.62           41.00         38.67
5       79.97        40.99         3.00            45.70           42.95         36.00
Am= Tabl  3, 4, 5, 6 sr 7.
The table shows how rapidly the use of iaterest capitalization
lowers debt service- Such reductions would significantly ease the burden
of debt servica on long-term industrial borrowers and hoam mortages that
othBrwise would result from a switch to higher real Interest rates
recom=ended in the text. Of course, stice credit is being extended to
cover the capLtalized interest payments, the available munt of loanable
funds wil have to grow commensurately with the race of capitalization or
some borrowers will be squeezed out by lack of funds. This growth in
loanable funds will occur only if deposit rates also are raised, as
recounended In the text.
While the initial debt servlce payments on loans with capitslized
interest-rates are quite low ia nominal terms, they can rise quite rapidly,
as shown in Annez Table 1. In contrast, the current Ecuadorean system
implies a sharp drop-off in payments after the first year, as a result of
the amortization of the initial principal in equal installments. Thus, it
might appoer that the initial advantage of the capitalization of interest
disappears after a few years. To a large extent, this ls the resule of not
thtining in Inflationary terms. Deflating the nomLnal debt service
payments by the price level sbows that the escalating nominal payments of
the interest capitalization approch actually imply a slight decrease in
real paymets through time (See AnnIU Table 2). In contrast the real
Th  table show  how rapidly  he use of interest capitalization
lowers debt service. Such reductions would signficantly ease the burden
of debt service on loagt-erm industrial borrowers and hone mrtag" that
otherwise would result from a switch to higher real interest rates
recommuded in the text. Of course, since credit Is being extended to
d              cover the capitalized interest paymuts, the available amount of loanable



25                         ATTACIHENT A
Annex
Page 3 of 8
funds '41t,  have to grow conusurately with the rate of capitalization or
some borrowers will be squeezed out by laek of funds. This growth in
lo"nabe funds will occur only-if deposit rate  also are raised, as
recommnded In the text.
While the initial debt service payments on loans with capitalized
Interest rates are quite low in nominal terms, they can rise quite rapidly,
as shown ia Annex Table 1. In contrast, the current Ecuadorean sysemn
implies a sharp drop-off in payments after the first year, as a result of
the amoitization of the Initial principal in equal installments, Thus, it
might appear that the initial advantage of the capitalization of interest
disappears aftar a few years. To a large extent, this is the result of not
thinking in lnflationary term. Deflating the nominal debt service
payments by the price level shows that the escalating nominal payments of
the interest capitalization approach actually imply a slight decrease in
real payments through time (See Annex Table 2). In contrast the real
payments under the current method fall drastically. Thus, under the
current type of loan contracts, high interest rates sharply decrease the
attractiveness of long-term borrowing, because the initial real burden is
very high. Essentially, loans are mad only to those who can repay most of
the principal quickly. For all practical purposes, long term loans do not
exist. In contrast the capitalization of interest permits a true long term
loan, by spreading out the real burden of repaywants over a longer period.
Thus, the capitalization of Lnterest Ls an essential accompaniment of
interest rate reform in inflationary periods to preserve long team loans
and mortaes.



- 26 -
Annex
Page 4 of 8
AIUZ TABLE 2
CuA isoU -of Debt Service Payments in Constanc Prices
(Price Index at Date of Loan - 100 and 30X p.a. Inflatioa)
Real Debt Service
5 year loan
402 itte*t                                -
Current Xethod
Price    Capitalization   Capitalization   (Without Capital-
Year      Index      Rate 302          Rate 102           ization)
1        1.300       27.69             40.00              46.15
2        1.690-      26.15             29.94              30.77
- --    3         2.197       24.62          2-2.03                20.03
4        2.856       23.08             35.84.             12.60
5        3.713       21.54             11.04               7.S4
Real Debt Service
15 year loan
401 interest
Current Method
Price     Capitalization    Capitalization   (Without Capital-
YTear     Ind         Rate 302         Rate 102            ilization)
1        1.300         14.36             28.72            35.90
-^ -        2        1.690         13.84             23.00            26.04
3        2.197         13.20             18.37            18.81
4        2.856         12.82             14.64            13.54
s        3.713         12.31             11.57             9.70
Soure: ;- Annes Table 1.



-27-   -  -                ATTACMENT A
Page 5 of 8
ANUX TABLE 3
PriAcpA4 and Debt Service Pyumeucs on 5 Year Loan
Capitalization of Interest
Cases (a) aud (b)
Interest Charges
( -    ta)  (b)
Principal                          r- 20Z    r - 40
(and of period)     Amortizatiou      1 n0O      i - 30Z
Year
0             100.0                  _      -                 -
1              88.00               .22           10.00       30.00
2              72.60                24.20         8.80       26.40
3              53.24                26.62         7.26       21.78
4              29.28                29.28         5.32       15.97
5               0                   32.21         2.93        8.78
Case (c)
Interest Charges
PrincipaL                              r   40Z
(emd of pediod)-    Amortization          I - 10O
Year
0             100.0                  _                 _
1             104.00                26.00              [0.00
2             101.40                33.80              10.40
3              87.88                43.94               10.14
4              57.12                57.12               8.79
0                  74.26                5.71
Source: Calculations based on Annex Foracu.



2;- 2-                        ATZAUHEES A
Anne%
Page 6 of 8
ASX TABLt 4
P1ir.lpal and Interest Payments on S Year Loan
Current Systeu - No Capitalization
Prilcipal                          ruterest CbargG3
(end of period)     Amortization      r   20%  r - 402
Year 
0             100.-
1              80.                  20           20        40
2              6Q                   20            16       32
3               a0                  20            12       24
4              Z2                   20            a        16
S      .        s                   20            4         8
AM=  TA=  S
PrlIga  and Debt Service PaMnts on 15 Year Loan
:Oalization. of Interest
C      as r.- Z2; iL n
6-inb: r-   ;         102
--        Interet t Chares
(a)      (b)
ftncipal           Amortizatton          r  2     r2 -r  402
( en utperiod)      (Cases (a) and(b)       i m  192  i _ lOX
Year
0             1a 
1             1L67                   7.33               10.00    30.00
2             1Oc.87                  8.07               10.27    30.80
3             14.48                   8.8T               10.49    31.46
4             107.37                  9.76               10.65    3.94
S             107.37                 10.74               10.74    32.21
6             106.29                 11.8r               10.74    32.21
7             103.93-                12.99               10.63    31.89
8             100.03                 14.29               10.39    11.18
9              94.32                 15.72               10.00    30.01
10              86.46                 17.29                9.43    28.30
11              76.08                 19.02                8.6$    25.94
12              62.77                 20.92                7.61    22.82
13              46.03                 23.02                6.28    18.83
14              25.32                 25.32                4.60    13.81
15               0                    27.85                2*53     7.60
Sources  Calcutions based oai Amr 
I                         ,          I 



-29-                                   A
Annez
Page 7 of 8
AM=E TA.3L8 6
Pritcipal and Debt Service Payments on 15 Year Loan
Capitalization of Interest
Case (c): r - 40Z; ± I lOZ
Pripl
(end of period)       Amortization          Interest Charges
Year
0             100.00
1             121.33                 '8.67                    10.00
2             146.47                 11.27                    12.13
3             175.76                 14.65                    14.65
4             209.45                 19.04                    17.58
5             247.53                 24.75                    20.95
6             289.61                 32.18                    24.75
7             334.66                 41.83                    28.96
8             380.67                 54.38                    33.41
9             424.18                 70.70                    38.07
10             459.53                 91.91                    42.42
+   11         477.91                119.48                    45.95
12 -           465.96                155.32                    47.79
13             403.84                201.92                    46.60
14             262.49                262.49                    40.38
15               0                   341.24                    26.25
Sources Calculations based on Annex Formulas.
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I



- 30 -                       ATTACHMET A
Anet
Page 8 of 8
A=    B&L  7
Pr1unipal a,nd Debt Service PaymeUts on 15 Year Laau
Cu?Ent System   No Capitalization
literest Charges
Principl            Amortization          r   20S  r    4OZ
0              100.00
1              93.33                   6.67               20.00   40.00
2               86.67                  6.67                18.67   37.33
3               80.00                  6.67                17.33   34.67
4               73.33                  6.67                16.00   32.00
5               66.67                  6.67                14.67   29.33
6               60.00                  6.67                13.33   26.67
7               53.33                  6.67                12.00   24.00
8               46.67                  6.67                10.67   21.73
9               40*00                  6.67                 9.33   18.67
10               53.33                  6.67                8.00   16.00
11               26.67                  6.67                6.67   13.33
12               20.00                  6.67                 5.33   10.67
13               13.33                  6.67                4.00    8.00
14                6.67                  6.67                2*67    5.33
IS                0                     6.67                 1.33    2.67



-31-
- 31 -                         ~~~~~~~A.NNEX I
Page 1 ot 2
ECUADOR
FIfTH  OEVEOP    BANKT N  PROJECT QLN. 2096-EC)
PROJECT COPLETION REPORT
CHARACTERISTICS OF SIMPROJECTS
(Thousands of USI)
C F N                                 COFIEC
BY SIZE OF APROVAL              No.      X     Amout               No.      X   Amat           X
0-100         'e    -T o                                                        -4
100 -  00                      18       88   8,268       17       10       43 8,878.4        19
$00 - 1000                      7       21   4,737       24        9       85 7,176.4       40
>1000                       4       12  10 971       66        t       22 7.191.6
Ui    iTh   19,I24       I         I       !i 1740.8 7
BY SUBSECTOR
SIYT        rage                 9       27   6,22B       27
32 TextIles, Grmnt               7       21   3,844       27
88   ,  Wood products            8        9   4,190       21
84 Paper, printIng               6       15      765       4
85 Rub tr, p   ies               2        8      791       4
se    In_llac m1neralo           2        a    1,257       8
86 IbtFl I lc Produ¢t            2        6    1,824       9
9 Oth. Industrle                 2        6      121       1
68                               1        8       14       0
72                               1        8       9        1
BY TERMI OF LAN
I to  8 yers                             9     314        2
a to   year                     7       21    8,412      17
l to 10 years                  74        1  1.899       .1        2B      100 17.740.8      100
BY TrPE OP PROJECTS
NM                               2        6   8,484       11        1        a   710.0        a
Expansion                       82       94  16140        82       22       94170808          94
w  w~~~~~~r                             1M   7,140.a   r
BY EN-USE
Wlorking CapXitl                 2        6   2,052       11
Fixod Investmnt                 S2    94j      1          9SO      2B     lCO 'L740-3        100
BY LOCATION
IrUM                            i1       44  10,808       58       16       6o 98900.0       e5
Guayaqul 1                      10       29   1,918       10        6       22 6,279.2       se
Othor Sierra                     6       16   6,918       35        2        9  1,660.8       9
Other Coet                       3        9      490       8
IT              1W        U~~~~~I  TM  17,740      1
BY FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN U)1
<   108                         1        8     112        1
10- 200                          8        9   8,281       17
20 - SOX                         0       18   8,209       82
over 80:                        20       69  9PM          49       12           7,564.4
1.~~~~ x                                                                7' 53  64:4
BY ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN ()
< 10!8
10 - 20X                         2        8   8,689       20
20 - 8OX                         6       18   4,655       24        8           1,529.1
OVER.8O                         17        0   9 840       50        9           a 0258.
off     7UsoIceI                   1 ub/ 7r4.4
y/ Total do.. not include all *ubprojact.



i -                  -  .  _ 32                                 ANNEX- 
Pago 2 of 2
ECWADOR
lFIFTH DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT (LN. 20S6AM
PROJECT COlPLETION REPORT
CARCTERISTICS OF SU1ROJECTS
Thsnds of US1)
FINSUR/FDNWNt4ECUFINSA                   FINIBER/FINANSA ,/
ay SIZE OF AfMAL                NO. ANo.                                   X  A2un  X  TT i
LO -  APIgo A               -       -:        -       -         r     - -isr  
100- 600                        a       28    721..      8         6           1,56S.5      is
50  - 1000                      4       88  2,777.1    *2          6           8,766.8      so
> 1000                      4        8 56270.2    60           4           6 861 0      B6
j               E~~~~~l   -lo   a,n$2,:    207    -1          12;422!4     w
BY SUBSECTOR
31 Fod  beverages                5       45  6,2264.8    71
82 TOxt lh, Garments             4       a8   1,607.9    18
85 Rubber, plass                 2 c9    902.8    11                n.n.
Uit  TN   77Ef1.1T
BY TERM OF LOAN
a to  8 years
5 to 10 yers                   11      100  6,775.1   100          n.l.
LY TYPE OF PROJECtS
NM                               I        9    331.6      4         n.e.
Expansion                       10       91  64888       98..
BY END-USE
Working Capita
Fixed Invetment                 11      100  a775       100 I
IT                                  n.n.
BY LOCATIN
Quituo                           2       to  2,299.4    26
Guayaquil                         O       S  5,754.0    05          n.e.
Other Sierra                     1        9    225.1      8
Other Cos"                       2        6    496.6      8
TI      100  1776.i   T
BY FINANCIAL RATE OP RETURN (% 
<  10%
10 - 20%
20 - ao                          1        9    515.0      6         n.v.
over 8ox                        10      91  62860        94
IT     la  i:77I5I1~
BY ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN (X
10 - 2ox
20 - 0S                          1        9    225.6      8         n.o.
OVERso                          10       91  6 5495     97
Because FIBER and FINA4SA were In the proces of liquidation In 1888, rotitaeble:deai ed Information
about theor subloann wae not oval table at the time of the mission.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 17
-33 -
ECUADOR
FIFTH DEVELOPMENT BANKING LOAN (2096-EC)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Summary Analysis of Selected Subproiects
1.01     Project:
Piasticaucho Industrial S.A.
Manufacturer of rubber products and tennis shoes.
Located in Ambato.
1.02     Financing:
COFIEC (B-8) in 1983 for US$1,372,712.
1.03     PurPose of Subloan:
Acquisition of plastic injection-mold machinery to produce various
tennis shoe models, geared to low-income consumers in local
markets.
Total project cost US$2.22 million.
1.04     Results and Present Situations
Plasticaucho has been a good performer since its incorporation in
1965, due mainly to the expertise of its owner/managers which
uphold a family tradition in this business of more than 50 years.
The project was duly exec,uted, although it suffered the usual
delays due to import permits. The company exceeded prdjected
operating targets and by 1985 was producing 12,000 pairs of shoes
per year. In recent years the company has undergone further
-expansions of which the largest was financed by COFrEC in early
1987 with a loan for US$912,500 (IDB-CAF) to modernize the
company's installations.
The company's subloan has never boen in arrears.



ANNEX 1I
34 _                   Page 2 of 17
ECUADOR:
FIFTH DEVELOPMENT BANKING LOAN (2096-EC)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Summary Analysis of Selected SubproiJects
1.01     Proiect
Textiles Rio Blanco S.A.:
Spinning of cotton and blends.
Located in the Province of Cotopaxi
1.02     Financings
CFN (A-3), 1983, for US$2,892,451.
FINIBER (A-4), 1984, for US$388,540.
Additional CPN loans for SI. 81 million were approved in 1984 to
cover excess cost due to devaluations.
1.03     Purpose of Subloans.
Establishment of a new spinning plant (850 tons p.a. in three
shifts) for production of blended thread and yarns.
Acquisition of machinery and equipment imported from Switzerland.
Total project cost exceeded US$5.5 million.
Cofinancing was necessary due to legal ceilings of CFN for large
subloans
1.04     Results and Present Situation:
The project suffered considerable delays due to difficulties in
obtaining import licenses in 1984. Most equipment arrived in
January 1985, seven months behind schedule. Production began in
July 1985. At present the plant is operating at nearly full
capacity. Moreover, CYR recently provided another loan to
increase capacity to 1,140 tonslyear.
The company is considered a prime client by the DFCs. The plant
has been publicized as a 'model' installation in developing
countries by the equipment manufacturers. While the plant and
company are efficient and well managed, they also benefit from
important subsidies, which partially explains their good
performance (see comment below).
1.05     Additional Comments
The total workforce at the new plant is only 24 people (including
the three shifts) at a cost per job of about US$230,000. Because
of inflation/devaluation, the original subloan has been
substantially 'liquified'. As of Dec. 1988, the unpaid portion of
the original debt amounts to 722 of the value in sucres of the
original CFN loan. At the 1984 exchange rate this is the
equivalent of US$2.1 million; however, at the present exchange
rate that debt has been reduced to a mere US$197,000 or 6.82 of!
the loan.



ANNEX II
35                    Page 3 of 17
FIFTH DEVELOPMENT BANKING LOAN (2096-EC)
PROJCCT COMPLETION REPORT
Summary Analysis of Selected Subprojects
1.01     Proiects
Textil San Pedro S.A.
Spinnng and weaving of cotton. Manufacturer of towels.
Located in Quito.
1.02     FinancinR
CFN (B-34) in 1984/85 for US$757,018.
1.03     Purpose of Subloant
Acquisition of machinery and equipment from overseas suppliers
(Brazil, Switzerland, W. Ge;many, and Italy) for modernization and
improved quality in the weaving process.
1.04     Results and Present Situations:
Initial delays and cost overruns were caused by delays in
disbursements and in processing of imported equipment. Currently
the company shows satisfactory results, no payment delays, and is
in the process of obtaining new loans for further expansion.
1.05     Additional Commentt
While prices of sales in the company have kept up with inflatiok
(US$12.19 in 1988, as opposed to US$1.00 in 1981), the unpaid part
of the original subloan (50.1?) has been reduced from US$377,000
in 1984, to US$81,500 at the end of 1988.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 17
-36-
FIFTH DEVELOPMENT BANKING LOAN (2096-EC)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Summary Analysis of Selected Subyroj.ects
1.01     Proiects
CORTYVIS Cia. Ltda
Weaving of fabrics for curtains and shades.
Located in the Province of Pichincha.
1.02     Financing
COFIEC (B-19) for US$499,196
FINIBER (A-5) for US$673,250
1.03     Purpose of S,ubloanss
Acquisition of imported machinery from W. Germany for weaving
and dying of fabrics using synthetic fibers.
1.04     Results and Present Situations
CORTYVIS is a company vhich began in 1981182 with support from,
CFNIFOPINAR. It has displayed an impressive rate of expansion
based on aggressive and professional ownership/management.
Expansion has continued beyond the 2096-EC subloans; in 1987
CORTYVIS received an additional COFIEC subloan from IDB-CAP for
US$861,000. It has a good repayment record.
1.05     Additional Comments
This is a dynamic company created and managed by a foreign
technician; however, for this reason, it represents a risk for
lenders since its performance is based on the skills of one
person, the ownerimanager. The company has financed its
impressive growth largely through borrowing and earnings
retention.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 17
-37 - 
PIFTH DEVELOPMENT BANKING LOAN (2096-EC)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Summary Analysis of Selected Subprojects
1.01     Prolect:
Confites Ecuatorianos C.A. 'CONFITECA"
Manufacturer of candy and chewing gum.
Located in Quito
1.02     Financings
CFN (B-8) in 1982 for US$465,132.
CPN provided three additional credits between 1984186, totalling
5/. 30.8 million to cover excess costs due to devaluation and
initial delays.
1.03    iPurpose of Subloanu-
Acquisition of foreign machinery and equipment to increase
existing capacity by 60X.
1.04     Results and Present Situations
Project was duly executed, although with the usual initiai delays
and cost overruns. The company continues to expand for which it
received several credits from CFN. At present it is the second
largest producer of candy in Ecuador with a processing capacity of
5,200 tons/year, all for the local market.
The company does not register repayment delays.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 17
-38-
FIFTH DEVELOPMENT BANKING LOAN (2096-EC)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Summary Analysis of Selected Subiroiects
1.01     Project:
La Universal S.A.
Manufactu.rer of food products (biscuits, chocolates, candy,
and pasta).
Located in Guayaquil.
1.02     Financing$
-INANSA (A-3) in 1984 for US$894,560
ECUPINSA (A-1) in 1984  for US$1,154,577
FNANSUR (A-2) in 1984 for US$988,465
Additional fintacing for Sl. 328 million, f r working capital was
provided by commercial banks.
1.03     Purpose of Subloans:
Modernization and expansion of old plant through acquisition
of biscuitry machinery from U.K.
1.04     Results and Present Situation:
Shortly after project implementation a new biscuit factory (a
subsidiary of NABISCO) began operations in Ecuador and has forced
La Universal into strong competition.
In 1988, the company suffered the effects of a prolonged
strike (four months) and recently has been restructured to
strengthen its marketing department.
Despite the above, the company is doing well and has had no
repayment delays. Its balance sheet shows a comfortable equity
position of US$6.1 million at the end of 1988.



ANNEX II
39                     Page 7 of 17
FIFTH DEVELOPMENT BANRING LOAN (2096-EC)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Summary Analysis of Selected Suberojects
1.01     Project:
Camaronera Bajen S.A.
Farming and packing of shrimp.
Packing plant located in Guayaquil.
1.02     Financing:
ECUFINSA (A-3) in 1984 for US$512,918
1.03     Purpose of Subloan:
Acquisition of equipment to establish a packing plant, facilitate
vertical integration, and permit direct exports.
Total cost of the project was US$1.29 million.
Further to subloan in 1986, the company continued to increase its
capacity.
1.04     Results and Present Situation:
The plant was built in 1984. The company's volume of sales
increased from 900,000 lbs in 1984 to nearly 7.5 million in 1987,
all of which 1002 was exported. Projections were greatly
surpassed.
Because sales returns are in foreign currency and subloans were in
local currency, the company has benefitted generously from
devaluations. The company has had no repayment delays.
Although the plant is evidently a successful operation, its
financial statements show otherwise, since Camaronera Bajen
transferred its assets to a subsidiary, PRONASA. Processing of
Bajen shrimps is done for a service fee calculated to clear
operating costs, with part of the benefits remaining in the
subsidiary.
1.05     Additional Comments
The plant could not be visited by the PCR mission because on the
day scheduled for the visit, it was closed by customs authorities
due to an alleged evasion of export taxes involving several
containers of shrimp.



ANNEX I1
40                     Page 8 of 17
FIFTH DEVELOPMENT BANKING LOAN (2096-EC)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Summary Analysis of Selected Subprolects
1.01     Proiect:
Ailomerados Cotopaxi S.A., ACOSA
Manufacturer of particle-board panels.
Located in the Proviace of Cotopaxi.
1.02     Financings
CFN (B-38) in 1985 for US$347,877
COFIEC (B-3)in 1985 for US$287,580
CPU provided ACOSA vith two additional credits in 1985 for
SI. 13 million to cover excess costs due to devaluations.
1.03     Purpose of subloans:
Acquisition of machinery and equipment to increase installed
capacity and produce a new product (waferboards).  Present
installed capacity is nearly 30,000 m3 p.a. of crude
panels.
1.04     Results and Present Situation:
After initial delays and marketing problems, the company
appears well established in local markets and exports around 10X
of production. Its partners also own associated enterprises in
the wood and wood processing industries and support the production
and marketing activities of the plant.
The waferboard machinery began operating only In 1987. Because of
initial techn4cal and marketing problems typically confronted by
new products, ACOSA worked much below capacity during 1988189.
Although the vaferboard production has not followed expected
patterns, CFN and COFIEC have incurred no repayment delays.



ANNEX II
-41-                    Page 9 of 17
ECUADOR
FIFTH DEVELOPMENT BAMIING LOAN (2096-EC)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Suinary Analysis of Selected Subproiects
1.01     Projects
ECUAJUGOS S.A.
Manufacturer and packing of fruit juices and milk.
Located in Guayaquil.
1.02     Financings
COPIEC (B-1) in 1982 for US$348,633
COPIEC (3-15) in 1982 for US$386,256
1.03     Purpose of Subloans:
Acquisition of tetrapack machines imported from Sweden, for
packing of juices and milk. The objective was to expand
capacity and improve quality by offering a more durable product.
1.04     Results and Present Situations
The machinery was acquired and Installed but the company
confronted teehnical and financial problems in operating the
plant.
The company was acqiired in 1988 by INEDECA, a subsidary of Nestle
in Ecuador. The new owner Is servicing the debts and has fully
restructured production.  At present the plant is operating with
modestly increasing profits.



ANNEX Il
- 42 -                Page 10 of 17
ECUADOX
FIFTH DEVELOPMENT BANKING LOAN (2096^EC)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Summary Analysis of Selected Subprojects
1.01     Proiects
PAL4ORIENTE, S.A.
Growing of African palm and extraction of palm oil.
Located in the Province of Napo.
Mixed company (602 local, 402 foreign capital)
1.02     Financings
CFN (A-2) in 1983 for US$2,763,641
ECUFINSA (A-2) in 1983 for US$1,082,256
FINANSA (A-4) in 1983 for US$1,694,872
1.03     PurDose of Subloans:
Acquisition of an oil extraction plant with a capacity of 20 tons
of FFB (Fresh Fruit Bunches) per hour. PALMORIENTE is a
large, US$54 million, 20-year palm-oil agroindustry consisting of
a 5,300 ha. plantation and a crude-oil extraction plant.
1.04     Results and Present Situations
The plant began operation in March 1985 as planned but experienced
cost overruns in S/. of nearly 132 due to devaluations. Initial
production was below projections due to a lower-than-expected
agricultural supply. With proper T.A. from the foreign partner,
the problems were overcomed. The plant is now being expanded to
32 tonslhour capacity with cofinancing by CFN and other DFCs.
PALMORIENTE received significant support from government officials
in the form of income tax exemptions, import tax rebates, long-
term financing through the Fondos Financieros, and a protectionist
policy that prohibited importing palm oil. In addition, the
Government--which established prices levels for refined edible
oil--has consistently raised prices.,



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 17
- 43 -
ECUADOR
FIFTH DEVELOPMENT BANKING LOAN (2096-EC)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Summary Analysis of Selected SubproJects
1.01     Prolect:
ANDIRIDRIOS S.A.
Manufacturer of industrial and commercial glassware.
Located in Guatyaquil.
1.02     Financing:
COFIEC (A-2) in 1982 for US$1,863.328
1.03     PurDose of Subloant
Acquisition of machinery and bricks for a new oven expected to
triple output, from 10 to 30 tons per day, and to improve product
quality.
1.04     Results and Present Situation
The company has a disquieting record of ups and downs. The
project fimauced by the 2096-EC subloan experienced initial delays
of six months due to technical difficulties. ANDIVIDRIOS had a
loss in 1983 and then a small net profit of US$7,050 in 1984. In
more recent years the company showed a loss of 8.7Z of sales in
1987 and minor profits in 1986 and in the first semester of 1988.
For the period 1985-1987 sales surged due to price increases but
production volume decreased 22 each year to 3.052 tons per year in
1977. In spite of the above ANDIVIDRIOS has a good record of
repayment with all its credit suppliers (including COFIEC).
1.05     Additional Commopts
In 1985, the Bank's supervision mission expressed skepticism about
the viability of this subproject and the quality of supervision by
the intermediary DFC.
This was a typical cise where the financial statements conceal the
real profits or losses, for example, the company showed losses in
1987 but in the same year financial expenses amounted to nearly
three times the losses at S/. 66 million. Since 732 of the total
financial liabilities of the company (and 1831 of its long-term
liabilities) are with stockholders and related companies, the
profits cieariy are, not being made in ANDIVIDRIOS but elsewhere.



ANNEX 11
Page 12 of 17
_44. -
ECUADOR
PIFTH DmVELOPHMENT BANING LOAN (2096-EC)
PROJECT COHPLETlON REPORT
Summary Analysis of Selected SubDrojects
1.01     Proiect
CLORALKALY, S.A.
Manufacturer of sodium hypochlorite.
Located in Quito
1.02     Financingt
CFN (B-1) in 1983 for US$587,833
1.03     Purpose of Subloan:
Acquisition of a foreign plant that produced sodium hypochlorite.
1.04     Results and Present Situation:
The comtpany imported the equipment but nqver succeeded in running
a viable operation. The Municipality objected to the site
selection: then electric tariffs were adjusted to higher-than-
predicted prices.  The machinery was second-hand (it cmuld not be
determined if that was clearly established in the negotiations
with CFN), and never worked as expected. By 1986 the company's
losses had eaten-up its capital and the plant closed. However,
due to the impact of inflationldevaluation on the subloan, the
company succeeded in selling its equipment to a Colombian firm in
1987 and with the proceeds of the sale (in foreign currency) fully
repaid the original CFN loan and managed to make a small profit.
The company was subsequently liquidated in 1988.



AtNNEXU
Page 13'of 17
-45-
ECUADOR
FIFTH DEVEL,OPMENT BANXING LOAN (2096-EC)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Summary Analysis of Selected Subprojects
1.01     Proiect:
LA FAVORITA S.A.
Producer of edible oil and margarine.
Located in Guayaquil.
1.02     Financings
FINANSUR (A-3) in 1984 for US$1,822,156
1.03     Purpose of Subloan:
Expand processing capacity from 40,000 to 76,000 tonlyear.
Total cost of project US$2,362,000.
Acquisition of imported equipment from France, Italy, and W.
Germany.
1.04     Results and Present Situation:
The company is the oldest (1941) and largest producer of edible
oil and margarine in Ecuador.
The project was executed as projected both in technical and
marketing aspects. Even though the company benefits from import
prohibitions and regulated prices, it still has managed to produce
a high quality product and capture an important part (45X) of the
Ecuadorian market. The plant is now working at full capacity
(three shifts). La Favorita is a partner (202) in the Palmoriente
project from which it acquires part of its supply of crude palm
oil.
La Favorita has been on schedule in the repayment of subloans.



ANNE I1
Page 14 of 17.
-46-
ECUADOR
FIFTH DEVELOPMENT BANFJNG LOAN (2096-EC)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Summary Anallsis of Selected Subprojects
1.01     Proiect:
VANALARVA S.A.
Producer of shrimp larvae in captivity.
Located in the Guayas estuary 120 kms from Guayaquil.
1.02     Financing:
FINANQUIL (B-2) in 1986 for US$339,839
1.03     Purpose of Subloan:
Building construction and equipment acquisition for ths
establishment of the first shrimp laboratory in Ecuador.
1.04     Results and Present Situation:
The owner of the company is Baltek Corporation of New Jersey,
which has been in the balsawood industry since 1940 and began a
shrimp farming operation in 1983. The company started a
laboratory in 1986 to secure good quality larvae for the shrimp
farming, for which VANALARVA has a long-term T.A. contract with
the University of Montpelier in France.
The project was executed as projected. However, the economic
results of the project cannot be easily assessed because its
transactions have been with a captive market; the parent company
(the shrimp farm) buys all VANALARVA's products at a prearranged
price.
VANALARVA has a very gooa repayment record but is a typical
project where the feasibility study should have included a
consolidated analysis of both the parent and subsidiary companies.



ANNEX II
-47-                   Page lS of 1?
ECUADOR
FIFTH DEVELOPMENT BANKING LOAN (2096-EC)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Summary Analysis of Selected Subproiects
1.01     Proiect
FORESTAL ESMERALDENA (FORESA)
Manufacturer of sheet plywood.
Located in Santo Domingo de los Colorados
1.02     Financings
CFN (A-1) in 1983 for US$3,572,335
FIMANSA (A-1) in 1983, for USS1,506,984
1.03     Purpose of subloans:
Replace existing equipment by state-of-the-art machinery and
equipment imported from Finland. Increase capacity to 20,000 m31
year.
1.04     Results and Present Situations
Because FORESA is one of the few ailing subprojects, its problems
are discussed in greater detail.
The company began in 1970 as a joint venture (Mexican-Ecuadorian)
importing recycled equipment from Mexico (originally manufactured
in 1940). The company was a poor performer from the start. In
1979 the Mexican investors sold out to their Ecuadorian
counterparts who subsequently planned a major renovation. The new
plan' was acquired in 1982 through joint equity and debt financing
Involving the Finnish supplier, FINNFUND, with CFNIFINANSA
financing. CPN had to obtain an exception to single-company
limits, since exposure per DFC was not supposed to exceed
US$3 million per company.
The project suffered several delays: the supplier delayed dispatch
of equipment due to climatic conditions in Finland; technical
problems were encountered in the installation of equipment; and
subloani processing was delayed due to restrictions on import
permits and foreign exchange outflows.  As a result, the project,
which was due to begin operating in January. 1983, could only
perform trial production runs by mid-1984.  Productive levels
during the first year were restrained to 25Z of capacity primarily
due to a critical lack of working capital, inadequate supply of
wood, and malfunctioning of some machines, among other reasons.
Accor4ing to the Bank's 1985 supervision mission, cost overruns in
FORESA were in excess of 200X (from US$7.7 million to
US$24.3 million). By 1985, FORESA was already behind in the
repayments of the subloans.



ANNEX II
-48                      Page 16 of 17
FORESA's liquidity situation deteriorated further in 1985 and
accumulated losses began to erode equity. CFN and FINANSA were
forced to refinance the company's arrears. In 1986, CFN agreed to
a new loan of 4early Sl. 300 million to refinance past-due
obligations, and another loan for SI. 50 million to buy additional
forestry equipment and increase the wood supply of the plant. In
the meantime, the Ministry of Industry and the Committee for
Rehabilitation of Enterprises declared FORESA a subject for
rehabilitation. Recent letters from the Ministry of Industry and
FORESA to CFN have requested that CFN attempt a long-term
refinancing of all FOREA's liabilities. The same request has
been made to FORE$A's others creditorst FINNFUND, RAUTE, and
FINANSA (which is now in the process of being liquidated). Total
liabilities as of February 1989 total SI. 1,890 million or
US$3.6 million, as follows:
Principal    Interest    Total (in million SI.)
GFN          384.9          68.1       453.0          24Z
FINFUND      641.7         125.8       767.5          41Z
RAUTE (T.A.) 244.7          98.3       343.0          lax
FINANSA      261.7          64.9       326.8          172
1,533.2        357.1     1,890.3          1001
Due to inflationldevaluation, the  original loans of CFN and
FINANSA for US$5.1 million, have been reduced to SI. 646.6 million
(US$1.25 million). Similarly the debt with FINNFUNDIRAUTE, which
originally represented only 92 of total financing, has increased
to 591 of FORESA's liabilities.
In the meantime, losses keep accumulating (SI. 287 million in
1987, SI. 222 million in 1988). The company has yet to reach its
break-even point and has been producing at about 552 of installed
capacity.
CFN is considering two alternative rehabilitation approaches, both
of which imply capitalization of credits by the foreign partners
and long-term refinancing of CFN and FINANSA's liabilities.
Meanwhile, FORESA's foreign partners have recently announced their
intention to initiate legal proceedings against the firm.
1.05     Additional Comments
FORESA ilustrates a case of incomplete feasibility studies, where
the already ailing situation of the company in 1981182 was not
given enough attlention; the poor management record of the
enterprise until 1982 was severely understated; and excessive
confidence was put in the machinery supplier for resolving all
technical problems. Subproject implementation illustrates most of
what can go wrong with an investment plant it did not



ANNEX IS
.49 _Page 17 of 1-7
allow for contingencies, cost controls, training time, and supply
of raw materials. Most of these problems were caused by
Inadequate management. Although the Bank raised some relevant
issues, particularly those of management, it was too far removed
to have a first-hand feeling of what was going on. Local DFCs, on
the other hand, did not have enough power to force a management
change, especially when the manager was the majority owner and the
project is half way in its implementation. Management is a major
issue to be raised before and not after the subloan is processed.
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



Ecm  Icmet of S.bhtolae**
Totxi Cas                      Subl.s                       (3)       Jobs Crst.d
I.,-    0D_      OlabM-
No.     *me                         Te6l      tLOC Fal Plo9  ApprCod  cr_ws  c6Pm           s_tA     LCi   FOfwim  Ei; t   iuE_mt
*01       ET).AL   8tM8S            l0421.S  6.7S,.2  8,57.8  8,572.3                     8,72.8       Vs       s     I
An      PALSWR E                    54,198.  51,429.6  2,7.6  2,.0                2.4  2,7.6         I00
-A08       1 TEI5r  NU0 BANCO          S,449.2    am.e  2,6.5   2,685.9   279.8       4.9  2,69.6        1o0             57
901   -C WALY                        1,S2D.4    8.6   687.8    6e7.8                        SS7.6      s0
m1      6SIIIRAS ATAVAO               2D1.4   105.1    96.8    69.8                          9.8      NOD
go      IS     :                     Sa.M.6  a.0.a    147.4    157.4                        14.4      100               7
so0     RE     (0)                     157.S    99.9    57.6    57.8                        S7.&      1o
FRAA                                1,107.3  1,104.2   20S.2   208.2                       208.2     10o
on        RT      1 1L               1,t00.7  1,06.2    44.8    44.8                        44.8      100
W?      ? L XR    0,608.1  1,.0    77.1    77.1                                             77.1      IGO                  -a
eo s 1UqgA                            52.7    90.5   46S.1   417.6   144.9    97.8   468.1            100
w09     AAMC                         9,608.8  7,665.2  1,728.5  1,767.2                   1.7a.       100              10
010 S     T.                           1M8.7    100.1    eS.7    68.7                        68.7     1o
12      PsA                           928.2   416.6   666.4   806.4                       - 960.4     1o0
813     CaQI                          119.0      6.6    112.8   112.3                       112.8    t10
BIG     PAWua                         922.0    549.1   878.0   378.0                        878.0     N10
817      6.7LDOS LA U93               80.0    t68.8    54.6   844.8 S64.8                             100               2
000     CO    BAHIA                  1,86.1  1,045.2   881.8   851.8                        851.6      08
an         rW                        1,842.5  1,826.0    818.7   818.7                      818.7     1o
ma       O1U54L                       191.7   129.7    62.0    68.6                  1.6    62.0    n.d.
00      AW.100SJIuE                   840.4     1.$   12U.9    12.9                        128.9      10o
on5     EL EIMR     eT8)              2e7.4    SS.6    18.        77.9             64.1    18.0       1o               25
Ma      imru. OAON                     W4,L  129.8   604.5   787.2                 142.6   594.5      100               9
MS      8A008 APOS.                   869.4    16.9   267.5    8.8                 81.1   257.5       10o              is
M       awsiL                         891.1   278.0   118.1    22t.4               10.4    118.1       68
e2    R2MSAL                         2,414.2  2,281.4   168.6   558.9              170.2    1.8       1o
004     TOM21AN PEDRO                1.04.8    294.5   75.0   98.8   200.0   602.8   781.0            10o
0o      P*J.                          741.0   859.7    71.8    14.4                118.1    71n.      1                27
M       HNA7                          125.7    48.8    7r.4    T4.8         8.1     -       77.4      10o
e        A.0W*0  CTrOPAXI             417.1    69.2   847.9   811.8    #8.0                847.9       26
M39     3607 E9 DAT MS.               894.8   424.9   29-.    26.9                         269.9       29
S41                 s6.2                         0.0    68.9    83.2             e      s     .2,     1o0              8
862     21!                          8,488.4  2,819.6    942.6    S.9              21.0   942.8       100             86,
e4a     6821WD                      2,841.6  1,32.0    709.9   189.8               29.9    7.9        100              92
TWAL                      110,847.6 2LU       19,4.3 20,461.61-44,72.2 _ -ffll                                                o
0



U-~~~
_Ice mmm - ins.rec.
Sm.m%  usuc  of OUs$)let
Total Co"                     S3iblme                  gbrkett (I)      Jab. Ce.8
De 0t         iabu_e
mo.      No"                         ToAl      LoctI    Foreiap  DqApro,d  cr_a"    c _...    so        L&t   51r.lga   Ox-ate Ew.fposAk
an1      SMCO6A                        68.0 2e0.0         880.0  S8E.0       -         1.4    348.6     100                5           a
309      W.MPMANA                     1,448.S    78.5.    710.0   710.0      11.4      -      721.4      so0              54
m        AMAIM cmo#                    610.6   289.0    811.6   811.6        -        24.0    207.8      18                           80
804        OIU±R P1t`ES.VA             291.8     48.9    242.4   242.4       -        14.7     .8        10                8          82
aSn       tOD                         1,654.6  1,083.8    891.8   891.8       7.8      1.4   s871         20       80      a
la7      L(  S1O4                     1,234.2    73.2   1,211.0 1,211.0      -        81.9  1,179.1      100              12
we0      PLAS7rCM                     1,764.8      .7   1,8.8 1,8SS.6        -       182.8  1,S72.7    t1O                22
we       WM                             81.8    245.4    270.8  270.3         -       18.0    254.2      1oo              48
n10      A.A                          81,09.8     -      8,096.8  1,681.8    160.0     7.0  1,864.8      100                         100                               %A
811      "M0D S. A.                   1,304.6    40O00     904.s   900.0      4.8     -       904.6      10t               S                                           t.
81*      AO                            867.4    118.5    548.9 s8.9          18.1      -      862.0      100               9
B8I      CABL8                        1,897.8    488.9     US.9   94.        -        41.8     02.6     t1O               12          28
814      EeUS                           686.S    860.4    296.2   296.2    20.0        2.0    814.2       48       62      6
a1       1.1E                           601.8    818.0    26.8   280.8    33.9    10.8    311.7           90       10 S
917      H01IT' Ere                     987.7    878.7    812.0   612.0       -      108.0    804.1      100               9
818      NDA                            488.8     48.0    88s.8   888.8       0.8      -      368.1      100
19       cWyvI8        -e67.2    867.2    800.0   800.0                       -        0.8    499.2      to0              80
820      ECAOR                          681.6    117.8     "4.8   "4.8        -        _      S64.8      tO0              12
on1      PLASTIW8   tjU                 768.8                      BE0.5  0.8    06.8  -  21.1    s84.2  1No              1t           8
on       1C. DE Hz4s PN                 80280.1    112.1    90.0   890.0      -       82.0    386.0      10O              12          14
s        DWAJ008                        710.0    32.0    388.6  388.6         0.7     _       188.8      100               s           a
AO1      P418.2A tUZlNL              10,400.0  7,S20.0   2,680.0 2,600.0      -       28.6  2,M7.4       100              1S
A02      AtZOr OS                       _      _                J-n,.Q.O             Ina 186.            t00 AD                       _
TOTAL                       a1822   ISA4"   1LAh4a418.LM.7          UAS  2 L   1LZ640                                       az
I4



- ~        ~          U
(flwAwasi of US$)
Tats Co oat                      u las                    akata (5        Jobs, Crsot.d
Da-     Olubup--
-~ lb.      #bus                         TOta      Lcal       worOn  Apprwve   cr'am   Oresee        m t      Local   Forein  Ex-snts Ca-pet
BMIMI
A-I      LA tSaVBAL                   11,742.0  6,068.0   5,654.0  1,280.0       -       96    1,15.0        10         -    26.0        NWA
A-*      FALPJAOSL                    24,780.0 15,000.0    ,6o6.0  1,000.0      82        -    1,0.0         100        -    122.0     10.0
£4       CDAtMVAN               w         40.0    324.7      815.8   81.1       -         -      5S.2         5       9e      75.0      60.0
5-1      PLADCOS RTNMAL                  56.0    220.0       8S6.0   28.6       2.8       -        8.1      10         -      15.0       O.0
A-2      LA PrLuA                      2,06.5    52.1   1,51.1   600.0         -         -      e00.0       2D       so    124,0      183.0
3-2      VALARVA                         601.6    604.6        0.0   35.6       -         -      JS46.6     I0         -       -        40.0
3-1      VAN HCK                         76.0    60o.6       18.4   18.4        -         -      18.4       100        -      28.0      84.0
£4       LA 0DVOGA/                                                 1,000.0      -       12  9S6.0          100        - MI
A4       TUPST r1.018.0    289.o                             776.0   684.0      -         8      67.0       100        -       S.0      20.0
A-4      EIJC9I                        2,86.0       7.0    1,786.0  I,85.0      -        2     1,822.0      100        -    6.0            A
1,7RJ 0       2   8.0   l    1L2U.0 -.                   Jm           100        - *.0           4Ms.0
70A7L                        AL4.Le 2LUJIJ M   2LN                      J   JO S1 i447
i   tor_tim for rpamted subproject Is lInclude  slyi uider QS VFC.
04



FInN0Ual C       mm f L*tiZ of  b 4ate
6ub~~~uojsCt              7.4.1~~T   Cost  swrerse of Funds                Term of P1ese.ko,             Ste4. of Subp?@joee         not". Of Ri4urR
lb.  um                                    me       an    Fir**.    Mowl   I.*...t   ..Lein....    Amat    Arrest. AsomfA    EFnosaer.M.I c£mc(a
ber.te.            Rabte    Totl are"  Faid                   WTats   b-mt    e-prt  E.-el. a-.pm*
AI)      FwVAL _M.D8o               10,429.8  38672.8   446.7  4,00.5  2,40.9        0.0    t0      6      8,572.      0.0       0.0    35.6              "6.8
AO2     PAe_AdIT                    54,196.8   2,761.6  1,01.8.2 21,010.9 29,40.5    12.0    10 t            560.?      0.0  2,202.      18.4      -       29.
AN                 T      L Rm S      449.2   2,6".5       0.0  2091 .7   46.       19.0  l         a        966.8     0.0   1,9e0.2     26.6      -       18.1
091    CaWMJ(LSY                     10.4    SS7.6         0.0    11.6   120.8    19.         a     4 *      57.8      0.0       0.0      4.1      -       48.4
0s2      eW4 ATAA                      201.4     ee.8    86.6      WS.      0.0    17.0       6     4         96.$     0.0       0.0
BDS 5 PTI                            8,62.6    167.4   46.7  2174.9   41?.?    16.6          5     4        167.4     0.0       0.0    36.5       -       44.2
sD4     RSWA Q4m                       17.5      57.8    12.1    48.7    44.1    17.0         6     4         57.      0.0       0.0    40.2       -        -
8        040CAUA                     1,w0.s    20         1.8   069.5   20S.IS      17.0      a     a        149.4      0.0     6.       82.0       *   a .9
SOS     0DITM   MAIWML               1.100.7     44.6      0.0  1,066.2     0.0    19.8       8     2         44.5     0.0       0.0      -
eao      n1     tu1O 1,60.1                      77.1   1s6.1  159.8        0.0      6.$      a     0         77.1     0.0       0.0    6e.4       -      109.7
908     ellWFt6                       3*5.7    465.1       0.0    00.6      0.0    18.0       4     4        275.4      0.0     19.6    41.0       -       JS.6
909      M.DIn                       9,606.0 1c730.8  1,676.7  5.194.6   793.9    18.0        4     4      18s14.6     0.0    228.7    27.9        -       6S.0
81o     cal                            163.7     se.7    84.4      0.0    18.6    10.0        6     4         37.4     0.0      26.5     6.3       -        -
812     MWA6A                          92.2  SO0.4    90.6   596.8          0.0    20.0       6     2        482.1    86.2      74.8    34.9       -       44.7
Ks       aWWI                          119.0    112.8      0.0      S.1     0.8    20.0       4     4        102.6     0.0       9.5      6.5      -        _                   U'
818     P .IA                          9O2.0    373.0    94.8   410.0    44.8    17.0         7     4        280.0     0.0    118.0    86.1        -       2.A
817     III8 LA  WO                    6e0.0    444.5      0.0   155.5      0.0    20.0       6     4         44.6     0.0       8.0    SS.5       -
B20      RUo 2a6A                    1,ffS.1    351.5    189.0   433.4   443.6    20.0        6     4        351.8     0.0       0.0    91.4       -      110.2
a21     lnJ5                         1,842.3    313.7   806.1   72.7        0.0    16.0       4     4        813.7      0.0      0.0    19.0       -       20.6
822     40au34L                        191.7     62.0   102.9    26.9       0.0    18.5       4     4        62.0      0.0       0.0    36.?       -        -
a2m      AR. DO. JWOE                  640.4    15.9   418.7   802.9        0.0    17.0       6     8         76.8     0.0      47.1      -        -
M2s     .L eltIO (HO                  267.4      18.8     8.8      68J.    2.2    20.0        7     8         7.2      0.0       6.6     2.1       -       87.5
826              UC R    .             54.1    tU4.8       0.0   217.6    41.9    19.0        6     4        868.8    69.0    28S.7    86.7        -       8a.T
828     SACMS ARODU.                  896.4    237.5       0.0    *83.7     5.1    *e.0       e     4        184.2     5.0      8s.8    36.6       -       80.9
33      CaLO.PAL                       801.1    118.1    90.7   148.8    a9.0    19.0         7     0         68.6     0.0      64.5    80.6       -       38.9
632     FDASL                        2,418.2     Me5.0   672.0   24s.   1,813.9    15.0       2     0        18.8      0.0       0.0    15.9       -       29.s
864     t8crD. 54* f                 1,045.5    751.0   168.8    186.6    86.4    19.0        6     6        449.8     0.0    301.2    30.1        -       28.4
84 PS     1 r2                         741.0     71.8   242.    286.9    17.?    21.0         6     6         41.9     0.0      29.4    56.0       -      162.8
s8e      1ACRZL                        125.7     77.4      0.0    4a8.      0.0    21.0       6     6        45.5      0.0      81.9    5S.5       -      165.9
n8       ACL.806 COTOP am              417.1    S47.9      0.0    69.2      0.0    2S.0       6     4        96.9      0.0    261.0    20.4        -       80.6
Bse    fqVffS TBMFAm                   694.6    269.9   424.9       0.0     0.0    26.0       8     8        29.1      0.0    240.8    27.9        -       2S.7
:41                                    68t _  e.2  66.2    0.0      0.0     0.0    23.0       2     8a         6.2     0.0       0.0      -
84s      Fr2                         8.458.4    942.8  1,863.7    97a.9     0.0    2S.0       7     8        109.6     0.0    868.8    29.6        -       18.0
B43     02AMo                      ..541J       702.2  . oD       TS.8  1.044.4    28.0       8     6         "s    _.0   U..            41.8      -      S5.2
TOAL                      1      j j8jjj  9041S 448  017.001                                     ZL5lI    MU   2se.M.a
flS
a-



M0R
FIPD  06ei*wm    2am1C LOAN f1J 2O0-
-                                              I|lDeXEI;l' Ct3||qPLEBY OZA     REPORT
rlaimc7rl Charaetsrstics of Suberoltset
(Thousmo  of US)
8&atpr4seJ                           Tetat Cost      Soure  of  F7us                   Tore of Pi -Flo                statu Of SubojmteJ          Raw of Raturn
No      Nam                                     i         DRC   f7 re's    Otter    Inter t                    Amw_t    Arr rea  Amot  
_asaurts.          ft.t.      TOt) oror      RaPs"              Out.tad;ds Eatt   ft-p4St  Ex-wA. E..ost
1        ew                              O0.0     88.0    10.0        1.t.4   -        17. 0     10        2       8.*      -       8.9      82.9      -        69.7      -
102      fOlAJ                        1.440.     72t14     *9.7    84.4        0.*0    £7.0      10        2    8t1.8       -      410.1     22.0      -        20.6
W8       Ae     Os COPAXI               610.a   W17.6       -       MA.        -       17.0       6              21.6       -        -        7.1               48.4
a"       S0.101 PWTBA                   291.8   821.8       -       68.8       -       17.0       8         I    15.6       -       99.2     88.6     80.1      8.8a    95.2
a06         1U0                       1,6*4.0    897.1      -    1.067.6               20.0       8         1    897.1               -        -
m7       TOMI SNWX                    1,284.2  1.179.1      -        78.1      -       20.0      a0        2    811.2              668.o     46.1     ea.8      44.8     47.2
wE       MA8TZcT11AJ                  1,784.8  1,872.7      -       22.1       _       20.0      10         2    se2.8      -    1,010.4     70.8      40.8     7.0      464
2on    11.m S.e    54.8                                     -      248,4               20.0      1o        2      82.1      -      130.1     37.6      -        26.8      -
910      MMA              08,6.5  1,684.6                   -         -        -       20.0        6      -    1,85.8       -      479.1      -        -                  -              U,
311      "M S.A.                      1,804.0    94.6    200.0    -00.0                17.0      10         a     14.4      -      890.1     29.8      -        84.9      -
812      mCO                            "?.4    082.0       -       118.5      -       20.0       6       -      4s5.7              76.8     #6.4      19.6     99.1     16.8
518a     CA                           1,297.8    90e.1              48.9       -       20.0        0      -      779               I.        40.4      -        88.7      -
014      Dow                            68.8    314.2       -       860.4      -       20.0       6       -      281.0      -       8.1      44.4       -       87.2
8no      LBE                            6o0.8    811.7      -       818.0      -       19.0       a         1    *11.7      -        -       48.0       -       24.1      -
917      .HOsr  WD esr.7    804.0                           *       87S.7      -       19.0                2    S12.2       -      191.8     aa.a      68.0     48.7     47.2
me*      PWEaA 4.S                                  .       -       48.0       -       19.0       a         2    112.5             2178.6     -        96.2              78.1
819      aTmI   -                       067.2    499.2      -       867.q      -       19.0      tO         2    110.4      -       M.6       -        25.9              28.8
820       6(R                           6 t81.6   64.8      _       117.8      -       21.0      tO         2     48.8             818.8    46.6        -       42.0      -
an1       LAtI   ALJAW                  768.8    m4.2       -       10.8       -       19.0       10        2     74.4             609.8      -         - 
892S     FAC. OE 105 PWO                S02.1    M8.0       -        12.1      -       19.0        S        I    124.0      .      2S4.0      -         -                 _
u1s      V*.m                           710.6    830.8    15.0    19U9.        -       20.0      1a         2      8.8      -      80.7       2.2       -   as.8          -
AOl lt2.1 901813L                    10,400.0  2.m.4  1,I0.0  1,708.0  4,640.0        17.0       10        8     89.1      -    2,717.4      29.4      -       14.4      -
A0_      MIW=                        ..Li.  ..LJ  ...7L   1_fl                -        17.0        6        I     .4J            .J       7 S 4.9       -       *7.8      -
TOtAL                    WJ..  IL7S    2,1ZZ  8.12  4ZA4fl                                       a11" ILI 40  s
!                                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tC



PiJfEr gwnLM  IMM
(TFlt md.o UN1o0)
8.a,..J.et                          T0651 CO"       low... of PAd                     Tome of fi.cloe               status ON 6.mbpeojoct            04* ref Rto
MD.  t_e                                      0il          l    P pi'* Palo   .    Utepet        Toll        A_t       Arres      " _no,t A.so c1 fO_is
Reem,reee  Ret.     ToWS  r.an    Repaid             Steweding Ex-onto  ex-Po"8  RE-asto PA-pas
A-I    LA 8UVi AL                  11,742.0  $,017.6       -   6,078.4  2,061.0       20       8       1.8   366.1       -     76,4    86.8                45.0
A PALIR1I                  24,780.0  S,0.0    686.0  0,600.0  9,064.0         19       10       a    12.9               M 02.4    82.3             86.2
A-a     cMRe1UNA &UN                  640.0    818.2       0      8.0  f   -           t9     6.e       2    157.1       -      W60.1    21.3              4S.2
-il-1    ftPASn= i iAvAL               S.0    M0.6         -      8.4        -       19.0     0.8      2.8    95.6        -      82.83    J5.8              24.7
A-2    LA P0R1UR 8                  2,0s2.6    G00.0   1S.8  1,148.8         -        21       10       2      87.s      -     $12.8    84.s               Qi.2                      to
6-2  6tsAV                            04.0  Ps  t    186.8    180.9          -        23       7        2      45.1      -      2B .$   42.7n              46.4
6-1    VAN  i=                        761.0   1St.4    64.2   206.6   8M.6            23        7       2       12.2     -      1IS.2   88,W7   89.11      36.2    42.21 
A-2    LA tlS&L                     11,742.0    968.0    689.0  S,25J.0  4,60.0       20        8      1.4    10.0       -      032.0    S8.3               45.0
A-S     TPLMT                        1,01.0    076.0    86.0    266.0       -        21       7        2    127.0       -     649.0       Sl               48.0
A-     LA MAMA         .            2,82.0  1,822.0        -     840.0       -        nt       a        2    490.0       -   1,382.0       so               50.0
A4      EPI                         1.M,.2  L.217Z0       _ ..   as O      _                   t        2   .JIJ         -     B4.. O      54               67.3
TOtAL.                                         I.M.4M~1  1L1214  LZEZJ 24L286R ASAZL&                .01.3            L4S4u.
Ii!|
*1N
'A



FIFTH DEVELOWPME   a O  LOA  M. 2_0M-IC)
PROJECT COPtl REPORT
Intecest R.t. and Eonomic Indlcetore
1981     1982    1083     1984    1985       Low       197      1903
nterest Re. ()
_ (f         X      x i)-   O-d   VIVO)    tf P)    (froo)
Coeoiatl Bonk Borrowing
Roe.                        10-14    12-14    13-I6    19-21    20-22    20-25    25-30    2560
Coomrelt Baik Leding
Rate                        12-16    16-17    20.4      26.1    '38.6     80.9      45.1     66.0
DCI Rodlieounte: borrowing     9        12       18        16       18       21    21-23        21'
lOnd,Ig       12        15       1s      1i        23    28-26        26       26
D&An'. long-term lending:
to DFCo                      5-12    12-14       16       21        23       23    2*-28
to subborsowers             12-16    15-17       19       21        23       2a        28       32
E.onow. Indicator. (U)
GOP Growth                  l.0      1.2       (2.8)    4.2      4.8      8.2      (6.2)     0.0
Itf lotlon                  14.7     16.3     62.6    25.1      24.4     27.3      32.5     85.7
Export Growth               1.7?    (71)    (31.3)   11.5       10.8    (24.7)   (11.8)   N.A.
import tGroth               7.2     (9.6)    (81.3)    7.0      10.0      2.1      10.0    (10.6)
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 59 -
ANNEX VI
ECUADOR
FIFTH DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT (LOAN 2096-E)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Proiected and Actual Loan Disbursements
Cumiulative Disbursements
(US$ Million)
IBRD                                    -
FY                   Appraisal Estimate   Actual
1982
June 30, 1982                   6.0
1983
Dbcember 31. 1982              10.0           -
June 30, 1983                  22.0           1.8
1984
December 31,1983               30.0          17.7
June 30, 1984                  52.0          43.3
1985
December 31, 1984              57.5          53.5
June 30, 1985                  58.3          55.5
1986
December 31, 1985              58.9          55.8
June 30, 1986                  59.5          57.6
1987
December 31, 1986              60.0          58.7
June 30, 1987                                59.1
1988
September 1987                   -
December 1987  (T6tal) 11                    59.1
11  The-loan was closed on June 30, 1987 and the balance of US$ 874,000
was cancelled.
A                          



-60
AII4E ViI
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
FIFT OEVELePIEI LOANUCING
PROJECT COON  R T
Doturibution of Loan U. by DFC
(in thougnds of US1 dollore and t5ousne of Sucre.)
Total Loew PMSE)   * 00,000,000
Total Oloburg      a 69,12B,000
Cancel led              84,000
RECOVERIES WTTANDIM"
OFC                     Us#'OFO   S/'OOO    Si'OOO      SI'OiO          X
CFN                    10,597.0 1,864,280.0  61O 048.2  747,245.8     84.5
COFIEC                 17,740.0 1,150,682.7  f486,22.6  804,870.2     29.1
FINIDER                 6,280.0   461,954.4  255,U82.1  10,6,22.8     11.4
ECUFINSA                2,8675.0   200,498.9   08,889.4  117,159.6     5.1
FINUSA                  6,18.0   181,450.5  114,047.0  216,508.5       8.4
FINRA                   1,095.0   108,612.2   14,905.9  08,626.8       2.6
FDNUNSUR                4,705.0   854,284.1  101,409.8  262,824.8      0.0
TECMIICAL ASSISTANCE       0.0
TOTAL                        _ '.056.6n.0 1.678,810.9 2.28 .IM 2A 0  100.0
-               -



- 61 -
ANE VIIS
FIFTH DEVELOPMIENT BSAWl  PROJECT (Ll. 209EC
PRJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Financatl Condition of Pertleipating KFCe
I. Selected Financtal Ratios as of Dcember 81. 1088
Portfolio
Earnings           Earnings        Current asset/        tn       Portfolio
Ava. Total As      Avg. Total Eauitv Current IlabIlities  Arrear U   Af fected 
CFN             0.8aa              1.8%                 1.1           24              40
COFIEC          0.86%               .9s%                0.03                         47
PINIOER         0.40S              J.7X                 l.1            7               n.a.
FDIANSA         0.581              7.?1                 0.70          12              n.o.
ECUFIS          2.84%             22.0%1                1.1            7               n.n.
FINANSUR        0.40%              8.x                  0.06           5             4C
1I. Annual DebtfEaUtty Ratios
1081          1982           1983
FINANqUIL       7.9            7.0            18.2              14.7
ECUFIA          7.9           10.0            14.9              18.6
FINANSUR        7.1           a6.             1A4               15.2
FINDI£R         8.5            7.8            14.5              15.9
FINANSA         9.5           11.8            21.1              1810
COFIEC          8.1           11.0            17.4              l8.7
CFN             8.2           8.6              4.9               4.6



FUFTH   o          i    PJWF      . 209-I
PFROt thcin mmr
8  zam aL  ma                                        wmm mNa
Average T7., Asse_t (SI. a) a         294           87         mm         8elo             Average T1 A|st (/. a).                 76       2678    410       78g
Averag faming gmoee  (8/. *)          2654         S2o1        4799       0749             Aere" arning A-me  (S/. *)             1775      2549    8774     a00
bornng AbMas   2 of                                     |                                  Earnon gAeat,asS bf
Total Assets lncl. Cantingenciae      87.2         92.9       81.0        7.38            Todnt MAet. In.l. Commtnencle.          9S.1      95.8    74.0     7S.8
(As S ot Awarge T1 Assets)                       i                                           (As 1 of Avere Total Aaete)
rnurtfs De*" AV                          6.6          6.8        5.9       10.4      1     Intert  i                                6.2       6.7      5.6      4.7
lrte,s E"Onso eb                         1.4         -2.2        8.4        0.1 EIntreatE _ a                                       0.8       1.7      2.6      5.8
V  JNt           I                     4.2          4.2        2.5        4.0              t5T 3NCT'r iWm                          4.4       4.0     S.2      4.0
I                                                                                          a
AaMstraAt,ve Eapaness                    1.0          1.8        2.1        1.0      I     Adein)atrative Expenses                  1.6        1.5     1.1      i's             L
G0  &VMM                                3*ATD iN  8.2  2.9      1.L        2.9          |  055     0PEUATP  PROMFT iWIN             8.0       2.6     2.0      2.8
La"n La  Provtolon                       0.4          1.1        0.8        0.9            Lown Lo  Proytlajo                       0.2        0.6     1.4      1.2
Tw Op25a#  PRFIT AWROS                  2.8          1.7        0.6        2.0      |        r OAAM   PRFfT Mi                      2.8       2.2    0.       1.5
I
OU te Incmez                             0.7          1.8        2.1        0.6            other Sca..                              0.9        2.0     2.1      0.O
OXthe EsPenaSa 8/                       1.           1.4        1.4        1.1            Other *i*nmw g/                          1.8        1.8     1.1      1.4
MT  iOFi   WOM                           2.2          2.0     1.8            1.5     I          PROFI  MMi                          2,4       2.6      1.6      1.0
/ 7ncld  cieiler    4irid                                                                                                                                                     Du
I /   l    c i de e  l aum i   a ddee
8/ Jaded.. othr *xpansm, employe proit sharing. a  Inee_m ta*.
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p



iifi
ii'                                  I ,   *        o" s eZ        Bg#         1
ii                                   I                         I
0  ~       ~~  0   0 p      0 o I    a- p      ap-S                       B 
.  s    ,        * a-     4.  o   o   oI   .4    04*            4
I             !~4. 1*  0             O   ll.  .. -CI    -
*4 0' 0   0  .-  _-   a-        **0
. ~ ~ ~ a -. ____ ___ ___ ___ ____ ___ ___a-
-  0  'a  a   *  "   r         ^¢u  i  
.4  0   4.  CI   ea    a     *30*              0
w~~ oi                eo             :-1
'         I'  i   P                  I     I IIa40 d 4e
a-  0   0  *3  0  *3    o       o"           . 
tI~~~            ~~~~~~~~ X                        S    .
A:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



rmim i
FZH W cv.Air - ,O   (LiE. 1090-e
UK          AM          A        om AMe                                                nu ABm    AM
Average Toalf MAst. (s. a).o          803          3963       6769      10941             Average Touta Aseeta M0. a)*          0019      7483   1176     1*3
Average Ebrnls Mseet. (9/. )          2942         am3        am4        SOS              Average Ebrnlo# Mets(5..*86                     611989  00       11
lbrining Mgeet. asI of                                                                    Berning Assets.as f@o
Total Asst. loot. Cmntltsawnlom       94.6         06.        81.4       68.9 4oa   et  .1   ignls9.                                      94.8    73.0     69.2
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oa ,o"  lol  otapo.o,91
(As S of Averag Total AMet.)                    I(As U of Avergep Tofta Assets)
Inateret I*ccu at                        8.8          .8.       6.4       10.0    - I        t"  Ifcxm" 3k/                        7.1       7.8     8.9      9.6
IntareSt SWApaas8                        2.0          8.4        3.9       0.5            l ateroso Eapane                        a's3       4.8     4.3      8.1
Mt MUwsT IF2N                          8.6          2.9        V.&        3.5             Nur MUSTfm  #4WN                       3.5       3.2     1.6      1.6
Mmini.trativs Sapena .;                         2    1.0         1.6       1.0            Ad.mnletatlv. &penes                     1.2       1.0     0.6
088 PUtATZNO PFRPr MOM0              2.0          1.1        1.0        1.7     I            P 0PATDOCIPROP? IIRPR             2.4       2.8     0.8      0.0
L.aw La". Provision                      0.3          0.8       0.4        0.9            Lo"n Lo". Provielco                      0.4      0.5      0.5      0.4
1W OPEPATI80 PROFIT KARMI               1.7          0.7        0.6       0.9             WU~ OPUTIN  PROFT N66OIt                2.0       1.8     0.3      0.8
Other Income                             0.6         0.9        0.1        1.6      I     Other Incoe0?                                     0.0      0.2      0.2
Other J!"Hosae, 8/                       0.0          0.5       0.2        1.1            other bpanae St                         1.1       1.2      0.8      0,4
.                ~~~I;
Mer PROftX H4ARM1N                       1.8          1.0       0.4        1.             HEr ROFIT HARM                          1.6       13       0.1      0.2
~~0    *l )wde i on n enc T.   -
obInlues o*4.ices.
ox Includoa *.....A' eapensee. euptet'ee profl~ aharing. *nd income tam.



-66e 4 of 4
-66-
ECZDOR
FIFTH  LEVE IT lMNING PROJECT (LN. 209-EC)
PROJECT COMLETONRUT
Profit karsin Summery
a                           ~~~~ ~ ~~~1981  t921988            1984
Averw Total AsMet (S/. m) *            9578        11410      14909      182
Averge EarMing Aseste (S/. m)         8706         10009      11927      1879
Totl   stn    l. Conftingl             90.9         35.1       76.8        74.1
(As X otf tAvers  ToWl Aets)
:nterse l  ¢oa  !I                       8.8          8.4        8.5       10.0
Iterest £xposseb/                        5.6          5.6        6.5          .
MET INTERT  IURN                       2.8          2.9        2.0         8.1
Adninistrattvo Expense                   1.9          2.0        1.9         2.0
moss OSS Riitm Po"  mmJN II.                         0.9        0.1         1.1
Loen Lows Prevlsion                      0.5          0.9        1.7         8.0
NET OPTIN  PROFIT MARGIN                0.4          0.0       -1.6        -1.9
Other Income                             0.1          0.4        2.0'       2.8
Othr Expe_see a/                         0.1          0.1        0.0        0.1
NET PROFIT MARGIN                        0.4          0.8        0.8        0.8
* Includes cootingeniss
/ Includes comissions and divideWd
I ncludes coiienos.
v   Includes other xpense, _ployr  profit sbarieg, and lncome tax.
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/



- 67 -                     AflIDILL
,Page I of 5
COMMENTS RECEIVED PROM C
(TRANSLATION OF ORIGINAL INCOMING LBTTER)
COPORPACION FINANCIERA NACIONAL
QUITO - ECUADOR
Quito, May 30, 1990
Mr. George C. Maniatis
Acting Division Cbief
Policy-Based Lending, Industry,
Public Utilities and Urban Sectors Division
World Bank
Dear Sir:
Further to your request of April 19, 1990, in connection with the Project
Completion Report on the Fifth Development Banking Project, Loan 2096-EC, our
comments on the same are as followst
I.       ORIGINAL OBJECTIVES AND RESULTS-OF PROJECT 2096-ZEC
The Fifth Banking Development Project for Ecuador financed by the World
Bank with the objective of channell*ng resources to the industrial
sector, listed among its objectives:
1. "To progress towards an interest rate regime more flexible and
responsive to market influences."
Since 1986, when the Monetary Board proposed a reform to the
interest rate system then In force, there has been a tendency of
the economic policy towards that objective.
The measures adopted have been basically oriented to:
- Strengthen the overall financial system.
- Decrease the marked dependency of financial institutions on the
Central Baik.
- Stimulate the mobilization of domestic savings.
- Optimize the use of limited financial resources.
-  Give more flexibility to credit operations channeled through
banks and financial companies, with an interest rate more
attuned to the economic reality.



- 68 -                    APPENDIX 1
Page 2 of 5
Actually, the newly implemented interest rate system was a mixed
system since:   (a) preferential rates were maintained for basic
productive activities such as small Industry and crafts, the agri-
cultural sector, non-ttaditional Ecuadorean exports, and Govern-
mental social projects; and (b) it allowed the establishment of
frely contracted rates for active and passive operations agreed
betwoen authorized financial intermediaries and depositors with ovn
resources, with external lending end with deposits from the public.
Additionally, the scheme contemplated the adjustment of interest
rates for operations contracted for 720 days end more.
In practice, the system forced financial institutions to reach
agreements to avoid rate competition that would hurt the financial
system. Thus, flotation was based on such banking agreements but
closely linked with the country's economic conditions.
Afterwards, since August 1988, the now Government authorities main-
tained the preferential interest rate levels for basic activities,
setting an additional comission (22) for loans with terms over 720
4ays and setting a maximum spread of 19 points between passbook
savings rates and the freely contracted rate. That passive rate
wss published by the Central Bank, based on the average from the
five national banks with the highest capital and reserves.
From then on, there has been an increasing improvement and adjust-
ment of this passive and active calculation rate system, in
accordance with the economic evolution and to the demands of the
involved sectors.
basically, the current system In force sets the spread between
passive and active rates on 15 percentage points if the bank
operates with ordinsry passbook savings and 90-day accumulation
policies, in which case tLe average between both items will be the
referential base, or on 17 percentage points if the financial
institution does not keep those operations and should, therefore,
be based on the referential rate published weekly by the Central
Sank, based on the average of the private domestic banks.
On the other hand, certain preferential interest rates have been
maintained for certain priority activities, however, these have
been gradually adjusted. Finally, among the most important aspects
of the scheme, it has been established that the readjustment of
interest rates is now applicable on operations whose term is 360
days or more.
The above confirms that the proposed objective has been achieved, a
fact that has also been recognixed by the IBRD.



- 69 -
Page 3 of 5
Related Obiectives 2 and 3
2. "To increase over the longer term the confidence, diversity and
efficiency of the Ecuadorean capital markets by encouragingt
a) The issuance and purchase of longer-term debt instruments
(specifically those of the DPCs)g and
b) The creation of an effective secondary market for such invest-
ments."
3. "To encourage greater initiative and competition among DPCa through
broader participation of the newer and smaller DFCs. .
IBRD tried to improve the Ecuadorean capitals market and at the
same time to strengthen the financial institutions through the
instrumentation of the line.
With this end in mind, it was expected that the companies and
financial institutions would issue long-term instruments, with a
secondary market to be developed for these instruments.   Addi-
tionally, each use of IBRD funds by the financial institutions had
to contribute to the mobilization of medium- and long-term domestic
resources in specific proportions.
Compliance with these two objectives is rather sketchy and the
causes for their poor compliance level have been accurately iden-
tified in the report presented by the IBRD.
These results were caused by the critical situation of the
Ecuadorean financial system, which even brought about the World
Bank's approval, in December 1987, of a Financial Sector loan in
the amount of US$100 million for a term of 17 years, 4 years of
grace, and variable interest, with the Government of Japan co-
financing an additional US$100 million for the same general objec-
tive, which is to initiate a process of rationalization, balancing,
and controlling of the country's banking and financial system.
This program, which was agreed with the Ecuadorean Government,
consists oft
a) Reduction of the dependency of financial institutions on the
Central 8ank.
b) Evaluation of the portfolio quality of financial institutions.
c) Liberalization and flexibilization of the interest rate system.
d) Adjustment of interest rates of the FODERUNA program.
e) Definition of mechanisms and issuance of regulations on several
operative and financial management aspects of the system.



- 70 -
Page 4 of 5
On the other hand, it is important to note that the economic
authorities continue their efforts to comply vith objectives con-
sistent with those referred to above, and to this end, a draft
Stock Exchange Market Law was recently submitted to the National
Congress for its discussion end approval, and which at present is
under consideration by Congress and which basically tries to:
"Establish adequate and permanent mechanisms to allow the promotion
of domestic savings, the concentration of dispersed savings, and,
finally, to channel them in an efficient manner toward the
different productive sectors through the development of an
efficient stock exchange, integrated and transparent, which would
allow business growth and capitalixation."
In summary, compliance with these two objectives requires a legal
framework and additional actions that are being developed and
promoted by the National Government, to ensure that the development
of the domestic stock market will depend on the efficiency and
interrelation of the different sectors involved.
Moreover, it is interesting to note the analysis being carried out
on the way the real debt of the borrower companies --beneficiaries
of the program-- has been reduced as a result of the country's
present devaluation and inflation and which has been absorbed by
the Government.
1. PROJECTS FINANCED AhD CO-PTJhJCED BY CFN
As to the comments wade on the projects financed or co-financed by CPN,
this Institution considers that these express the opinions produced
during work sessions and visits made to some companies by the World
Bank expert and shares the points of view related to the results of the
analysis.
Special mention should be made in the report of the case of the FORESA
company, considered as a problem project, and on which C!! has been
taking actions directed toward achieving its rehabilitation, which are
succinctly listed in the report.
Likewise, the role played by C!N in the program should be highlighted,
being this Inotitution and COPIEC, according to the report, the only
financial companies that have diversified their project portfolios.
ITI. LINANCIAL ASPECTS
According to the figures presented In the evaluation document, CPN had
the highest percentage of fund utilization from the IBRD project with
33.11 (US$19,579,000) of the total. Overall, COMIEC and CFN used 631
of the credit line of US$60 million.   Disbursements amounted to
US$59,126,000 and were channeled by seven financial companiest  CEN,
COMlC,O hIThR, PINANSA, ECUPIUSA, PIVANQUIL, and PINANSUR.



- 71 -                 hZENDILL
Page 5 of 5
Although CPR was the financial company that used most resources from
this loan to finan,e projects, It ohould be noted that, according to
the section discussing the Impact of the project, the sub-loan average
granted by the Corporation vas among the lowest; in fact, 74 projects
were financed of which 34 actually belonged to CFN, with an average of
US$575,852.94 vis-a-vis a general average of US$799,000.00, which
indicates the efforts of the Institution in the process of decen-
tralixing credit.
IV.  INSTITUTIORAL STRINGTIUING
The PCR reports that both the volume of operations and the evolution of
the rest of the financil system made the general information system of
CFO progressively obsolete; thus, it became necessary to hire a
consulting firm to revise and recommend ways to set up a new management
infomation system (HIS), which at present is being gradually placed
into operation.
Sincerely,
Isl
Rodrigo B. Moscoso
GEUSRAL NAAER



3                       APPEU DIX 2
(TRANSLATION OF ORIGIR&L INCOMING LETTER)
BANCO CENTRAL DEL ECUADOR
Quito, Kay 21, 1990
SCE-K-2218
Mr. George C. Maniatis
Actitg Division Chief
Policy-Based Lending, Industry,
Public Utilities and Urban Sectors Division
World Bank
1818 U Street, L.W.
Wsshington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Res IBFD Loan 2096-EC - 'Fifth jankina Development Project'
Dear SirS
Reference is made to your letter dated April 19, 1990, requesting
coments from the Central Bank on the Project Completion Report referred to
above.
In this connection, I am pleased to inform you that the report
includes, among other aspects, the description of the development of the
referred Project, which vas actually implemented within the contractually
established framework and conditions and achieved the proposed objectives,
i.e., to finance productive activities contributing to the country's economic
development, with an ample participation of beneficiary companies, achieving
a better distribution of resources, and their optimal utilization.
Completion of this project has assisted the country in reactivatin,
the productive sector, and the results will be apparent in the medium-term,
as long as the country keeps on receiving the necessary and sufficient sup-
port from the World Bank.
Sincerely,
Is'
Alicia Lupera de Torres
Assistant Manager for Foreign Credit
to the Private Sector



