Document of
The World Bank                    FILE COpy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3200-EC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR A
FIFTH DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
February 3, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The official exchange rate is US$1 = S/. 25. There is, however,
a free market rate which has been fluctuating around US$1 = S/. 32 during
the past few months. The currency equivalents given below are based on
the official exchange rate.
Currency Unit: Sucre (S/.)
Calendar 1981       January 15, 1982
US$1        =  S/. 25            =  S/. 25
S/. I       =  US$0.04           =  US$0.04
S/. 1,000   =  US$40.00          =  US$40.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BNF        Banco Nacional de Fomento (National Development Bank)
CFN        Corporacion Financiera Nacional (National Finance Corporation)
COFIEC     Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo S.A., Compania Financiera
(Ecuadorian Development Finance Company)
CONADE     Consejo Nacional de Desarrollo
(National Development Council)
DFC        Development Finance Company
IDB        Inter-American Development Bank
USAID      United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ECUADOR
FIFTH DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Republic of Ecuador
Beneficiaries:         Corporacion Financiera Nacional (CFN), Ecuatoriana de
Desarrollo S.A., Compania Financiera (COFIEC), and other
eligible development finance companies.
Amount:                US$60.0 million
Terms:                 The portion of the loan to be onlent (US$59 million)
to finance investment projects would be repayable in
up to 15 years, including 3 years of grace, on a composite
amortization basis with interest at 11.6 percent p.a.;
the technical assistance portion (US$1 million) would
be repayable on the same terms, with fixed amortization.
Relending Terms:       The Central Bank of Ecuador, as the Government's fiscal
agent, would relend US$59 million of the loan's proceeds
to participating development finance companies (DFCs)
at 15 percent p.a. in sucres. This would include a fee
of 2.9 percent p.a. for bearing the foreign exchange
risk between the sucre and the currency pool and a 0.5
percent p.a. fee for administration.
Project Description:  The proposed loan-s objectives are to (i) provide
additional long term financing for the industrial
sector; (ii) promote domestic resource mobilization by
Ecuador's DFCs; (iii) improve the institutional capacity
of the DFCs to undertake loan appraisal and supervision;
(iv) advance the policy dialogue between the Government
and the Bank on industrial and financial reforms; and
(v) stimulate industrial exports. Funds would be onlent
for industrial and related activities through up to
13 DFCs in proportion to each DFC's ability to mobilize
domestic term resources. Investments in some 60 sub-
projects totalling US$240 million and directly creating
around 8000 jobs would be partially financed from the loan.
Export projects would receive at least US$20 million of
the proposed loan. Co-financing of US$40-50 million from
commercial banks is likely, although its terms are still
to be negotiated. In addition, about US$10-20 million
in credit lines from export credit institutions are
expected. Technical assistance of up to US$1 million is
included for a study of industrial incentives, for
advisory services to DFCs in subproject analysis and
management information systems, and to strengthen the
operations, supervision and financial information
capacity of the Superintendency of Banks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Special Risks:         The proposed project faces no unusual project risks.
Market conditions and investor psychology may, however,
constrain the domestic resource mobilization foreseen.
A mid-project review of interest rates and other financial
variables is programmed to identify and remedy these
constraints if necessary.
Estimated Costs:                            Local        Foreign      Total
----------US$ million---------
Investment Projects        120.0           120.0       240.0
Technical Assistance         0.4             1.0         1.4
Total                  120.4           121.0      241.4
Financing Plan:                             Local        Foreign      Total
----------US$ million---------
Bank                          -             60.0        60.0
DFCs                        39.0             -          39.0
Coml. Banks and
Export Credits              -             61.0        61.0
Sub-borrowers               81.0             -          81.0
Government                   0.4             -           0.4
Total                 120.4           121.0      241.4
Estimated Disbursements:
------- US$ millions by Bank FY -------
1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
Annual           6.0   16.0   30.0    6.3    1.2    0.5
Cumulative        6.0   22.0   52.0   58.3   59.5   60.0
Rate of Return:   N.A.
Staff Appraisal Report:          Staff Appraisal Report No. 3571-EC dated
December 23, 1981.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR FOR A
FIFTH DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Ecuador for the equivalent of US$60 million to help
finance a Fifth Development Banking Project. The loan would be repayable
over 15 years, including three years of grace, with interest at 11.6 percent
per annum. US$59 million would be onlent, in sucres, to participating DFCs at
15 percent p.a. and would be repaid on a composite amortization basis. The
US$1 million balance for technical assistance would be repaid on a fixed
amortization basis. Participating DFCs would onlend the loan's proceeds to
ultimate beneficiaries for up to 15 years, including up to three years of
grace, at 17.5 to 18.5 percent interest per annum, depending on the type of
investment.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic report on Ecuador, Report No. 3723-EC
entitled "Ecuador: Economic Development Issues" was distributed to the
Executive Directors on December 17, 1981. This President's Report reflects
the main conclusions of the published economic report. Annex I summarizes the
main social and economic indicators.
Recent Economic Developments
3.        Ecuador entered the seventies as one of the least developed Latin
American countries. The discovery and subsequent exploitation of petroleum
in the Amazon region, however, initiated a major boom. From 1970 to 1978,
Ecuador's economy grew at an average annual rate of 8.6 percent. Since then,
the rate of growth decreased to 5.8 percent in 1979 and to 4.6 percent in
1980 owing to (i) sagging investment by the important private sector because
of political uncertainties; and (ii) declining petroleum output. Still, by
1980 per capita income had climbed to US$1,220 placing Ecuador within the
middle range of the region's countries.
4.        During 1979 and 1980, the growth of private investment slowed, as
businessmen awaited the outcome of elections--the first in a decade--and
the definition of economic policies to be carried out by the Government
which took office August 10, 1979. These factors contributed to a slowdown of
private investment which only increased at an average annual rate of 3.2
percent during those two years, compared to 14.1 percent per annum in the
previous five years. The decline of economic activity would have been greater
had it not been for a substantial improvement in the terms of trade between
1978 and 1980 as oil prices nearly tripled during this period.
5.        For 1981, growth has been estimated at around 4.2 percent, owing to
slack demand conditions for exports and continued slowdown of private invest-
ment. The softness of the international market for petroleum forced Ecuador



- 2 -
to curtail its production of oil during the second half of the year and to
sell its production at lower prices than during 1980. International prices
for Ecuador's main non-petroleum exports--cocoa and coffee--also declined in
1981. Based on information for the first nine months of the year, it is
estimated that, as a result of these trends, export earnings in 1981
remained at about the 1980 level.
6.        Private investment, also, was sluggish during 1981.  A border
incident with Peru at the beginning of the year created some uncertainty
among private entrepreneurs and the airplane accident that took the life of
President Roldos aggravated the situation. Moreover, the difference between
domestic and international interest rates encouraged capital outflows, thus
contributing to a reduction of international reserves and to a tight money
situation. These two factors--political uncertainty and tight money--account
for the slow growth of private investment (about 3.1 percent) during 1981.
Social Development
7.        During the rapid growth years of the seventies, Ecuador underwent
major transformations which improved living conditions for many of its
citizens. Nevertheless, mainly because of the low level of development which
the country had experienced prior to the oil boom much of the Ecuadorian
population continues to live in poverty. Thus, while a sizeable middle class
has emerged, statistical evidence indicates that about 40 percent of the urban
and 65 percent of the rural population live in absolute poverty. Population
growth is estimated at 3.3 percent per year and, because the Government does
not have a comprehensive family planning program, it is expected to continue
at about present levels. This will continue to strain the ability of the
Government to alleviate poverty through the provision of social services.
8.        Most of the important reasons for Ecuador's skewed distribution of
income are structural and of long standing. The two most significant are:
(i) highly concentrated ownership of land and other productive resources;
and (ii) unequal access to public services, especially education, health and
agricultural extension.
9.        With regard to the ownership of land--perhaps the single most
important resource in Ecuador--60 percent of the economically active rural
population derives its livelihood from only 11 percent of the arable land.
The parcels that this segment of the population farms are small--less than
5 hectares--and tend to be of the poorest quality. Low levels of education,
primitive cultivation techniques, and limited access to commercial marketing
result in low productivity and incomes. On average, farms over 10 hectares
produce anywhere from 1.3 to 2 times more per hectare than smaller farms, and
the income of many small farmers barely exceeds subsistence levels.
10.       Growth has benefited mainly the urban middle and rural upper classes.
Public expenditures have been concentrated in urban centers. Tentative esti-
mates indicate that during the seventies only about 25 percent of total public



investment was channeled into rural areas (e.g., for agricultural development,
education), where 56 percent of the total population and most of the country's
poorest live. These estimates also show that per capita public expenditures
were 5.5 times higher in the modern sector of the economy than in the tradi-
tional one.
11.       Primary school coverage has been expanding significantly in recent
years. As in the case in many other developing countries, however, the
benefits of education are unequally distributed. According to official
statistics, illiteracy in urban areas is around 6 percent versus around
38 percent in rural areas. Indians, who constitute about one-third of the
population, live primarily in the rural areas, especially in the Sierra
region. While they speak their own languages and have their own cultural
patterns and value systems, the Spanish language and Western culture pre-
dominate in the public schools as well as in local administration and
businesses. Until 1979, illiterates were not allowed to vote.
12.       In order to improve the lot of the poor, the Ecuadorian Government
is pursuing a development policy with a strong social component. In rural areas,
a strategy of seeking rapid agricultural growth is now complemented by an emphasis
on integrated rural development. According to the Government's 1980-84 Develop-
ment Plan, public outlays for agriculture are programmed to more than double
during the five-year period in real terms over the preceding five years and
in 1980, they increased from 1 to 1.2 percent of GDP. Public services for the
rural sector have recently been drawn together under a rural development
secretariat. Agricultural price controls are also under revision; prices of
several items (sugar, wheat, milk) have already been raised. These and
related measures are intended to provide better production incentives and
the basis for more effective programs in the rural sector in the years ahead.
Balance of Payments and Fiscal Policies
13.       During 1972-80, imports increased at an average rate of 10.2 per-
cent in real terms. The main forces behind this increase were: (i) the
high investment rates achieved during the earlier part of the period and
the related demand for imported capital goods, mainly for the industrial
and transport sectors; (ii) the rapid growth of demand for inputs by the
industrial sector; (iii) Government imports; and (iv) lately, the growing
demand for foodstuffs. These imports have been stimulated in part by the
high rate of growth of the country and, more recently, by the relatively
low price of imported goods as a result of an exchange rate that has
appreciated around 20 percent in real terms since 1971.
14.       Real exports of goods, on the other hand, increased annually by only
2.2 percent during 1972-80. Export earnings increased mainly because world
prices for Ecuador's exports went up. During 1978 and 1979, higher oil prices
and the recovery in world prices of the country's main agricultural exports--
bananas, coffee and cacao--contributed to keeping export earnings high.
During 1980, coffee and cacao prices declined, but the price of oil increased
by 52.6 percent, adding an estimated US$515.4 million to the foreign earnings
of Ecuador.



-4-
15.       Owing mainly to these favorable developments in oil prices, the
current account deficit in 1980 was held down to an equivalent of 5.1 percent
of GDP. Moreover, because of a rapid increase in net borrowing, net official
international reserves increased by approximately US$226 million in 1980 and
towards the end of that year stood at US$856 million, nearly equal to 3.5
months of imports of merchandise and non-factor services. This level of
reserves declined in 1981 owing to short-term capital outflows resulting from
the border incident with Peru, the death of President Roldos, and the rising
spread between domestic and foreign interest rates. By October 1981, net
international reserves of the Central Bank stood at $531.8 million--equivalent
to about 2 months of imports of goods and non-factor services. Even though
the recent loss of reserves may be attributed to temporary problems, Ecuador
could begin to encounter significant import capacity constraints in the coming
years if the volume of exports does not increase, as is discussed in para. 19.
16.       Income gains and a slow growth of the domestic supply of food
resulted in inflationary pressures in the 1970s. Monetary and credit policies,
price controls, and heavy imports of food staples, however, helped to curb
these pressures: inflation during the decade, as measured by the consumer
price index, averaged an annual rate of about 13 percent. Monetary policies
during 1980 and 1981, however, have been less restrictive: the rate of growth
of both the money supply and credit have expanded significantly. Moreover, in
an effort to curb domestic demand of petroleum products and to stimulate the
production of agricultural goods, the Government has (i) raised the prices of
petroleum products and of some agricultural goods (sugar, wheat, milk) and
(ii) embarked on a program of decontrolling prices. Whereas in the long run
these actions should result in higher domestic production of agricultural
goods and lower growth of domestic consumption of petroleum products, in the
short run their impact will be most evident on prices. Finally, in 1980 a
doubling of the minimum wage (decreed by Congress)--well above the increase
in productivity and consumer prices--also added to inflationary pressures.
As a result, consumer prices rose at an annual rate of about 15 percent
during 1981.
17.       Fiscal policies have been expansionary.  After the public sector
deficit reached 8.5 percent of GDP in 1977, the Government imposed budgetary
restraints on public investment. These restraints, together with a doubling
of world petroleum prices which provided additional oil tax revenues, helped
to bring the deficit down to 2.0 percent of GDP in 1979. In 1980, however,
the newly installed Congress approved a budget higher than that proposed by
the Administration. Central Government expenditures increased by over 30 per-
cent in real terms, raising the public sector deficit to an estimated 4.3 per-
cent of GDP. These expansionary policies were continued in 1981; the public
sector deficit for that year is estimated to have been about 5 percent of GDP.
18.       Public external debt outstanding at end-1980 was more than twice
that at end-1977, in large measure because the public sector deficit has
been financed through external borrowing. Moreover, as most of the newly
contracted debt was provided by commercial sources, terms, maturity, and
grace periods have hardened. Consequently, Ecuador's public debt-service
ratio increased from 5.8 percent of exports of goods and non-factor services
in 1976 to 14.4 percent in 1980.



19.       Ecuador's economy will require careful management in the coming
years. Even though the country's foreign earnings have grown at an average
rate of 23.8 percent per annum since 1972 because of rising world prices--
especially for petroleum--the volume of exports increased by only 2.2 percent
per year. More significantly, petroleum exports--which in 1981 accounted for
about 60 percent of the dollar value of all commodity exports--have been de-
clining in real terms. Two main reasons account for this decline: (i) stagnat-
ing petroleum output since 1976 and (ii) rising domestic consumption encouraged
by low domestic prices for gasoline and other petroleum products. Nevertheless,
petroleum could still provide the country with substantial amounts of foreign
exchange well into the late eighties if: (a) oil reserves are increased soon
through exploration and secondary recovery; and (b) domestic consumption is
curbed as a result of the recent steep increases in domestic prices of petrol-
eum derivatives, the development of natural gas and hydroelectric energy
sources and further increases in domestic petroleum prices. The Government
has taken some important steps in these directions, as mentioned in para. 23.
Sectoral Developments
20.       Agriculture accounted for 13 percent of GDP in 1980, a decline
from 23 percent in 1972. While the sector grew at an average rate of only
1.2 percent between 1974 and 1980, it is still the single most important
source of employment, absorbing close to half of the labor force. Agricultural
exports also accounted for 26 percent of total exports in 1980, although their
importance had declined from 75 percent of total exports in the early 1970s,
before petroleum became the major export commodity. Specific constraints to
sector growth include, inter alia, price controls, subsidies to competing
imports, inadequate infrastructure (mostly roads), insufficient credit avail-
ability, world market price fluctuations for main export crops and limited
farm-level extension services. Domestic food production grew at only 1.9
percent annually between 1972 and 1978 as compared to the population increase
of 3.3 percent per annum. As a result, food imports have risen sharply. In
1980-81, the Government began a process of decontrolling agricultural prices in
order to improve incentives for production.
21.       The manufacturing sector is discussed in Part III of this report.
22.       Petroleum production on a major scale began in Ecuador in 1972.
Increases in international prices since 1973 considerably enhanced the sector's
role in the economy: in 1980 it contributed 13.1 percent to Ecuador's GDP,
and accounted for 54 percent of export earnings and 48 percent of current
Central Government revenues. Production has averaged about 70 million barrels
per year since 1973. The Government is concerned about dwindling petroleum
reserves and has begun to give priority attention to increased exploration and
secondary recovery. Expansion of known reserves through adequate exploration
efforts is essential to permit increased production, but the national petroleum
company, CEPE, has until recently been short of funds and qualified personnel.



- 6 -
In past years, oil export revenues were largely diverted to uses other than
needed investment in exploration, but beginning in 1981, US$80 million per
year is being allocated to CEPE for petroleum development, funded from the
increased revenues resulting from the higher prices charged domestically for
petroleum products. A final problem is CEPE's refining capacity, which has
not fully met local demand of some products, forcing the company to import
final products (i.e., gasoline and diesel fuel) at world prices costing it as
much as US$200 million a year.
23.       During the latter part of the seventies, the amount of petroleum
available for export declined because of rapidly rising domestic consumption.
By 1979, one-third of Ecuador's petroleum was consumed domestically compared
to less than 15 percent in 1973. The growth rate of consumption, which
reached 16 percent, has begun to slow down as a result of lower GDP growth and
recent conservation measures. Specifically, in February 1981, the Government
initiated serious efforts to curb domestic demand by raising consumer prices
across the board for petroleum derivatives. Regular-grade gasoline which had
been selling for US$.19 a gallon since 1972, now retails for US$.60 a gallon.
Other fuels, similarly underpriced, had their prices doubled on average.
Price adjustments are expected to continue although on a more gradual basis.
These and other energy conservation measures--doubling import taxes on energy-
inefficient vehicles, for example--should help to reduce the growth of demand
of domestic consumption and curb contraband sales to neighboring countries.
Recently, also, the Government has prepared new draft contracts in an attempt
to renew foreign interest in petroleum exploration and a secondary recovery
program is expected to add about 18 million barrels per year in 1984 to the
country's present production level of 77 million. Finally, CEPE has added
marginally to reserves--now estimated at about one billion barrels--by drilling
a few successful wells. These actions, together with a planned major switch
from thermal to hydropower generation, are expected to free more oil for
export and the domestic price hikes are expected to increase Government
revenues by an estimated US$240 million per year. This is to be used, in
part, for oil exploration and improvement of social services. Exploration and
conservation have become even more urgent because of the recent levelling off
in the international price of petroleum.
Summary and Outlook
24.       During most of the past decade, the Governments of Ecuador
directed the proceeds of petroleum exports to investment projects which
generally corresponded to the needs of the country. They also fostered
a climate conducive to private investment which, in turn, stimulated the
process of industrialization. The Governments' use of incentives, however,
proved largely ineffective for developing the agricultural sector and
generating employment. Finally, serious distortions occurred in the past
owing to the very low domestic prices for petroleum derivatives.



25.       The present Government, which inherited a host of economic problems,
has taken a number of important and politically difficult corrective measures.
The most important of these was the tripling of domestic gasoline prices
and the doubling of prices of other petroleum products (para 23 above).
This Government has also taken steps to bring other prices more in line
with market conditions. In mid-1980 it raised the price of several agri-
cultural products; in 1981 it increased interest rates and local sugar
prices, and it has lowered export duties on raw cocoa to encourage its
production. These are steps in the right direction and should encourage
exports, agricultural production and domestic savings.
26.       Ecuador has considerable natural and human resource potential.
To develop this potential fully and efficiently, continued adjustments in the
country's economic policies are needed. The Government initially aimed at a
6.5 percent annual GDP growth rate for the 1980-1984 period. In light of
current policies, 1980-81 growth rates, and the recent drop in the interna-
tional price of petroleum, this goal seems overambitious. If the Government
takes measures aimed at further petroleum conservation, expansion of production
through secondary recovery and oil field rehabilitation, and vigorous promotion
of exports other than petroleum, growth in the first half of the 1980s might
average about 5 percent annually. Attainment of this growth rate, however, will
entail considerable amounts of external borrowing. In order to reduce the need
for borrowing after the mid-1980s and to lay a basis for resumed accelerated
growth of GDP, oil exploration must be intensified in the very near future.
If these efforts are made, Ecuador's creditworthiness will be further enhanced
during the second half of this decade. Meanwhile, in light of its relatively
manageable external debt--Ecuador's debt service ratio is projected to be
about 30 percent in 1984--and given the policy measures already taken by the
Government, Ecuador remains creditworthy for Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ECUADOR 1/
27.       Bank Group operations in Ecuador date back to 1954 when a loan was
made for a first highway project. The Bank and IDA have extended 28 loans and
six credits to Ecuador totalling US$576.1 million net of cancellations. As of
September 30, 1981, US$257.9 million of this amount had been disbursed. The
IFC has approved eight loans in Ecuador. Two were for a large textile company
and one each benefitted a sugar mill, a cement company, a mining enterprise,
a pulp and paper firm, a palm oil plant and a leasing operation. The IFC has
also purchased capital shares in COFIEC, a development finance company. These
operations have amounted to US$28.1 million in commitments of which IFC now
holds US$22.6 million.
I/ Updated version of Part II in Report P-3103-EC of June 30, 1981 for the
Power Transmission Project.



- 8 -
28.       Execution of Bank Group financed projects has often been hampered
by weaknesses in Ecuador's implementation capacity. This, in turn, reflects
the insufficiency of the country's public sector managerial and technical
resources--a constraint that is still a serious obstacle to Ecuador's economic
and social development. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans
and IFC operations as of September 30, 1981, as well as notes on the execution
of ongoing projects.
29.       Bank and IDA lending in Ecuador was originally concentrated in
transport and power, where there were--and still are--substantial bottlenecks
to be overcome. To date, approximately 31 percent of Bank Group lending has
been for transport. Seven of the nine loans and credits extended for transport
were to improve the country's road network and two to help finance the expan-
sion of the port of Guayaquil. Lending for power accounts for 21 percent
of total Bank lending to Ecuador. The first three power operations aimed at
improving generation and distribution facilities in Quito; the recent
power transmission loan will help expand the national power transmission grid.
The first livestock development loan, approved in FY67, marked the beginning
of a diversification in the Bank Group's lending program away from infrastruc-
ture. Since then, the Bank Group has made nine other loans and credits for
agriculture and fisheries, four DFC loans and one loan for small-scale enter-
prise credit to support industrial development, a credit and a loan for
education, one loan each for water supply and urban development and two
technical assistance loans. Bank Group support for technical assistance
activities and involvement in the directly productive and social sectors now
accounts for about 48 percent of total Bank and IDA lending.
30.       Turning to the future, Bank operations will continue to assist in
(i) the creation of a physical and social infrastructure base capable of
fostering development; (ii) the expansion of productive capacity in crucial
sectors; (iii) the strengthening of agencies to implement projects effectively;
and (iv) the improvement of living conditions for the urban and rural poor.
Bank lending will emphasize, wherever possible, the generation of exports and
employment. In addition to the proposed development banking project, the Bank
is preparing a second vocational training project, a low-cost housing project,
a hydropower generation project and a second small scale enterprise credit
project. The education and industry operations would improve employment
prospects for the population while the hydropower project would lead to savings
in fuels and greater volumes of petroleum available for export. In addition to
Bank lending, the IFC is analyzing several possible operations, principally in
agribusiness.
31.       Substantial development financing has also been provided to Ecuador
by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the U.S. Agency for International
Development (USAID) and, to a lesser extent, by other bilateral sources.
IDB has been the single largest lender to Ecuador. Approved loans from IDB to
the country as of December 31, 1981 totalled almost US$818 million equivalent.



-9-
Past IDB lending has been concentrated in the power, agriculture, health/
sanitation and transport fields. Most of IDB's loans to the country have come
from the Fund for Special Operations and normally carry 2 percent interest, a
10 year grace period and repayment terms of up to 40 years. It is likely that
IDB will remain Ecuador's major development lender in the immediate future
with power, agriculture and socially-oriented projects continuing to account
for a large share of its lending program. USAID, which had lent Ecuador
US$103.6 million equivalent through 1972, made no new commitments to the
country between 1973 and 1979. In 1980, however, USAID renewed its operations
in the country, providing about US$36 million in new loans and grants since
then. Its program concentrates on urban and rural development.
32.       As of December 31, 1980, Ecuador's outstanding public external debt
committed, including undisbursed, amounted to about US$3.7 billion. Bank
Group lending constituted about 10 percent of this amount and accounted for
about 5 percent of the public and publicly-guaranteed 1980 external debt
service. IDB lending was equivalent to about 15 percent of Ecuador's debt and
US bilateral assistance accounted for another 3 percent. Through 1985, the
Bank's share of Ecuador's outstanding public foreign debt is expected to
remain below 15 percent and the Bank's share of debt service is projected to
remain between 8 and 9 percent.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
Industrial Sector
General Characteristics
33.       Growth of manufacturing industry, excluding petroleum refining, was
high during the 1970s -- 10 percent p.a. during 1972-80 -- fostered by the
oil boom and a favorable investment climate. Despite this rapid growth,
manufacturing's share of GDP was still only about 16 percent in 1980, partly
because of the exceptional share of petroleum in GDP. Manufacturing is still
dominated by consumer goods, which account for about 60 percent of output
(value-added), compared to 33 percent for intermediate goods and 7 percent for
capital goods. Transformation of domestic materials -- cocoa, coffee and
fisheries products, sugar refining, textiles, cement and wood products --
continues to predominate. The fastest growing industries, however, have
tended to be those importing their intermediate or raw inputs, such as paper,
rubber and machinery firms.
34.       In the two decades before 1970, Ecuador's industrial pattern changed
from a preponderance of small scale enterprises (with six or fewer employees)
to one of factory production. The former category experienced little or no
growth between 1950 and 1970, after which its growth resumed, albeit at a
slower rate than that of factory firms. In 1978, small-scale enterprises
produced only 20 percent of manufacturing output, but provided 70 percent of
the sector's employment. Of factory units, those in the smallest category
(7-20 workers) have grown fastest in output, employment and productivity.



- 10 -
35.       Factory production in most subsectors except textiles is concen-
trated in few firms, which often have strong links with financial institu-
tions or large agricultural and commercial enterprises. They are also
largely centered in the provinces in which Quito and Guayaquil are located.
In 1977 factories located in these two provinces accounted, respectively, for
40 and 39 percent of factory employment and 46 and 35 percent of industrial
value added.
36.       The share of manufacturing employment remained constant at about
12.6 percent of the total work force from 1970 to 1978. During this period
minimum compensation--i.e. the minimum wage plus fringe benefits--rose by an
average of 1.5 percent p.a in real terms. In 1979 the previous Government
increased the real minimum wage by 30 percent. In 1980, as a consequence of
congressional action raising the minimum wage and reducing the official work
week from 44 to 40 hours, the real wage rose by a further 77 percent. As a
result, Ecuador's minimum wages, in relation to its per capita income and
stage of industrial development, are exceptionally high for Latin America.
The Government, in recognition of the country's decreasing comparative advan-
tage in this context, has been engaging in joint discussions with industry and
labor to defuse pressure for future increases in the minimum wage.
Institutional Framework
37.       Generally, the Government views its role in industrial development
as one of maintaining a favorable investment climate and providing necessary
infrastructure, while allowing the private sector to take the lead in actual
investment. Within the Government, the Ministry of Industry, Commerce and
Integration is responsible for setting the sector's policies. It has dependent
agencies which: (i) promote industrial development through feasibility analyses
and sector studies; and (ii) encourage small enterprise development through
training and technical assistance. The National Development Council (CONADE),
the country's planning body, defines the sector's development strategy. The
State-owned National Finance Corporation (CFN) is the country's largest devel-
opment finance company and the major public source of financing for industrial
sector activities including, more recently, for small scale   industry.  The
State-owned National Development Bank (BNF) also provides financing for small
industry. A number of private sector associations represent the country's
industry. These include the Chambers of Agriculture, Commerce and Industry of
the Coast and the Sierra and the small scale industrialists associations
located in every province.
Sectoral Policies and Constraints
38.       Ecuador's present industrial incentives system has tended to favor
import-substitution as well as capital- and import-intensive techniques. The
minimum wage legislation constitutes a disincentive to labor-intensive produc-
tion processes. This bias is reinforced by the exemption of imported capital
goods from duties and the deduction from taxable income of amounts invested in



- 11 -
priority industrial projects. Moreover, the real appreciation of the sucre
vis-a-vis the dollar over the last decade has made capital and raw materials
imports relatively cheap.
39.       Industrial exports, excluding refined petroleum products, processed
cocoa and processed coffee, amounted to 8.9 percent of exports of goods in
1980. Policies designed to promote exports have been moderately successful
and include negotiable tax credits (estimated to constitute a 15-25 percent
subsidy to export value added) and concessional Government-discounted
loans. With these incentives, manufactured exports, excluding the above-
mentioned products, increased from about $15 million in 1970 to about $226
million in 1980, equivalent to a real growth rate of about 12 percent p.a.
Import-substitution industries are protected by differential tariffs, prior
import deposits, licensing requirements and, in certain cases, quantitative
restrictions and even absolute prohibitions, giving effective protection of
200 percent or more to some domestic manufactures. Domestic prices, never-
theless, are not as high as the tariff levels would suggest, as competition
from traditional local wage goods and smuggled products limit the protected
industries' ability to set unduly high prices.
40.       The advantages accruing to the industrial sector from Ecuador's
association with the Andean Group have been less than anticipated. The
country's former trade surplus with other Group members has turned into a
small deficit. Moreover, its exports to other Group members have declined and
now constitute only 5 percent of total exports. The product lines reserved
for Ecuador in the Group's industrial programming include items such as
petrochemicals and vehicles, which are capital intensive and may require a
market larger than the entire Group to sustain an efficient production scale.
There is thus growing awareness in Ecuador of the need to drop or delay major
investments that are not economically justified even though assigned to
Ecuador under Andean Pact accords.
41.       In an attempt to create a more efficient industrial sector, the
Government has drafted a revision to the industrial development law, but
proposed improvements are marginal and basic reforms will still be needed to
stimulate greater use of manpower in the sector and to spur industrial exports.
At the Government's request, therefore, the Bank has agreed to provide finan-
cial and technical support through the loan proposed in this report for a
study of industrial protection/incentives, to be undertaken with the help of
consultants. This study is expected to provide the data and analytical basis
for an important restructuring of Government policy in support of a more
dynamic, competitive and outward oriented industrial sector. In the meantime,
for investments to be financed under the proposed loan, DFCs will reinforce
their project economic analyses (by using opportunity costs in rate-of-return
calculations) to take into account import restrictions and tariffs.
42.       Industrial development is also constrained by several other factors.
These include: inadequate infrastructure (electricity, transport, telecom-
munications); a small domestic market; scarce medium- and long-term credit,
especially for small firms; and a shortage of skilled workers. The Government
is focussing on overcoming infrastructure constraints through road, electri-
fication and port projects and on increasing skilled manpower through voca-
tional training programs. The Bank has participated in those efforts. A



- 12 -
greater emphasis on production for export, which is one objective of Ecuador's
Five-Year Plan, could help overcome the limited local market. The proposed
project, together with the domestic resources expected to be mobilized in
conjunction with it, would respond, in part, to the need for more medium- and
long-term credit. Finally, the proposed project would also encourage exports
by earmarking a portion of loan funds for export-related investments.
Industrial Outlook
43.       Government strategy calls for manufacturing to become a leading
growth sector as oil exports decline. Specifically, the Government's Develop-
ment Plan sets out as objectives for the manufacturing sector: (i) greater
use of the country's natural resources; (ii) deconcentration of industry away
from Quito and Guayaquil; (iii) better linkages with other sectors of the
economy; (iv) increased employment generation and exports; and (v) improved
production of basic consumer goods. Actions taken to date in support of these
objectives include the expansion of funds available for Government discounted
loans to exporters, the easing of requirements by which   exporters of non-
traditional goods qualify for negotiable tax credits (raising them in most
cases to 25 percent of FOB value of the exported goods), the opening of more
branch offices for public credit and service agencies in provinces outside of
the Quito-Guayaquil area and the greatly increased promotion of small-scale
enterprise industries which tend to be more employment-intensive and decentral-
ized. Furthermore, fiscal incentives are denied to off-shore assembly type
industries which make no use of local goods.
44.       Growth of manufacturing during the next two years is expected
slightly to outpace the projected growth rate (four percent p.a.) of the
economy as a whole. At this rate of annual expansion, the industrial sector
would generate a need for investment of nearly US$850 million a year in
1982-83. The proposed loan would finance directly about 3.5 percent of
this total, but would be associated with other financing (commercial banks,
domestic resources) estimated at an additional 10.5 percent.
The Financial Sector
Institutional Framework
45.       The Ecuadorian financial system comprises: regulatory agencies
(including the Monetary Board, Central Bank, and Superintendency of Banks);
Government-owned banks for agriculture/industry and for housing and 29 private
commercial banks; the National Finance Corporation (CFN) and 12 private devel-
opment finance companies (DFCs); 11 mutual savings associations; 24 insurance
companies of which 8 are foreign affiliates; 21 foreign exchange houses; 2 ex-
changes; 4 warehousing and 4 leasing companies; the Institute of Educational
Loans; credit unions; and a number of small, unregulated finance companies.
Financial institutions are headquartered mainly in Quito and Guayaquil, but
their branch networks and the minor entitities cover most population centers.
46.       Monetary and financial policies are set by the Monetary Board
whose members include a Chairman appointed by Ecuador's president, and re-
presentatives of key ministries (e.g. Finance, Agriculture, Industry),
the banks and private sector interests. The autonomous Superintendency of



- 13 -
Banks has become an increasingly effective agency of inspection and control of
financial institutions, with a well conceived inspection manual and training
programs. The Superintendency would help to fulfill the requirements for
supervision under the proposed project, and funds would be included under the
proposed loan for training of its staff and for studies to reinforce its
capability (see para. 71).
47.       Of public sector lending institutions, the Government's National
Development Bank (BNF) is the largest, accounting for nearly 7 percent of
credit extended during 1980. It lends mainly for agriculture and livestock
activities and, in the industrial sector, for small-scale enterprise. The
Housing Bank, also Government-owned, extended less than one percent of total
credit in 1980. The State-owned CFN is the largest DFC, but has been under-
going deliberate consolidation after a prior period of rapid growth and
granted only 3 percent of total credit in 1980. CFN operations focus on the
industrial sector and export financing. (The Ecuadorian Development Bank,
established in 1979, is excluded from this analysis because it finances only
Government institutions from oil export revenues.)
48.       The private banks accounted for about 68 percent of credit extended
in 1980, with diversified sectoral applications but emphasizing commerce.
Their aggregate portfolios have expanded by 31 percent per year since 1975,
fueled by the growth of demand deposits and by liberal access to Central Bank
discount lines. The DFCs have grown still more rapidly; portfolios of the
private companies through 1980 averaged 49 percent annual growth, sustained by
Central Bank and foreign funding. The private DFCs' credit volume in 1980 was
20 percent of the financial system's total. Most of this was for short-term
working capital loans for industry, although some DFCs are increasingly
engaged in agriculture. Mutual savings associations outpaced other institu-
tions in volume of operations through 1975 but slowed at the end of the decade,
and in 1980, their credit volume was only one percent of the system's total.
Savings and Financial Intermediation
49.       During 1975-80, total financial savings grew at an average real
rate of 12 percent p.a. A major factor was the growth of Government deposits,
largely because of oil revenues. During this same period, real capital of
DFCs increased annually by an average 38 percent. Growth of debt securities
and time and savings deposits was slower, largely because of unattractive
yields. Despite this recent performance, the ratio of financial savings
(i.e., those channeled through the financial system) to GDP remains low
relative to other Latin American countries, although real savings (i.e.
including directly reinvested earnings) as a proportion of GDP (22.8 percent
annually between 1975 and 1980) is near the average for middle income and
industrialized countries. Only about 35 percent of real savings are interme-
diated through financial institutions.
50.       The lack of an organized capital market for debt securities is a
significant handicap to greater mobilization of resources. Trading of private
securities and mortgage bonds on the securities exchanges located in Quito and
Guayaquil is very limited in scale -- about US$73 million in 1980 -- compared
to Government and Central Bank securities, for which the volume was US$311
million in transactions during the same year.



- 14 -
51.       Overall, 35 percent of credit is used to finance commercial activi-
ties, 31 percent is directed to industry and 15 percent is invested in agri-
culture, with the remainder for all other purposes. About 45 percent of
Ecuador's financial savings are under the direct control of the Central Bank;
some of these are Government deposits but most are required reserves of
financial institutions. The Central Bank allocates these funds through
its financial funds mechanism (basically a low interest rate discount window)
to promote specified purposes. The three sectors benefiting most from this
mechanism are commerce and industry, which receive about one-third each, and
agriculture which receives about one-seventh of these funds.
52.       Extensions of credit by the organized financial system grew
slightly faster than financial savings during 1975-80. While maturities of
credit lengthened slightly, they remain short: 11 months overall and only 9
months for private DFC operations. Reasons for the predominance of short-term
lending include the relatively low spreads permitted by the Monetary Board for
use of long-term resources (2 to 4 points), the availability of Central Bank
funds for discounting short-term operations, the accustomed reliance on
internal financing or short-term rollovers for corporate investment, the
unattractive yield of long-term bonds and bond illiquidity in face of the lack
of an organized capital market.
53.       Banks and DFCs have also financed considerable investment with
external sources because they are authorized to charge a 4 percent commission
for guaranteeing these onlent foreign funds. The equivalent of 20 percent of
all domestic credits in 1980 was derived from this type of lending. Such
operations amounted to 15 percent of credit balances for CFN and 80 percent
for private DFCs. In these transactions, the DFC arranges for the foreign
banks financing to the final borrower, guaranteeing the loan for a fee. The
final borrower thus pays a higher effective interest rate and assumes the ex-
change risk, but obtains credit that would be unavailable from domestic sources.
Operations
54.       The Monetary Board establishes, and the Central Bank enforces,
capital reserve requirements, portfolio ceilings for banks and financieras,
open market operations, advances or rediscounts and foreign exchange regula-
tions. The Board also fixes limits on interest and commissions. As mentioned,
the Central Bank directly controls a substantial share of Ecuadorian financial
savings and allocates them among the various credit institutions and purposes.
55.       The interest rate ceilings fixed by the Monetary Board vary for
different maturities, types and purposes of credit and for different institu-
tions. In recent years, interest rate ceilings for lending have been between
9 and 12 percent, lower than market equilibrium but on average roughly in line
with inflation. Savings interest rates were fixed at from 6 to 10 percent,
depending on the type of account. These rate ceilings discouraged savers as
well as lenders from intermediation through formal institutions. In March
1981, interest rates for lending were adjusted upward by 2-3 points, (to 12 -
15 percent) but allowable commissions on loans were narrowed, although that
for guarantees was maintained. The effective term lending rates (i.e. 16-
18.5 percent, including commissions of I - 3.5 percent) are marginally above
the expected 15 percent inflation. Savings interest rates were also increased
to between 8 and 13 percent.



- 15 -
56.       Under the March 1981 regulations, DFCs are permitted to pay 15 per-
cent interest on bonds they issue to attract savings, but bond purchasers
must pay tax on interest earned. The Government has recently issued its own
bonds at 15 percent interest, exempting purchasers from taxes on that interest.
DFCs and other institutional borrowers thus must discount their bonds in order
to compete. The 4 percent commissions allowed for guarantees of foreign
currency credits also encourage DFCs to promote such operations to the full
extent possible, rather than mobilizing and relending domestic resources
through bond issues. The full impact of the March 1981 adjustments on DFCs'
ability to mobilize resources is not yet evident. A fundamental review of the
DFCs' experience in this regard, would, therefore, be conducted by the Govern-
ment in consultation with the Bank in connection with the proposed loan when
one half of the loan is committed (or by December 31, 1982, if that date comes
first). At that time, the adequacy of the current interest rates and commis-
sions would be examined and, if necessary, revised in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank (Section 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Development Finance Companies
57.       CFN is Ecuador's oldest and largest DFC.  It is wholly Government-
owned but mainly finances private industry. It has built up a relatively
competent management team and staff. CFN has in the last two years deliberately
curbed its earlier rapid expansion to consolidate its loan portfolio. Since 1978
CFN has also moved into more short-term operations, although still much less so
than the private DFCs. Until two years ago, CFN financed fixed-interest sucre
loans through floating interest foreign borrowings, but suffered serious losses
as international interest rates rose. More recently, CFN has ceased this
practice. Instead, it has turned to more profitable guarantee and letter-of-
credit business. CFN's return on equity fell steadily from 1975 through
1979, when it lost US$2.6 million equivalent. Losses in 1980 were initially
forecast at US$6 million, but CFN managed to earn a small profit instead. To
continue to regain a healthy financial position, CFN has begun to increase
gross margins by charging full market rates for its financial services. It is
also examining ways to emphasize the more profitable lines of activity and
control even more closely administrative costs.
58.       In an effort to strengthen its portfolio, CFN has reduced its
exposure to any single firm to 20 percent of equity, as it agreed to do under
the Fourth Development Banking Project (Loan 1731-EC of December 1979). Never-
theless, its earlier equity investments included two problem cases: AZTRA, a
sugar refinery and Selva Alegre, a cement plant. CFN was used by earlier
Governments to take over these troubled but economically important firms. As
a result, it has suffered a chronic drain on its profits. CFN has recently
made provisions for such losses from its earnings equal to almost 10 percent
of its holdings. The current Government, for its part, recognized the causes
for these two firms' financial problems (principally controlled prices) and is
introducing basic solutions that would restore their profitability and permit
divestment to private investors. As part of the Government's strategy to
reduce subsidies, prices of cement and sugar were increased in 1981, and both
AZTRA and Selva Alegre are expected to become modestly profitable. Furthermore,
the Government has agreed to contribute to CFN, on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Bank, no less than US$20 million equivalent by June 30, 1983 to
allow it to offset with higher return investments its equity investment tied



- 16 -
up in these two firms (Section 4.10 of the draft Loan Agreement). Also, the
Government has agreed to limit CFN-s maximum exposure to any single firm to
10 percent of equity, or if a larger amount of financing is required, to set
up a mechanism, satisfactory to the Bank, which would protect CFN's equity from
risk related to such financing (Section 4.07 of draft Loan Agreement).
59.       Private DFCs have been the fastest growing segment of the financial
sector and in 1980 provided over 35 percent of credits to manufacturing and
smaller but increasing amounts to agriculture. The oldest and largest private
company, COFIEC, has participated in the Bank's four previous DFC loans,
and, like CFN, has developed a competent management staff and good project
appraisal capability. COFIEC has been joined in recent years by 11 others, a
few of them with a strong regional base outside the Quito and Guayaquil area.
These private DFCs range in size from COFIEC (with 34 percent share of private
DFC assets and contingent operations) to less than 2 percent for the newest
DFC established. Their operational patterns also vary considerably with
respect to proportions of term lending and of guarantees, rate of expansions,
profitability, and sectoral and regional focus.
60.       A major objective of the Bank-s last development banking operation
was the participation and strengthening of the newer DFCs as a means to bring
more competition to the industrial finance system in Ecuador as well as to
augment the total volume of industrial lending. These more recently estab-
lished DFCs have simple managerial structures generally headed by first-rate
executives with banking experience. Because of the greater availability of
short- and medium-term resources, they have had only limited experience with
long-term lending. The DFCs that participated in the Bank's last two DFC
Loans were, however, able to present some well-prepared subproject evaluations.
All new DFCs operate under policy statements acceptable to the Bank or would
adopt such statements as a condition of their participation in the proposed
loan (see para. 68). Ecuadorian laws require that DFCs limit their debt-to-
equity ratio to 10:1 and their exposure to a single firm to 25 percent of
equity. Subsidiary Loan Agreements with the Central Bank, together with their
policy statements, would further commit them to maintaining sound financial
practices including:
(a) making provisions for bad debts and investments of one percent
of total portfolio;
(b) limiting the maximum aggregate exposure of each DFC to its major
stockholders to 200 percent of the value of each DFC's equity,
a level which is prudent; and
(c) holding at least 20 percent of their portfolios in term lending
(50 percent for CFN and COFIEC).
These and other aspects of their operations are covered in Schedule 5 of the
draft Loan Agreement and would be supervised by the Superintendency of Banks.
Past Bank Lending in the Sector
61.       Since 1971 the Bank has made four loans to Ecuador for development
banking projects and one for small enterprise credit, totalling US$114 million.
In addition, IFC has made a small (US$500,000) investment in COFIEC. In the



17 -
first two loans (721-EC of February 1971 and 930-EC of August 1973), all
lending was through CFN and COFIEC but three additional private DFCs partici-
pated in the Third Loan (1359-EC of February 1977) via a special arrangement
with CFN. In the Fourth DFC Loan (1731-EC of December 1979) six newer
DFCs were found eligible to participate. Their participation contributed to
reducing the investment cost per job, broadening the clientele and to increas-
ing attention to smaller firms, regions outside Quito and Guayaquil and export
projects.
62.       A Project Performance Audit Report prepared in connection with
the first two projects (Report No. 2530 of June 1979) concludes that the
projects were successful in increasing long term financing to industry and
in helping build CFN and COFIEC into strong, mature institutions with improved
subproject appraisal and supervision capacity. It recommended, however,
that more be done to develop Ecuador's capital market as a means of aiding
domestic resource mobilization, rather than concentrating only on interest
rate issues. Thus, in the context of the Fourth Loan, the Government
agreed to establish a Capital Markets Study Unit within the Central Bank (see
para 64).
63.       The Fourth loan was fully committed only four months after the Loan's
effectiveness, in part because of vigorous investment demand. It is now over
half-disbursed. The average size of subloan, of total project costs, and of
investment costs per job were all substantially lower under the Fourth Loan
than under the Third loan. The cost per job under the Fourth Loan (US$41,000)
was also lower than that of the average Ecuadorian industry registered under
the country's industrial promotion law (US$61,000). Seven percent of subproject
investment costs under the project went toward export-oriented subprojects.
The economic rate of return on sub-projects estimated ex ante, averaged over
20 percent; only one was below 15 percent.
64.       Two of the objectives of the Fourth DFC Loan have not yet been fully
met. First, the Central Bank was to have conducted a series of studies on
resource mobilization to serve as a basis for possible financial reforms. The unit
that is responsible for these studies was caught up in a general reorganization
of the Central Bank, however, and is not yet properly staffed. Consequently
studies agreed with the Bank have so far not been carried out, although the
unit did prepare some informal proposals leading up to the March 1981 interest
rate changes. Secondly, the Fourth Loan intended to encourage DFCs to
mobilize domestic resources through bond issues as well as equity increases.
Bond issues, however, were almost insignificant except for one type which the
Central Bank discounted. Nevertheless, some US$50 million in domestic resources
were mobilized by the DFC-s in conjunction with the Fourth Loan, primarily
through equity increases. These increases permitted DFCs access to loan funds,
even though they did little to create a strengthened market for financial
instruments. To help address these problems, under the proposed loan, a
review of interest rates and other conditions bearing on the DFC's ability
to mobilize resources would be conducted when one half of the loan is com-
mitted (para. 56). Moreover, the loan includes a mechanism linking access
to loan funds to each DFC's domestic resource mobilization effort (para. 69).



- 18 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
65.       The project was identified by a Bank mission in December 1980 and
was prepared by CFN, COFIEC and other DFCs together with Bank staff. The
technical assistance portion of the proposed project was prepared by the
Superintendency of Banks and the Finance and Industry Ministries. The project
was appraised in March 1981 and the appraisal mission's report (No. 3571-EC
dated December 23, 1981) entitled "Ecuador - Staff Appraisal Report - Fifth
Development Banking Project" is being distributed separately. Annex III
contains a supplementary project data sheet. Negotiations of the loan were
completed on December 15. Mr. Miguel Salazar, Director of Public Credit in
the Ministry of Finance, led the Ecuadorian team.
Objectives
66.       Building on the experience of previous operations, the proposed loan
would focus on the following objectives:
(a) channeling additional term resources to industrial development;
(b) promoting industrial exports;
(c) encouraging, through increased incentives, the sale of longer-term
debt instruments by the DFCs and the creation of an effective
secondary market for these instruments;
(d) maintaining progress toward an interest rate regime that is
flexible and responsive to market forces;
(e) encouraging greater competition and coverage by the DFCs and
strengthening their appraisal and institutional capacity, as well
as the supervisory and information systems of regulatory agencies;
and
(f) promoting a dialogue and eventual action on industrial policy
reforms through a study of industrial incentives.
Project Description
67.       The project's main component would be a US$59 million line of credit
to participating DFCs to finance about 60 subprojects. In addition, the
following four technical assistance components would be financed under the
project: (i) advisory services, through a resident expert hired by the
Ministry of Finance, would be provided to DFCs on requirements and methodo-
logies for subproject appraisal; (ii) the supervisory and data collecting
capabilities of the Superintendency of Banks would be reinforced through
training and consultants services for studies; (iii) CFN's accounting and
budgeting system would be strengthened through assistance in designing and
implementing a computer-based system; and (iv) the in-depth study mentioned in
para. 41 of the industrial incentives and protection existing in Ecuador would
be undertaken by the Government through field surveys and consultants studies.



- 19 -
Loan Features
68.       CFN and COFIEC (hereinafter referred to as Group I) and the six
other financieras that were eligible to participate in the Fourth Loan (referred
to as Group II) would participate in the proposed Loan under essentially the
same conditions that prevailed in the previous operation. In addition to
already operating according to policy statements satisfactory to the Bank,
they would maintain a minimum portion of their portfolio in medium- and long-
term operations (loans, guarantees, and investments in stock). Specifically,
50 percent of Group I's portfolio should be medium- or long-term while, after
December 31, 1981, 20 percent of Group II DFC's portfolios would have to be in
term lending. Moreover, by December 31, 1982, Group II DFCs would have to
have 30 percent of their portfolios in term lending (Schedule 5(L) of the draft
Loan Agreement). To participate, other DFCs not eligible under earlier Bank
DFC Loans (Group III) would have to adopt satisfactory policy and procedures
statements (Section 2.02(e) (v) of the draft Loan Agreement) and agree to meet
the 20 percent medium- and long-term lending target by December 31, 1982 and the
30 percent term lending target by December 31, 1983 (Schedule 5(L) of the draft
Loan Agreement). No DFC that had fallen short of these targets could have
further access to Bank funds. To prevent the experienced Group I DFCs from
absorbing a disproportionate amount of the proposed loan, US$15.0 million
would be reserved until one year after the effectiveness date of the loan for
Group II and III DFCs (Section 2.02(b)(ii) of the draft Loan Agreement).
69.       To encourage vigorous efforts in mobilization of domestic resources
by the DFCs, they would be eligible to use loan funds in proportion to their
ability to mobilize term resources through certificates (6 to 18-month financial
instruments), bonds or equity increases (Schedule 2 of the draft Loan Agreement).
It is estimated that approximately US$118 million could be mobilized in this
manner, about US$39 million of which would be term resources usable for sub-
project financing. This latter amount, together with the subproject sponsors'
contributions, loan proceeds, commercial bank loans and other associated
external sources (suppliers' credits) should result in a total availability of
about US$240 million for industrial investments during 1982-83.
70.       An economic and financial rate of return would be calculated on all
subprojects using US$300,000 or more in Bank funds or more than US$1 million
equivalent in total term resources regardless of their origin (Schedule 5d(B)(i)
and (ii) of draft Loan Agreement). These rate of return analyses would follow
methodologies satisfactory to the Bank, including adjustments to take into
account any policy-induced distortions (e.g., tariffs) and would also explain
the consideration given to labor-intensive technological alternatives. The
older DFCs, which have proven subproject appraisal abilities (CFN, COFIEC),
would have a free limit of US$2,000,000; newer DFCs (Groups II and III) would
have a US$350,000 free limit. In the case of Group III DFCs, which have never
participated in Bank loans before, the Bank would have to approve two appraisals
before the free limit would apply (Section 2.02(f) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Project analysis by the newer DFCs needs further strengthening. To aid the
DFCs in this respect, an important institution-building aspect of the proposed
loan would be the financing of an internationally recruited resident advisor--
whose qualifications, terms and conditions of employment and terms of reference
would be acceptable to the Bank--to aid DFCs in project appraisal (Sections



- 20 -
3.01(a) and 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). The Ministry of Finance would
employ this advisor. Twenty-four person-months of these services are envisaged
at US$8,300 per month, or a total of about US$200,000.
71.       DFCs are overseen by the Superintendency of Banks which ensures
their financial soundness and compliance with the numerous aspects of the
Banking Law. Under the proposed project, the Superintendency would intensify
this supervision of the DFCs and develop a reporting system in this regard for
both country officials and the Bank. Technical assistance funds (US$350,000)
from the proposed Loan would be used for training programs to upgrade the
capabilities of the Superintendency's inspection staff and for studies, to be
carried out by the Superintendency with consultants assistance, designed to
improve auditing, reporting and financial information systems.  Other studies
also to be financed from these technical assistance funds would help DFCs,
particularly CFN, develop mechanisms to reduce foreign exchange risk.  CFN
would also contract consultants to help it design and implement a computer-
based financial control system. Loan funds of US$100,000 are allocated for
this purpose. Overall, an estimated 45 person-months of foreign consultants
services (at an average US$10,000 per month) would be provided for these
purposes. The consultants' qualifications, terms and conditions of employment
would be satisfactory and their hiring would be in accordance with Bank
guidelines on use of consultants (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
72.       To address the specific sectoral shortcomings discussed in Part III,
the proposed loan would include three special features. First, to increase
the proportion of onlending directed to generally labor-intensive export-oriented
investments, US$20 million of loan funds would be earmarked for export-oriented
operations (Section 2.02(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). Secondly, should
the recently revised interest rate regime provide insufficient incentive for
domestic resource mobilization, a mid-project review (described in para 56)
would identify needed further revisions, which would have to be implemented
before the final half of loan funds could be committed. Thirdly, an intensive
dialogue on industrial policies would be undertaken by the Bank and the
Government in the context of the policy study on industrial protection and
subsidy measures (see para. 41) to be partly financed under the proposed
loan (US$150,000 to cover foreign costs) and to be carried out by the Ministry
of Industry, Commerce and Integration with the participation of CONADE. Agree-
ment has been reached on draft terms of reference for this study. By no
later than December 31, 1982, the Government would furnish to the Bank for
comment the recommendations of the study; by no later than March 31, 1983,
the Government would furnish to the Bank a satisfactory program of action
for implementing the study's recommendations including proposed changes in
industrial incentive measures. Finally, the Government would carry out this
program of action according to a satisfactory timetable (Section 3.06 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
Relending Terms
73.       The proposed loan of US$60.0 million to the Republic of Ecuador
would be channelled through the Central Bank, the Government's fiscal agent,
to eligible DFCs (US$59.0 million equivalent) through subsidiary loan agreements
and to various Government agencies to finance technical assistance (US$1
million). The signature of a satisfactory fiscal agency contract between the



- 21 -
Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank would be a special condition of loan
effectiveness (Sections 4.01 and 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). Signature
of satisfactory subsidiary loan agreements would be conditions of disbursement
for each participating DFC (Section 2.02(e)(iv) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Funds would be made available by DFCs to industrial and related enterprises
who are final beneficiaries for financing the direct foreign exchange costs of
investments in physical assets and associated permanent working capital
through either loans or equity investments. The loan's proceeds for DFC
investments would be repayable to the Bank within 15 years on an amortization
schedule corresponding to the composite of subloans or, for investments, to a
schedule agreed ad hoc (Section 2.09 of the draft Loan Agreement). The
portion of the loan disbursed for technical assistance would be repaid on
a fixed amortization schedule of 15 years, with three years of grace. Because
funds under the Fourth DFC loan have been fully committed for nearly a year,
up to US$6.0 million of the loan recommended in this report could be used to
finance retroactively expenditures on agreed subprojects occuring after
August 31, 1981 (Section 2.02(e)(ii) of the draft Loan Agreement).
74.       The proposed loan would bear 11.6 percent interest.  The interest
rate charged participating DFCs by the Central Bank would be 15 percent. This
would include a fee of 2.9 percent per annum for bearing the exchange risk,
as well as a 0.5 percent fee for administration of the loan (Schedule 5(b) of
the draft Loan Agreement).
75.       Charges by DFCs to subborrowers (including interest and allowable
commissions) would be fixed initially at 18.5 percent p.a. in sucres for
subloans of greater than 7 years maturity or 17.5 percent p.a. if the maturity
is less. Inflation between 1978 and 1980 averaged 11 percent, is estimated to
have been 15 percent in 1981 and is expected to remain around 15 percent for
the 1982-83 period. The onlending rates would thus be positive in real terms,
and would permit DFCs margins of 2.5 percent or 3.5 percent. The adequacy of
these margins to sustain the DFCs' medium- and long-term lending activity
given the larger margins available on guarantee and letter of credit opera-
tions and the erosion of equity through inflation would be tested during the
first half of the loan commitment period. The success of the loan's formula
in mobilizing resources would also be monitored during this time. As mentioned
earlier, further commitment of the proposed loan would only be authorized if
the interest rate regime and other financial policies were found satisfactory
or if they were revised in a manner acceptable to the Bank if found inade-
quate (para. 56).
76.       The DFCs would set subloan terms according to the financial require-
ments of the individual subprojects, provided that the final maturity of no
subloan could fall due later than 15 years from the date of the Loan Agreement.
DFCs could also use Bank funds for investments in share capital of subprojects
and would repay these funds within 15 years of loan signing according to an
agreed schedule. To prevent undue concentration of Bank financing, no firm or
group of related firms would be able to borrow or receive investments of more
than US$3.0 million in proposed loan funds or have outstanding more than
US$4.0 million from the proposed and previous Bank loans (Section 2.02(e)(vi)
of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 22 -
Procurement and Disbursement
77.       Procurement and disbursement procedures would follow standard Bank
practice for DFC lending. For each subproject, the ultimate beneficiary
would procure goods in accordance with sound business norms (i.e., at
reasonable prices taking into account delivery time, maintenance facilities
and similar factors); the DFCs would spell out the specific procurement
procedures in each subproject evaluation. Disbursements of onlent resources
would be made only for direct foreign exchange costs of subprojects and would
be fully documented. Disbursements for technical assistance would be for
foreign costs of employing full and part-time consultants. Associated costs
of Ecuadorian consultants would be funded by the Government. The proposed
loan's closing date would be December 31, 1986, while the terminal date for
subproject submission to the Bank would be December 31, 1984.
Co-financing
78.       The Bank and several commercial banks have held discussions on
arranging co-financing for the proposed loan. As a result, it is likely that a
commercial bank, alone or in leadership of a consortium, would provide US$40.0
- US$50.0 million in co-financing on terms which are still to be negotiated.
To the extent that this co-financing falls short of expectations, it is
estimated that most of the shortfall would be covered by the sub-borrowers
and/or by other foreign sources, albeit on less favorable terms. Because DFCs
are prohibited from lending in foreign exchange, commercial banks normally
lend directly to the subproject's sponsor with the DFC-s unconditional guarantee
for which the subborrower pays the DFC a fee of up to 4 percent p.a. Any
commercial bank in a co-financing scheme under the proposed project would
negotiate with each DFC the amount of co-financing funds (if any) each could
guarantee. The Bank and commercial banks would exchange information on the
subprojects and on the participating DFCs. Co-financing funds would be
disbursed only for subprojects approved by the commercial banks and, unless
the commercial banks otherwise agreed, only for subprojects partially financed
by the Bank in a proportion proposed by the DFC involved. No cross default
clause is contemplated as the Borrower of the proposed loan is the Republic of
Ecuador while the commercial bank subloans would be directly to subborrowers.
The Government would not absorb the credit, foreign exchange or interest rate
variability risks on the commercial bank subloan. The latter risks would be
assumed by the subborrowers. In addition to commercial bank co-financing,
about US$10-20 million in credit lines from export credit institutions are
anticipated.
Project Benefits and Risks
79.       A principal benefit of the proposed project is that it would support
participation by a much more numerous and varied group of private DFCs than
was achieved under the earlier Bank-financed industrial credit operations.
This shift should enhance competition and a wider distribution of credit to
sub-borrowers outside Ecuador's two largest cities. Based on past experience,
firms served by the newer, smaller DFCs also tend to follow more labor-intensive
practices.
80.       The economic benefits of the proposed loan should be similar to the
four previous Bank loans. Approximately 60 subprojects would be financed with
an average economic rate of return of over 20 percent. Around 8,000 new jobs
(at an average cost per job of US$30,000) would be directly created by total
investments in subprojects of some US$240 million. Export projects, which
typically are more labor-intensive, would be especially encouraged.



- 23 -
81.       An additional benefit of this project is that it would provide an
opportunity to the Government and the Bank for conducting an increasingly
informed dialogue on industrial and financial policies. The industrial
incentives study to be undertaken by the Government with financing from the loan
would provide supporting data for the magnitude and timing of appropriate policy
reforms to be agreed between the Government and the Bank related to subsidies,
import quotas, taxes and other incentives to industry. The reforms are expected
to lead to more effective industrial development. The requirements that DFCs
mobilize set amounts of resources in order to gain access to Bank funds and
that review of this experience occur midway in project execution would serve
to test the adequacy of financial policies to facilitate resource mobilization.
82.       The main potential risk is that market conditions and investor
psychology may constrain participating DFCs from mobilizing long-term
funds at fixed rates on the scale required to match Bank funds. Also, margins
offered for mobilization may not be adequate to induce the DFCs to make a
sufficient effort to test the market limits. To help deal with this risk, the
loan would provide for consultation by the Bank with the Government and DFCs
to devise remedial measures in the context of the mid-project review.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
83.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Republic of
Ecuador, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and CFN and the Report
of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the Articles
of Agreement are being distributed separately.
84.       The draft legal agreements conform to the normal pattern for develop-
ment banking projects. The main features of the Loan and Project Agreements are
referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III. A special
condition of loan effectiveness would be that a fiscal agency contract, satis-
factory to the Bank between the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank be
signed   A condition of disbursement for each participating  DFC would be the
signature of a satisfactory subsidiary loan agreement between the DFC and the
Central Bank
85.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
86.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
February 3, 1982
Washington, D.C.



- 24-                                                         ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
ECUADOR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ECUADOR                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEPjGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                       - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            283.6                                 MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      51.7              1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     ..       390.0   1050.0 *                  1616.2                   2609.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     208.3       316.9      654.1                  1324.1                    2368.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 4413.0       6015.0   8081.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 34.4        39.5       44.0                    64.2                      53.2
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       14.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         28.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2085
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       15.6        21.2       28.5                    34.3                      80.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     93.5        123.1     151.0                    94.5                     133.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         44.4        45.4       44.5                    40.7                      30.1
15-64 YRS.                         52.0        50.8       51.9                    55.3                      61.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.6         3.8        3.6                     4.0                       8.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.8         3.1/c      3.3                     2.4                       1.5
URBAN                              4.8         4.S        4.5                     3.7                       3.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    46.5         43.0       40.3                    31.4                      22.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     13.7         10.6       9.6                     8.4                       9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.4          3.2       3.0                     2.3                       1.6
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..         9.0      32.3
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..        6.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         104.0       101.0    100.0                     108.3                     119.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   84.0        91.0       92.0                   107.6                     125.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          50.0        52.0       50.0                    65.8                      92.5
OP WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       26.0        27.0       25.0                    34.0                      39.7
CHILD (ACES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     22.8         15.7      10.3                     7.6                       3.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    51.0        56.2       61.0                    64.1                      68.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          140.0        118.0      66.0                    70.9                      25.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        34.0       42.0                    65.7
URBAN                               ..        76.0       84.0                    79.7
RURAL                               ..         7.0       13.0                    43.9
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        22.4       32.3                    59.9
URBAN                               ..          ..       60.0                    75.7
RURAL                               ..          ..       13.0                    30.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          2664.9      2891.8    1621.5                   1728.2                     973.3
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     2280.0       1620.9        ..                  1288.2                     896.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            531.4       428.9     507.0                    471.2                    262.3
URBAN                               ..       305.3         ..                   558.0                    191.8
RURAL                               ..      4570.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..       19.3         ..                      ..                      18.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.1/e       5.2        5.3
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.5/e        ..
URBAN                              2.ITe         ..        ..
RURAL                              2.8T          ..       ...
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             32.0/e         ..      41.2
URBAN                             78.5je        ..      84.3
RURAL                              6.O/e        ..       11.6



- 25 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                                ,       Page  2  of  5
ECUADOR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ECUADOR                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERA9ES
- MDST ReCENT ESTIMAFT -
MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   IATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN          EUROPE
EDUCATION
MUMED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 83.0       100.0     108.0                    101.7                    105.9
MALE                 87.0       103.0     110.0                    103.0                    109.6
FEMALE               79.0        97.0     106.0                    101.5                    102.2
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 12.0        26.0      46.0                     35.3                     66.3
MALE                 13.0        28.0      48.0                     34.9                     73.2
FEMALE               10.0        24.0      43.0                     35.6                     59.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY) 29.0         11.0       11.O/d                  30.1                     28.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           39.0        38.0      36.0                     29.6                     26.8
SECONDARY                         11.0        14.0      16.0                     15.7                     23.6
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       67.5/e      68.0       76.6                    80.0                     75.4
CONSUMPTION
PAsSENGNER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         2.0         4.5       7.4                     42.6                     83.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        38.5       282.6         ..                   215.0                    181.6
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.5        24.9      45.0                     89.0                    131.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 54.0        41.6      46.3                     62.8                    123.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..         4.0       5.6                      3.2                      5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     1442.7      1936.2   2593.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  16.3        19.1      20.8                     22.6                     32.9
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             57.4        50.9      51.6                     35.0                     34.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                19.4        22.2      17.6                     23.2                     28.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               32.7        32.2      32.1                     31.8                     42.3
MALE                                55.0        52.1      50.4                     49.0                     56.5
FEMALE                              10.6        12.3      13.5                     14.6                     28.5
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.5         1.5       1.5                      1.4                      0.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..     269.0
RURAL                               ..          ..     183.0                    187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..    307.0                     513.9
RURAL                               ..          ..      77.0                    362.2                    385.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOUJTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      40.0
RURAL                               ..          ..      65.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c  Intercensal growth rate is 3.2% (1962-74);  /d 1975;  /e 1962.
* 1980 GNP per capita is US$1220 at 1978-80 prices and exchange rate.
May, 1981



- 26-                                                                                         ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
fltPlffITIOMtf Of SDCIAL -INDICATORS
Notes:  Although the dot Itear  dra   f. ro   ooo    etrely judged th  east authorIttive sad reltable, It should cite he u-od chat they ey not he itne-
eaciocclluompsrahl  heote  of thlo  of steedeedleed delnitiaee med .....pte tee d ity diffe....t ...uetvies ic  olttn              h  dccc.  The date ate, tone-
thal1e  ueflt   ecleodr  ofr         b   -scgnitade, leiacte treads, cad oh...teoere   certeie ajar dtffere...oe  keen e  oaetrie
The  .frefe.enI groupe ere Cl) the eas  c-tety group of cte. euhiect toantry cad (2) a  -tarry g-op  itch e-.Ame t highe, ovrae               -etm   thee the cou...try Ma-P
at the eujeot cou.atry (en...pt tar "Capital turplut Oil tzatee   roup cha-  'Middle tacoma Heach Afte. toed Middle tact" It oh...eb it..ue.o  etr...gr
eo-alaseffluitise).  In the refsoesu  group deco the  vre  are populetien wsihted eritheetic  -ec  for teak tediotcr and eh-r  only viha
maoity at the    . touirke  in a group h.. deco faor ctac indcae        ..g . the    .T9 nasog   of . oocciaa a-n  the tcdi.tctor  depeede on the  -rsileility of data
and Ia net acif or, cuftio  east he  -eeiojed In relating avrgsof ar .fdiostr to enacthte.  The. -evrage. ar  only o..etul Ir coepartig  the eslue of
on  irdi..ctat  Ic tic.  _soc  the oouotry and ref ..rance . ropt.
LARD AREA (thous.and eq.k.)                                                                      Ppulstion par oepitliBte     totl   rcher, andura  -  ,poplation  (catal,
T.tel - Tota  surface area cesprieteg lrd area and icleod  -etra.                                aret    7ndrua) dtvtded hy chI.   res..ocitonaia   of heepinal had.
Acri.ultur.1 - Eaztlen  of sgioultara1 area oted temporcoily o   ameol                            svilbile Iti pbit  and private  eee   hc reilta   iopitol ead ye-
for crops,pttr,         ekec end kociteh.  gardee ort  Ie falCon  1979 dais.                   hbhilitutioocoer . Hopitals are           bollehe..nta permanenc ly etffad
by cc leas.t one phyatian.. Etbtaliehe..nt pravldicg prinoipally o..eto-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GMP per  .pyit. eatitee  at crurret arket pricec, ccl-                       dial or  or  0cc included.  Sac.I hospitlsl;%..honevr,,ino1ud  health
cltd hybam   tnvr"lo  method at Word Batik Atlas (1977-79 btseis); 1960,                      and madic     .. centers  ncpacmae tlyefftd hy a phsiIan(o ts a
1970. on 99dc,mdica  aeI                                                                                      s t,nrse, sidoitfey ec.   hiok offer Ike            (-ptiatarn
dacto  and pro-ida e lie iced rsvgE. otf') nate(frll e.Prscne
ENRGtY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - An...aI coeunpctou. of oc .ecalocry (oa                             dial p-rpoteeorai    os Ic teudtie ponielge raitpto.
andleie    erlu,tatocl gee cod hydro-, oulorad geotherml o:ac,an  rura  ho                                      hia   oclo  ru          h-itaitals end medical and -tocreity
etrIity ) Itihlors   ofto1o96le0pr  aia;l , 1970, cad 1979                                       cetaa    poele   hositls  re lolded only uadtr tetal.
date.                                                                                          Adeleetaae oar oap'tia   e   Totel outer of edeiscion  to or dlei-hrgee
fr.e hoepitce1t dtidedhy tho  -ueho  of hede.
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
Total PeculatIon., MId-Year(rho...ods) - At of July 1; 1960, 1970, ond 1979                 HOUSINGI
data.                                                                                          era  Slo   Nof Ooahld Irrreca rr houtahold             t oral oriab  and  act-
brta  P.clto   'oret of total) -  oio of uchc to total population;                              A iuehol  coecao      ru   fidvdulwho  har.Ivigqat..a
difecec    etitoo    ofura   ara.a-ato   oparability of dare                               sod theIr main  ea       A hoarder or lodger soy or may no.h.       ecudI
_seg  __atioe; 1990, 1970, ond 1979 dat..f                                                     tho  oehl,o   ttala   uyec
Pouacc  Prolotion                                                                         Av...uae  of Ircc. pe ae-ttl. can   n  cre1 _- Avrae  ut
Po2 ultion Ic rear 2000 - Cu-rro  population projeocoi   are hate..d on 1990                    boo of poceu.e pry room  in all urhan, cod  tra1 occu pied  -ennet-lo
1~totalpo.pulaniorhby age and arc en d their eart.llt  end frlyrect.                         d           ;llog ,ctpecotoly.  Dcoellioaaeaotudo  o-p ano    truotoret cad
Projeonie    nrmtere for nortality catna c..Priar of thre  leel  cast-                    unccuPiedpne
itg life enpeocanoy at kinkotah        n  rich oaunrY'e per capIta inoo                   Acot.. to Elactcioty (peccant of donllince) - tote1l.., ano. ad cralI -
leve,  en  feal  110 a" ropacaroy aa             Itta   cc7.5 Y_a..  The Pare-               Covnlcl delinga olth e1eotriotty In lliogs quart.. art atp-roeot
eaer  for frrnllity race also have three lvela asauIng deoline In                             fttl  oho   n  ravel dr_llitgaree.prtivly.
fertility ocoordiog tc St-e  level ond puat fatly  planning performance.
Eaoh cou.tiry  Ie char aeignnd cee of timee atea orelnai-tiu  of mortalIty              EDU7CATTIOD
and rfrnility trede for prolec.tion yu-roaee                                               Adluato  Inclme t Oto
Stationery ruru !tlo   - Ice ec-n..nary pouaInthere Is ug roth elate                           hrloar Nehool - total, male ond fenele -Iroto  total  meled tamal
tehth  h rte I   qual t. the death rate,nd als  the ag  sronci-enol tc of oil core at the prisacy loela.                                           prone Iaof respective
oina.c....a-t.  Thit I0 cohitocd 017 after fertility'rcco  decline to.                        prt_ry  go-a  populicico  normaly includes children aged-l
tho replacomet leve  of unIttnt roprod-toior rate, hen maci geeato                             yoa.ro but ndjuatr d  fordffrn  lentha of primary eda..acion; fo
of..o..rapIac.. itaolf Inool. .Tho stationery population ale  ra o_ncrioc nich u-i-r-1o Ido..acte  enrollmet ma  erodI15percet
etimated 0  the  at  of.i   ctehcoj-d oheraterienice of the populatioo                         sice some h.pupia e.ra hel- or  bitov  the of fiolal :ch.o  age.
inteYea.  ol   o  the coca of deolion of fertility race to replae ...oc che   toal male Zo femal  - Coptdsehv;  eanedaf
sent levol.                                                            r~~~~~~~~~~~~dcoationo-qutceatilacer for Year  of approvd pro-ry lestruotme;
perec    .pnr .cclatino It reached -The year vita  stationry population                  pcc-ido  geocrol. voctionl.       rtahr   riigleratnafo   ai
sloe hat hate reaohtd.                                                                         ..e.ally of 12 cc 17 yrare of ag; torcaspondooco oaras  sot geeeell
PoouLatioo Deceity                                                                                  acluded.
Per so. ha. - Old-year pyltico Per aquar  kilomter (100 hitto.er.e) of                         .o..oe  erlmet          Icmn  of....ondaryC- VoeloI lestiouti..e
,tota  are; 1990.1970 ard 1979 data.                                                           Inlde  Itncnl , indusra,u otr ".    proreiihpraeIdPend-
Pe ks.h. oatunrl.led - Computed at ahiv. forarlor                 el bed                     sol   ra   ea et   fecnaYintoiss
ol;1960, 1970 aod 1975 dote.                                                              -ol-ene   ai      rmc.ed secdacy   Tota  s-dast  eacolld Is
Porolacion AS, Srutoc  (oron)   Cklldrea (0-l4 peace).origge(5                                     pImar  adecoar        y la a divddh   uiaeoftahr   est
64 yer) .ad retired (65 y.ara end-ovr) aa perce..cagat of s1id-lynoo papa.-                      .acresPending  -el.-
lacco  1960, 1970. cud 1979 date.                                                              Adnlt licray rt  (orono    Literate ada1te  (itb   tore d,ad   ine)
ticlelo  Gc;th Oat  Corc-t) - toca1 - Annual groeh recta of  otet  mid-                        aIaperc..ntago oftotal Idolt.poyletior aged 15 Ipare d ovr
yerYopuatioo  f    90-0  1960-70, ord 19 0_7 9.
IPorltpion Growh Ste Coeroont) - urbao - Aacal1 Sroeh canes of uriban popa-                  COStSMPTlON
laItiona focc 1950-60, 1961-70, aed 1970-79.                                                  P.......ar Cure (p-c thousan.d p ...aInoal - paen9oers  opie   oo
Crde Birth lac  (P.. thousnd)- Annual lIve hrtha per ctoosa...d of mud-yea                       care .taina lass then eight persan..  Iooldrsailnt.  hearses. s.d
ppcyulaion; 1960, 1970, ard 1979 dat.-                                                         milltroYile
Crude leech tot  (ocr thout...od) - ioAoal1 deathe par cthasaede of tid-p.ar                   Padio ROa.evnr. ( err thouccod ocon.ltioc) - All types of r-oaveefor radio
.poplation; 19 60, 1970, ard 1979 dana.                                                        btreadoscos to gsora1 peiblic per thoaead of populto;acee.o
CrostrdutortcAeaenmeroiogtoswenclinri                                                            liteedroier ncutIesan   in pora  k vgtreino   ai
her noma  r-produ-cive period if cieh      precepre.tea g-pc ficfr-                            sees oat Ieffect; date forr o....otyearsmay not its comparait   sie
tilcyraee  usaly  iv-yer  vegs- ending In 1960, 190,cd 1979                            arrtoisahleadicnng
Paily PIl... o.  - Aocaco     ana  (thooondsl  A-1Ana  reeke  of accptors                      TVBcivr   ea   ko        po olation'  - TVrosvr  for itroado...t to
oLf, hlrnit-concIel dav reeuder me,Pi;,. ofnalelfmy planeing program.                           gae       oicprthousand poptlotioa;  -alades  -lisn-d TV reoiver
pall, Plaetoo-tsta Crecrat of _arridcme         .- Pretage ofmridIn cotrist aod in  -- yeas .wtnoeaiatratioo of TV eats aa in  ffsnt.
omcof ohild-hbring age (15-44 Year.e) -ho.otbirith-oc.rol1dvic_eto                        NEvE..a  Crleo  (crtotadrrlno) - ioe  the aveag  cir-
all iacud nasa Ie set  g grou.p.                                                           -oolo    f "alpgnea  intese  nePp.'". defined  aperiedionl
paiblicatlon devoted primarily to recording g-ara  nae   It is oo...idmrd
FOOD1 AD0 NUTRITIOOi                                                                               to ho "doily" if it appears an least four times a    km.
adno of Prd Prodnotlo  car Ca.e(99-110- Ind   of per o,pita amorl                              Ciatt dA.o.1 Attedac  ear CeriSe car Tear - hee.dastheseke  o
pedolnofalfo  comdtiat    Proucio  esldssadadf a   n                                    oeasld darin   th Lya,nluding admsionia to drhivei L. IIIm
Is on clendar year itacia. Conodlitias neve  prmay god.sg  earaead  btol.auite..
iractad of eager) oh irkho  edibla  n   ooncnen  (ei- .g.cfe   e
tea ace eatldod).  Aggrsgato Production of each country Is hose;d on                      L.ABRFORC tE
notionl average producerprIor etighte; 1961-65, 1970. ad 199dta.                             Toa   ato   ot   thousan ds)- Ecnmialy tiv- P-reae  lealedieg
Per reite,: ooyof ralore                              ---a  o   euoeat)-  Copte.re..mdfoo . n  amy boa   ht eacludn   tcele                                tdas   t.
eegeq Ivaeto   -r edaPplia  avnilblah   Ia coutry per capIt                          c ugpopulation of all ogr.  tatntce in. tenI                 sonie        r
per day.  Avalaitle sopples nomprlsedometlc productIon, importsleta.               no -op-rbit;_1990. 1970 and 1979 data.
ooporo, an  oheoee I  tnok. Nion aupplise eacde animal feed, tends,                  Feale (osocat)  1- tl    atrfro   spren    of tonal labar forc..
vu..ocitio  usd In food pro..ecing , end losses In dlsci.tuibto. Rsquir-                   Agricaltarn (preru t) - b Iitrfuo   to  arieg. forsotry, hitaaig and
matt  we- etimated by PAO head oo physiological.. neds for noma  soni-                       fishing as p..roetage of total  aitbr force.; 1960, 1970 and 1979 dan..
vicy and htnoirh rce..ld-rigotvio.            temperature, body waightt, age               Industry (prer..ten   - Leho- force I in a  gbe   noos-cruo n  tenfacctteg
and can dlrihucb.ion of P.P""it,"  and allaying 10 perc..or f. ornte at                      end   ctrrciliy, aster and gee te peroconag  of itel.  lbher  oors; 1960,
inuatnold level; 1961-95, 17, and 1977 data.                                          1970 ard 1979P dst.
Per crira  oerlyof crcrie  oramare day) - Protein coon-n  of per o.Pita            Pri.oco    ae    s t -P toa,ml,ad teale  - P-ertitpatie o
ne .spply of food per day.  Bet eapply of toed Is drfined as  btve.  to-                   attir eromytod as toal mae,cd tale  labor force n
qutreteoc  for all o-utrios ettobliehed hy USDAk provldo for mlolmt                          perootcge  of total, mal and female pepalatto. of all agan r-p-nci-nky;
ellea..o. of 60 grs-  of tonal procoin per day and 20 grom  of  nima1 end                    1990, 1970, aod  9197dcc   Thoseac  keae..d:onILO'.l parloi panio  rates
Pulse protein, of tick1  gae       Ihud he anial protein.  Th.e. sInnd-                      reloigaesnarroao   he populate  end lom  tim  tren.  A
nrda are         h.w . i   those o8fr75 Sram  of total protein cad 23 gram  of               f.   tlreare re  eacioa eIooI
saimal potein  to   .v..sg  for cte. -rld, propoe.sd bty tAO In the ThIrd                           Z.o.mi ,tc ..enY toio  - "toct  of potlnioaedr 15 and 65 and ovr
eo1rld foo  Suvy;16-6I170 and 1977 data,                                                     to  cte. tonal lbhor fore.
Pe oota  rti  sooly treaimal an  rise - Pr-rol  supply of food de-
riv-d from  nIma   adpateI  gram  pr daY; 1961-65, 1970 sod 1977.data.                  INCiOME pSTRIBI(TIo
Child Cages 1-4) Baclity Barr (prten choSed) - Annual deaths Per thoneand Ic                   Per-tnoco of Pvlvee Itrome Cboth In cask and kind) - R.oeived bp rrhe.te
age grI..p 1-4 Years, to oitildroc in thit  age group; for meet damloping co-                 5 p.ro..et, rickost 20 percono, pocre.e 70 percent, and poareet 40 peroat
inst da ta dorivod from  lifo tbilee; 1960, 1970 and 1979 data.                               of h-neholde.
HtALTH                                                                                         POVERTY TARtGET GOUItPS
Life Earectacoy at Birth (y,tace  - Acer-ge nombr of Poars of life raining                     The foll-wiog -retete   art very oppr,tn  asue    tpevrty level,
at bitci; 1960. 1970 and 1979 da,                                                             anZhad  oitrpee   th ocas.deraile ortIon.
Inf et Ooralitytot  (p.r thoumnd) - A-..Il deathe of iofence under one year               Eteimotd Abterlot Povety loco_ t._v  (05$ P.c caries) - uri_ and  _atl-
ofaoper thuad live bIrths.                                                                 Aeln   oet   noelvli  ha   naelvlhl    hc       ig
fronts no Safe Wate  (orroent of corulaion)- total, arhen  an.ua  -fa-ntritionally adtqnet  diet pine... eaetit so-fond requtrats is net
her of rvolt(ttal  uho  ad rural) with  -etoail                  ..ee  trata rrat.
-ecr supply (iIncldes created erfece waters or =areand hotunotlntd                          ttmtdBltvPvryIcmeLel(tprorna-annedrrl-
mator sock at. tint from pect.ted hecehole, eprigs, and omainacy utIl) atcad RelativePovrt  incm   leve  iUS  ettdo   naep rpn
prrcgeof ohoic respective populatIons.  Is an ohen area n pobli                          personalt Iora    oftrho  ornery.  Urhac leve  In derivd fro  the rore
foutai  or  cadpost located not mere the  200 str  from aI            I may he                leve  wIth adjuotmeo  for higher oes.  of liigino              aea
coce!dered as hogo 0thib  ceasoablo accot. ofchat house. Ia`rurl ores                        cEntere~d Poul         aIo  Iheolut  PovertyIncome Level (percet) --erte
reatona_l  aces Iwud imply tint cte. hoosamie or  ebitrs of rte. hous.ahold                    a   ue      oo         fpplco   uhnadrrl   h   r   aelt
do  1   notinrropedadladiproyp-cioant  part of the dey In fetohiog the                          .."
Access to ftoccta lisore..l (preccect of porulatio - to..a. orbao. and -ure -
Seeker of papln(otl  urbat, and rural) s-od it .. esreta dispc..al  e
peretar  o   herrepotr  populations.  Ir.at  diapas1 toy include
th   olscinad diepes   tc  or wihutceamoc   fhu- ocet                                                                        oool  ad Sorie1 Bats Divinto
cobac-etriy macr-hoe. syeta or the use otfi   rvs  and~.     m1,i                                                     Ecoooeio Analytie cod Projctot  Dapartasne
le   mtalleloes                                                                                                                                Bay 1qg1
Porul.t.. .. r P1hesoa       Ppltn  divided it7 nehr otpottf               aphtyti.
ria.. qualified fro  a .madira1 sohtol an elvereity level.
Porolation rer NoigPereonc- Population divided its ot.itr of panrn
male sod f ale  grad.ucotorot  pr-tcloa  nurs, so. .d asaco_          nrss



-  27  -                                                                              ANNE3 I
PaRa 6 of 5
ECUD00R - ECONOMIC IN0CAT70RS
rcpciariun:          8 KS   - (sid-1979, thcannds)
GNP   r capita:       US$1220 - (1930)
Ascunt                           Averl !  Anneal Once...  (2)                          ShIt  ce  f   at Marker Pric.. (5)
(sillion USS                          (cracecFtact 1915 prices)                                  (at curreot prices)
Indicator                                    at current prices)                      -------___------_-_______-                           _ ___ __-----
1980                          1960-70      1970-75      1975-80                     1960       1970      1070,      i980/
NATIONAL. AcoCrOcT
Crc.. Icsestic predeco                                    11377                             5.9          11.0         6.0                     100 .0     100.0       10D.O      100.0
Agric,Lt-rc                                              1439                             4.0           5.4         0.9                      33.3        27.6       17.9       12.6
Indaatry and  iain.g                                     4316                             7.3          20.7         6.3                      19.3       23.0        33.9       37.9
Services                                                 5105                             6.3           8.0         7.7                      47.4       49.4        43.6       45.6
C nnecptian                                                8738                             5.0           9.0         7.4                       84.6      82.0         79 ,      76.8
arc.  inniei2033                                                                           197           12.2         7.0                      14.0       23.5        26.        2L9'
lcParns of Gocada end NFPS                                 2s7363                          '2. 7         15.8        -2 0                      17.2       14.9        26.2       24.0
lep-rts of GOcds and NFS                                   2930                            10.9          12.6         4.3                      10.7       19.4        32.7       25.8
Gross ational savings                                      2193                             n.e           n.e        -6.5                      12.9        16.2        19.4      19.3
Coapcsitiao cf Merchandie Trod. (27
----(at current ricsa2
1976      1977       1978       1979       1980 b/
5ORCHAi3DISE 6ORTS                                                                       O1.       100.0      1000       1700.0     L   O
Prtsary                                                                                 89.2       79.9       73.7       74.1       76.3
Cr-de Petrolse.                                                                       58.7      48.9       40.0       49.2       55.0
Others                                                                                30.5       31.0       33.7      24.9       21.3
Fauaferrtprrs                                                                           10.7       20.0       26.2       25.9      23.7
PenrolFa-  D    eI-tie                                                                 0.1       0.8        6.1        6.8        7.6
Frccs.nnd C.cce                                                                        5.1       13.0      03.5         9.3       7.1
Fith sod Snefcad                                                                       1.0        1.4        1.6        1.3       3 6
Other.                                                                                 4.5        4.8        5.0        8.3        5.4
Otnrchendise IocrIts                                                                   100.0     1990.9      100.0     000.0      100.0
Ca.cur  oer d                                                                         1311.2                13.3        .9       10
tesredi tets cGOdi                                                                    43.8      43.7       36.8       42.8       43,1
Gep.Itl Goods                                                                         42.6      42.8       47.7       69.0       45.2
ONhere                                                                                 0.5        2.3        2.2       0.3         0.8
PRICES AND TERMS OF 78AOE                                                      1975       1976      1977       1978       1979       19S0
asP dAtfonar                                                                100.0      112.9    129.9      143.3   . 166.1       194.9
er.huGs RFte                                                                 23.0       25.0     25.0       25.0       25.0       25.0
lepers flies Ind.a                                                          100.9      111.6    135.4      139.4      208.4      270.1
I Port Prica mdc.                                                           100.0      103.1    116.3      125.9      155.6      172.7
Ters of Tre  Indes                                                          100.0      008.2    116.4      110.7      133.9      156.4
-                                                                          6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s 2 GOP
P729d100  PitAltO10972                                                                                            1
PUBLIC lFIANCE                                                                              1975   ------- _    _960
Curr nt  esec.                                                                            22.9                   28.7
Current  upsditurs                                                                        08.9                   26.5
Sneles(4) -r Asfirin  (-I                                                                  4.02.2
CApin-.L Op.nditars                                                                        7.4                    6.0
reinfi         ig                                                                          4.9                    5.4
1960-70       1970-75       1975-80       1980-83
Orued INDICATORS
GDP gr-te  rein (2)                                                         5.           11.1           6.1           5.4
GUt per cepine grcvth rIen  (Z)                                             2.4           7.3           2.6           2.0
Energy conan.p.tic  grovth rait  (0.)                                        -                         11.7           7.0
IC00                                                                        0.7           2.7           4.3           4.8
iar8gie1 s-viegs rate- -0.4                                                              -0.4          -0.2           0.3
Ispart slusricity                                                           1.9           1.3           0.7           0.8
*/ Cosponeets seprnaed an Part Ar cnt cud .il ncr add up becasue thny neoleds iedirset tans,.
'2/  Prelininar. f igures.                                                                                                                                       J*nwry 29, 1982



- 28 -
ANNED I
ECUADOR - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT                                                  Page 5  f 5
(million US$ at current prices)
Population:           8,068 - (mid-1979, rho-nand.)
o;a  Pe  capita;      US$1220 - (1980)
Actual                                     Estimated                 Projected
1976         1977         1978          1979         1980               1981         1982         1983         1984          1985
BALANCEOF PAYMENTS
Net Eoports of Goods & Ser-ices                                 -145.4       -659.1       -742.2        -646.9       -616.1               -817.5      -1052.1      -1343.4       -1209.1      -1035.3
Eoports of Goods 4 Services                                   1431.8       1628.2       1740.4       2499.3        2936.0               2991.8       3231.5       3466.3        3864.1       4700.2
Imports of Goods & Services                                  1577.2        2287.3       2482.6       3146.2        3552.1               3809.3       4283.6       4809.7        5073.2       5735.5
Net Transfers                                                     30.7         36.2         40.9          29.8         40.0                 45.0          50.0         56.0         63.0         70.0
Correct Acco-nt Balance                                         -114.7       -622.9       -701.3        -617.1       -576.1               -772.5      -1002.1      -1287.4       -1146.1       -965.3
Direct Private Investment                                        -19.9         34.5         48.6          66.0         80.0                100.0        140.0         180.0        240.0        280.0
MLT Loans (net)                                                  162.5        520.0         447.8        516.1        566.9                436.2       1060.7        1208.8        892.0        770.9
Official                                                        72.7         61.8         91.6          81.9         86.2                 94.2        199.3         270.0        286.5        255.8
Priva-t                                                         89.8        458.2        356.2         434.2        480.7                342.0        861.4         938.8        605.5        515.1
Other Capital                                                    161.4        204.7         236.5         62.6        155.5                -90.0        -80.0          30.0         80.0         80.0
Change in Officin1 Reser.en (-   increase)                      -189.3       -136.3        -31.6         -27.6       -226.3                326.3       -118.6       -131.4         -65.9       -165.6
International Resernes (official)                                434.5        570.8        602.4         630.0        856.3                530.0        648.6        780.0         845.9       1011.5
Official Reserven as Months of Imports
of Goods 4 NFS (year-end)                                        3.7          3.4          3.3           2.8          3.5                  1.7          1.8          1.9          2.0           2.1
1976        1977        1978        1979        1980
1ROSS DISBURSEMENTS
Gross Disb-rsenents of MLT Loann                                          217.3       577.9       533.2      1064.1       742.9
Concessional                                                            41.7         30.9        20.7        25.27       T7
Bilateral                                                             24.7         12.0         8.8         7.3         3.7
IDA                                                                    2.7         4.8          0.8         0.2          -
Other Moltilateral                                                    17.3         14.1        11.1        17.7        11.0
Non-concessionnl                                                        172.7       547.0       512.3      1038.9       728.2
Official etp-rt credits                                                19.3        24.6        49.0        12.3        14.2
IBRD                                                                   4.1         7.7         22.2        30.9        34.0
Other Msltilateral                                                    17.6          9.9         8.0        28.6        46.3
Private                                                              131.7       504.8        433.1       967.1       633.7
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt Outstanding and Disbsrsed                                            820.2      1140.3      1588.1      2104.2      2671.1
Off icial                                                               MI.         3947        486.        568.2      -nr
IBRD                                                                  42.0         43.6        60.4        85.2       109.4
IDA                                                                   31.0        35.7         36.4        36.5        36.3
Other                                                                259.9       315.4        389.6       446.5       508.7
Private                                                                287.4        745.6      1101.8      1536.0      2016.7
Undisbursed Dobt                                                         449.0       6,4,5       _6_ 9        860.5      1035.4
DE8T SERVICE
Tnsal Debt Serice Payment                                                  81.6       117.2       205.8       274.3a/    408.3
Isterest                                                                25.3         45.0        977 r3 sr              I3r1
A- rti-ation                                                             56.4        72.2       108.1       117.0a/    178.1
Debt Serviceas i of Esports of Goods and NFS                                5.8         7.3        12.1        11.3        14.4
Average Interest on New Loano (Z1                                           7.9         7.9         8.2         10.9        10.6
Official                                                                  7.7         7.0         3.9         8.6          5.6
Private                                                                   8.0         8.1         9.3        11.3        12.8
AverEge Maturity of New Loans (yearn)                                      11.2        10.1        11.6        10.5         13.3
Official                                                                 19.3        18.7        29.5        15.3        25.3
Prinate                                                                   7.3         7.7         7.2         9.7         8.0
BANK GROUP EXPOSURE (Z)
IBRD DOD/total DOD                                                          6.8         3.8         3.8         3.9          4.1
IBRD dishbrsenents/total gross disb-urementn                                1.9         1.3         4.2         2.7         4.6
IB8D debt service/total debt sernice                                       10.1         8.2         4.8         1.8         4.5
IDA DOD/total DOD                                                           5.4         3.1         2.3         1.7          1.4
IDA dishnesementn/tvtal dishursemen                                         1.2         0.8         0.2         0.0         0.4
IDA debt service/total debt ser-ie                                          0.4         0.3         0.2         0.0         0.1
o/  Includes prepayment of US456.2 nillion.                                                                                                                          January 29, 1982



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ECUADOR
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS  (as of September 30, 1981)
---   US$ million---
Loan or                                                       (less cancellations)
Credit  Fiscal                                            Amount
Number   Year         Borrower         Purpose            Bank       IDA   Undisbursed
10 loans and 6 credits fully disbursed                    89.3       37.6         -
1030     1974         Guayaquil
Water Co.       Water Supply       23.2          -        1.0
1157     1975         Ecuador          Education           4.0          -        2.9
1229     1976         Ecuador          Seeds               3.0          -        1.1
1230     1976         Ecuador          Technical           4.0          -        3.5
Assistance
1231     1976         Ecuador          Highways           10.5          -        1.1
1255     1976         Guayaquil
Port Authority Ports               33.5          -       0.9
1359     1977         Ecuador          DFC                26.0          -        1.7
1429     1977         Ecuador          Highways           17.5          -        9.0
1459     1977         Ecuador          Agriculture        15.5          -       10.4
S006     1978         Ecuador          Technical           11.0         -       10.5
Assistance
1644     1978         Ecuador          Rural Development 18.0           -       17.6
1731     1979         Ecuador          DFC                40.0          -       18.5
1776     1980         Ecuador          Guayaquil Urban
Development       31.0          -      30.2
1879     1980         Ecuador          Small Scale Enter-
prise Credit      20.0          -      18.8
1882     1980         Ecuador          Highways           55.0          -       54.0
1991     1981         Ecuador          Rural Development 20.0           -       20.0
2044     1982         Ecuador          Rural Development 17.0           -       17.0
2045     1982         Electrification Power Trans-
Institute        mission          100.0          -     100.0
Total                                        538.5      37.6      318.2
of which has been repaid                   78.2        0.8
Total now outstanding                        460.3      36.8
Amount sold                          4.1
of which has been repaid           2.9       1.2         -
Total now held by Bank and IDA               459.1      36.8
Total undisbursed                            318.2        -       318.2



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1981) 1/
Type of    -Amount in US$ Million-
Fiscal Year                                        Business   Loan    Equity    Total
1966 & 1972   La Internacional, S.A.               Textiles    3.7        0.2       3.9
1969, 1973,   Compania Financiera
1975 & 1977   Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo,
S.A. (COFIEC)                       DFC            -       0.5       0.5
1976           Sociedad Agricola e Industrial    Sugar Mill  5.0            -       5.0
San Carlos, S.A.
1978          Cemento Nacional (CEM)               Cement      12.0       1.1      13.1
1980          Adamas Andina S.A.                   Pulp and
Paper      3.3       1.0       4.3
1981          Compania Minera Toachi, S.A.         Mining       1.0        .3       1.3
Total gross commitments                         25.0       3.1      28.1
Less cancellations, terminations
repayments and sales                         5.1       0.4      5.5
Total commitments now held by IFC               19.9       2.7      22.6
Total undisbursed                                4.2       1.2       5.4
1/   US$10.8 million oil palm operation approved May 7, 1981 but not yet signed.
A US$9.2 million investment in a leasing company was approved December 1, 1981.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C.   STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1981 1/
Loan 1030-EC - Guayaquil and Guayas Province Water Supply Project; US$23.2
million Loan of July 23, 1974; Effective Date: January 29,
1975; Closing Date: October 31, 1981.
After initial delays and management weaknesses, project
execution recently improved and construction is now advanced on 95 percent of the
project components. Because of the delays, however, the project faces severe
cost over-runs. To meet the estimated US$27 million needed through 1982 to
complete the project, the Guayaquil Water Company raised its tariffs in May
1981 and in September 1981, the Government approved a US$21 million loan to
the Water Company to complement the tariff revenues.
Loan 1157-EC - Vocational Training Project; US$4.0 million Loan of September 3,
1975; Effective Date: November 24, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
After initial delays, project implementation has accelerated.
Bidding for equipment purchase and construction of the training centers is
now underway and the centers are expected to be completed by the end of this
calendar year. The present Government has shown strong support for this
project, naming a dynamic director and providing needed additional funds.
Loan 1229-EC - Seeds Project; US$3 million Loan of May 24, 1976; Effective
Date: October 20, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project execution has accelerated during the past year and it
appears probable that the project can be completed by the amended closing
date, June 30, 1982. The implementing institutions (Project Unit, Department
of Seed Certification, National Seeds Council and the Seeds Company, EMSemillas)
are staffed and in operation. Because of the earlier delays, EMSemillas is not
yet operating at full capacity and thus is unable to amortize its portion of
the loan. However, procurement of works and equipment is now underway for all
of the major facilities and the National Development Bank is providing interim
financial support. Staff training has also accelerated in recent months.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



-32-                               ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Loan 1230-EC - Technical Assistance Project; US$4.0 million Loan of May 24,
1976; Effective Date: October 20, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
This project financed preparation of the Bank's first rural devel-
opment project in Tungurahua Province and will support hydrological studies for
the Guayas River Basin, on the basis of which topographic and prefeasibility
studies can be done for agricultural development in the region. These studies
would absorb over half of the loan resources. To help to accelerate this
long-delayed project, the Bank amended the Loan Agreement at the Government's
request to provide for reimbursement of local consultants services. The
Closing Date was extended to permit completion of the Guayas Basin studies.
Loan 1231-EC - Fourth Highway Project; US$10.5 million Loan of May 24, 1976;
Effective Date: October 13, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
After an initial delay of twelve months in the contracting process,
all civil works and technical assistance elements under the project are in
execution and advancing satisfactorily, although civil works are about six
months behind schedule. The technical assistance programs are already having
positive effects on highway planning, engineering and maintenance.
The project's Closing Date has been extended to permit completion of civil
works. The feasibility studies for the recently approved Puerto Ila-Chone
rural development project were financed under this loan.
Loan 1255-EC - Second Guayaquil Port Project; US$33.5 million Loan of May 24,
1976; Effective Date: March 11, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Works on this project are essentially complete. Arrangements for
the warranty period are being discussed.
Loan 1359-EC - Third Development Banking Project: US$26.0 million Loan
of February 18, 1977; Effective Date: August 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
This project is fully committed and 90 percent disbursed.
Loan 1429-EC - Fifth Highway Project; US$17.5 million Loan of September 22,
1977; Effective Date: January 10, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Construction of the Duran-Boliche road, which represents about
60 percent of total project costs, is proceeding on schedule. Design changes
on this road have, however, generated an increase in costs. Construction of



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
the Puerto Ila-Doblones road is a year behind schedule and the lateral feeder
roads to this road have not yet begun; they are now about two years behind
schedule. The study of regional secondary and feeder roads in three provinces
has, on the other hand, been completed satisfactorily, and served as the basis
for the Sixth Highway Project.
Loan 1459-EC - Agricultural Credit I Project; US$15.5 million Loan of
November 3, 1977; Effective Date: June 14, 1978:
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The loan continues a program of credit for livestock development
financed under three previous loans and credits, but has been broadened
to cover crop farms, small rural industries and local consulting services.
In addition, there are applied research and technical assistance components
as well. Eleven banks and financieras are participating in lending operations.
Eighty percent of the lending program has been committed for on-farm develop-
ment, but disbursements have moved more slowly because the investment plans
extend over three years generally. Also, local counterpart funds have not
always been allocated on time.
Loan S-006-EC - Second Technical Assistance Project; US$11.0 million Loan of
November 3, 1977; Effective Date: March 1, 1978;
Closing Date: January 31, 1982.
This project has moved ahead at a slow pace and more than three
years after effectiveness, only about US$400,000 has been disbursed. Contracts
have been signed for seven of ten selected studies and work is progressing on
drafting satisfactory terms of reference and on bidding and contracting for
most of the others. The project list has undergone revision and a final list
has been prepared. Four of the five experts to be hired under the project are
on board. The new management of FONAPRE, the executing agency is seeking to
accelerate project execution.
Loan 1644-EC - Tungurahua Rural Development Project; US$18 million Loan
of May 11, 1979; Effective Date: September 28, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985.
This integrated rural development project is progressing satisfac-
torily after about a year's delay in signing of subsidiary agreements between
the Central Bank and participating agencies. A project unit has been estab-
lished, experts have been recruited, and infrastructure planning begun. The
project unit has been working with farmers and community groups for the past
year.
Loan 1731-EC - Fourth Development Finance Project; US$40 million Loan of
December 17, 1979; Effective Date: September 23, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
This project, a follow-up to earlier successful loans, is disbursing
quickly as participating DFCs had a backlog of industrial subprojects under
review. It was almost fully committed within four months of the effectiveness
date and is now over half disbursed.



-34-
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan 1776-EC - Guayaquil Urban Development Project; US$31 million Loan
of May 9, 1980; Effective Date: October 31, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985.
This project is the Bank's first integrated urban development
project in Ecuador. Project Units in the National Housing Bank and Munici-
pality are established and proceeding with the first steps of project execution.
Subsidiary agreements have been signed between the Central Bank and participat-
ing agencies.
Loan 1879-EC - Small Scale Enterprise Credit Project; US$20 million Loan
of October 31, 1980; Effective Date: April 1, 1981;
Closing Date:December 31, 1984.
This is the Bank's first small scale enterprise credit project in
Ecuador. Although the project became effective only in April 1981, the pace of
subloan disbursement and completion of institutional development aspects of
the loan are substantially ahead of schedule and a second project is in prepara-
tion. Currently about 30 private banks and financieras are involved in term
lending to small enterprises through this project.
Loan 1882-EC - Sixth Highways Project; US$55 million Loan of October 31, 1980;
Effective Date: May 14, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
This project recently became effective. The Feeder Roads project Unit
was established in January 1981 and agreements with the three participating
provinces have been signed.
Loan 1991-EC   Puerto Ila-Chone Rural Development Project;  US$20 million Loan
of November 24, 1981; Effective Date:
Closing Date: June 30, 1988.
Effectiveness conditions are being met.  The Project Unit  is
being staffed and land titling efforts are underway.
Loan 2044-EC - Esmeraldas Rural Development Project; US$17 million Loan
of November 24, 1981; Effective Date:
Closing Date: December 31, 1988.
Effectiveness conditions are being met and the Project Unit is
being staffed.
Loan 2045-EC - Power Transmission Project; $100 million Loan of December 4, 1981;
Effective Date:                 : Closing Date:  December 31, 1985.
Effectiveness conditions are being met. Final bidding documents and
terms of reference for institutional studies are being reviewed.



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
ECUADOR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH DEVELOPMENT BANKING PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I.        Timetable of Key events
a.  Project Preparation - Preappraisal
(1)  Project prepared by:                    Bank and DFCs
(2)  Initial request for Bank financing:   September 1980
(3) First Bank Mission to consider
the project:                            December 1980
b.  Appraisal Mission Departure:                 March 1981
c.  Negotiations Completed:                      December 15, 1981
d.  Planned date of Effectiveness:               May 1982
[I.       Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
TII.      Special Conditions
a.  The Government and the Bank would conduct a mid-term review
of interest rates, commissions and financial policies by
December 31, 1982 or when US$30 million in commitments had
been reached (whichever is first). If the interest rates and
commissions were not satisfactory (i.e., conducive to resource
mobilization and long-term lending), they would be revised
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (para. 56).
b.  The Government would contribute to CFN no less than
US$20 million in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; CFN
would limit its further exposure to any single firm to
10 percent of its equity, or, if larger amounts of CFN
financing are required, the Government would set up a
mechanism, satisfactory to the Bank, to to protect CFN's
equity from any risk related to such financing (para 58).
c.  To participate in the project, new DFCs would have to adhere
to the sound financial practices covered in Schedule 5 of
the draft Loan Agreement (para. 60). DFCs not eligible under



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
previous Bank loans Group III) would have to adopt satisfactory
policy statements. US$15 million would be reserved for Group II
and III DFCs until one year after the loan's effectiveness date.
Group II DFCs would have to have had 20 percent of their portfolio
in term lending by December 31, 1981 and 30 percent by
December 31, 1982. DFCs in Group III would have to achieve these
these portfolio targets by end-1982 and end-1983 (para. 68).
d. An economic rate of return would be calculated on all projects
using US$300,000 or more in Bank funds or over US$1 million
in total term resources (para. 70).
e. CFN and COFIEC would have free limits of US$2,000,000; other
DFCs would have a free limit of US$350,000. DFCs which have
never participated in Bank loans would have to submit two
satisfactory appraisals before this free limit could be
applied (para. 70).
f. The Ministry of Finance would employ an internationally-
recruited resident advisor, to be financed from loan proceeds,
to assist DFCs with subproject appraisals (para. 70).
g. US$20.0 million of loan proceeds would be reserved for sub-
projects for which at least 50 percent of incremental output
would be exported (para. 72).
h. By no later than December 31, 1982 the Government would
furnish the Bank the recommendations of the industrial
incentives study; by no later than March 31, 1983, would
propose to the Bank a program of action based on these recom-
mendations and a timetable for its implementation and, finally,
would start to carry out policy changes acceptable to the
Bank according to a satisfactory timetable (para. 72).
i.  The Government and the Central Bank would sign a satisfactory
fiscal agency agreement (condition of effectiveness) and the
Central Bank would sign a satisfactory subsidiary loan agree-
ment with each participating DFC (condition of disbursement
for each DFC) (para. 73).
J. Retroactive financing of up to US$6.0 million would be provided
for expenditures made after August 31, 1981 (para. 73).
k. No firm or group of related firms could borrow more than
US$3 million in proposed loan funds or have more than
US$4 million outstanding from the proposed and previous
Bank loans (para. 76).



