                                  Document of
                                 The World Bank


                                                    Report No: ICR00002789


          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                         (IDA-40270/H1410)

                                    ON
                   LOAN No. IDA 40270 and GRANT No. H1410

                 IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 16.1 MILLION
                     (US$ 24 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
                                TO THE
             FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
                                  FOR
      PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT


                                  JUNE 30, 2013




Finance and Private Sector Development
East and Southern Africa
Africa Region
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2012)

                  Currency Unit = Ethiopian Birr (ETB)
                         1.00 US$ = 18.28 ETB
                           1.54 US$= 1 SDR

                    GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
                         JULY 8-JULY 7

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAU       Addis Ababa University
AfDB      African Development Bank
APL       Adaptable Program Credit
BMU       Business Management Unit
BIZCAP    Matching Grants Scheme comprising support to firms and private sector
          associations
BIZPLAN   Business Plan Competition
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CPPR      Country Portfolio Performance Review
DFA       Development Financing Agreement
DFID      UK Department for International Development
DTIS      Diagnostic Trade Integration Study
ECF       Ethiopia Competitiveness Facility
EPA       Economic Partnership Agreement
ETB       Ethiopian Birr
EU        European Union
FBE       Faculty of Business and Economics
FIRMCAP   Firm capacity Building through Matching Grants Scheme
FM        Financial Management
GBP       Great Britain Pound
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GFRP      Global Food Crisis Response Program
GoE       Government of Ethiopia
GTP       Growth and Transformation Plan
IDA       International Development Association
IDS       Industrial Development Strategy
IRR       Internal Rate of Return
MFI       Micro Finance Institution
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MGS       Matching Grants Scheme
MoFED     Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
MoTI      Ministry of Trade and Industry
MoI       Ministry of Industry
NPV         Net Present Value
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PCU         Project Coordination Unit
PDO         Project Development Objective
PPESA       Privatization and Public Enterprises Supervising Agency
PRSC        Poverty Reduction Support Credits
PSD         Private Sector Development
PSD CB      Private Sector Development Capacity Building Project
SCHOOLCAP   School Capacity Building sub component of the project
SDPRP       Sustainable Development and Poverty Reduction Program
SOE         State Owned Enterprises
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
USAID       United States Agency for International development
US$         United States Dollar
VRP         Voluntary Retrenchment Program
WTO         World Trade Organization




                       Vice President: Makhtar Diop
                    Country Director: Guang Zhe Chen
                      Sector Manager: Irina Astrakhan
                 Project Team Leader: Asya Akhlaque
                          ICR Author: Senidu Fanuel
                    FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA
                     Private Sector Development Capacity Building Project



                                                       CONTENTS


Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Profile

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................... 9
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ................................................ 17
3. Assessment of Outcomes .............................................................................................. 24
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 38
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 38
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 41
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 42
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 43
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 44
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 47
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 48
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 50
Annex 6. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and Comments on Draft ICR ............................. 53
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 72
MAP of Ethiopia ............................................................................................................... 73




                                                                1
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Ethiopia - Private
                                                                          Sector Development
Country:                Ethiopia                Project Name:
                                                                          Capacity Building
                                                                          Project
Project ID:             P050272                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-40270,IDA-H1410
ICR Date:               06/13/2013              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          FEDERAL
                                                                          DEMOCRATIC
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          REPUBLIC OF
                                                                          ETHIOPIA
Original Total
                        XDR 16.10M              Disbursed Amount:         XDR 10.93M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 11.64M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Industry
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process              Date            Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       09/16/2004     Effectiveness:             07/15/2005       07/15/2005
                                                                                 04/01/2008
Appraisal:            11/01/2004     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                 07/03/2012
Approval:             12/21/2004     Mid-term Review:           01/11/2010       01/11/2010
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2011       12/31/2012

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower           Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:


                                                2
Overall Bank                                         Overall Borrower
                           Moderately Satisfactory                             Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                         Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                               None
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                              Quality of
                             Yes                                             None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                             Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original              Actual
Sector Code (as percent of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                       32                     8
General industry and trade sector                                       60                  83
Tertiary education                                                       8                     9


Theme Code (as percent of total Bank financing)
Export development and competitiveness                                  29                  35
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise support                              14                  6
Other Private Sector Development                                        14                  14
Regulation and competition policy                                       14                  5
State-owned enterprise restructuring and privatization                  29                  40

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                           At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:              Makhtar Diop                         Gobind T. Nankani
Country Director:            Guang Zhe Chen                       Ishac Diwan
Sector Manager:              Irina Astrakhan                      Demba Ba
Project Team Leader:         Asya Akhlaque                        Agata E. Pawlowska
ICR Team Leader:             Senidu Fanuel
ICR Primary Author:          Senidu Fanuel




                                                 3
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To facilitate increased participation of the private sector in the Borrower's economy by
creating conditions for improving productivity and competitiveness of the said sector

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Facilitate increased participation of the private sector in the Borrower's economy by
creating conditions for improving productivity and export competitiveness

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target       Formally        Actual Value
                                              Values (from          Revised         Achieved at
   Indicator         Baseline Value
                                                 approval           Target        Completion or
                                               documents)           Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Number of private sector jobs created in participating firms and targeted sectors
Value
                                                                10percent,
quantitative or   1,917                     4,500                               5,719
                                                                2,109
Qualitative)
Date achieved     12/31/2004                12/31/2009          12/31/2012      12/31/2012
Comments
                  This indicator referred to the MGS and was measured as an average across all
(incl. percent
                  benefiting firms
achievement)
                Value of exports in participating firms and targeted sectors, at least 25percent
Indicator 2 :   increase in exports and/or at least 10 firms starting to export as a result of the
                support
                                                                                 29percent increase
Value
                                                                25percent and/ in exports and 20
quantitative or 0                          25percent
                                                                or 10 firms      firms have started
Qualitative)
                                                                                 to export
Date achieved 04/01/2008                   07/31/2012           07/03/2012       12/31/2012
Comments
                Target was overachieved. This indicator was introduced during the restructuring
(incl. percent
                in April 2008 and target was revised again in the July 2012 restructuring
achievement)
                Proportion of total value of public enterprise assets transferred to private sector
Indicator 3 :
                management and ownership
Value
quantitative or 0                          55percent                             77percent
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/23/2004                   12/31/2009                            12/31/2012
Comments        Target was overachieved. This indicator was changed to PDO outcome indicator
(incl. percent (from intermediate result indicator) during the final restructuring to capture the
achievement) results under the privatization component
Indicator 4 : Direct project beneficiaries (number), of which female (percent)
Value                                      5000 direct                           Direct project
quantitative or 0                          beneficiaries,                        beneficiaries -
Qualitative)                               50percent women                       5,719 (new jobs

                                                  4
                                                                              created),
                                                                              60.4percent of
                                                                              which were women
Date achieved 07/03/2012                12/31/2012                            12/31/2012
Comments
               Target was overachieved. This core indicator was introduced during restructuring
(incl. percent
               in July 2012
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                 Formally
                                            Values (from                         Achieved at
   Indicator       Baseline Value                                 Revised
                                              approval                          Completion or
                                                              Target Values
                                             documents)                         Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Number of public enterprises sold to the private sector
                                                                              44 Public
Value                                    10 per annum in
                                                                              enterprises were
(quantitative   0                        2004/05 to
                                                                              transferred to
or Qualitative)                          2008/09
                                                                              private ownership
Date achieved 11/23/2004                    12/31/2009                        12/31/2012
Comments
                29 SOEs were privatized by end of 2009 and one of the justifications for the
(incl. percent
                project time extension was to give more time to achieve the set target
achievement)
                Revised competition policy enacted with framework for fair trade practices and
Indicator 2 :
                anti - trust separate from anti - dumping and consumer protection framework
Value
(quantitative   No                          Yes                                Target achieved
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/23/2004                    12/31/2009                         12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. percent
achievement)
                Establishment of independent competition authority and secretariat with wider
Indicator 3 :
                representation by public and private sector specialists and other stakeholders
Value
(quantitative   No                          Yes                                Target achieved
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/23/2004                    12/31/2009                         12/31/2012
Comments        An independent competition authority was established replacing the former
(incl. percent Trade Practice & Investigation Commission. But it was not fully staffed by
achievement) project end
                Studies on Ethiopia WTO accessions prepared, disseminated to, and discussed by
Indicator 4 :
                WTO task force
Value
(quantitative   No                          Yes                                Target achieved
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/23/2004                    12/31/2009                         12/31/2012
Comments        Three studies on WTO accession impact assessment were completed,

                                              5
(incl. percent    disseminated and discussed by stakeholders and WTO task force and the
achievement)      National Steering Committee
Indicator 5 :     Number of matching grant support given to private firms for export expansion
Value
(quantitative     0                         150                                165
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/03/2012                12/31/2012                         12/31/2012
Comments
(incl. percent    Target was overachieved
achievement)
Indicator 6 :     Number of startups established through business plan competition each year
Value
                                            20 each in round 1
(quantitative     0                                                            52
                                            and 2
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/23/2004                  12/31/2009                          12/31/2012
Comments          Target was achieved. 20 new businesses were established in round 1 & 2 and a
(incl. percent    total of 52 at project end without including the last round of 10 winners as the
achievement)      competition was done towards the end of the project
                  Proportion of startups established through business plan competition that survive
Indicator 7 :
                  after one year in operation
Value
(quantitative     0                         70percent                          77percent
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     04/01/2008                07/31/2012                         12/31/2012
Comments
                  Target was over achieved. 40 of the businesses, out of the 52 startups survived
(incl. percent
                  after one year of operation
achievement)
Indicator 8 :     University (FBE) curriculum revised and adopted
Value
(quantitative     no                        Yes                                Yes
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     11/23/2004                12/31/2009                         12/31/2012
Comments
                  Target was achieved. Revision of curricula was done as planned and additional
(incl. percent
                  new courses were introduced
achievement)
                Number of graduates in regulatory economics and international trade programs in
Indicator 9 :
                year 3 and 4
Value                                     20 each year in
(quantitative   0                         year 3 and 4 (40                     41
or Qualitative)                           total)
Date achieved 11/23/2004                  12/31/2009                           12/31/2009
Comments        Target was achieved. 20 students in Yr 3 & 21 students in Yr.4 had graduated.
(incl. percent The allocated budget for this activity was fully utilized by then and the support
achievement) was continued through financing from EU




                                                  6
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                             IP              Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                            (US$ millions)
  1    06/23/2005       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.00
  2    12/28/2005       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     1.75
                         Moderately                    Moderately
  3    01/28/2006                                                                     1.75
                       Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
  4    06/29/2006   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             1.75
                         Moderately                    Moderately
  5    01/22/2007                                                                     2.12
                       Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
  6    06/28/2007   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             2.57
  7    12/19/2007   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             3.62
  8    06/25/2008   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             4.39
  9    12/16/2008   Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             5.42
 10    06/28/2009   Moderately Satisfactory           Satisfactory                    8.84
 11    12/22/2009   Moderately Satisfactory           Satisfactory                   10.22
 12    06/26/2010       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                   11.29
 13    03/27/2011       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                   12.86
 14    12/04/2011       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                   15.03
 15    07/09/2012       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                   15.76
 16    10/31/2012       Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                   16.64
 17    12/26/2012       Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory            16.83


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                          Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in US$
                                         millions
                                                     Restructuring done to extend
                                                     the closing date and made a
 04/01/2008       Y       MS    MS            4.39   slight change in the language in
                                                     the PDO from competitiveness
                                                     to export competitiveness
                                                     To streamline the outcome and
                                                     result indicators and extension
 07/03/2012       N       S       S          15.76
                                                     of closing date to fully utilize
                                                     resources




                                              7
If PDO and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving
body) enter ratings below:
                                                            Outcome Ratings
Against Original PDO/Targets                                   Satisfactory
Against Formally Revised PDO/Targets                           Satisfactory
Overall (weighted) rating                                      Satisfactory


I. Disbursement Profile




                                             8
1.         Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1        Context at Appraisal

1.      Country and Sector background: In 1992, the Government of Ethiopia (GOE)
embarked on a comprehensive reform program to bring an end to economic stagnation
inherited from the Derg government. The momentum of the reforms, however, was
interrupted by an outbreak of the conflict with Eritrea in May 1998, which lasted until
end-2000. Subsequent to the war, the Government resumed its economic reform program
and reconfirmed its commitment to poverty reduction through rapid and equitable
economic growth within a framework of macroeconomic stability. The principles of the
program were detailed in the Government’s Sustainable Development and Poverty
Reduction Program (SDPRP, July 2002). Further, reforms to stimulate private sector
development (PSD) in facilitating growth and employment generation were elaborated in
the Industrial Development Strategy (IDS, 2002). The objectives of the IDS were to
increase the contribution of private sector to the economy as measured by private
investment in GDP and to increase factory productivity. This was to be achieved through
a comprehensive package of reforms to be implemented over the medium to long term. 1

2.      At the time of the project appraisal, even though some positive actions had been
taken to improve the investment climate in the country, many of the constraints that
negatively affect productivity of the private sector and its ability to compete domestically
as well as regionally remained unaddressed. Some were structural (such as high transport
costs and low domestic demand) while others (such as reforms of the tax regime,
improving access, reliability and prices of utilities and improving access to credit)
required more time to take effect. In addition, there were constraints that related to
policies and institutions that impeded private sector growth and diversification.
Specifically, these included:

      i.   Dominant role of public sector, lack of effective competition and level playing
           field that limited the space for private sector growth, as indicated by the small
           number of firms in the formal sector and the small size of firms, compared to the
           country’s size and international benchmark.
    ii.    Weak integration of the Ethiopian economy into the regional and international
           economy, as reflected in the low level of exports. Almost all Ethiopian firms were
           producing for the domestic market with few participating in export activities or
           managing to attract foreign capital.
    iii.   Low labor productivity and thus a limited capacity of the private sector to
           compete, and weak institutional support for the private sector. While the cost of
           labor in Ethiopia, compared to some leading countries exporting labor-intensive
           manufactures’, was low, a typical worker in Ethiopia was 80 percent less



1
  The Planned reforms ranged from improving investment climate (including privatization), trade policy, reducing regulatory burden
(including tax policy and administration), and improving access to infrastructure (telecommunication, power and transport), land and
finance.

                                                                  9
             productive than the average worker in Bangladesh and less than half as productive
             as the average Chinese worker. 2

3.     The PSD CB Project was designed to complement the policy dialogue under the
PRSC. The PSD CB was to support the policy reforms under the PRSC through provision
of technical and financial assistance in specific areas. It aimed to reduce the role of the
Government in commercial activities through privatization; improve business climate and
support stronger integration of the Ethiopian economy into the regional and international
markets; and increase labor productivity of the private sector.

4.      Rationale for Bank Assistance: The Bank's program under the CAS for FY 2003
to 2005 supported the Government’s strategy in the SDPRP through a mix of lending and
analytical instruments in support of the evolving institutional structures of Ethiopia. A
series of annual budget support operations, Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs),
were prepared to support policy reforms measured by Government actions specified
under this framework. The second operation of the series, PRSC-II, discussed by the
Board on November 30, 2004, included PSD policy content in the areas of privatization,
competition policy and WTO accession. While the PRSC represented a vehicle for policy
dialogue and facilitated addressing policy and regulatory issues, the PSD CB project was
intended to provide complementary financial support and technical assistance necessary
to enable the Government to implement key PSD policy reforms.

5.       The PSD CB Project was also designed to complement ongoing efforts led by
development partners supporting PSD reforms. In particular, European Union (EU), the
African Development Bank (AfDB), the UK Department for International Development
(DFID), the US Agency for International Development (USAID) and the United Nations
Development Program (UNDP) were actively supporting PSD, and in some cases through
an integrated program with similar themes. 3During the project preparation, the Bank
team consulted and coordinated with the donors bilaterally as well as with two donor
groups established for the DTIS follow-up (PSD Working Group) and for the PRSC-I1
preparation (PSD Technical Team). As a result, the PSD CB Project was designed to
complement activities funded by other donors. In the area of capacity building, the PSD
CB project complemented the EU-funded Micro and Small Enterprise Development
Program which focused on building capacity of the micro firms and micro-finance
institutions (MFIs). In the area of WTO accession, the PSD CB project supplemented the
support offered by the EU which focused on Ethiopia’s negotiations with the EU through
an Economic Partnership Agreement (EPA) and implementation of the Common Market
for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA) regional integration agenda. The project also
complemented the USAID proposed support which focused on the legal and
administrative dimensions of WTO accession. In the area of privatization, Bank support
complemented programs of AfDB and DFID.




2
    Project Appraisal Document, Page 4.
3
    Areas of assistance included business services, trade facilitation, capacity building and business environment.

                                                                    10
1.2   Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

6.     The original objective of the project was to facilitate increased participation of the
private sector in the Borrower’s economy by creating conditions for improving
productivity and competitiveness of the said sector (Development Financing Agreement
(DFA) dated March 10, 2005).

7.      This goal was to be achieved by helping accelerate the process of divestiture of
public enterprises and facilitating increased private participation; improving the business
environment and increasing competition and the contestability of markets; strengthening
the linkages and integration of the Ethiopian economy into the global markets;
strengthening support for technical and business management skills and thus improving
the productivity at the firm level. The project was intended to integrate complementary
and mutually reinforcing activities to support enterprise needs, including a matching
grant fund, tools for business schools to better train managers and professionals to
support competition and economic integration, and a business plan competition to
catalyze innovation, and entrepreneurship. The project, particularly components relating
to privatization, competition and WTO accession were planned to support
implementation of policy measures agreed in the framework of the PRSC, and thus the
poverty reduction strategy of the Government.

8.    The key outcome indicators selected to monitor the achievement of the PDO
were:

     i. Increased Private Investment in GDP ratio from 10.5 percent in 2003/04 to 15
        percent in 2009 (including privatized firms)
    ii. 4,500 new jobs created in the private sector by project end; and
   iii. Value added per worker increased by 20 percent in participating firms by project
        end.

9.      The Project Development Objective and outcome indicators were similarly stated
in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD).

1.3    Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key
Indicators, and reasons/justification

10.     The PDO was revised once in a restructuring done on April 1, 2008 and the
original outcome indicators have been modified twice in the restructurings of the project
dated April 1, 2008 and July 3, 2012. Table 1 below shows the PDO and the key
indicators as stated in the original agreement and in the subsequent two restructurings.




                                             11
Table 1
Financing                 PDO Statement                     Key Indicators
Agreement
Original DFA       Facilitate increased           - Increased Private Investment to
dated 10 March     participation of the private     GDP ratio from 10.5 percent in
2005               sector in the borrower’s         2003/04 to 15percent in 2009
                   economy by creating              (including privatized firms)
                   conditions for improving       - 4500 new jobs created in the
                   productivity and                 private sector by project end
                   competitiveness of the said    - Value added per worker
                   sector                           increased by 20percent in
                                                    participating firms by project end
First amendment    Facilitate increased           - Increase in exports by the
to DFA:            participation of the private     participating firms by the end of
Original           sector in the Borrower’s         the project
amendment and      economy by creating            - Increase in jobs created in the
restatement        conditions for improving         beneficiary firms by project end
agreement dated    productivity & export          - Value added per worker increase
01 April 2008      competitiveness                  by 20percent in participating
                                                    firms by project end
Second amendment   To facilitate increased        - Number of Private Sector jobs
to DFA (level II   participation of the private     created in participating firms and
restructuring):    sector in the economy by         targeted sectors (target: at least
Extension of       creating conditions for          10percent)
closing date and   improving productivity and     - Proportion of total value of
reallocation of    competitiveness                  Public enterprise assets
proceed dated 03                                    transferred to private sector
July 2012                                           management and ownership
                                                    (target: 27percent by Yr. 3 &
                                                    55percent by Yr.5)
                                                  - Value of exports in participating
                                                    firms and targeted sectors, at
                                                    least 25percent increase in
                                                    exports and/or at least 10 firms
                                                    starting to export as a result of
                                                    the support
                                                  - Direct project beneficiaries
                                                    (number), of which female
                                                    (percent) (Target: 5000,
                                                    50percent)




                                          12
11.     Midway through the implementation of the project, the Government 4 refocused its
industrial strategy to support selected sectors to increase exports and lead the
industrialization of the economy. Accordingly, the language in the original PDO was
slightly restated during the restructuring done on April 1, 2008 to emphasize on export
competitiveness. The indicators were also revised accordingly to focus the results on
exports.

12.     The second restructuring of the project (dated 3 July 2012) was a level II
restructuring which did not change the PDO. However, the key indicators were changed
to align the PDO indicators and the intermediate result indicators. One outcome indicator
was dropped, which was found to be difficult to track, and two outcome indicators were
added to introduce indicators that track the progress on the support for the privatization
program and one of the Bank’s core indicators (Please refer to Table 1 for details).

1.4        Main Beneficiaries

13.    The PAD did not identify specific target beneficiaries of the project. The PDO
statement indicates that the private sector would be the main beneficiary of the project.
However, this is a broad and generic identification of the beneficiary group.

14.     In the interventions planned under each component and the results framework, the
project targets individual firms (private sector), individual entrepreneurs, graduate school
students at the Addis Ababa University and women as beneficiaries.

1.5        Original Components (as approved)

15.     At approval, the PSD CB project had three components and five sub components
as follows.

16.     Component one - Accelerating the implementation of privatization Program
(IDA US$ 9.87 million.): This component was designed to assist the Government in
accelerating the implementation of its privatization program of commercial public
enterprises. To achieve this objective, the Government planned to make use of a range of
divestiture modalities including direct sale, concessions, leasing, joint ventures,
management contracts, etc. Further, in order to address concerns of potential investors
related to labor issues, the divestiture process would allow the successful bidder
flexibility to restructure the labor force of the enterprise. This component was designed to
provide financial and technical assistance in the following areas:

    (1) Institutional capacity building of the Privatization and Public Enterprise
        Supervisory Authority (PPESA) – which would cover training of the PPESA staff
        and board members on topics such as negotiating skills and contract management.


4
 Plan for Accelerated and Sustained Development to End Poverty (PASDEP), 2005/06-2009/2010, Vol. 1, September 2006 - The
Government prioritized five sectors to provide support to increase export and competitiveness. These sectors were textile and garment,
Leather and leather products, Sugar, Agro business (Flower, high value fruits and vegetables) and cement industries.

                                                                 13
          An enhanced information system, building on the systems that were in use in
          Public Enterprise Supervisory Agency (PESA) and Ethiopia Privatization Agency
          (EPA) would also be designed and implemented 5.
    (2)   Transaction advisory services to the divestiture process - would support transaction
          advisors to assist PPESA at various stages in transactions for selected larger and
          more complex transactions.
    (3)   Environmental Audits - This would fund full and partial environmental s,
          identified as necessary during the environmental pre-audit.
    (4)   Retrenchment program - This would assist in dealing with excess labor in public
          enterprises slated for privatization.
    (5)   Studies - A short term consultancy will be funded to help design and implement a
          system to monitor compliance by investors with contract covenants.

17.    Component Two - Improving the Business Environment through
implementation of Competition Policy and Accession to the WTO (IDA US$ 1.1
million.): This component aimed at assisting the Government in the effective
implementation of its competition policy, preparation for WTO accession negotiations,
and long-term capacity building for the formulation and implementation of trade and
competition policy. The ultimate objectives of the policy were to maintain and encourage
competition, strengthen integration in the world economy, increase economic efficiency
and competitiveness, and promote consumer welfare. Technical assistance and training
were planned to be provided under the two sub-components covering competition policy
and WTO accession:

18.      Subcomponent A - Implementation of Competition Policy - would assist in the
implementation of the Trade Practices Proclamation in order to ensure a level playing
field, fair business practices, and greater accountability and transparency in government-
business relations for all economic agents. It consisted of (i) preparation of
implementation guidelines, regulations, procedures and methods relating to various
provisions of the Proclamation; (ii) staff capacity and institution building through the
provision of short term visiting international expert/advisers; and (iii) Materials - to
ensure that staff in the Competition Commission, the Secretariat and in MoTI has the
material support necessary to do their jobs.

19.     Subcomponent B - Support to WTO Accession – would help the Government to
prepare for negotiations on WTO accession by supplementing other bilateral assistance
and coordinating closely with other donors and international agencies involved in the
process. It consisted of: (i) Analytical studies of the different policy options open to the
Government as it considers the degree and pace of liberalization that it was prepared to
offer in various sectors; (ii) Short-term advisors to help in the preparation of responses to
questions from WTO members, the elaboration of negotiating positions, and the delivery
of workshops; (iii) Training - in addition to dissemination workshops for all studies,
various seminars were to be conducted for the private sector, civil society and parliament


5
  Privatization and Public Enterprises Agency (PPESA) was formed when Public Enterprise Supervisory Agency (PESA) and
Ethiopia Privatization Agency (EPA) were merged under one Authority

                                                            14
in order to improve public awareness of the objectives, issues and challenges involved in
WTO accession; and (iv) Materials and workshops - a limited amount of materials and
documentation would be provided to ensure the Government Ministries have the
materials to support their jobs.

20.    Component Three: Strengthening the international competitiveness of the
private sector and the capacities of its representative organizations (IDA US$ 8
million.): This component would help strengthen human and institutional capacity of the
private sector. It included three complementary and mutually reinforcing sub-
components.

21.     Subcomponent A - BIZCAP – was aimed at building international competitiveness
within private firms, and at building the capacity of private business and professional
associations and of chambers to better serve their members. It consisted of two
“windows.? The first, FIRMCAP focused on building the international competitiveness
of private firms. The proposed basic delivery mechanism was a Matching Grant Scheme
(MGS) where an individual firm would finance an agreed proportion of the costs of
training and/or technical assistance it desired. Three types of activities were to be carried
out within FIRMCAP: (i) pro-active promotion to firms of the benefits of using business
development services, in order to build competitiveness; (ii) free, on-going support and
advice in preparing their requests for grant funding; and (iii) the grants themselves
including approving requests on the basis of compliance with clear eligibility criteria, and
monitoring implementation of supported activities. The second window, ASCAP
(Matching Grant for Associations and Chambers) would provide support to private sector
entities such as business and professional associations and chambers of commerce, so as
to improve their advocacy capabilities, expand membership, and where appropriate,
regulate professional codes of practice.

22.      Subcomponent B – SCHOOLCAP - This sub-component would build on the IFC
initiative called the Global Business School Network (GBSN) started in 2002 to
strengthen the institutional capacity of Business Schools in developing countries.
SCHOOLCAP would improve the capacity of the Faculty of Business and Economics at
the Addis Ababa University. Through its activities, SCHOOLCAP would contribute to
the development of a cadre of the middle managers that would be needed by an
expanding private sector. It would also help strengthen the entrepreneurial spirit and
innovativeness in the Ethiopian economy. It was also expected to strengthen the capacity
of the public service to better understand and respond to the needs of the private sector.
Activities planned included upgrading the program curriculum and support the
implementation of the revisions, design courses in the areas of competition policy and
WTO accession, annual training to transfer skills to the other business schools and
regular publication both to communicate new knowledge and record the development of
business education in Ethiopia.

23.    Subcomponent C - BIZPLAN – Business Plan Competition (BIZPLAN) was
designed to assist GoE’s efforts to support and grow private SMEs in Ethiopia. The
Ethiopian BIZPLAN aimed to provide technical and financial assistance to SMEs thus

                                             15
enabling these entrepreneurs to strengthen their skills and increase the availability and
quality of services, both financial and technical assistance. By engaging the private
banks, BIZPLAN would also strengthen and develop their institutional capacity to
provide better services, financial and non-financial, to the private sector. The Ethiopian
BIZPLAN was to promote competition among entrepreneurs for new and pioneering
ideas aimed at increasing efficiency and productivity, and demonstrate to Ethiopian banks
that lending to SMEs is an attractive and viable business line. Finalists’ of the BLZPLAN
would receive technical assistance (TA) from the competition organizer and winners of
the BIZPLAN would receive a financial award that would be placed as collateral in the
private banks participating in the scheme, against which the bank(s) would provide
leveraged lending.

1.5.1     Revised Components

24.       The original components were not changed throughout the project period.

1.7       Other significant changes

25.     During the global food crisis in 2008, the simultaneous impact of high inflation,
widening trade deficit, severe drought and local food shortages had caused severe
hardships for the country and, especially, the most vulnerable segments of the population.
Even though the country’s economy had been growing at double digit rates for the year
prior to 2008, the growth had not removed the country’s long-standing problem of
pervasive food insecurity and severe vulnerability to shocks. Following the request by the
Government of Ethiopia, the World Bank launched an emergency operation under the
Global Food Crisis Response Program (GFRP) with the objective of ensuring Ethiopia’s
food security in 2009. The Program was financed from a combination of new IDA grant
resources as well as redeployment of existing IDA commitments from 12 on-going
projects in the existing IDA portfolio for a total amount of about US$137.5 million6. An
amount equal to US$ 7 million (equivalent SDR 4.46 million) was reallocated from the
Private Sector Development Capacity Building Project (Credit: US$ 6 million, Grant
US$ 1 million), corresponding to a 28percent reduction of the original project amount 7.
Despite the substantial reduction, the PDO was still considered achievable and the
reduction in the amount did not result in a cancellation of any component that required a
restatement of the PDO.

26.   The Project was restructured twice, extending the closing date by a total of 18
months. The first restructuring, dated April 1, 2008, extended the project from June 30,
2011 to July 31, 2012 for 13 months and restated the PDO to focus on export
competitiveness. The second restructuring, dated July 3, 2012, was done to enable full


6
  Emergency Food Crisis Response Program of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia Under the Global Food Crisis Response
Program Emergency Program Paper for a proposed Additional Financing IDA Grant in the Amount of SDR 16.75 (US$25 million
equivalent) for the Productive Safety Net APL II Project and Proposed IDA Grant in the amount SDR 85.5 million (US$127.5 million
equivalent) and IDA Credit in the amount of SDR 82.1 million US$122.5 million equivalent) for a Fertilizer Support Project (Report
No. 46658-ET dated November 25, 2008).
7
  Project Performance Assessment Report, Fertilizer Support project, Report No. 62834 dated 28 June 2011

                                                               16
utilization of resources and streamline the result indicators and extended the project
closing date for additional 5 months from July 31, 2012 to December 31, 2012.

27.    The local currency (Ethiopian Birr) was devalued three times since the start of the
project resulting in more than 20percent devaluation of the local currency. This
ultimately resulted in extra funds in Ethiopian Birr than originally envisaged. 8 The
second restructuring of the project (dated 03 July 2012) reallocated most of these extra
resources to component three for the Matching Grants Scheme.

2.         Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

28.     Soundness of background analysis: The preparation and design of the project
relied on several analytical studies done by the Bank, the Government and other donors
in the project intervention areas in Ethiopia and the experience of the Bank in sub
Saharan Africa and other regions. 9 The project preparation also included a consultation
workshop with the private sector, civil society and academia and incorporated the key
lessons learned based on the findings from these consultations. The project was designed
to support the policy dialogue under PRSC. It complimented the various interventions in
private sector development by development partners and was consistent with the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS, August 2004) and the Government’s development priorities
(SDPRP).

29.     Project Design: The project appraisal document identified sector specific
constraints to the development of the private sector in Ethiopia such as dominant public
sector in production and distribution activities, weak integration of the economy into the
global economy and low productivity and competency of the private sector. The project
design included interventions to address the main constraints in each of these areas. The
design reflected lessons learnt to apply an integrated approach to private sector
development through the three components of the project. It included privatization
agenda, addressing business skills, creating competition by supporting startups,
supporting the private sector institutions, direct financial support to the private sector and
supporting the government in its WTO accession agenda.

30.    The project design considered alternatives to the financing instrument and
modality. 10 However, alternative interventions to achieving the intended objectives in the
PDO were not explored. For instance, the project assumes the privatization of the State


8
  The effective exchange rate used at appraisal (October 12, 2004) was 1 US$ to 8.6 ETB. The current exchange rate is 1 US$ to 18.5
ETB.
9
  The analytical studies considered for project design included; GoE “ Developing a design for a Matching Grant Scheme for Private
Sector in Ethiopia?, Development of a capacity building program for sectoral and professional associations, WTO Road Map,
categorization of public enterprises by Modes of Divestiture; and Bank studies “ Investment climate assessment and its updates,
Country Economic Memorandum with its several background studies, Principles and Approaches to Privatization in Ethiopia; as well
as other studies and evaluation reports by other donors (EU, GTZ & AfDB).
10
   Some of the alternatives considered during project design were to finance the technical support through the PRSC, use of APL and
to include separate component for staff retrenchment

                                                                17
Owned Enterprises (SOEs), which were mostly in the manufacturing industry, would
contribute to the productivity and competitiveness of the firms. However, it did not
explore alternative interventions that could have increased productivity and
competitiveness of the SOEs such as increasing competition and political and
administrative reforms. 11

31.     Project Objectives: The Project development objective as stated in the original
DFA is to facilitate increased participation of the private sector in the Borrower’s
economy by creating conditions for improving productivity and competitiveness of the
said sector. The development objective was defined by broad outcome indicators which
make attribution of outcomes and results to project interventions difficult. 12 The objective
assumes that project interventions would be able to address most of the challenges of the
private sector in the economy. It also assumes that increased productivity and
competitiveness would be as a result of the project interventions and overlooks other
factors that may affect productivity such as technology, cost of doing business, etc.

32.    The project components were in line with the project objectives and successful
implementation of the interventions under the components would contribute to the
increased productivity and competitiveness of the private sector.

33.     The project components introduced new and innovative approaches to private
sector development in Ethiopia. For instance, matching grant schemes and business plan
competitions to spur entrepreneurship were introduced for the first time in the country
under this project. The Privatization program benefited from a Voluntary Retrenchment
Program designed in line with international best practices and the business school
introduced new courses on applied trade policy, competition policy and regulatory
economics with the support of the project.

34.     Implementation arrangements: The executing agency for the project was
Ministry of Industry 13. A Project Coordination Unit was established under the Ministry
and the project was implemented by four implementing agencies. 14 A Steering
Committee, led by the State Minister for Ministry of Industry, and composed of public
and private sector stakeholders was set up to provide guidance and oversight of the
project.

35.     This implementation set up provided strong leadership from the government and
involved key private sector stakeholders through the Steering Committee in the oversight
of project implementation.


11
   Ha-Joon Change, United Nations, Department for Economic and Social Affairs (UNDESA), “ State Owned Enterprise Reform?,
2007
12
   The PDO was restated in subsequent restructuring (April 1, 2008) to focus on export competitiveness
13
   The Ministry of Trade and Industry was the main counterpart during the approval of the project. The Ministry was split into two
Ministries (Ministry of Industry and Ministry of Trade) in 2010 and MoI became the executing agency for the project. The term
Executing agency is used here to differentiate the agency ultimately responsible for the overall implementation of the project, from
implementing agency which is used to define the agencies which actually carried out the activities of the project.
14
   During the design, the project was to be implemented by Privatization and Public Enterprises Authority (PPESA) for component
one, Ministry of Industry and Trade (MoTI) for Component two, Addis Ababa University (AAU) and Enterprise Ethiopia (MoTI) for
component Three.

                                                                 18
36.    However, the decentralized implementation of the project by four agencies
created some challenge in monitoring compliance with Bank procedures such as
procurement and financial management.

37.    Adequacy of Government’s commitment: The relatively successful
implementation of the project for the most part and the involvement of high level officials
of MoI in the project implementation indicate Government ownership of the project. The
Government has provided consistent support, including counterpart funding in the
amount of about ETB 19.23 million (US$ equivalent of 1.1 million) 15 towards project
implementation.

38.     Risk and Risk mitigation: The project design identified the key risk elements,
some of which had an impact on the implementation of the project. For instance, weak
supply response from the private sector was identified as one area with significant risk of
realization. As anticipated in the risk analysis, most of the project beneficiaries were from
the capital city and the number of beneficiaries from the regions is small compared to the
capital city, Addis Ababa. It shows that the risk mitigation measure proposed was either
not effective or properly implemented. It is very likely that this risk could have been
minimized if a demand assessment had been prepared during project preparation or if the
project design had included a mechanism to increase the participation from the regions
during project implementation..

39.     It should also be noted that timely implementation of the PSD policy agenda did
not fully materialize as identified in the risk analysis. The Bank’s budget support to the
Government through the PRSC was suspended following election disputes in 2005 which
ended the mechanism for policy dialogue between the Bank and the Government.

40.     In addition, the weak capacity (awareness) of the private sector to implement the
matching grants scheme should also have been considered as a risk as it created delays in
project implementation and low uptake of the demand driven activities at the initial stage
of the project.

2.2        Implementation

41.     As stated earlier, an amount of US$ 7 million (equivalent SDR 4.46 million) was
reallocated from the Private Sector Development Capacity Building Project (Credit:
US$ 6 million, Grant US$ 1 million) to the emergency operation under the Global Food
Crisis Response Program (GFRP). This reduced the overall resources available for the
implementation of project activities.




15
  This amount refers to only the direct cash contribution from the Government and does not include in kind contribution such as staff
time, operating costs etc.

                                                                 19
42.     The appreciation of the SDR against the US Dollar and the devaluation of the
local currency (Ethiopian Birr) resulted in close to USS 1 million foreign exchange gain,
making additional resources available for project implementation.

43.      The Project was restructured twice to re-align the project development objective
to the Government’s emerging development strategy; to reallocate the extra resources as
well as to adjust to the reduction; and to streamline the outcome indicators in line with
the PDO. These changes enabled the project to respond to changing Government
priorities. The closing date for the project was also extended by a total of 18 months,
which enabled the project to achieve most of its targets and exceed some.

44.     The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) experienced some staff turnover at the
initial stage of the project but maintained most of its staff throughout project
implementation. This has enabled smooth implementation of activities.

45.    Based on the capacity assessment done during the design of the project, the PCU
was to be fully staffed including a dedicated financial management and procurement staff.
However, when the procurement specialist hired for the PCU resigned, replacement was
not done until the end of the project. This was exacerbated by the fact that four
implementing agencies were involved to carry out project activities and procurements.
This created monitoring and coordination challenge in procurement and contracts
management. 16

46.     The original design of the project for the implementation of component three
(BIZCAP and BIZPLAN) was to support a Business Management Unit (Enterprise
Ethiopia) within the existing structure in Ministry of Industry and Trade. However, this
arrangement did not become effective in managing the project activities and initially
created delay in implementation. Subsequently, it was agreed to set up a semi-
autonomous unit, 17 Ethiopia Competitiveness Facility (ECF), fully dedicated to
implement the various activities under component three of the project. In addition, the
complexity in the design for the Voluntary Retrenchment Program (VRP) created some
delay initially in the implementation of the privatization program.

47.     Additional financing for the project was requested and a pre-appraisal mission
was carried out in February 2011. However, the additional financing did not go through
due to disagreements on proposals made for additional safeguard measures and the
project’s failure to comply with fiduciary requirement to submit a Special Audit Report
for the Voluntary Retrenchment Program (VRP) under the privatization component. 18
The additional financing would have provided the opportunity to expand the project
interventions and increase its impact for the development of the private sector.


16
   The project faced two contract disputes during project implementation.
17
   Ethiopia Competitiveness Facility (ECF) was created under the management of the Project Coordination Unit, independent of the
organizational structure of the Ministry of Industry, and staffed with experts recruited competitively from the market.
18
   The original financing agreement states that “the borrower shall, not later than December 31 in each FY, carry out an audit of the
implementation of the severance payment program, including the identification of actual beneficiaries and the disbursement
arrangements in respect thereof.? DFA dated 10 March 2005, page 34 (item 8.)

                                                                  20
2.3        Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

48.     M & E Design: The original PDO had three outcome indicators; (i) Increased
private investment to GDP ratio from 10.5percent in 2003/04 to 15percent in 2009; (ii)
4,500 new jobs created in the private sector by project end; and (iii) value added per
worker increased by 20percent in participating firms. While indicator (ii) can be directly
attributed to the project interventions and measured under the matching grants scheme,
the indicator on value added per worker (iii) was found to be difficult to measure as no
mechanism was put in place to measure and track the value added. The first indicator on
increased private investment to GDP (i) was dropped as it would be difficult to attribute
to project interventions.

49.     Most of the intermediate results indicators were specific, measurable, attributable
and relevant. However, some of the indicators (such as increase in exports, increase in
sales of domestic market suppliers, increase in membership of associations, increase in
qualified faculty and increase in annual subscribers to AAU journal) were found to be
either difficult to measure or irrelevant to the change to the revised PDO (restructuring
dated April 1, 2008). The design could also have considered additional result indicator
for component three to track the number of business startups established through
BIZPLAN competition, which was subsequently done through restructuring. The revised
indicators, in general, also followed the SMART principle though the revision of some of
the indicators was done very late in the project lifetime.

50.    The design of the arrangements for result monitoring relied on annual reports
from the Ministry of Finance and PCU. Project impact data collection was mainly the
responsibility of the PCU and the statistics department. However, the project
implementation arrangement did not include a recruitment of an M & E specialist within
the PCU.

51.     A monitoring and evaluation system was prepared and incorporated in the Project
Implementation Plan (PIP). However, the PAD did not have baseline data at design for
two of the three outcome indicators, which were supposed to be determined the first year
of project implementation through data collection by the PCU 19.

52.     M & E implementation: One of the original outcome indicators and some of the
intermediate result indicators were found to be difficult to measure during the
implementation of the project. In addition, the project development objective was revised
during restructuring (April 1, 2008) to align the project with the shift in Government’s
strategy to focus on export oriented selected sectors. This resulted in revising some of the
indicators and dropping others which were no longer found to be relevant.

53.     The second restructuring of the project (July 3, 2012) further streamlined the PDO
indicators with the intermediate result indicators. One of the reasons for the restructuring


19
   The baseline data for one of the indicators was later on established through data collected by the PCU while the other one was
subsequently dropped during restructuring.

                                                                 21
was to ensure the continuous relevance of the project to the Government’s new Growth
and Transformation Plan (GTP, 2010/11-2014/15) that emphasizes the leading role of
manufacturing industry in overall growth of the economy and job creation. Progress
towards outcome was to be captured through increased exports and new jobs indicators.

54.     Recent progress of the project towards the achievement of targets has been
properly documented in the Implementation Status and Results Report (ISR) 20 using
specific data for results achieved.

55.     However, the results achieved on some of the result indicators which were later
on changed or dropped is not readily available either because no data was collected at the
time or the information was not properly consolidated to show the overall achievements
(contribution) of the project against all the indicators used throughout project
implementation.

56.    Lastly, it is noted that the ISR of the project used a slightly different statement for
the project development objective than in the restructured DFA (April 1, 2008) 21. The
PDO is stated as “To improve the enabling environment and institutional capacity for a
sustained increase in private sector investment and exports?. No documentation could be
found that identifies the source of this statement.

57.     M & E utilization: It appears the results framework was adequately utilized and
progress was tracked throughout the implementation which had led to an attempt for
additional financing 22 for the project and the final restructuring in July 3, 2013 where
resources were reallocated to best performing components to strengthen the impact of the
project.

2.4        Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

58.     Safeguard: The project was a category B as the implementation of the
privatization program raised the issue of responsibility for environmental impacts from
past and ongoing operations as well as broader concerns of environmental management.
During project preparation an environmental pre-audit was undertaken that: (i) measured
the environmental and social conditions, for both past and on-going activities, of the
selected enterprises against the risk of being held responsible for damage; (ii) determined
the need for remedial actions necessary to bring a given enterprise into compliance with
national and bank safeguard policies prior to privatization; and (iii) formulated
recommendations for partial and full audits for each facility or site, as applicable, and
suggested a framework for subsequent audits 23. Accordingly, full environmental audit on
24 SOEs and partial audits on 72 enterprises were conducted under the support of the
project.


20
   ISR Seq. No. 17 dated 26 December 2012
21
   The PDO in the DFA dated April 1, 2008 reads as “To facilitate increased participation of the private sector in the Borrower’s
economy by creating conditions for improving productivity and export competitiveness?.
22
   Additional financing for the project was proposed in 2011 but did not reach Board approach stage due to inconclusive negotiation.
23
   Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (ISDS), report No. 30638 dated November 14, 2004.

                                                                 22
59.    Financial Management: In general, the project maintained good financial
management systems throughout the life of the project. The project complied with most
of the requisite financial covenants outlined in its legal agreement which included
submission of quarterly IFRs and annual audits. However, there was a delay in
submission of a special audit report for the Voluntary Retrenchment Program (VRP)
(discussed below). Counterpart funds were contributed to support project implementation.

60.     Special audit of VRP issues- The special audit of the VRP component was a legal
requirement which was not timely complied with. When the audit was conducted in 2011,
it was found that a significant amount of resources disbursed represented overpayments,
which resulted in a refund amount of close to US$ 1.6 million back to the designated
account.

61.    The financial management risk ratings during project implementation were mostly
rated Moderate.

62.     Procurement Management: Most of the planned procurement activities were
implemented in a timely manner. The last Post Procurement Review (PPR) of the project
showed that there were procedural gaps associated with procurement capacity limitations
in the implementing Agencies (IAs) and that there were weaknesses in institutionalizing
good practices of public procurement management and performance. The project had
challenges such as procurement staff turnover, contract administration and complete
documentation of procurements and contracts.

2.5        Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

63.     The Ethiopia Competitiveness Facility (ECF) was created under the project to
carry out activities under component three of the project – Strengthening the international
competitiveness of the private sector and the capacity of its representative organizations.
The implementation of this component was found to be successful based on an
independent impact assessment of the program commissioned by DFID 24. Based on the
recommendations of this assessment, DFID has committed GBP 4 million to support ECF
to continue the matching grants fund to firms (FIRMCap) to increase their productivity
and competiveness.

64.    The support under SCHOOLCAP subcomponent for graduate level program on
regulatory economics and trade policy was taken up by the European Union with
financing of Euro 800,000. It supported additional 50 students and closed end of 2012.
The EU is planning to continue its support to the program under its proposed new project
on Trade Enhancement and Facilitation. 25




24
   Ethiopia/ Evaluation of the impact and value for money of the Ethiopia Competitiveness Facility, UK Department for International
Development, April 2012
25
   Information received from the delegation of the European Commission in Ethiopia, May 2013.

                                                                23
65.     The privatization program as well as the implementation of competition policy
will be continued by the Government beyond Bank’s financing; and there is a possibility
of support from the Chinese Government to support the Government of Ethiopia’s
accession to the WTO.

66.    Moreover, the bank is in the process of designing a new project to promote
Competiveness and Job Creation that would build upon the results of this project in
export development, firm level support and job creation.

3.        Assessment of Outcomes

67.     The language in the original PDO was slightly restated during the restructuring
done in April 2008 by adding the term “export? on competitiveness with no other
difference between the original and revised PDO. Hence, for the purpose of this project
implementation completion review, the restated PDO 26 is used to assess the outcomes.

68.     In addition, the outcome indicators were revised twice in the restructurings of 1
April 2008 and 3 July 2012. The indicators that were dropped (Private investment to
GDP –including privatized firms and value added per worker) were found to be difficult
to attribute to the project interventions as well as difficult to measure. Further, results
using these indicators were never measured. This is a reflection of weakness in the
original design in the selection of the indicators, which is indicated in the report in the
section on the assessment of quality of entry. As the PDO was not significantly changed
and the outcome indicators revised were found to be not appropriate to measure the
outcome of the project, a split evaluation of project outcome using the original indicators
would not provide a meaningful assessment nor yield any significant impact on ratings.

3.1       Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

Rating: Substantial

69.    During the preparation and design of the project, the Government of Ethiopia was
implementing its economic reform program on poverty reduction through rapid economic
growth within a framework of macroeconomic stability and positive social impact. The
government had initiated a number of reforms in the public and private sector. The
Sustainable Development and Poverty Reduction Program (SDPRP) of the government in
the 1990s set the background and context for the project. In subsequent years during the
implementation of the project, the Government’s strategy shifted towards promoting
export led industrialization. The current strategy of the Government, Growth and
Transformation Plan (GTP, 2010/11-2014/15) emphasizes the leading role of the
manufacturing sector in the economy and job creation. It gives particular emphasis to



26
  The revised objective of the project is to facilitate increased participation of the private sector in the Borrower’s economy by
creating conditions for improving productivity and export competiveness (Agreement providing for the amendment and restatement of
the Development Financing Agreement, dated April 1, 2008).

                                                               24
selected sectors that are labor intensive, use agricultural products, are export oriented and
import substituting and contribute to rapid technology transfer. 27

70.     The design of the project took into account a number of assessments and analyses
done by the Bank and others. It incorporated lessons learned from other projects of a
similar nature in Ethiopia and other countries and used an integrated approach to achieve
the project objectives.

71.    The project components and subcomponents were designed to address the key
themes of the project development objective: increased participation of the private sector,
improving productivity, and export competitiveness. Increased participation of the private
sector was targeted through privatization, business plan competition, matching grants
scheme and support to private sector institutions; increased productivity was to be
achieved through privatization, matching grants scheme, competition policy and skills
development (SCHOOLCAP) and export competitiveness was supported through
matching grants scheme and WTO accession. The project’s original intended objectives
as well as the revised one remained relevant to the Government’s strategy as it focused
on productivity and competitiveness of firms in manufacturing industries, job creation
and exports.

72.     The design of the project also involved four implementing agencies. Each agency
was responsible for the implementation of a component or subcomponent, which were
not interdependent on one another. However, this arrangement has compromised the
quality of procurement processes and contracts management.

73.     Moreover, the initial design of the implementation arrangement did not put in
place an independent unit to implement component three of the project (Strengthening the
international competitiveness of the private sector and the capacities of its representative
organization). The original plan for the implementation of this component was to
strengthen an existing unit (Enterprise Ethiopia) within the Ministry of Industry.
However, it took a long time to start the implementation of the interventions, at the end of
which the implementation arrangement had to be changed and a new semi-autonomous
unit, Ethiopia Competitiveness Facility (ECF), fully staffed with competitively recruited
employees was established.

74.      The implementation of the project was kept in line with the Government’s
priorities and strategy. The Project maintained its relevance throughout implementation
by revising the development objective (restructuring, April 2008) and the key outcome
indicators (restructuring April 2008 & July 2012) in line with the Government’s
emerging strategies. Two of the three original outcome indicators (Private investment to
GDP and value added per worker) were revised as they were found to be either too broad,
difficult to attribute to the project interventions or difficult to measure. In addition, one of
the outcome indicators introduced during the first restructuring (value of exports) was
dropped at the subsequent restructuring as it was found to be too difficult to track under


27
     Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, Growth and Transformation Plan (2010/11-2014/15), (P. 56), Vol. 1, November 2010.

                                                                 25
the project. Some of the intermediate result indicators set during design such as increase
in sales of supported domestic market suppliers, increase in the number of annual
subscribers to the Addis Ababa University journal etc. had lost their relevance to the
Government’s evolving strategy and were subsequently dropped during the restructurings.
However, the final restructuring of the project that streamlined most of the result
indicators to the PDO was done very late in the project lifetime, July 2012, with only six
months left for closure. Even though an attempt was made to restructure the result
framework and the indicators during the additional financing in 2011 28, the proposal for
the additional financing did not get through. 29

75.     Additional resources were reallocated in a timely fashion to continue the
successful matching grants scheme that directly addressed the Government’s priority
agenda. The original project components were found to be relevant to the revised
development objective as it already incorporated interventions that supported export
industries.

76.    Equally important, the restructured project maintained its relevance to the new
Ethiopia Country Partnership Strategy (CPS, FY 13-16) of the Bank that was approved
on September 25, 2012. A key pillar of the CPS is to increase competitiveness and
productivity, with the focus on increased competitiveness in the manufacturing sector.

77.    As noted above, the project objectives, design and implementation had kept pace
with the changing environment and adequate adjustments were made on the project
development objective and project design, the outcome and result indicators and
implementations arrangements to keep the project relevant and achieve its intended
purposes. In addition, the fact that a range of activities received funding to continue
operation shows that the project objective is still relevant to the Government’s agenda. 30
Therefore, the relevance of the project is rated high.

3.2        Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: Substantial

78.     Achievement of the PDO: Overall, it can be reasonably said that the project was
able to substantially achieve its development objective to facilitate increased participation
of the private sector in the economy by creating conditions for improving productivity
and export competitiveness. Except for the relative weak performance of component two,
which accounted for 5percent of project budget, the project was able to meet or exceed its
set targets and complete the interventions envisaged during the design. The successful
implementation of project interventions have contributed to the increase in participation
of the private sector through privatization of state owned enterprises, increased


28
   Based on inputs from the bank task team
29
   The additional financing for the project proposed in 2011 did not reach Board approach stage due to inconclusive negotiation
30
   The Matching Grants scheme will be continued under DFID funding, the SchoolCap program was supported by EU after Bank
financing ended and Privatization program as well as the implementation of competition policy continues to be implemented by
Government own sources.

                                                                26
productivity and competitiveness through the matching grants scheme and by supporting
startups through business plan competitions. The Project interventions supported
technology and skills transfer under the matching grant schemes, enhanced the available
skill supply for the private sector through support to the business school and provided
support for market development, technology transfer, amendments of competition policy
and WTO accession.

79.     Table 2 below shows the linkage between the results achieved and the project
development objective. For ease of analysis, the PDO has been split into three intended
outcomes: (i) increasing participation of the private sector, (ii) improving productivity,
and (iii) export competitiveness.
Table 2
 Intended outcome                  Intervention                                  Result achieved
Increasing                      - Privatization of              -   44 SOEs were transferred to private
participation of the              SOEs                              ownership and 77percent of SOE total
private sector                  - Matching Grants                   asset value SOE identified in the PAD
                                  Scheme                            have gone through divestiture by the end
                                - BIZPLAN                           of the project
                                                                -   Volume of exports by beneficiary firms
                                                                    has increased by 29percent, with estimated
                                                                    increase in revenue of US$ 35 million31.
                                                                -   5,719 new jobs were created by MGS
                                                                    beneficiary firms (of which 60.4percent
                                                                    were women)
                                                                -   PPESA data shows that though redundant
                                                                    employees were laid off during
                                                                    privatizations of SOEs, the privatized
                                                                    enterprises which have started generating
                                                                    net profit have started increasing the
                                                                    number of their employees.
                                                                -   52 new businesses were established, out of
                                                                    which 77percent (40) have survived after
                                                                    the first year of operation
Improving                       - Matching Grants               -   Volume of exports increased by 29percent
productivity                      Scheme                        -   Curricula was revised for MBA and MSc
                                - SCHOOL CAP                        in accounting and Finance programs and
                                                                    new courses were introduced to enhance
                                                                    skills of business graduates




31
 Ethiopia/ Evaluation of the impact and value for money of the Ethiopia Competitiveness Facility, UK Department for International
Development, April 2012

                                                               27
Export                            - Matching Grants                - 20 firms have started exporting as a result
competitiveness                     Scheme                           of the support under the MGS
                                  - Support to WTO                 - Estimated increase in revenue of US$ 35
                                    Accession                        million in beneficiary firms
                                  - SCHOOLCAP                      - Competition policy was revised
                                                                   - Three impact assessment studies were
                                                                     carried out and technical support provided
                                                                     to support the WTO accession process
                                                                   - Master’s program on regulatory
                                                                     economics and trade policy was supported
                                                                     under the project and 41 students
                                                                     graduated. Additional 4 PHD candidates
                                                                     were financed by the project.

80.     The analysis below looks at achievement of the outcome indicators as revised
during the final restructuring in July 2012.

81.     PDO Indicator 1- Number of private sector jobs created in participating firms
and targeted sectors (target: at least 10percent, baseline: 1,917) 32 – The indicator tracks
the number of private sector jobs created in participating firms and targeted sectors under
the matching grants scheme and is measured as an average across all benefitting firms at
the end of the project. According to the ECF progress report (April 2013), total new jobs
created in all benefitted firms was 5,719 33 by the beneficiary firms under the matching
grants scheme only. This exceeds the target of 10percent additional jobs, equivalent to
2,109 jobs. The independent impact assessment of ECF commissioned by DFID 34 found
out that 39percent of the 25 firms surveyed indicated that they would have had fewer
employees if they had not participated in the Matching Grants Scheme, primarily due to
ECF helping them find new market opportunities that increased demand for their
products. Eight firms (32percent) have attributed 1,397 new jobs to the project. However,
most of the firms surveyed explained that the grants had increased productivity
substantially that they were producing significantly more per employee and thus were
able to meet growing demand with the same number of employees. 35

82.     The participation of the private sector is measured here by the number of
additional jobs created by the beneficiary firms. Due to the support provided by the
project, firms were able to increase demand by accessing new markets and increased
productivity that enabled them to employ more people to meet the increasing demand.
This had a direct impact on the project objective of increased private sector participation
in the economy by creating jobs to the population.




32
   A baseline of 1917 jobs is used in the results framework, which means the end target is at least 2,109 new jobs.
33
   ECF performance report, April 2013.
34
   Ethiopia/ Evaluation of the impact and value for money of the Ethiopia Competitiveness Facility, UK Department for International
Development, April 2012
35
   Due to the small number of the sample enterprises survey for the assessment, it would be difficult to do a rigorous statistical
analysis of the effects of the interventions. The assessment result uses the responses by the sample firms as the best option available.

                                                                   28
83.    Though the increase in the number of new jobs created under the project was not
tracked under the privatization program, data from PPESA show that though redundant
employees were laid off during privatizations of SOEs, the privatized enterprises which
have started generating net profit have started increasing the number of their employees;
hence contributing to the increase in employment in the economy.

84.      PDO Indicator 2- Proportion of total value of public enterprise assets
transferred to the private sector management and ownership (target: 27percent by Yr. 3
and 55percent by Yr. 5) – The project supported the privatization of 77percent 36 of the
total asset value of the 55 State Owned Enterprises identified during appraisal, exceeding
its target of 55percent of total asset value. Out of the 55 SOEs identified in the PAD for
privatization under the project, 44 of them have been transferred to private ownership
through sale, joint venture, liquidation or lease.

85.     The project supported the Government’s ongoing privatization program. The
Government privatized an additional 79 SOEs 37 outside of the project using its own
resources. It is reasonable to infer that, even though it is very likely that the privatization
of the SOEs supported by the project would have been done through government’s own
resources, the project provided additional resources for privatization which enabled
privatization of a total of 126 SOEs, which probably would not have been possible
without the project’s support. In addition, the project financed international expertise and
technical support which enhanced the capacity and skills of the privatization agency in
carrying out privatization program.

86.     PDO Indicator 3 – Value of exports in participating firms and targeted sectors, at
least 25percent increase in exports and/ or at least 10 firms starting to export as a result
of the support – The support under the matching grant scheme was primarily used by
firms to get international expertise and benchmarking exercises to increase quality and
productivity as well as for market development. The Project’s progress report 38 indicates
that on average there was a 29percent increase in the value of exports and 20 firms,
which were not exporting before project interventions, had started exporting. 39 According
to the independent impact assessment, the total estimated increase in revenues
attributable to ECF by the 25 sample firms who were able to provide an estimate, was
over US$ 16 million. When grossed up to the overall number of firms supported (55) 40,
the gross annual sales turnover impact of ECF was estimated at US$ 35.4 million. 41

87.     The achievement under this indicator meets the project development objective of
creating conditions for improved productivity and export competitiveness as it
contributed to the increase in exports which in turn increases the private sectors’


36
   ISR Seq. No. 17 dated 26 December 2012
37
   Cumulative performance report, PPESA, March 2012
38
   ECF performance report, April 2013
39
   ECF progress report, April 2013.
40
   The US$ 16 million sales increment based on the 235 firms surveyed is iterated to 55 of the total firms supported, which resulted in
gross annual sales impact of US$ 35.4 million.
41
   Ethiopia/ Evaluation of the impact and value for money of the Ethiopia Competitiveness Facility, UK Department for International
Development, April 2012

                                                                  29
contribution to the economy though export revenue. In addition, it has a long term impact
of creating knowledge and awareness within the private sector on how to access new
markets, firm’s performance as compared to international competitors and areas of
improvement to further enhance productivity.

88.     PDO Indicator 4 - Direct project beneficiaries (number) of which female (5000,
50percent) – This indicator is linked to the outcome indicator on number of jobs created
in participating firms and targeted sectors under the matching grants scheme. It refers to
the share of women in those firms workforce that have benefited from these grants.
Within the firms that received support through the MGS, the proportion of women
employees out of the total additional jobs created in the beneficiary firms was 60.4
percent, which exceeds the set target of 50percent 42.

89.     The participation of women as project beneficiaries contributes to the increased
role of women in the economy and its spillover effect on improved livelihood.

Achievement of Intermediate results

90.     Component one- Intermediate Indicator 1 – Number of public enterprises sold to
the private sector (target: 10 per annum in 2004/05 – 2008/09 period) – By the end of
2009, twenty nine SOEs were privatized. At the end of the project, forty seven SOEs
were divested; out of which forty four were transferred to private ownership 43 while three
were transferred to another government entity. This exceeds the project target to transfer
forty public enterprises to private ownership. The transfer of SOEs to private ownership
contributes to the increase in private sector investments, hence increasing the private
sector’s role in the overall economy.

91.     Component Two - Intermediate Indicator 1 – Revised competition policy enacted
with framework for fair trade practices and anti-trust separate from anti-dumping and
consumer protection framework - A revised competition policy with framework for fair
trade practices and anti-trust separate from antidumping and consumer protection
framework, based on international best practice, was enacted as planned during the
project implementation period.

92.     Component Two - Intermediate Indicator 2 – Independent competition authority
and secretariat with wider representation by public and private sector specialist and
other stakeholders - The objective to establish an independent competition authority and
secretariat with wider representation by public and private sector specialist and other
stakeholders was partially fulfilled in that an independent competition authority is set up.


42 ECF progress report, April 2013
43 An enterprise will be deemed to have been privatized when its ownership or control of the business has been transferred to the
private sector. This will apply regardless of the method of privatization used to transfer control. One hundred percent of the assets of
any enterprise deemed to have been privatized will count as having been privatized for the purpose of evaluation and performance
monitoring. Control of a business will be deemed to have been transferred to the private sector if either: (i) The government owns less
than 50 percent of the shares of the business (including liquidation), or (ii) Management of the business has been transferred to the
private sector by way of a contract. The contract can be either a management contract of three to five years, renewable, or through a
long term concession or lease. Where transfer of control is by way of contract, should the contract expire or be cancelled, the
enterprise will no longer be deemed to have been privatized (PAD, Page 29)

                                                                  30
The authority replaced the Trade Practice Investigation Commission established under
the previous competition law. However, the new independent competition authority was
established late in the project period and was not fully staffed by the end of the project.

93.    Component Two - Intermediate Indicators 3 – Studies on Ethiopia WTO
accessions prepared, disseminated to, and discussed by, WTO taskforce - Three studies
on WTO accession, for financial, telecommunications and transport sectors have been
conducted, disseminated and discussed by stakeholders as well as the WTO Task Force
and National Steering Committee. In addition, third working party discussions 44 were
supported by the project.

94.     The achievement of the targets under component two encourages a more
competitive environment that would typically lead to less barriers to entry to the private
sector and increase the share of the private sector. However, some of the targets were not
fully met which may have slowed down the pace of establishment of a more competitive
business environment and the country’s attempt to join the WTO, though the latter was
affected by a number of various factors.

95.    Component Three - Intermediate Indicator 1 – Number of Matching Grant
Support given to private firms for export expansion (target:150) – The Matching grant
scheme provided 165 grants to 55 companies across six sectors. The activities supported
under the scheme included market development, international expertise on product
development and production, system development, ISO and related certification and
workforce and management training.

96.    The MGS provided direct support that contributed to increasing productivity and
export competitiveness. The impact of the matching grant scheme can be assessed by the
increase in export revenue of beneficiary firms. The independent assessment carried out
on the matching Grants scheme found out that the increase in revenue attributable to ECF
by the 13 sample firms who were able to estimate was over US$ 16 million. Grossed up
to the overall number of firms supported, the gross annual turnover impact of ECF is
estimated at US$ 35.4 million 45 . This means that the private sector has increased its
contribution to export revenue by improving its productivity and international
competitiveness.

97.     The intervention under this component also included support to Chambers of
Commerce and business association and grant for institutional development was given to
25 institutions.

98.    Component Three - Intermediate Indicator 2 – Number of startups established
through business plan competition each year (target: 20 each in round 1 and 2) – Four


44
   Any state or customs territory having full autonomy in the conduct of its trade policies may become a member (“accede to?) the
WTO, but all WTO members must agree on the terms. This is done through the establishment of a working party of WTO members
and through a process of negotiations. (WTO.org)
45
   Ethiopia/ Evaluation of the impact and value for money of the Ethiopia Competitiveness Facility, UK Department for International
Development, April 2012

                                                                31
rounds of business plan competition were carried out. Fifty two businesses were
established through the first three rounds 46, out of which six were women owned. The
fourth round of competition was conducted late in the project life time so the number of
business startups as a result of the support from the fourth round of competition is not yet
available.

99.      Component Three - Intermediate Indicator 3 – Proportion of startups established
through business plan competition that survive after one year in operation (target:
70percent) - Out of the total fifty two businesses that were established in the three
rounds, forty businesses, which account for 77percent of the startups, had survived after
the first year of operation. 47

100. The support to business startups encouraged entrepreneurship which increased the
number of private sector players in the economy. The project’s support provided
resources and technical assistance which has enabled forty businesses to be established
and contribute to job creation and government revenue.

101. Component Three - Intermediate Indicators 4 – University (FBE) curriculum
revised and adopted - Through the support provided to the Faculty of Business and
Economics (Addis Ababa University), revision of curricula for the MBA program, M.Sc.
in Accounting and MSC program in Management Science was completed and
implemented. Curricula for Undergraduate and postgraduate programs in Finance were
developed and implemented.

102. Component Three Intermediate Indicator 5 – Number of graduates in regulatory
economics and international trade programs in year 3 and 4 (target: 20) - The number of
graduates in regulatory economies and international trade were twenty in year 3 and
twenty one in year 4 (total of 41 students), thus meeting the set target of forty students
by end of 2009. In addition four PHD candidates were sponsored.

103. The technical assistance provided to the business school improved the quality of
business education which has a positive impact on the private sector which employs the
graduates in various capacities. A better qualified employee would likely bring improved
business management to the firms, hence having a positive effect on the productivity of
firms as well as their international competitiveness. It also increased the available
technical expertise in country on regulatory economics and trade policy to support the
Government’s effort towards WTO membership.

104. Almost all the interventions under the project have met or exceeded their targets.
The achievement of the intermediate indicators contributed to the outcome indicators as
they tracked achievements specifically attributable to the project interventions as
demonstrated above. The impact of the weaker achievements in some of the interventions



46
     ECF Progress report, April 2013
47
     ECF Progress report, April 2013

                                            32
did not have significant impact on the outcome indicators as they were minor
interventions (in terms of scope as well as funding) as compared to the others.

3.3    Efficiency

Rating: Substantial

105. The Bank’s disbursement record shows that the project managed to complete its
planned activities with a total cost of about SDR 9.87 million (equivalent of US$14.9
million) against the budget for both credit and grant, after the reallocation of SDR 4.46
million (equivalent of US$ 7 million) to the Global Food Crisis Initiative. The
disbursement rate as of April 29, 2013 was 92percent. Even though resources were
reduced from the project budget, the devaluation of the local currency by about 20percent
during the project implementation period had provided more Ethiopian Birr per one
US$ to carry out project activities. In addition, there was some saving from the
compensation payments under the Voluntary Retrenchment Plan (VRP) as the number of
employees affected under the plan was lower than originally anticipated. Even though the
project was extended for additional 18 months, the operating cost for the project was
within budget and only 81percent of the allocated budget was utilized at the end of the
project. The cost efficiency of running the project may be as a result of prudent utilization
of funds and/ or the government’s contribution for project management.

Component one – Accelerating the Implementation of privatization program

106. For the economic analysis done during the design, the PAD indicates that due to
lack of reliable time series data, proxy estimates are used when explicit prices and
calibrations factors were not available. Pre-privatization data collected from the
Privatization and Public Enterprises Agency (PPESA) does not relate to the numbers used
in the analysis during design. To carry out a robust quantitative economic analysis for
this component for the ICR, complete data is not available for all the privatized SOEs
which has made calculations of NPV and IRR difficult. Hence, alternative mechanisms
are used to assess the efficiency of implementation of this component.

107. The original amount budgeted for component one was US$ 9.87 million,
including grant for the implementation of VRP. This has been revised to US$ 6.14
million during restructuring. At project end, the component had utilized US$ 6.33 million,
which is 103percent of the revised budget. On the other hand, the resources allocated to
the VRP were not fully utilized and would result in a refund of an amount equivalent to
US$ 1.6 million back to the Bank, which is an opportunity cost for IDA resources.

108. When the project was designed, there was large public sector involvement in
commercial enterprises, which accounted for 72percent of total manufacturing value
added and employed 57percent of the manufacturing workforce, while the participation
of the private sector in manufacturing was limited. As a result of the project’s support to
the Government’s privatization program, 44 SOEs were transferred to private ownership
increasing the participation of the private sector in the economy.

                                             33
109. On the other hand, the fiscal savings as a result of privatizing commercial state
owned enterprises were significant as most of the enterprises were set up with an
additional objective of social protection, in line with the socialist policy at the time. The
available data shows that most of the enterprises were operating under losses and had
many redundant workers. They were subsidized by central government budget and the
leadership and management of these enterprises were more politically motivated than
merit based. Under such circumstances, transferring these firms to private ownership will
reinforce the commercial purpose of the firms with a pure focus on profitability. The
Government would also save resources as it would no longer subsidize these enterprises
but rather begin to earn tax revenue from privatized enterprises which had become
profitable ventures. Furthermore, PPESA data shows that the Government earned over 1
billion US dollars (using current exchange rates) from the proceeds of the sale of SOEs
since the beginning of the privatization program.

Component Two – Improving the Business environment through Implementation of
competition policy and Accession to the WTO

110. The project has implemented most of the proposed activities under this
component. In particular, the revised competition policy had been ratified and
implemented, competition authority was set up and some staff hired. There was no
economic analysis done during project design as it was found to be difficult to estimate
the quantitative impact of the improvement in the business environment as well as the
greater insertion into the world economy. Hence, a simple assumption was made that the
support provided would yield an increase in economic outputs at a multiple of 2 times the
amount of support. Even though it is difficult to quantify the future benefits of the
project’s support towards Ethiopia’s accession to the WTO, the cost efficiency of the
project implementation can be estimated by comparing the budget for the component
with the actual expenditure. The original budget for the component was US$ 1.1 million,
which was revised to US$ 960,000 during restructuring. By project end, an amount of
US$ 823,000 was spent under the component. The underutilization of the project was
mainly due to non-implementation of some of the activities and the overall slow pace of
progress during project implementation period.

111. At the time of project design, the Ethiopian economy was not well integrated into
the international economy. FDI penetration was low with inflow of only US$ 189 million
(2002/2003). In 2012, FDI inflows have increased to over 1 billion US Dollars. Through
the support to improve the competition policy and its governing authority, the project has
contributed to better business environment even though it would be difficult to fully
attribute the increase in FDI to the project’s interventions. By providing technical
assistance towards WTO accession, the project has enhanced the capacity and knowledge
of the government staff in WTO discussions.




                                             34
Component Three – Strengthening the international competitiveness of the private
Sector and the capacities of its representative Organizations

112. Evaluation of the impact and value for money of the Ethiopia Competitiveness
Facility (ECF) 48 was conducted in 2012 commissioned by DFID in preparation for its
envisaged support to ECF after the closure of the Bank’s supported project. The impact
assessment shows that the gross discounted turnover impact of the intervention under the
Bizcap (Matching Grants scheme) is about US$ 78.8 million, with a gross discounted
GDP impact of about US$ 52.6 million. The cost benefit analysis resulted in a discounted
total cost of about US$ 5.85 million which is translated into a positive Net Present Value
(NPV) of US$ 29.5 million and a benefit cost ratio (BCR) of 6.04. The economic analysis
on ECF alone exceeded the original analysis for the overall project which estimated NPV
of US$ 22.6 million.

113. The matching Grant scheme also supported private sector institutions such as
associations and chambers of commerce by providing resources for trainings, marketing
and institutional support which would have been more difficult for the associations to
fund themselves given their limited financial resources.

114. One area of assistance was to enhance business education at the business school.
Before the project, the largest and established university, (Addis Ababa University) did
not have strong MBA and MSC in accounting programs and did not have Master’s level
programs in Finance and Management Science. The project enabled strengthening these
business programs, which would increase the availability and quality of business
professionals available to the private sector.

115. The project introduced business plan competitions and awards to entrepreneurs
which did not exist before in Ethiopia. Coming from a socialist economy, the culture of
entrepreneurship and innovation was weak in the country. Through the project’s
initiatives, over 1,300 people were able to compete and demonstrate innovative ideas
through the competitions which resulted in the establishment of 52 businesses (out of
which 52 have survived).

116. When the project was restructured in July 2012, additional resources were
allocated to Component three, making the total allocated US$ 9.19 million, from the
original US$ 8 million. By project end, the project had utilized US$ 8.6 million to
implement activities under this component. As per discussions with the ECF team, the
slight underutilization was because some firms were not able to fully utilize their
approved grant before project closing date.




48
   Ethiopia/ Evaluation of the impact and value for money of the Ethiopia Competitiveness Facility, UK Department for International
Development, April 2012

                                                                35
3.4    Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

117. The overall outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory by taking into account
the substantial relevance of the project objective, design and implementation as well as
the substantial achievement of its development objectives and efficiency of performance.

118. The project interventions were in line with the intended outcomes and most of the
interventions have achieved or exceeded their set targets. Even though few activities
under component two were not fully implemented, the activities and the allocated budget
for this component were not significant enough to have a strong negative impact on the
overall intended outcome of the project to increase participation of the private sector in
the economy.

3.5    Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a)    Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

119. One of the intermediate results of the project was to support entrepreneurs start
their own businesses. The project supported a total of 70 entrepreneurs. Over 90percent
of the beneficiaries under this support were individuals with average or low income
levels. The project has enabled these individuals to establish their own businesses,
employ others and indirectly contribute to the overall societal welfare.

120. The privatization component of the project involved retrenchment of redundant
workers in the state owned enterprises. The impact of unemployment that resulted from
the retrenchment program was mitigated by setting up Voluntary Retrenchment Plan
where the project contributed to the employee’s retirement (pension) plan and appropriate
severance packages were paid.

121. In addition, more than 50percent of the project beneficiaries were women,
providing opportunity for a group where cultural and social biases have economically
marginalized women.

(b)    Institutional Change/Strengthening

122. The project financed a number of capacity building initiatives that contributed to
strengthening the capacity of the various implementing agencies of the project: (i)
Ethiopian Privatization and Public Enterprises Agency in the valuation and management
of privatization process (two staff were internationally certified on valuation and the
staff of the agency were paired with international consultants to share experience and
gain technical expertise) and in setting up the adequate infrastructure (equipment and
network connections); (ii) The Faculty of Business in the Addis Ababa University has
received substantial technical assistance (curriculum development, training and
equipment) to establish and strengthen its Masters Programs; (iii) WTO Accession
Directorate staff received a number of trainings and equipment to enable the directorate
                                           36
play its key role in facilitating Ethiopia’s accession to the WTO; (iv) institutional support
was provided to the Addis Ababa and the regional Chambers of Commerce; and (iv) The
Ministry of Industry and the team in the Ethiopia Competitiveness Facility have
developed their skills in financial management and procurement processes in compliance
with the Bank’s standards, in addition to the administration of matching grants scheme
and business plan competition.

3.6       Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

123. For the impact assessment for the Matching Grants Scheme by DFID 49 , a
beneficiary survey was carried out on 26 firms. The survey found that almost 80percent
of surveyed ECF grantees had increased their total revenues relative to what they would
have otherwise been. 17percent of the respondents felt it was too early to determine the
impact but expect it to increase revenues in future, while just one (4percent) had used
most of the ECF grant but reported no impact. The majority of firms described these
changes as having a long-term impact in the form of better performing basic systems and
better trained staff. A minority of firms, however, felt these changes were temporary and
dependent upon longer or continuous engagement by the foreign experts they hired. In a
few cases, firms felt experts had a disincentive to transfer their knowledge to local
counterparts as it may shorten their stay in country. However, this was not widespread.
Given that many of the grantees export all or most of their production, they reported
similar results from ECF grants on their export-derived revenue. 65percent of
respondents stated their export revenues had increased as a result of ECF, while 17
percent were not yet sure of the impact. Just one respondent (4percent) felt their export-
derived revenues had not changed.

124. The results of the survey also showed that 39percent of the surveyed firms
indicated they would have had fewer employees if they had not participated in ECF,
primarily due to ECF helping them find new market opportunities that increased demand
for their products. Eight responding firms attributed 1397 new jobs to ECF grants,
equivalent to 37percent of their total current workforce. In contrast, 48percent of firms
indicated their employment has not changed and one company (4percent) noted that it
would have been higher had they not participated in ECF. Most of the firms giving these
latter responses explained that ECF grants had increased productivity so substantially that
they were producing significantly more per employee and thus were able to meet growing
demand with the same number of employees. 71percent of the surveyed firms’ employees
were women, suggesting ECF’s potential to support DFID gender objectives. This varied
between the sectors. 49percent of employees were female among surveyed tanneries,
rising to 63percent of shoe factories and 85percent of textile and garment companies. The
surveyed agro-processing, chemicals and pharmaceuticals and horticulture firms all
reported at least 70percent female employment but were excluded from the table given
the small number of respondents. There were broader changes that were accelerating the


49
 Ethiopia/ Evaluation of the impact and value for money of the Ethiopia Competitiveness Facility, UK Department for International
Development, April 2012


                                                               37
shift to increased female engagement. In the tanneries sector, for instance, government
requirements for greater value addition is creating new female-friendly positions in
finishing, while men are increasingly being attracted to the construction and other higher-
paying opportunities.

4.    Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Negligible

125. The risk that the developments outcomes will not be sustainable is low for the
following reasons: (i) the Government has continued with the privatization program, the
privatized firms are operational with some of them recording profits and currently there is
no threat of nationalization; (ii) beneficiaries of the matching grant scheme have
improved the quality of their products and their productivity to stay internationally
competitive; (iii) the survival rate of the startups is higher than originally targeted with
most of them growing and expanding their businesses; and (iv) the support under
SCHOOLCAP enabled to strengthen the graduate level curricula which still continues to
be used to train new students graduates.

126.    The project was able to establish capacity within the various implementing
agencies to maintain the ongoing activities. One of the components under the project,
Matching Grants scheme under BizPlan, will be financed by DFID to continue the bank
financed initiatives and the privatization component will continue under Government
financing for which the project had provided adequate technical assistance in the various
stages of the privatization process. In addition, the Government’s commitment to the
implementation of the project provides assurance that the interventions supported would
receive adequate attention and follow up from the Government.

5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1    Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

127. The Bank team had carried out adequate assessments and incorporated lessons
learnt in designing the project. The project was designed with strong relevance to the
Government’s development agenda. A number of analytical works and consultations
with the donor community were held to inform the design of the project.

128. However, some of the original indicators set were difficult to attribute to project
interventions or were not measurable, and had to be dropped or revised during
implementation. In addition, the implementation arrangement for component three should
have been done through a private agency rather than through the government Ministry.
The implementation of private sector focused interventions specially Matching Grants

                                            38
Scheme and BiZPlan was delayed for almost two years with very low disbursements as
the BMU, Enterprise Ethiopia, was not capable and flexible enough to adjust to the
challenges and needs of the private sector. It was only after the implementation
arrangement was changed to a semi-autonomous unit that the component started to show
progress. This delay also contributed to the extension of the project for additional 18
months.

129. The preparation of the project did not identify specific beneficiaries and some of
the mitigation measures for the risk identified were not adequate to address the risk such
as the weak demand from the private sector.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating:        Moderately Satisfactory

130. Records available show that the Bank had provided adequate support and carried
out regular implementation support missions. Implementation support missions were
carried out at least twice a year in recent years though full information and report on prior
year supervision activities is not fully available. A Mid Term Review was conducted on
the planned timeline and noted the progress of the project towards achieving its
objectives and identified the need for additional financing to expand the project’s
interventions. Recent ISRs provide detailed updates on the progress of the project and the
indicators.

131. The Bank was also responsive to project restructuring requests which kept the
project relevant to the Government’s strategy and the Bank’s Country Assistance
Strategy throughout the implementation period. Also, the project implementation
arrangements were adjusted as necessary (for component three).

132. However, the Bank team should have advised the Government to restructure the
project early on in 2008 to reallocate resources when the financial resources of the project
were reduced to finance the Global Food Crisis Response Program in the country. This
would have aligned the activities with the resources and streamlined the project activities
to ensure timely completion of key activities. In addition, the results framework was not
adjusted in a timely manner along with the change in the PDO to focus on exports which
delayed tracking of results of the project interventions.

133. The Bank team should also have ensured compliance with fiduciary and legal
requirements. The failure to comply with the requirement to submit independent audit
report for the Voluntary Retrenchment program (VRP) contributed to the failure of the
additional financing and the timely reallocation of the refunds from overpayments under
the VRP which was identified later on after the audit was conducted. Changes in task
team leaders contributed to the oversight on the audit compliance and the timely
restructuring of the project. There were four task team leaders since the design to closure
of the project.



                                             39
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

134. The preparation of the project had included adequate consultations and analytical
work and was done in the context of the Government’s and the Bank’s strategy. However,
the project had some shortcomings in design especially in some of the indicators set to
measure results, mitigation measures for identified risk and implementation arrangements.

135. Even though the project achieved its objective, timely restructuring of the project
and ensuring fiduciary compliance on the special audit for the VRP would have enabled
full utilization of resources and additional financing.

5.2       Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

136. The Government had shown its commitment for the project through the active
engagement of the steering committee, led by the State Minister for Ministry of Industry,
and composed of key representatives of the private sector. In addition, the State Minister
of Ministry of industry has been well involved in the daily oversight and management of
the project.

137. The Ministry also assigned well experienced management team for the
implementation of the project.

138. The Ministry of Finance and Economic Development (MoFED) has supported the
project through availing counterpart funding for the project, time extensions and
reallocation of funds.

139. Government officials had regularly availed themselves to Bank’s implementation
support team and adequate and timely support has been provided to resolve challenges
and provide guidance towards the successful implementation of the project.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

140. Ethiopia is a country where there is weak public sector capacity and staff attrition
of civil servants and public officials is an endemic problem. Contrary to many projects
implemented in the country50, this project was led by a strong Ministry with seasoned


50
   The Bank’s Country Portfolio Performance Report (CPPR) FY 12, dated September 2012, identified (i) high and rapid staff turnover,
(ii) weak capacity at all levels of government and (iii) weak project management as some of the key constraints in the portfolio.

                                                               40
professionals and the project had a strong Coordination Unit, led by an experienced
senior staff from beginning to end. The Government had shown strong commitment by
engaging high level officials from the Ministry of Industry to provide support and
guidance to the project. Even though the project experienced some staff turnover and
delay in implementation (component three) initially, the Project Coordination Unit had
successfully implemented the project activities with the exception of some interventions
under component two.

141. Most of the Bank’s legal requirements were complied with and financial and
project progress reports were submitted timely and without major issues, with the
exception of the special audit for the VRP which was not complied with until late in the
project lifetime.

142. However, the performance across the implementing agencies was different
especially in terms of procurement, financial management and timely completion of
project activities. Some of the activities in the project (component two) were not fully
implemented and the IDA credit was not fully utilized by project end. This resulted in
some inefficiency in timely fund utilization.

143. The project faced challenges in procurement and contracts management on few
consultancies and failed to comply with the fiduciary requirement to submit audit report
for the VRP.

144. Even though the performance of the project coordination unit and most of the
implementation agencies was very good, after considering some of the issues and non-
compliances noted above, the performance is rated as moderately satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately satisfactory

145. Based on the satisfactory performance of the government and the moderately
satisfactory rating for the performance of the implementing agencies, the overall rating
for the borrower’s performance is found to be moderately satisfactory.

6.     Lessons Learned
146. One of the takeaway lessons from this project is to provide timely advice to the
Government to restructure projects to keep its relevance to emerging priorities as well as
for efficient utilization of resources within the project period.

147. To ensure compliance with Bank fiduciary requirements, continuous training and
capacity building on financial management, procurement and contracts management
should be provided to implementing agencies to ensure Bank’s policies are adhered to. In
addition, where a number of implementing agencies are involved, the Project


                                           41
Coordination Unit should have a strong team in procurement, monitoring and evaluation
and financial management.

148. Some of the key factors for the success of Component three, specially the
Matching Grants Scheme and the Business Plan Competitions were: (1) the active
participation of the Steering committee, which was led by a high level government
official (State Minister for industry) and involved key stakeholders from the private
sector, (2) active promotion of the program and close support to the private sector during
implementation, and (3) flexibility of the project to adjust the program to situations (for
instance, providing matching grants to bring international expertise in benchmarking
studies that would benefit the whole sector based on integrated gap analysis, changing the
implementation arrangement to meet the needs of the private sector, etc)

149. Projects should be designed with the operational flexibility to adapt when there is
a difference between the assumptions made during design and the actual reality. For
instance, for the PSD CB project, the initial low uptake of the matching grants scheme
required change in approach in its implementation which enabled the project achieve its
target under the Matching Grants Scheme. It is also necessary to ensure appropriate
implementation arrangements are in place that would meet the needs of the private sector.

150. Lessons for the Bank: The Bank team should be proactive in addressing
unforeseen events such as reallocation of project proceeds to emergency situations and
ensuring compliance by project implementing units with fiduciary requirements.

7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies
151. The Government prepared its own completion report for the project and the
comments received from the Project Coordination Unit on the draft ICR, referring to the
paragraphs in the report, are attached as Annex 6.




                                            42
                                          ANNEX 1
                                 Project Costs and Financing
                 Ethiopia- Private Sector Capacity Building Project (P050272)

     (a) Project Cost by Component (In US$ million equivalent)
                               Restructuring    Actual/                                     Percentage of
                     Appraisal                             Percentage
    Components                 Estimate (RP      latest                                     restructuring
                      Estimate                             of appraisal
                                July 3,2012)    estimate                                      estimate
 Component 1            9.87         6.14          6.33      64percent                       103percent
 Component 2            1.10         0.96          0.82      75percent                        85percent
 Component 3            8.00         9.19          8.60     108percent                        94percent
 Implementation         1.00         0.70          0.97      97percent                       138percent
 Physical               0.00         0.00          0.00
 Contingencies
 Price                  1.49         0.00          0.00
 contingencies
 Counterpart           18.31        18.31         1.10*
 funding
 Unallocated            2.53         0.00          0.00
 Cancelled amount         -          7.00          7.00
 Total project         52.31        52.31         24.82
 Costs
Note: The appraisal estimates are taken from Annex 5– Project Costs, of the PAD
      * this amount indicates only the Government’s cash contributed to project implementation and does
 not include in kind contribution (staff time, operating costs, etc.) and the contribution of the private sector
 as part of the MGS.

     (b) Financing (In US$ million equivalent)

                           Type of                 Appraisal      Actual/ Latest Percentage of
 Source of Funds
                           Financing               estimate       estimated      Appraisal
 Borrower                  Cash & in               18.31          1.10*          n.a.
                           kind
 International Development Credit                  19.00          13.00               68percent
 Association (IDA)
 International Development Grant                   5.00           3.00                60percent
 Association (IDA)




                                                   43
                                            ANNEX 2
                                       Outputs by Component
                      Ethiopia- Private Sector Capacity Building Project (P050272)

         The original project component has not been changed. The output of each component and
         subcomponents is summarized in the table below.

Component              Result indicators set at appraisal Actual output
                       and/ or restructuring
Component 1 –          - 27percent by YR 3 and              - A total of 77percent of the total value of the
Accelerating the          55percent by YR 5 of PE             PE portfolio identified in the PAD have
implementation of         portfolio scheduled for             gone thru divestiture by project end.
privatization program     privatization in terms of total   - In addition, some of the main activities
                          value of assets transferred from    carried out under the project are:
Result –                  the public to the private sector     Technical assistance provided for
Implementation of the                                            valuation of 6 SOEs by an international
privatization Action                                             firm
Plan completed                                                 Training on business valuation provide
                                                                 for relevant staff
                                                               Two staff have been internationally
                                                                 accredited as chartered surveyors
                                                               The Management information system of
                                                                 the Authority has been upgraded
                                                               Full and partial Environmental audits
                                                                 were conducted on selected SOEs
                                                               The Voluntary Retrenchment program
                                                                 was implemented
                                                               Post Privatization Unit of PPESA is
                                                                 strengthened and staff trained
Component 2 –          i. By YR 2, issuance of             i. Revised competition proclamation ratified
Improving the              interpretations/ implementation      and under implementation.
business environment       guidelines.                          Implementation guidelines were partially
through                ii. 4-6 cases in YR 1 and 6-10           prepared by project closing date.
implementation of          cases in YR 3-5 handled by the ii. Case hearing was not commenced by
competition policy and     competition commission               project closing date
accession to WTO       iii. 4 Public information programs iii. WTO impact assessment studies were
                           per year conducted as a              carried out, disseminated and discussed on
Result – Improved          measure of “competition              transport, telecommunication and
business environment       advocacy?                            Financial Sectors
and competition policy iv. 4 of trade related studies
under effective            completed and disseminated      - In addition, some of the main activities
implementation                                                carried out under the project are:
                                                               Four experts hired to provide technical
                                                                  assistance to the newly established
                                                                  Competition Authority

                                                    44
                                                                      Equipment and supplies were purchased
                                                                        for setting up MIS for trade information
                                                                        (to support WTO accession)
                                                                      Office equipment and furniture were
                                                                        purchased to strengthen competition
                                                                        authority
Component 3 –            i. Supported exporters increase          i. Indicator (i) was dropped during
Strengthening the             their exports at a rate                  restructuring (July 3, 2012) due to
international                 25percent higher than non-               difficulty to measure.
competitiveness of the        supported firms                     ii. Indicator (ii) was dropped as the gov’t
private sector and the   ii. Supported domestic market                 priority shifted to supporting export
capacities of its             supplier increase in their sales         oriented firms and resources were used to
representative                at a rate 25percent higher than          provide support to firms in priority export
organizations                 non-supported firms                      sectors
                         iii. Supported chambers and              iii. Financial support, about US$ 655,000 was
Results for BIZCAP –          Associations increase in their           provided for 25 privates sector
Increased firm’s              memberships (No. of                      associations for training, to set up
ability to compete and        members) at a rate 25percent             information center, marketing and BDS
stronger institutions         higher than do non-supported             etc. Information on no of members and
supporting PSD                associations                             their increase is not available

                         Revised outputs during                   iv. By project end, 165 grants have been
                         restructuring                                awarded under the MGS which resulted in
                                                                      average increase of volume of exports by
                         iv. Number of Matching grants                29percent. The independent assessment
                             support given to private firms           done on this component shows that the
                             for export expansion                     gross annual turnover impact of the
                             (target :150)                            support is estimated at US$ 35.4 million.

                         i. Academic upgrade of                  i.    Revision of curricula for the MBA and
Results for                 curriculum (i) Y1 revised                  MSC in accounting program have been
SCHOOLCAP –                 program syllabus; updated                  completed and implemented.
Improved business           annually; (ii) at least two new            Undergraduate and postgraduate programs
management                  courses in Y1 and at least one             in Finance have been completed and
education                   new course annually                        revision of the curriculum for MSc in
                                                                       management science has been done. In
                         Revised outputs during                        addition, new courses on Bachelor of
                         restructuring                                 business, MSC in Management, MA in
                                                                       applied trade policy and MA in
                         University (FBE) curriculum                   competition policy and regular economics
                         revised and adopted)                          were introduced.

                         ii. Resource upgrade for                ii.   Indicator (ii) and (iii) were dropped and
                             curriculum: 10percent per                 there is no data available on the set target
                             annum increase of Ethiopians
                             in Faculty qualified to teach at

                                                       45
                           graduate level each year

                        iii. National skills training; (i) at
                             least 30 trained from at least 5
                             institutions each year; (ii) at
                             least 20 percent increase in
                             subscribers annually of the
                             AAU journal
                       iv. 25 students per year that
                              completed each course on
                              trade and competition policy

                       Revised outputs during
                       restructuring                            iii. 20 students in YR 3 and 21 students in YR
                                                                     4 (total of 41) had graduated in
                       Number of graduates in regulatory             international trade and regulatory
                       economics and international trade             economics and 4 PHD students were
                       programs in YR 3 & 4 (target: 20)             sponsored.

Result for BIZPLAN –   i. At least 250 eligible                 i. Even though the original indicator has been
Increased number of       entrepreneurs apply to                   rephrased subsequently, data provide by the
private firms with        BIZPLAN competition in first             project indicate that:
established               year, with at least 10percent
relationship with         increase of eligible applicants       In round one of the BIZPLAN competition,
private banks             annually.                             893 applications were received, out of which
                                                                526 were found eligible.

                                                                In round two – 526 applications were received,
                                                                out of which 20 were awarded as winners.

                                                                In round three – 570 applications were
                                                                received, out of which 482 were found eligible.

                       Revised outputs during                   In round four – 698 applications were
                       restructuring                            received, out of which 10 were awarded as
                                                                winners.
                       ii. Number of startups
                            established through business        ii. A total of 52 businesses have been
                            plan competition each year              established (excluding the final 10 winners
                            (total target :40)                      as data is not yet available on how many of
                       iii. Proportion of startups                  them established a business)
                            established through business        iii. Out of the total 52, 40 have survived the
                            plan competition that survive           first year which is a survival rate of
                            after one year in operation             77percent.
                            (target: 70percent)


                                                      46
                                    ANNEX 3
                          Economic and Financial Analysis
              Ethiopia- Private Sector Capacity Building Project (P050272)

Due to lack of complete data on the privatization component and the BizPlan competition,
rigorous quantitative analysis was not feasible. For the matching grants scheme, the
economic analysis done as part of impact assessment by DFID has been used. As the
others involved technical assistance, a more qualitative approach is used.

Qualitative analysis and the analysis on efficient utilization of resources are provided in
the main text of the report under section 3.3 of the ICR.




                                            47
                                       ANNEX 4
               Bank Lending and Implementation Support/ Supervision Processes
                        Ethiopia- Private Sector Capacity Building Project (P050272)

                                           (a) Task team Members
Names                        Title                         Unit                        Responsibility
Lending
Agata Pawlowska              Economist                     AFTPS                       Task Team Leader # 1
Phillip English              Senior Economist              WBIPR
Rughvir (Shyam) Khemani      Advisor                       CICDR
Andrew Singer                PSD Specialist                Consultant
Michael Opagi                Privatization Expert          Consultant
Bruce Carrie                 Privatization Expert          Consultant
Michael Graglia              Project Officer               Global Business School
                                                           network, IFC
Joyita Mukherjee             Sr. Corporate Strategy        Corporate Strategy group,
                             Officer                       SFRCI
Menbere Taye Tesfa           PSD Specialist                AFTPS
Andrea Vasquez –Sanchez      Sr. program Assistant         AFTPS
Irene Chacon                 Operations Analyst            AFTPS
Shenaz Ahmed                 Program Assistant             AFC06
Yeshi Dagne                  Program Assistant             AFTPS
Dileep Wagle                 Lead PSD Specialist           AFTPS
Amadou Konare                Environmental Specialist      AFTS1
Thomas Walton                Regional Safeguards           AFTS1
                             Coordinator
Mbuba Mbungu                 Lead Procurement              AFTPC
                             Specialist
Samuel Haile Selassie        Procurement Specialist        AFC06
Solange Aliali               Sr. Counsel                   LEGAF
Steven Gaginis               Lead Disbursement             LOAG2
                             Specialist
Eshetu Yimer                 Sr. Financial Management      AFC06
                             Specialist
Ibrahima Dione               Consultant                    Consultant
Amadou Dem                   Young Professional            AFTPS
Nikolay Mandinga             Junior Professional           AFTPS
                             Associate
Quality Advisors
Iradj Alikhani               CPC and Lead PSD              AFCSN
                             Specialist
Magdi Amin                   Senor PSD Specialist          EASFP                       Task Team Leader # 2
Richard Cambridge            Operations Advisor            AFTOS
Luke Haggarty                Seniopr Economist             LCSFR
Herminia Martinez            Consultant                    AFTPS
Edgar Saravia                Country Manager               ACCU7
Gaiv Tata                    Lead Financial Analyst        AFTPS
Supervision/ ICR

                                                      48
Irene F. Chacon                                            AFTFW
Yeshareg Dagne             Program Assistant               AFTFE
Andrea Vasquez-sanchez     Sr. program Assistant           AFTFW
Jonathan David Pavluk      Senior Counsel                  LEGAM
Yasmin Tayyab              Sr. Social Dev’t Specialist     AFTCS
Asya Akhlaque              Senior Economist                AFTFE                Task Team Leader # 4
Menbere Taye Tesfa         Consultant                      AFTFE                Task Team Leader # 3
Smita Kuriakose            Economist                       AFTFE
Evarist F. Baimu           Senior Counsel                  LEGAM
Siele Shiferaw Ketema      Program Assistant               MNSHD
Almudena Mateos Marino     Young Professional              SEGEs
Abiy Demissie Belay        Financial management            AFTME
                           Specialist
Tesfaye Ayele              Senior Procurement              AFTPE
                           Specialist
Senidu Fanuel              Private Sector Dev’t            AFTFE                ICR Author
                           Specialist


           (b) Staff Time and Cost

                                      Staff time and Cost (Bank budget only)
           Stage of project cycle     No. of staff weeks US$ Thousands (including travel and
                                                           consultant costs)
       Lending
       FY 04                                  22.98                    178.79
       FY 05                                  81.13                    314.30
       FY 06                                    0                       70.37
       FY 07                                    0                        0.00
       FY 08                                    0                        0.00
       Total                                 104.11                    563.46
       Supervision/ICR
       FY05                                     0                        0.00
       FY06                                   48.35                    155.00
       FY07                                   48.68                    118.74
       FY08                                   41.31                     69.92
       FY09                                   40.58                     93.37
       FY10                                   29.03                    101.62
       FY11                                   13.25                     87.67
       FY12                                   21.94                     81.56
       FY 13                                  16.68                     55.75
       Total                                 259.82                    763.63




                                                      49
                                                   ANNEX 5
                                           Beneficiary Survey results
                    Ethiopia- Private Sector Capacity Building Project (P050272)
(Excerpt from the independent impact assessment of component 3 commissioned by
                                   DFID) 51
Window 1 Findings (FIRMCAP)
Grant Allocation by Sector and Activity
ECF has provided a total of 165 grants to 55 companies across six sectors. The majority
of these were provided to the leather and leather products sector (15 tanneries and nine
shoe factories) and the textile and garment sector (22 firms). A small number of other
grants were also issued: five to agro-processing firms, two to chemical and
pharmaceutical and two to horticultural companies.

The consultants found there were differing opinions on whether ECF supported specific
sectors; senior World Bank staff believes it did not while ECF’s staff say it does. The
guidance posted on ECF’s website to potential applicants states that “This program is
open to export-ready private firms in the selected sectors of Leather and Leather Articles,
Textile and Garment, Horticulture and Agro processing.?3 These sectors were selected
based on the Ministry of Industry’s priorities. For instance, when the horticultural sector
was managed by the Ministry of Trade two firms from the sector received grants, but
once the Ministry of Agriculture assumed responsibility no further grants were issued.
Given the challenge of convincing firms to apply, ECF’s targeted promotion activities to
the selected sectors reinforced this sectorial focus.

Table 2: Types of Activities Funded by ECF in Window 1
Type of Support                                                                                      Number of Firms
Expert and specialist hiring for production, marketing and                                           48
consultancy
Marketing support (market research, trade fair visits, trademark                                     34
registration, packing & labelling design, sample distribution,
subscription fee)
Training for management and workers                                                                  17
Integrated management system and implementation of production                                        14
related systems
Advertising and promotion                                                                            13
Website design                                                                                       9
Certification (International Organization for Standardization,                                       9
Organic, WRAP, Good Manufacturing Practices)



51
 Ethiopia/ Evaluation of the impact and value for money of the Ethiopia Competitiveness Facility, UK Department for International
Development, April 2012



                                                               50
Impact on Overall Revenues and Export-Derived Revenues

Almost 80percent of surveyed Window 1 grantees indicate that the ECF has increased
their total revenues relative to what they have otherwise been. 17percent of the
respondents felt it was too early to determine the impact but expect it to increase
revenues in future, while just one (4percent) had used most of his ECF grant but reported
no impact. The total estimated increase in revenues attributable to ECF by the 13 sample
firms who were able to provide an estimate was over US$16 million, equivalent to more
than US$1 million per company. The majority of firms described these changes as having
a long-term impact as their basic systems were now performing better and their staff
better trained. A minority of firms, however, felt these changes were temporary and
dependent upon longer or continuous engagement by the foreign experts they hired. In a
few cases, firms felt experts had a disincentive to transfer their knowledge to local
counterparts as it may shorten their stay in country. However, this was not widespread.

Given that many of the phase 1 grantees export all or most of their production, they
reported similar results from ECF grants on their export-derived revenue. 17percent of
respondents were not yet sure of the impact, while 65percent stated their export revenues
had increased as a result of ECF. Just one respondent (4percent) felt their export-derived
revenues had not changed. The 13 firms who were able to estimate the impact of ECF on
their export revenues believed it had increased them by over $11 million.

Impact on Employment

39percent of the surveyed firms indicated they would have had fewer employees if they
had not participated in ECF, primarily due to ECF helping them find new market
opportunities that increased demand for their products. Eight responding firms attributed
1397 new jobs to ECF grants, equivalent to 37percent of their total current workforce. In
contrast, 48percent of firms indicated their employment has not changed and one
company (4percent) that it would have been higher had they not participated in ECF.
Most of the firms giving these latter responses response explained that ECF grants had
increased productivity so substantially that they were producing significantly more per
employee and thus were able to meet growing demand with the same number of
employees.

71percent of the surveyed firms’ employees were women, suggesting ECF’s potential to
support DFID gender objectives. This varied between the sectors. 49percent of
employees were female among surveyed tanneries, rising to 63percent of shoe factories
and 85percent of textile and garment companies. The surveyed agro-processing,
chemicals and pharmaceuticals and horticulture firms all reported at least 70percent
female employment but were excluded from the table given the small number of
respondents. There are broader changes that are accelerating the shift to increased female
engagement. In the tanneries sector, for instance, government requirements for greater
value addition is creating new female friendly positions in finishing, while men are
increasingly being attracted to the construction and other higher paying opportunities.



                                           51
The impact assessment also showed that the gross discounted turnover impact of the
intervention under the Bizcap (Matching Grants scheme) is about US$ 78.8 million, with
a gross discounted GDP impact of about US$ 52.6 million. The cost benefit analysis
resulted in a discounted total cost of about US$ 5.85 million which is translated into a
positive Net Present Value (NPV) of US$ 29.5 million and a benefit cost ratio (BCR) of
6.04. The economic analysis on ECF alone exceeded the original analysis for the overall
project which estimated NPV of US$ 22.6 million.




                                           52
                                ANNEX 6
           Summary of Borrower’s ICR and Comments on Draft ICR
              Ethiopia- Private Sector Capacity Building Project (P050272)

I. Summary of the ICR report of the Government of Ethiopia (May 2013)

1. Project Development Objectives

1.1 Original PDO and Key Indicators as approved

The key objective set for the project was to facilitate increased participation of the private
sector in the economy by creating conditions for productivity improvement and
competitiveness. This goal was expected to be achieved by:

    a. assisting acceleration and divestiture process of public enterprises and facilitating
       increased private sector participation;
    b. improving the business environment and increasing competition and
       contestability of the markets; and strengthening the linkages and integration of
       the Ethiopian economy into global markets; and
    c. Support for technical and business management skills to improve productivity at
       firm level, through matching grant fund; tools for business schools to better train
       managers; and a business plan competition to catalyze innovation and
       entrepreneurship.
1.2 Revised PDO and Key Indicators and reasons, or justifications

1.2.1   Project Restructuring

The project was restructured under an agreement between the Bank and GoE dated 31
March 2008 for the following two reasons:

a. Reduction of the original budget of US$ 24 million allocated for the project to US$
   17 million equivalent due to the global food crisis, which required reallocation of the
   reduced resources for each project component; and
b. Review of the matching grant support scheme as well as other project activities,
   resulting in focus on exporting firms in an integrated manner and dropping the
   support for private firms that produced for the domestic market

During restructuring, the original PDO was maintained; however, the following revisions
were made to outcome indicators.

a. Increased private investment to GDP ratio from 10.5 percent in 2003/04 to 15 percent
   in 2009 (including privatized firms) was dropped, because the result is an outcome of
   a number of factors in addition to the contribution of the project; and it was found to
   be rather hard to measure the differential impact of the project on GDP.
b. 4,500 new jobs created in the private sector by project end was revised, linking result
   to firms benefiting from matching grants and not privatization, which is more likely

                                             53
   to result in labour restructuring or redundancy than job creation. No quantitative
   target for increased jobs was set under restructuring though.
c. Value added per worker increased by 20 percent in participating firms by project end
   was continued during project restructuring. However, it was dropped under project
   extension as it was found to be hard to measure.

Results Indicators

a. Component One: No change was made throughout the project period
b. Component Two: Continued with some revision of annual targets related to number
   of cases handled by the Competition Commission, based on implementation
   feedback, and further changes upon extension of the date of project closure.

c. Component Three:
     Results for BIZCAP
(i) Supported domestic market suppliers increase their sales at a rate 25percent higher
     than non-supported firms: This indicator was dropped during restructuring as support
     for domestic suppliers by the project was discontinued
(ii) Supported chambers and associations increase their memberships (number of
     members) at a rate 25 percent higher than do non-supported associations: This result
     indicator was dropped during project extension for no clear reason

   Results for SCHOOLCAP
   National skills training: (i) At least 30 Ethiopians trained from at least five
   institutions every year; (ii) at least 20percent increase in subscribers annually for the
   AAU Journal. The result indicator regarding national skills training was dropped due
   to the sharp increase in enrolment of teachers of business education on post-graduate
   studies at FBE, coupled with greater focus on developing and implementing two new
   MA programme rather than the shorter terms courses envisaged in the PAD.

   Result for BIZPLAN
   At least 250 eligible entrepreneurs apply to BIZPLAN competition in first year, with
   at least 10 percent increase in number of eligible applicants annually: This result
   indicator was changed to survival rate as opposed to number of applicants

1.2.2   Extension of Project Closing Date

The project closing date of 31 July 2012 was extended to 31 December 2012 under an
agreement signed on 3 July 2012.

The PDO was revised under this agreement and stated as follows: To facilitate increased
participation of the private sector in the economy by creating conditions for improving
productivity and competitiveness.

1.3 Main beneficiaries


                                            54
The main beneficiaries of the project have been the following:
a. The Privatization and Public Enterprises Supervising Agency implementing the
   Privatization Action Plan of the government in terms of institutional capacity building
   and workers of privatized public enterprises, who have been retrenched
b. The former Trade Practice Investigation Commission and its successor the Trade
   Practice and Consumers Protection Authority, responsible for the implementation of
   competition policy, as well as the WTO Directorate under the Ministry of Trade, in
   charge of the WTO accession programme of the GoE in terms of institutional
   capacity building and analytical studies
c. Private sector firms and chambers of commerce and sectoral associations eligible for
   grant support, business start-ups, and the former Faculty of Business and Economics
   and its successor, College of Business and Economics of Addis Ababa University

1.4 Project Components

To support the implementation of the agreed policy measures under PRSC-II, as well as
to build the capacity of the private sector, the PSD CBP consisted the following three
components:

a. Component One: Accelerating the Implementation of Privatization Program
b. Component Two: Improving the Business Environment through Implementation of
   Competition Policy and Accession to WTO
c. Component Three: Strengthening the International Competitiveness of the Private
   Sector and the capacities of its Representative Organizations
1.5 Original policy areas supported by the project

a. Privatization of public enterprises in order to expand the share of the private sector in
   the national economy
b. Implementation of competition policy to ensure that there is a level playing field for
   the private sector
c. Advance the integration of the Ethiopian economy into the global trading system
   through WTO accession
d. Strengthening the international competitiveness of the private sector

1.6 Other significant changes, including reasons: design, financing (reallocation),
    and implementation arrangements

1.6.1 Design
The design changes are mainly related to Component Three: Strengthening the
international competitiveness of the private sector and the capacities of its representative
organizations.

1.6.1.1 Matching grants
a. Matching grant support to private firms that manufacture for domestic market was
    dropped; and the support focused exclusively on exporting firms;


                                            55
b. The national staffing complement of the Ethiopian Competitiveness Facility was
   increased in number as well as in types of expertise to provide knowledge-based
   handholding support. Further, the planned input of expatriate staff for ECF
   implementation was reduced due to the project budget cuts resulting from the global
   food crisis;
c. The support for capacity building of private firms was based on an integrated
   approach such that a more comprehensive gap analysis was conducted with respect to
   production management, quality management, marketing, efficiency, etc., and the
   appropriateness of the solutions proposed to fill the gaps was checked during
   appraisal of applications for support, thus correcting the earlier tendency of firms to
   request support for stand-alone activities, such as attendance of trade fairs;

1.6.1.2 Management education at the Faculty of Business & Economics

Due to Government decision to expand business education in the country, FBE increased
its intake of MBA students who would serve as teachers upon graduation.
Consequently, the original plan to provide national skills training to 30 persons from at
least five institutions every year under the project was dropped. More emphasis was put
on developing and implementing new MA programmes on applied trade policy analysis
and competition policy.
1.6.1.3 Support for Diaspora network and ITC market information

Under project structuring of April 2008, it was planned to support the development of
Ethiopian Diaspora network and dissemination of market information to be obtained from
International Trade Centre. However, due to reduction of project finance by US$7
million, both areas of support were dropped.

1.6.2   Financing

The initial resource allocated for project implementation was US$ 24 million of which
US$ 19 million was an IDA credit and US$ 5 million a grant. However, the initial project
budget was restructured and reduced down to US$ 17 million in accordance with the
Development Financing Agreement of April 1, 2008 as mentioned hereinabove. In
addition, the Government of Ethiopia has also contributed as counterpart fund Birr 15.6
million roughly around US$ 1.5 million.

2. KEY FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOMES

2.1 Project preparation, design and quality at entry

Key factors during the preparation stage or issues related to quality at entry that affected
implementation and outcomes are treated herein below.

2.1.1   Background analysis




                                            56
The background analysis regarding (a) privatization; (b) the business environment, and
(c) the international competitiveness of the private sector and the capacities of its
representative organizations was done in the respective study commissioned by the
former Ministry of Trade & Industry, employing the PHRD grant earmarked for project
preparation. It also benefited from various studies conducted by the Bank such as
Investment Climate Assessment as well as documents availed by the Government.

It covered the major issues involved, including public sector dominance in the economy,
weak integration of the Ethiopian economy into the regional as well as the international
economy, and low level of skills in private firms and weak institutional support to the
private sector. It identified gaps to be filled to advance the PSD agenda. Overall, it was
sound and solid and facilitated the implementation of the project.

2.1.2   Assessment of the project design

2.1.2.1 Project objective

The key objective of the project was to facilitate increased participation of the private
sector in the Ethiopian economy by creating conditions for improving its productivity and
competitiveness. This was aligned with the Country Assistance Strategy of the World
Bank as well as the GoE’s commitment to encourage PSD as an engine of growth for
sustainable development and poverty reduction as outlined in PASDEP.

2.1.2.2 Project components

Design aspects

The main aspects of design of each component of the project are given herein below:

a. Component One: Accelerating privatization

Institutional capacity building; review of modes of divestiture of public enterprises
followed by revised categorization of the enterprises by type of divestiture;
environmental audits of public enterprises; and the redundancy scheme for workers of
public enterprises including its costing. The World Bank’s experience in privatization of
public enterprises in other countries was also reflected in the design.

It must be noted that the complexity of the design of the voluntary redundancy scheme
was underestimated during project appraisal. As a result, its design had to be conducted
after project effectiveness. This delayed the implementation of the scheme under the
project. Consequently, the GoE had to cover redundancy payments out of its own
resources in order to facilitate the privatization programme.

b. Component Two: Improving the business environment




                                           57
Review of the competition policy, reflected in the Trade Practice Proclamation and
determination of areas of support for (a) implementation of competition policy and (b)
WTO accession, including preparation of the Roadmap for WTO accession. The design
consultants had previous experience in review and design of competition policy and also
in providing advisory services to other jurisdictions on WTO accession.

c. Component Three: Improving international competitiveness of the private sector

Design of matching grant scheme for private firms, capacity building plans for private
sector support institutions, consisting of chambers of commerce and sectoral associations
as well as professional associations, and business plan competition based on previous
World Bank experience.

The three project components were designed by qualified international experts, with
previous experience in their respective fields of assignment. The design reports were
validated at consultation workshops in the presence of stakeholders, including
representatives of the private sector, chambers of commerce, academia, financial
institutions, implementing agencies, and development partners; and feedback was
provided for improvement of project design. This ensured that the design was based on
tested and internationally acceptable norms and conducted in a transparent manner. It had
the support of public as well as private sector stakeholders, thus paving the way for
smooth implementation.

Design novelties

The project brought the following novelties to the Ethiopian context of private sector
development:
a. Design of a voluntary redundancy scheme based on international best practice and
   WB tool kits;
b. Need for incorporation of findings of environmental audits in the privatization
   process;
c. Need for alignment of the competition law with international best practice and
   revision thereof;
d. Provision of technical assistance to private sector firms using matching grants
e. Support of start-up businesses through business plan competition and linkage with
   banks by providing cash collateral for loans; and
f. Design of new courses on (i) applied trade policy and (ii) competition policy and
   regulatory economics

2.1.2.3 Organizational arrangement

The principle that guided the organizational and implementation arrangement was
mainstreaming the operational responsibility of the project to those institutions involved
in implementing the GoE’s policy agenda. In other words, project implementation was
decentralized. As such the institutional and implementation arrangement was rather
complex, involving the following 9 entities:

                                           58
a.    The former Ministry of Trade & Industry (MoTI) later replaced by the Ministry of
     Industry (MoI) as the main executing agency, delegated by the Ministry of Finance &
     Economic Development that signed the financing agreement with the World Bank.
     Under it were;
b.   Public-Private Steering Committee, for strategic direction, budget approval and
     progress review under the Ministry
c.   Privatization and Public Enterprises Supervising Agency for implementation of
     Component One: Accelerating Privatization
d.   Competition Secretariat for implementation of the support for implementation of
     competition policy, a sub-component of Component Two: Improving the business
     environment
e.   WTO Department for implementation of the support for WTO accession, a second
     sub-component of Component Two
f.   Capacity Building Sub-Committee, the members of which were drawn from the
     public and private sector, for the implementation of Component Three: Improving
     international competitiveness of the private sector
g.   Business Management Unit under the former Enterprise Ethiopia to implement the
     matching grant scheme and business plan competition under Component Three
h.   Faculty of Business & Economics of Addis Ababa to implement SCHOOLCAP under
     Component Three
i.   Project Coordination Unit for overall fiduciary responsibilities, including financial
     audits, and coordination of the activities of the various implementing agencies

It was assumed that the PCU would have a lean staff of four required to coordinate the
above nine entities and monitor the overall performance of the project with reporting
responsibilities to the GOE as well as the World Bank.

2.1.3   Adequacy of government’s commitment

The government had shown adequate commitment to the project by involving relevant
stakeholders in the consultations during project design and establishing private-public
steering committee (PPSC) for providing guidance and oversight of project
implementation. Government ministers served as chairs as well as members of the PPSC
and the Capacity Building Sub-Committee.

2.1.4   Assessment of Risks

5 major risks were identified during project design and the risks were accordingly rated
and mitigation measures were recommended. The overall risk rating was substantial. The
mitigation measures proposed were appropriate and implemented. The risk ratings
related to (a) weak supply response from the private sector; (b) GoE’s commitment to the
Privatization Program; (c) and capacity of MoTI to implement the reform program and
coordination with other ministries were mitigated by and large using measures similar to
those proposed at project design.




                                            59
3      Implementation
3.1 Factors that contributed to successful implementation

    1. Commitment of the Government, including ministers of the former MoTI and MoI,
       and officials of the implementing agencies to the realization of the objectives of the
       project
    2. Participation of the private sector, particularly in the oversight of the
       implementation of matching grants and business plan competition
    3. Improvement of the professional mix of the staff of the Ethiopian Competitiveness
       Facility by recruiting experts in project analysis and implementation, production
       management, marketing, institutional development, and a well-rounded manager for
       ECF
    4. Selfless professional input of the teaching staff of the Economics Department of the
       Faculty of Business & Economics (FBE) in the curricula design of 2 new MA
       programmes, namely, Applied Trade Policy as well as Competition Policy and
       Regulatory Economics
    5. A project coordination unit devoted to the successful implementation of the project
       in accordance with the financing agreement and operations manual and managed by
       a professional with considerable experience in project and industrial management,
       coupled with stability of core staff of the PCU, particularly the Coordinator, who
       was involved as a consultant to MoTI during project preparation and has managed
       the project since project effectiveness
    6. Restructuring of the matching grant scheme with focus on export development and
       support of interventions, based on integrated gap-analysis approach as opposed to
       the initial approach of funding stand-alone activities
    7. Close working relations of the PCU with the Task Team of the Bank as well as
       executing agencies.

3.2 Factors that gave rise to problems

    1. Frequent turnover of staff of implementing agencies, including ministers, directors,
       and other so forth; particularly, those who were directly or indirectly engaged in the
       implementation of the respective project components, requiring orientation and/or
       training on Bank procedures, etc., to mitigate the problem.

    2. Long delay to restructure the project, particularly the matching grant scheme with
       focus on export development. As a result, the support to the private sector was
       suspended until the signing of the amended financing agreement. Close follow-up
       with Bank Task Team as well as MoTI was necessary to minimize the delay. A
       better organized Ethiopian Competitiveness Facility was set up to provide improved
       hands-on support to beneficiaries
    3. Overlap of donor support to beneficiaries
     (a) The Privatization& Public Enterprises Supervising Agency had secured a grant
         from the African Development Bank for transaction advisory services and


                                              60
       capacity building. PPESA preferred to exhaust the DB grant before utilizing the
       WB credit.
   (b) USAID and GIZ were funding capacity building activities of private sector firms.
       Private firms were cherry pecking and went for the support of other donors as the
       terms and conditions for implementation were less rigorous.

 4. Capacity limitations of private sector firms to (a) prepare business plans for support,
    and (b) implement activities approved and specified in letters of agreement on time.
    As a result, hand-holding support had to be provided by experts of ECF to prepare
    business plans and expedite implementation thereof. This had slowed the initial
    uptake of project support and disbursement. However, the beneficiaries turned to
    the project as soon as the programmes of the other donors were closed.

3.3 Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation and Utilization

3.3.1 M & E Design

3.3.1.1 PDO indicators

Three outcome indicators were identified and targets by project end were set to monitor
the achievement of the project development objective (PDO) to create improved
conditions for private sector investment and increased productivity. Each one of them
had their particular drawbacks as follows:

a. Increased private investment to GDP ratio from 10.5 percent in 2003/04 to 15 percent
   in 2009 (including privatized firms)
   • The expected increase would not be an exclusive outcome of the project. There
       are many other contributing factors for the increase. As such, it was found
       difficult to measure the marginal effect of the project.
   • Private investment to GDP ratio has not been readily available or published on an
       annual basis at the Ministry of Finance & Economic Development as was
       anticipated in M & E design.

b. 4,500 new jobs created in the private sector by project end
   • It was not clear from the outset whether this indicator was related to jobs created
       in the whole private sector, or by private firms directly benefiting from the
       project. The new owners of privatized firms were more likely to lay off redundant
       workers than to hire new ones.
   • The project was intended to finance voluntary redundancy of workers of public
       enterprises in order to facilitate privatization.

c. Value added per worker increased by 20 percent in participating firms by project end
   • Such data was not readily available in private firms as it would require special
      skill to measure it ; and
   • Generally, there was resistance to provide such information to external bodies.


                                           61
3.3.1.2 Intermediate results and their indicators
The intermediate results by project component as well as their indicators were
adequately identified and helpful to monitor the progress of the project.

3.3.1.3 M&E Implementation
The data related to the indicators for intermediate results of each one of the three
components was collected by the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) from the respective
executing agencies, using the collection methods or instruments stipulated in the project
appraisal document (PAD).

3.3.2 Revision of M & E Indicators
The M & E indicators were revised twice during the life of the project. Accordingly,
data was collected in alignment with the restructured M & E and results framework.

3.3.3 M&E Utilization
Extent to which appropriate data was evaluated and used to inform decision making and
resource allocation - The data collected in line with the M & E framework by project
component was analyzed and evaluated against the targets set. In case of negative
variance, where performance fell short of target, remedial measures were taken in
consultation with officials of implementing agencies to expedite the activities funded
by the project and achieve or exceed the targets in the results framework and thereby
attain the project development objective as well. Examples of measures taken, among
others, include, close follow-up of:
    a. the progress of the tenders for privatization of public enterprises until final
        contract and hand-over to private owners
    b. the establishment of the Trade Practice Investigation Commission and its
        secretariat; implementation of competition policy; and building the capacity of
        the secretariat and its successor, the Competition Authority
    c. analytical studies related to impact assessment of WTO accession on the
        transport, telecommunications and financial services sub-sectors
    d. implementation of matching grants for private sector firms, chambers of
        commerce and sectoral associations, and business plan competitions
    e. curricula design of courses for the Faculty of Business & Economic and the
        implementation thereof, involving increased reallocation of resources for the 2
        new MA programmes established by the project

3.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

3.4.1   Financial management

An appropriate financial management system was maintained and project financial
statements were prepared in accordance with international accounting standards.
Unqualified audited financial statements were submitted to IDA prior to the due date of
6 months after the close each fiscal year. Quarterly IFRs were also presented to IDA on
time.

                                            62
A special audit on voluntary redundancy payments (VRP) has detected overpayment by
PPESA to the Public Servants Social Security Agency (PSSSA) in the amount of
US$1.6 million dollars. This has been duly refunded to the Special Designated Account
of the project. At this juncture, it is worth noting that, prior to the availability of the
project funds, the PSSSA had paid over US$10 million out of its own funds to
redundant workers in order to facilitate the privatization of public enterprises.

3.4.2   Procurement

No issues of conflict of interest or fraud arose during the whole project period. The
project faced frequent turnover of procurement staff and members of tender committees
of executing agencies, which was quite a challenge to the PCU. The problem was
mitigated through training and orientation on procurement guidelines of the WB and
hands-on support.

All contracts for procurement of goods and services were executed smoothly, except in
the following two cases:

   (i) A contractual dispute arose between PPESA and an individual consultant in
        connection with the quality of the deliverable on asset valuation, which was
        unsatisfactory to PPESA. The dispute was amicably resolved by the contracting
        parties themselves, based on the professional advice of the PCU.
   (ii) A contract between the Ministry of Industry and Economic Competitiveness
        Group, Inc., for consultancy services on the preparation of National Strategy on
        Industrial Clusters Development was terminated due to the failure of the
        consultant to submit the final report in accordance with the contract. The issue
        was discussed with the procurement unit of the Bank. No-objection was secured
        from the Bank to terminate the contract. The issue was closed accordingly.

3.4.3   Disbursement

All disbursement issues were discussed with the finance unit of the Country Office.
There are no outstanding issues. The PCU is prepared to refund the Bank any unutilized
funds in the Designated Account.

3.4.4   Environmental assessment

Full environmental audits were conducted on 24 public enterprises and partial audits on
72 public enterprises as envisaged in the project design. Further, environmental
management plan was prepared for 96 enterprises. Therefore, there are no outstanding
environmental issues.

3.5 Post-completion Operation

The PCU is retained by the Government after the closing date of the project date in
order to ensure that financial commitments for activities executed prior to the closing

                                             63
date are fulfilled, and financial statements and reports are properly prepared for final
external audits.

Further, the PCU is mandated to coordinate Phase 2 of the Ethiopian Competitiveness
Facility, which is a four-year programme, in accordance with the Memorandum of
Understanding signed between DFID and the Ministry of Finance & Economic
Development.

The GoE is committed to the preparation of the Competitiveness & Job Creation
Project for post-completion engagement with the World Bank in line with the Country
Partnership Strategy. The Ministry of Industry has assigned the coordinator of the PSD
CB project as one of the two focal persons for technical issues in its dialogue with the
Bank.

4.      Assessment of Outcomes

4.1     Achievement of overall PDO

The PDO to facilitate increased participation of the private sector in the economy by
creating conditions for productivity improvement and competitiveness remains relevant
as it is consistent with (a) the country’s current development priorities stipulated in the
Growth & Transformation Plan (GTP), with emphasis on development of SMES; job
creation; measures to enhance capacity utilization of manufacturing industries and new
investments; improved and simplified trade regulations and procedures; efficient and
competitive trade sector; and accession into the WTO; and (b) with the current Bank
Country Partnership Strategy.

4.1.1    PDO level results indicators

4.1.1.1 PDO Indicator 1
An average target of at least 10percent of private sector jobs created in participating
firms was set by project end, taking into account baseline of 1,917 jobs at project
commencement in 2005. The total number of new jobs created in private sector firms
supported by ECF under the matching grant scheme reached 5,719 by project end, thus
exceeding the target.

4.1.1.2 PDO Indicator 2: Percentage of value of assets
The target percentage of total value of public enterprise assets transferred to private
sector management and ownership was 27percent by year 3 and 55percent by year 5.
By project end, the actual percentage achieved reached 77percent, thus resulting in
enhanced participation of private sector in the economy.

4.1.1.3 PDO Indicator 3: Increase in export
Both targets, namely, (a) at least 25 percent increase in the value of exports in
participating firms and targeted sectors, and (b) and/ or at least 10 firms starting to
export as a result of the support were exceeded. The average increase in the value of

                                             64
exports reached 29percent and 20 new firms started exporting by project end. This
indicates that project has assisted private sector firms to be more competitive by
building their capacity in management, technical and production capacity.

4.1.1.4 PDO indicator 4: Percentage of female jobs
Total number of employees of beneficiary firms participating in the matching grants
scheme has reached 20,533. 60percent of these employees are female compared to the
target of 50percent. This indicates that the project is gender sensitive and has assisted
women to improve their economic livelihood.

4.1.2   Achievement of Intermediate Results under Each Project Component

4.1.2.1 Component One: Assisting acceleration and divestiture process of public
enterprises and facilitating increased private sector participation

The target of 10 public enterprises sold to the private sector 10 per annum in the 2004/05
– 2008/09 period has been achieved with a divestiture of almost all the 55 enterprises
listed in the PAD. The actual number of enterprises transferred to the private sector,
including individual farms within agricultural enterprises, has reached 57, exceeding the
target of 40.
In addition, 79 enterprises in sectors, such as hotels, food and beverages, chemicals,
construction, textiles, farms, metals, and trading, that were not listed the PAD have been
divested.
This means that the domination of public enterprises in manufacturing and farm outputs
has been dramatically reduced across sectors, such as ago-industry, food processing,
leather and leather products, textiles and apparel, construction, and metals as a result of
privatization, thus enhancing the participation of the private sector.

4.1.2.2 Component Two:        Improving the business environment and increasing
competition

Intermediate Indicator 1: Revised competition policy
A revised competition law has been enacted with framework for fair trade practices and
anti-trust separate from anti-dumping, with provisions on mergers, collusion, market
dominance, etc.

Intermediate Indicator 2: Independent competition authority and secretariat
A strong competition authority has been established, with the support of the project,
replacing the former Trade Practice & Investigation Commission, albeit towards the end
of the project. The authority has recruited most of the critical staff required for operation
and champion the implementation of competition policy to enhance the contestability of
the market in the Ethiopian economy.

Intermediate Indicators 3: Number of studies
The project has supported three studies on the impact of WTO accession on
telecommunications, finance, and transport sectors. These studies on Ethiopia WTO

                                             65
accessions were disseminated to, and discussed by stakeholders as well as the WTO
taskforce and National Steering Committee. Furthermore, 7 similar studies were
conducted supported by other donors, in such areas as intellectual property rights, health
services, investment, technical barriers to trade, sanitary & phyto-sanitary services,
agriculture, and trade remedies.

The GoE is committed to the implementation of competition policy and accession to
WTO as at the end of the GTP period, i.e. 2014/15.

4.1.2.3 Component Three: Strengthening the International Competitiveness of the
Private Sector and the Capacities of its Representative Organizations

Intermediate Indicator 1: Number of grants
The total number of matching grants provided by ECF to private firms, chambers of
commerce and sector associations as well as start-up businesses was 165 compared to
the target of 150.

Intermediate Indicator 2: Number of startups
The number of startups established through business plan competition each year was 20
each in round 1 and 2, which was exactly in line with the target. The project managed
to conduct four business plan competitions and warded 30 startups in round three and
10 in round four. Thus, the total number of startups supported by the project is 70
against the target of 40.

Intermediate Indicator 3: Survival rate of startups
The proportion of startups established through business plan competition that survive
after one year in operation has exceeded the target of 70percent. This indicates the
robustness of the appraisal of the business plans of the competitors by the project.

Intermediate Indicators 4: Number of university (FBE) curricula
The MBA and MSc in accounting and finance programs were reviewed and revised;
while 5 new courses were designed, namely: Bachelor of Business in accounting; MSc
in finance; MSc in management; MA in applied trade Policy; and MA in competition
policy and regulatory economics.

Intermediate Indicator 5: Number of graduates
The number of graduates in applied trade policy and competition policy and regulatory
economics in year 3 was 20 and 21 in year 4, thus exceeding the overall target of 40.
5.    Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1   Bank Performance

5.1.1 Lending
The PSD CBP was designed fairly quickly in order to assist the Government of Ethiopia
to embark on a comprehensive reform program and to implement the first generation of
PSD reforms. The Bank’s CAS was based on Ethiopia’s SDPRP document. The PSDCBP
as indicated in the CAS was consistent with the overall GoE strategy and its efforts to

                                           66
remove the key obstacles to PSD and support a faster private sector-led economic growth.
The Bank was eager to support the evolving institutional structure of Ethiopia. In this
context a series of support packages like PRSC-II with substantial PSD content in the
areas of privatization, competition policy and WTO accession were developed to support
policy reforms of the Ethiopian Government. The PSD CB Project provided financial
support and technical assistance necessary to enable the Government to implement key
PSD policy reforms agreed under the framework of PRSC. The PSD CBP complemented
the ongoing efforts led by the Bank and other donors like EU, ADB, DFID, USAID and
UNDP supported PSD and focused on addressing the remaining constraints.
The Banks performance involvement and assistance in addressing and responding to the
Government’s needs by getting involved in addressing and financing important reform
gaps of the PSD CB Project is rated satisfactory.

5.1.2 Supervision
The operational responsibilities were endorsed to different institutions/agencies where the
PCU had no hierarchal authority them. This meant that the project needed persistent
communication and close follow- up of events by the PCU than were anticipated. In
addition, the high staff turnover of the Country Office had also affected the operation.
Apart from frequent reshuffles FMS and Procurement Specialists, 4 officials had presided
as TTL over the operating life time of the project which eventually resulted in different
approaches to project supervision. All the same, overall, the Bank’s supervision Mission
has carried out its duties as planned and the Bank’s performance with this respect is
ranked satisfactory.

5.2   Borrower Performance

5.2.1 Preparation
The Government of Ethiopia had recognized that increased level of private participation
was crucial for sustained growth. The PSD CBP was formulated as a project to
accommodate the Government’s need for assistance to speed up private sector reform
process. The Government was committed to accelerate the participation of the private
sector in manufacturing activities, speed up the privatization program of commercial PEs,
and introduce policy reform that would eliminate entry and exit barriers of private
investment, implement necessary reforms that would nurture competitive business
practice and other related issues. The Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
has done fundamental negotiations and agreements in due time for the release of the
credit and grant and has made satisfactory preparation for the project to kick off. The
Ministry of Trade and Industry, the main executing agency of the project on the
borrower’s side has also performed a satisfactory job.

5.2.2 Implementing Agencies
During initial operation start-up, the implementing agencies had to put the necessary
infrastructure and staff in place and familiarize themselves with World Bank
disbursement and procurement guidelines. However, with the guidance and consultations
from PCU and the Country Office, the operations of each project component, except
Component One, were gradually taking shape. The implementation of Component One

                                            67
entrusted to PPESA was delayed for over 3 years since project start-up date until the
partner donor fund financing of ADB was utilized. Overall, all of the implementing
agencies have done a good job and their performance is rated satisfactory.

6. Lessons Learned

The key lessons learned are the following:
   1. Implementation of an integrated package of interventions is vital to address the
      interrelated constraints of the private sector and create an environment for a
      sustainable PSD.
   2. Close collaboration with key stakeholders to ensure ownership and continuity,
      particularly, with implementing agencies as was the case during the design phase
   3. Strong professional leadership and capacity is required to direct, organize and
      control various project programs that are to be implemented by different
      institutions under different management with no formal organic link to one
      another.

7. Sustainability

The overall project sustainability is rated satisfactory in view of the commitment of the
GoE (a) to improve the business climate to deepen the participation of the private sector
as indicated in the GTP and espoused in the Country Partnership Strategy, and (b) the
request of MOFED to proceed with the preparation of the “Competitiveness and Job
Creation Project?.
Especially, the sustainability of ECF support to bench-marking activities related to
product quality, processing capacity, and marketing is rated highly satisfactory.

II. COMMENTS RECEIVED ON DRAFT ICR REPORT

   Reference          Comment                                Bank team’s response
Page 16, Para 15:      The following should be included      Main beneficiaries in the
Main Beneficiaries     among the beneficiaries: (a)          report are defined as the
                       chambers of commerce and sector       primary target group to
                                                             benefit from the
                       associations, (b) teaching staff at
                                                             achievement of PDO and
                       Addis Ababa University, and (c)       does include beneficiaries
                       implementing agencies supported       as a result of the process of
                       by the project in terms of            implementation
                       institutional capacity building

Page 22, Para 40:     - The conclusion that the risk         - This still reinforces the
Risk and Risk           mitigation measure proposed was        idea that the risk
Mitigation              either not effective or properly       identified was not
                                                               appropriate. If the target
                        implemented assumes that a
                                                               was to reach firms only
                        substantially greater number of        in Addis Ababa, then the

                                           68
                      firms from rural areas could have      risk was not relevant at
                      been supported. However, the fact      all. However, if firms
                      of the matter is that the target       based in the regions were
                                                             supported, the pervious
                      beneficiaries, of the matching
                                                             comment would not be
                      grant scheme, i.e., private            valid. The report was
                      exporting firms, are                   trying to show that the
                      geographically located in Addis        proportion of firms from
                      Ababa and its surroundings. Most       the region was much
                      eligible regional manufacturing        lower than the number of
                      firms engaged in exports, other        firms in Addis Ababa.
                                                           - Support provided to the
                      than public enterprises, have also
                                                             regional chambers and
                      been supported.                        floricultures is well
                    - Further, 19 regional chambers of       noted.
                      commerce and sector associations
                      were supported by the project.
                    - The 12 floriculture firms
                      supported by the project prior to
                      the first restructuring were outside
                      of Addis Ababa.


Page 22, Para 52,   The fact is that the final uptake of The language has been
Line 3              the demand-driven activities was revised to clarify the issue.
                    high. Therefore, the remark that it
                    was low should only refer to the
                    initial stage, which is related to
                    teething problems, so to say
Page 22, Para 44    The foreign exchange gain of close   Well noted.
                    to US$ 1 million was a result of the
                    appreciation of the SDR against the
                    US dollar as the funds in the
                    financing agreement were
                    denominated in the SDR. It is also
                    true that the devaluation of the ETB
                    has meant that more local currency
                    was made available to cover local
                    costs.

Page 23, Para 49    The reason for the failure of the      The section has been
                    Additional Financing Agreement is      revised to clarify the issue.
                    not properly articulated. Both GoE
                    and the WB had reached agreement

                                        69
                    that the Project would submit the
                    special VRP audit in accordance
                    with the ToR proposed by the Bank.
                    The negotiation failed due to
                    disagreement on the proposal of the
                    Bank to include additional clauses
                    related to safeguards as well as
                    fiduciary issues, which the GoE side
                    viewed as a renegotiation of the
                    financing agreement of an existing
                    project.

Page 23, Para 51,       Please delete “either difficult to     Detail explanation on the
Line 5                  measure?.                              changes in the indicators
                                                               was not available and it is
                                                               hard to say in certain terms
                                                               that the change was only
                                                               due to irrelevance of the
                                                               indicators.
Page 23, Para 47,   The footnote related to contracts          Language has been revised
Footnote 16         management is too harsh on the
                    executing agencies, i.e. on PPESA
                    and MoI. It is not helpful the way it
                    has been stated in view of the fact
                    that the root cause of the problem is
                    the failure of the two consultants to
                    deliver their reports in line with their
                    respective contracts. MoI’s
                    consultant never disputed that it had
                    failed to comply with contractual
                    obligations.

Page 24, Para 57    Some of the result indicators which        Well noted.
1.                  were later on changed or dropped
                    are available, for instance, the
                    original result indicators related to
                    Component 2 (number of cases,
                    public information programs, etc).
Page 26, Para 65,   The amount DFID has committed is           The report has been
Line 6              GBP 4 million and not Euro 4               corrected.
                    million.

                                          70
Page 28, Para 77,   Please include insert “as well as the The report has been
Footnote 30         implementation of competition          amended.
                    policy? after “Privatization
                    program? in line 4.
Page 32, Para 92    The project had supported the          Well noted.
                    Competition Secretariat as well as
                    the Trade Practice Investigation
                    Commission established under the
                    previous competition law. The
                    Commission was replaced by the
                    current Competition Authority (upon
                    amendment of the law), which in
                    turn has been supported by the
                    project in terms of capacity building.

Page 38, Para 121   Institutional support to the Addis   Well noted.
                    Ababa Chamber of Commerce,
                    regional chambers of commerce and
                    sector associations was an important
                    intervention of the project. This
                    must be mentioned in this paragraph.

Page 41, Para 131   See the comment in 5 above             Well noted.
                    regarding the reason for the failure
                    of the Additional Financing
                    negotiation
Page 52, Para 140   The project has submitted to The       The report has been
                    WB two VRP audits conducted by         amended.
                    external auditors. The way it has
                    been stated in the paragraph can be
                    misleading.

Page 45: Annex 2    Outputs by component are not           The section has been
                    comprehensive.                         updated based on the
                                                           Gov’t ICR.




                                         71
                                ANNEX 7
                      List of Supporting Documents
         Ethiopia- Private Sector Capacity Building Project (P050272)

1. Project Appraisal Document
2. Development Financing Agreement dated 10 March 2010
3. Agreement providing for the amendment and restatement of the development
    Financing agreement, dated 1 April 2008Development
4. Project progress reports
5. Ethiopia/ Evaluation of the impact of and value for Money of the Ethiopia
    Competitiveness facility, UK DFID, Coffey international, April 2012
6. Country Partnership Paper (2012/13-2015/16),August 29, 2012
7. Country Portfolio Performance Review report, September 2012
8. Aide memoire and Implementation Support reports
9. Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, Growth and Transformation Plan
    (2010/11 – 2014/15)
10. Emergency Food Crisis Response Program of the Federal Democratic Republic of
    Ethiopia under the Global Food Crisis Response Program Emergency Program
    Paper for a proposed Additional Financing, Report No. 46658-ET dated
    November 25, 2008.
11. State Owned Enterprise Reform , Ha-Joon Change, United Nations, Department
    for Economic and Social Affairs (UNDESA, 2007)




                                     72
              32°E                                                        36°E                                                                            40°E                                  42°E                                44°E


                                                             SUDAN                                        ERITREA
                                                                                                                                              To
                                                                                                                                             Keren                                      R
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          REP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ETHIOPIA




                                                                                                                                                                                                e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           OF                                            SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS




                                                                                                                                                                                                d
                       ETHIOPIA                                     To
                                                                                              Humera
                                                                                                                                                     Adigrat                                                             YEMEN                                           REGION CAPITALS




                                                                                                                                                                                                    S
                                                                  Gedaref                                     ek
                                                                                                                 eze            Axum




                                                                                                          T
            14°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                       14°N                              NATIONAL CAPITAL




                                                                                                                                                           D




                                                                                                                                                                                                       e
                                                                                                T I G R AY




                                                                                                                                                               en
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         RIVERS




                                                                                                                                                                                                             a
                                                                                                                                                      Mekele




                                                                                                                                                                   ak
                                                                                                                              Ras Dashen
                                                                                                                              Terara (4620 m)                                                                                                                            MAIN ROADS
                                                                                  Atb




                                                                                                                                                                      il
                                                                                        ara                                                                                                                                                                              RAILROADS
                                                                                                         Gonder




                                                                                                                                                                          De
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         REGION BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                         AMHARA                                                A FA R
                                                                                         Lake                                                                                                                                                                            INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES




                                                                                                                                                                             se
                                                                         Dinder          Tana
            12°N                                                                                                       Debra                                                                                                           12°N
                                                                                                                       Tabor             Weldiya
                                                                                                                                                                                                       DJIB
                                                                                                                                                                                                       DJIBOUTI




                                                                                                                                                                                rt
                                                                                         Bahir Dar                                                                            Asayita
                                                                                                               ue                                                                                                                                                    46°E                    48°E




                                                                                                          Bl
                                                                                                                    Nile                                                                                                                                                     n
                                                                                                                                                Dese
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             o f       A d e
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            G u l f
                                                               Abay




                                                      BENSHANGUL                                          Debre




                                                                                                                                                                 Awa
                                                                                  er



                                                                                                          Markos
                                                                               ng




                                                       Asosa




                                                                                                                                                                     sh
                                                                                                                           Ethiopian
                                                                             Ha




            10°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10°N
                                                                                                                            Plateau                                             DIRE DAWA
                                                                                                                                                                                        Dire Dawa
                                                                             Didesa




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    To
                                                                                                                                                                                           Harer                                 Hargeysa

                                                                 Gimbi                Nekemte          ADDIS ABABA                     ADDIS                                     HARARI          Jijiga
                                                                                                                                       ABABA                     Awash                                                                                                        SOMALIA
                                                                                                                                                 Nazret                            R
                                           Baro                                                                                                                                                                                            Aware




                                                                                                                                                                                    am
                                                                                                                Welkite                                                                                          Degeh Bur
                                                                      Gore                                                                           O R O M I YA




                                                                                                                                                                                       is
                                                 Gambela
            8°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Domo                   8°N
                                   GAMBELA
                                                                                                                                               y
                                                                                                                                     Asela
                                                                                                                                             e

                                          Ak
             SOUTH                                                                                                                                   abe Shebele
                                                                                                                                         l l



                                             o                                                Jima                  Hosaina
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   O g a d e n
                                                                                                                                               W
                                             bo




                                                                                                                                      a




                                                                                      Bonga
             SUDAN                                                                                                                                                                                                      SOMALI
                                                                                                                                     V




                                                                                                                                 Shashemene
                                                                                                                                                               Goba                                                                                          Warder
                                                                                                       Sodo      Awasa                         Dodola
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Kebri Dehar
                                                                                                                               f t




                                                             SOUTHERN NATIONS,                                   Wendo

                                                                                                                                                                                 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Imi
                                                                                                                           R i




                                                               NATIONALITES                                                                                                       ab
                                                                                                                                                                                     e Ge
                                                                                                                                                                                            t
                                                                                                                                                                                        sr
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Wa
            6°N
                                                                AND PEOPLES                                                                                                               o                         be
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Shebe
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      6°N
                                                                                                                       t




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            le
                                                                                                                   e a




                   0   50    100   150    200 Kilometers
                                                                                                                                                           Genale
                                                                                                               G r




                                                                                                                                             Negele
                   0        50      100          150 Miles                                                                                                                                                                                                Ferfer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                           Yavello                      Dawa                                                                                                Mogadishu


                                                                                                                                                                                                    Dolo
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Odo                   This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IBRD 33405 R2
            4°N
                                                                Lake                                                          Mega                                                                                        The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                             Turkana                                                                                                                                                      Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             INDIAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                          KENYA                                              Moyale
JULY 2011




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OCEAN
              32°E
                       UGANDA             34°E                            36°E                                  38°E
                                                                                                                                To
                                                                                                                                                          40°E
                                                                                                                                                                       To
                                                                                                                                                                      Wajir                     42°E
                                                                                                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                                                                        Mogadishu                   44°E                             46°E                     48°E
                                                                                                                              Marsabit
