                                                                                                        42790
                                 DATA SHEET TEMPLATE FOR
                                              PROJECTPAPER



Country-Ethiopia                                            Sector ManagerDirector: Gerard0 M.




Development
Responsible agency. Ministryo f Trade and Industry




RVP Approved

Have these beenapproved by Bank management?
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?

Project development objective/outcomes

The key objective o f the project i s to facilitate increased participation o f the pnvate sector inthe economy
by creating condihons for improving its productivity and competitiveness. This goal will be acheved by
helpmg accelerate the process o f divestiture o f public enterprises and facilitating increasedprivate
participation; improvingthe business envlronment and increasmg competition and the contestability o f
markets; strengthemng the linkages and integration o f the Ethopianeconomy into the global markets;
strengthemng support for t e c h c a l and business management skills and thus mproving the productivity at
the fmlevel.
Does the restructured project tngger any new safeguard policies?

No, it tnggers no new safeguard policies

                                    RevisedFinancingPlan(US $m.)
                       Source                                   Local              Foreign             Total
Borrower                                                               18.3             -------              18.3
IBRDADA                                                               ------            -------
                                                                                          25.2              25.2
Others                                                                ------                               -------
Total                                                                  18.3               25.2              43.5


                                    Restructuringof the
          Ethiopia   - PrivateSector    DevelopmentCapacityBuildingProject

                                        ProjectPaper


A.      IntroductoryStatement

This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to introduce the followmg
changes m the Ethiopia Private Sector Development Capacity Building(PSD CB) Project and
any accompanymg amendments to the project's legal documents.

The proposed changes will support the realization o f the revised project development
objective and greater utilization o f undisbursed International Development Assocition (IDA)
credit o f US$16.6 Million, representing 82 percent o f the origmal credit, and undisbursed
IDAgrant ofUS$5.2 Million, 100percent ofthe origmalgrant.

The restructurmg measures, defined through a Government-driven process ledby the Minister
o f Trade and Industry propose to:

        Expand the development objective to mcorporate export development, which has
        become a highpriority for the Government and the private sector;
        Refocus the content o f capacity building activities in the project by creating a new
        entity, the Ethiopian Competitiveness Facility, and more specialized program
        activities oriented toward the export development process at the firm level, as well as
        export-oriented market mstitutions such as standard-certification and Diaspora trade
        andinvestment mstitutions;
        Redesign the unplementation arrangements for the private sector capacity-building
        program, by appropnately financing technically-skilled personnel able to improve the
        mtakeprocess andthe quality o f firm-level support;
        Strengthen CompetitionPolicy.
        Expand funding to activities that are both better p e r f o m g and aligned with the
        revised development objective, while reducmg funding o f program activities that are
        bothunderperfomg andless directly related to the development objective;
        Restructure the results framework to better measure revised outcomes and remove
        mdicators which cannot realistically be measured 111 theprojecttuneframe; and
        Extend the closmg date to allow more tune for Implementation.

In combmation with reforms m the financial sector and m trade policy the proposed
investments will support creation o f competitive firms, d y n m c sectors, and a more flexible
economy that can covert market access opportunities to higher levels o fproductivity andjobs.
As a result o f these changes, described   111
                                             detail below the project is expected to be more
effective inachievmg the revised Project Development Objective (see Section C).

B.      ProjectBackgroundand Rationalefor Restructuring

The Private Sector Development Capacity Building Project was approved on December 21,
2004, the fmancmg agreement was signed on March 10,2005 and it became effective on July
15, 2005. The IDA credit amount was SDR12.7 million (US$ million equivalent), o f which
approximately SDR 2.2 million (US$3.6 million equivalent) has been disbursed as ofJanuary
6, 2008, and the IDA Grant amount was SDR 3.4 million (US$5 million equivalent) which
remains undisbursed.



                                               1

The origmal development objective was to: `Lfacilitate increasedparticpation of theprivate
sector in the economy by creating conditions for               improving its productivity and
competitiveness. This goal will be achieved by helping accelerate theprocess of divestiture of
public enterprises and facilitating increased private participation; improving the business
environment and increasing competition and the contestability of markets; strengthening the
linkages and integration of the Ethiopian economy into the global markets; strengthening
supportfor technical and business management skills and thus improving theproductivity at
thefirm level."

The ongmal project was comprised o f three mam components:
(i)      Accelerating the Implementationof Pnvatization Program;
(ii)     Improvmg the Busmess Environment through Implementation o f Competition Policy
         andAccession to the World Trade Organization (WTO)
(iii)    Strengthenmg the International Competitiveness o f the Private Sector and the
         Capacities o f its Representative Organizations.

Component One Acceleratingthe Implementationof PrivatizationProgram,(US$10.14
Million). The largest component o f the project was designed to assist the Government in
accelerating the unplementation o f its Privatization Program o f commercial public enterprises
by improvmg the capacity o f the Government 's pnvatizationagency, broadenmgthe range of
divestiture modalities mcluding asset sale, concessions, leasing, jomt ventures, management
contracts, etc, adoptmg market-oriented, open, transparent and competitive biddingprocesses,
and supportmg voluntary retrenchment o f workers from state enterprises. It mcluded (a)
Institutionalcapacity buildingo f PPESA, (b) Transaction advisory services to the divestiture
process; and (c) the Excess labor program to deal with excess labor m public enterprises
slated for privatization.' and provide a package o f benefits, which may comprise o f voluntary
redundancy, early retrement, counseling, retrammg and out placement, for redundant
workers; and (d) Studiesto monitor compliance by investors with contract covenants.

Component Two            Improving the Business Environment through Implementation of
Competition Policy and Accession to the WTO (US%1.1 Million). This component aims at
assisting the Government m the effective implementation of their competition policy,
preparation for WTO accession negotiations, and long-term capacity-building for the
formulation and unplementation o f trade and competition policy                  It mcluded two
subcomponents, Subcomponent A, on Implementation o f Competition Policy (support on
implementation guidelines and staff capacity building; and Subcomponent B, support to WTO
accession through Analytical Studies, Short-Term Advisors, Trammg, andworkshops.

Component Three            Strengthening the International Competitiveness of the Private
Sector and the Capacities of its Representative Organlzations (US$S.O Million). This
component will help strengthen human and institutional capacity o f the private sector. It
includes three complementary and mutually remforcing sub-components for which the PSD
CB project will provide financial and technical assistance, Matching Grang Scheme
comprismg FIRMCAP and ASCAP (BIZCAP) - almed at building international
competitiveness withm private firms, and at building the capacity o f private busmess and
professional associations and o f chambers to better serve then- members; BIZPLAN -
Busmess Plan Competitionaimed to support and grow private Small and MediumEnterprises
(SMEs) m Ethiopia; and School Capacity Building Sub-component (SCHOOLCAP)- Global
Busmess School Network aimed to strengthen the mstitutional capacity o f the Faculty o f
Busmess and Econormcs at the AddisAbaba University



 The US$7 millionof IDA funding earmarkedfor this activity i s likely to beadequate only for the
initial phase of the program. Shouldthe programproveto be successful, additional funding will need
to be sought.


                                                 2

At the time o fproject design, in2004, the Government and the Bank had agreed that among
the pmcipal issues to be addressedmmcreasmgthe participation o fthe pnvate sector was the
role o f the roughly 150 state enterpnses m the economy, and that a combmation o f
privatization, competition policy, WTO accession and fm level support to small and
medium-sized enterpnses would therefore be an appropriate response.

While some progress has been achieved, two factors affected the project durmg
implementation: evolution o f Government priorities, and delays m execution.                More
specifically.

(a) The Government's strategy toward private sector development evolved, with an
enhanced emphasis on institution building. Through a combmation o f experience with
implementation and Economc and Sector Work, the Government and the Bank have realized
that the process o f private sector development will requlre a greater relative emphasis on
buildingmstitutions that help mtegrate Ethiopian f m s with markets. Such mstitutions that
promote a flow o f mformation and knowledge about market requirements, that solve export
bottlenecks for particular sectors (such as logxtics or environmental impact),         that build
confidence m Ethiopian suppliers by helpmg them understand and adhere to global has
increased m importance as Ethiopia has succeeded in penetrating export markets in the rose
and shoe sectors. There was a shift o f high-level attention andGovernment resources toward
these issues.

(b) There was an increasinglevel of commitment to the process of export development,
which was not matched by the interventions designed into the project. The Government
places the private sector at the center o f its export development strategy, which is particularly
important to address the sizeable gap between its US$4 billion imports and the approximately
US$1.15 million m exports. An enhanced emphasis o f the client on export development is
seen as a means to obtam the private sector growth and employment targets envisaged m the
origmal design. This would requlre substantial mstitution-building as well as highly focused
capacity buildingefforts. The Matchmg Grant Scheme bemg mplemented with the Busmess
Management Unit under Enterpnse Ethiopia (a Government project office) proved to be a
major obstacle m speeding up the implementation process, and prevented the proactive,
informed approach required. As an example, supervision efforts found that the most popular
utilization o f matchmg grants was for visiting trade shows (63 out o f 82 firms, 43 percent o f
US$1.4 million m matching grants) whereas those f m s had no capacity to achieve export
orders or produce to the quality requlrernents o f those markets

(c) The need for support for privatizationis now more targeted. Privatization remams an
important objective o f the project and Government, but the Government has become more
capable o f utilizing the new modalities developed with Bank support in 2004 under PRSC TI,
and the pace o fprivatization has steadily increased each year from none 1112003 to 22 m 2006.
The need for substanbal, generalist, transaction advisory support has dimmished. Other
donors, particularly the African Development Bank, have provided technical support that
makes the origmally anticipated broad-based support unnecessary           Rather, more targeted
support for privatizing specific industrial sectors is now needed. Movmg from firms to
individuals will also speed upproject Implementation.

(d) Project implementation was weak. Delays in project execution have affected most
project components, m part a result o f project complexity and unfamiliarity with many
agencies with Bank procurement and disbursement arrangements. Hiring o f f m s utilizing
QCBS procedures have been particularly difficult.             Furthermore, the Government's
implementation arrangements for firm-level capacity building, which vested the task with a
Government agency, proved madequate to the task o f providing meaninghl support to
exporters.



                                                  3

(e) Policies were found under implementation to require reform. Supervision efforts
found that the policy, law and mstitutional design supporting competition policy was
sufficiently flawed that project effort was requrred to amend the law rather than support
development o f implementing regulations or staff capacity

( f ) The sensitive political and governance environment impacted implementation. Post-
election violence particularly in 2005 and 2006 created a difficult environment for normal
project activities and contributed to unplementation delays, particularly in Addis Ababa
University'sFaculty o fBusmess andEconomics, which was closed for substantial periods.

Implementation Support Reports completed in March and October 2006 raised serious
risks on achieving the Project Development Objectives (PDOs) under the existmg
implementation arrangements. Delays in procurement, disbursement, and utilization o f the
project resources m almost all areas resulted m an unsatisfactory rating for the project. As o f
March 2006, the project had disbursed just 5 percent o f the targeted amount. At the end o f
FY06, the project was at 8 percent o f expected disbursement levels. Inthe pnvatization area
the Government was makmgsome progress despite limited utilization o f the resources, but m
other areas the slow disbursement o f technical support had impacted the underlying objectives.

A number of attempts were made to improve performance without restructuring. In
June 2006, the Bank undertook an implementation support mssion m order to help lmprove
performance without formal restructumg.          Each project component was reviewed, and
recommendations made to strengthen project implementation. Capacity building activities
were held for each sub-component. A more mtensified focus on procurement was made by
the Government, and the Ministry o f Trade and Industry issued directives to strengthen
implementationo f the matchmggrant sub-component.

These efforts helped, but not to the extent desrred by the Government or the Bank.
Implementation support reports completed m November 2006 rated the project moderately
satisfactory and unsatisfactory respectively In FY07 project disbursements have increased
after several remedial measures and an accelerated effort on procurement. However, as of
January 2007 only US$1.4 million out o f the total size o f US$24.0 million was disbursed,
roughly 6 percent.

After concluding that the improvements in implementation were still not satisfactory the
Government and the World Bank agreed to move toward a restructured operation m
December 2006. The design was completed by June 2007 with mternal approvals taking
another few months.


C.       ProposedChanges

The proposed changes to the project are summarized below and a more detailed comparison
o f the original andrestructuredprojects can be found inAnnex 2, with the cost implications m
Annex 1.

(a)      The Project Development Objective is more aligned with the nationalobjective
         of export development, and is more measurable. The revised development
         objective is to improve the enabling environment and institutional capacity for a
         sustained increase in private sector investment and exports. Two new mdicators are
         added: Value of exports in particpating firms and targeted sectors increases 25
         percent by the end of theproject period, and at least I Ofirms starting to export as a
         result of the capacity building support. One mdicator, the private investment to GDP
         ratio, has been removed due to the lack o f ability to isolate the contribution o f the
         project to this outcome (see Annex 3).


                                               4

(b)   The restructured project introduces the Ethiopia Competitiveness Facility, a
      new institution designed to house three important forms of export capacity
      building: an export market access fund, which will co-finance the development and
      unplementation o f comprehensive export development plans at the fm level; the
      Market Institutions Fund, which will co-finance the development o f mstitutions that
      mtegrate Ethiopian firms with markets; and the Business Plan Competition, designed
      to help create new Ethiopian busmessesthat respond to new market conditions. The
      Ethiopia Competitiveness Facility encompasses the ongmal Matchlng Grant Scheme
      (MGS) which i s redesigned to target potential exporters. The expected outcomes are
      mcreased exports and employment by the f m s and sectors participating mthe MGS,
      mcrease m the number o f exporting firms with quality and standards certification
      (ISO, SPS, HACCP etc.). The Busmess Plan Competition, retained from the origmal
      project, will be expanded to finance a third round. The activity to provide generic
      support to business associations has been dropped.

(c)   The restructuring strengthens implementation arrangements for the Ethiopia
      Competitiveness Facility to be both more autonomous, and more technically
      capable of serving the revised objectives (see Annex 2).               An autonomous
      unplementing unit managed by a competitively recruited mdividual consultant
      reportmg directly to a Public-Pnvate Steemg Committee chaired by the Ministry o f
      Trade and Industry The implementation o f the export development effort will be
      augmented by mternational expertise to be mdividually recruited base on the needs
      that emerge both at fm and sectoral levels. A senior Ethiopian manager and two
      fill-tune foreign experts will be hired, with specializations m export development and
      mstitutional development, whereas the previous arrangement relied solely on a
      Government     agency and domestically-recruited consultants.       A United Nations
     Agency, the International Trade Center (a jomt venture o f the World Trade
      Organization and UNCTAD) will be contracted to provide market knowledge. A sum
      o f US$ 1.75 millionhas beenallocated for this purpose.

(d)   The project reallocates funds to better-performingcomponents. The financial
      allocation for advisory support with privatization has been reduced, while
     maintainmg a critical mass o f fimding mcluding for retrenchment and lncreasing
     fimding for the design o f the retrenchment package. The unallocated finds m the
     origmal project, US$2.5 million, are now allocated to the enhanced cost o f
     management and finding for the institutionbuildingactivities.

(e)  Competition policy will be supported through a revision of the Policy, and its
     supporting legislation and institutional home, including the Proclamation,
     Comssion, and its Secretariat. The existlng policy/legal arrangements for
     competition policy requlre reform before firther IDA mvestment.            Key reforms
     needed mclude makmg the Secretariat mdependent, changmg the composition o f the
     Secretariat, and reforrmng the policy itself. The Government requested expert review
     which resulted in a set o f reform recommendations accepted by the Government. A
     joint Bank-Government team will review the law and structure.

(f)  The project Closing Date will be extended for an additionalyear to July 2012,
     primarilyto account for delays durmgthe penod o fpolitical unrest as well as tune for
     the new recruitment processesresultmg from the above changes.




                                              5

D.       Analysis

The proposed changes are not likely to have a major effect on the validity o f the ongmal
economc, financial, technical, institutional or social aspects o f the project as appraised.
However, two aspects suggest that the restructurmg will increase the economc returns to
Ethiopiarelative to the project without restructuring.

The ongmal economc analysis suggested a substantial decrease m the Net Present Value
(NPV) and the Internal Rate o f Return o f the projects in the case o f a substantial delay in
disbursement. A delay indisbursement would reduce NPV from US$22.6million to US$13.7
million.    Given the substantial delays pnor to restructuring, the changes are expected to
return the project toward the origmal anticipated base case assumptions for NPV Secondly,
41 percent       o f the NPV o f the ongmal project was attributed to the international
competitiveness components o f the project.       As this component is bemg expanded and
strengthened, the contribution o f this component to the overall project, andtherefore the NPV
o f the project, will margmallymcrease.

While the change m the focus and implementation arrangement o f the MGS is expected to
have a direct and enhanced lmpact on export expansion, the privatization component will not
be affected. The competition component will be utilized to lmplement the agreed reforms o f
revismgthe proclamation governmg competition enabling the creation o f a better mstitutional
fkamework through an mdependent C o m s s i o n and Secretariat with better representation o f
stakeholders andmtroducmg required sillshowledge.

The proposed changes will not raise the environmental category o f the project or trigger new
safeguard policies, nor would involve any exceptions to Bank policies.


E.       ExpectedOutcomes

The expected outcomes are increased exports and employment by the firms participating m
the MGS, increase m the number o f exporting fm with quality and standards certification
(ISO, SPS, HACCP etc.). A revised Results Framework is attached to this Project Paper and
can be referredto for more details.

The revised mdictors are:

             Matching Grant Scheme: increases m the value o f exports and number o f jobs
             created by participating firms and value added per worker;
             Privatization: proportion o f total value o f Statement o f Expenditures (SOEs')
             assets transferred to private sector ownership/management and mcreases m the
             value o f exports and/or outputs bypnvatized f m s ;
             WTO Accession:        completion o f impact assessment studies and their
             dissemnation to stakeholders through workshops and other consultation
             processes;
             Competition Policy- a revised Proclamation and mstitutional set up for the
             Competition C o m s s i o n and Secretanat and number o f competition cases
             adjudicatedby the comssion;
             SCHOOLCAP. curricula revised and adopted, number o f graduates tramed m
             mternational trade andregulatory economcs; and
             BusmessPlan Competition: number o f SME start-upsandsurvivalrate o f SMEs.




                                                6

F        Benefits and Risks of Restructuring

The export focus o f the Matchmg Grant Scheme is expected to have a positive demonstration
impact for exportmg firms. More exposure to mternational markets will create an enhanced
learning and innovation to the challenges o f the global market. The learnmg effect will spread
to f m s and sectors not supported by the MatchmgGrant Scheme.

The changes proposed in the project do not substantially change the o n p a l economc,
financial, technical, mstitutional or social objectives o f the project, but greatly increase the
likelihoodo f achievmg them. The key expected benefits:

         The export focus o f the Matching Grant Scheme will have positive demonstration
         Impact for exporting firms. More exposure to mternational markets and enhanced
         learnmg about the challenges and ways o f succeeding spread over an mcreased
         segment o f the export mdustry inthe country

         The expected outcomes are mcreased exports and employment by the fm
         participating m the MGS, mcrease in the number o f exportmg f m s with quality and
         standards certification (ISO, SPS, HACCP etc.).

         Outcomes will become more measurable. The current scheme cannot ascertain
         that the f m s would not have undertaken the actions if the matchmg grant fund did
         not support them. It also does not allow to clearly link the performance o f enterprises
         to the matchmg grant assistance. Therefore, it i s difficult to hold the management (or
         any other party) accountable for unmeasured results.

         The privatization component will not be affected but use o f hnds would be more
         efficient, complementmg other donors.

    0    The competition component, if implemented as proposed, would contribute to the
         creation o f a relatively improved level playng field.            Core mstitutions for
         admistermg a competition r e p e will be created and developed and the general
         awareness o f the private sector players mcluding the general public will be upgraded.
         However, these benefits, and the implementation o f the component, will depend on
         the Government's ability to revise the legal framework and allow a degree o f
         mdependence to the Competition and the Secretariat taking competition as one o f its
         priority areas.

The original project was candid about key risks, including a lack of Government
support and delays in implementation. These two risks were mdeed manifested durmg
implementation.     To the extent that the project is now more aligned with Government
priorities, the nsks are expected to be more modest.

Outcomes will remain somewhat uncertam due to natural and commercial risks. Ethiopia's
exports are ago-based, weather failures can affect the supported firms directly or it can affect
those supplyng raw matenals to them in sectors like textiles and garments. Such shocks
causedby weather changes can be mitigated by Importingraw materials. A second nsk is that
the various gaps m the value chams o f the exporting sectors may not be bridged m equal pace
with the demands o fthe export industry

Implementation o f the restructured project will need to build on lessons learned m
implementation o f the origmal project, mcluding an mtensified focus on procurement,
simplifiedrules where possible, and continued highlevels o f Implementation support bothby
the Government andthe World Bank.



                                                7

8

     0
     0
     0
     b FA



       -
       0
       G      IA
              Do 4d
       d      N




0      0
0      0
VI     0
3      b
69     69




N              b
N              0
0
-       R      m
        d




         D
  N
  -      d      3  N
         i      N  N

18     -
0   3   3
        n
        >
         93




               3
               3
               9
               e
               m




               N
               m

                                               Annex 2:

                          DetailedDescriptionof ProposedChanges

A process o f consultation mitiated m June 2006, led by the Minister o f Trade and Industry,
supported by implementation support mssions has resulted m the followmg proposed
changes:

Component 1

Pnvatization: the PPESA has opted to recruit individual consultants for acquimg transaction
advisory services which will reduce the cost o f technical assistance. Furthermore, the ADB
resources amounting m excess o f US$2 million are mostly to support the acquisition of
transaction advisors. This allows savmgs o fUS$1 million.

Component2

The Trade Practices Commission has not had a sufficiently important unpact on fair
competition withm the pnvate sector andbetweenprivate and non-pnvate sector firms.

The C o m s s i o n lacks the support o f key stakeholders like the pnvate sector and public
bodies that can champion the cause o f fair competition. There is a low level o f public
awareness o f the Comrmssion and its Secretanat. The strengthenmg o f the dialogue between
the C o m s s i o n andbusmess community i s a key requlrement for its effectiveness. This i s an
area where the project needs to draw on mtemational best practices for the creation o f a
public-private sector partnership to ensure maximumbuy-mby all stakeholders for the project.

The Proclamation contains elements extending beyond competition law towards trade policy,
unfalr competition, anti-dumpmg and price regulation. As such, the competition law content
o f the Proclamation appears to be `diluted. Inparticular, the m t u r e o f competition law and
non-competition law provisions mthe Proclamation is boundto cause confusion over its exact
purpose and function. Experience in this regard shows that in nascent or developing
competition law regmes, where the competition law provisions are mixed with unfair
competition provisions m particular, unfair trade practices almost always obscure the
significance and role o f competition.2As a result the competition authority usually ends up
handlingmostly unfair trade cases as opposed to competition cases. This has beenthe case m
Ethiopia.

There are a number o f specific clauses inthe Proclamation which diverge from good practices
in other developmg countnes, mcluding definitions o f specific types o f uncompetitive
practices, forms o f allowable evidence, andprocedures.

The C o m s s i o n is made o f five comssioners who have been appomted by the Pnme
Minister and who are the holders or past-holders o f highlevel Government positions. None
o f the five comssioners comes from the private sector or consumer organizations. The
actual composition o f the C o m s s i o n therefore does not appear to be quite m line with
Article 13 o f the Proclamation according to which the unspeciJiednumber o f commissioners
shall be selected from Government private organs and consumer associations. Thlrdly the

 In Tunisia for example there used to be a great deal of confusion over the role of the Competition
Council with the majority of cases referred to the Council being unfair competition cases. The situation
however has come to improve dramatically with the Council taking the initiative of explaining in its
decisionsthe differences between unfair competition and competition law


                                                   11

composition o f the C o m s s i o n is problematic due to the high-level rankmg o f those servmg
as Comssioners, many o f whom are occupied by extremely demanding positions which
may limitthelr availability to gve competition necessary focus and attention.
The Secretariat on the other hand i s staffed with officials serving withm the local trade
department at the Ministry o f Trade and Industry. a qualified lawyer who was appomted
around December 2006 and two economsts. The Secretariat lacks the capacity to mvestigate
competition cases, or the degree o f competition m specific sectors o f the economy

Changesinthe legaland mstitutionalframeworkfor CompetitionPolicyto:
     0   Raise awareness and cultivate champions o f competition and compebtiveness
     0   Reform the Trade Practices Proclamation m line with good practices mtemationally
         mcluding a separate competition policy            reforms to the Comssion, and
         lmprovements to the clauses;
     0   Support buildingo f the mstitution, particularly the capacity o f the Secretanat.

Component3

Restructuring and enhancing the Matching Grant Scheme to the Ethiopian
CompetitivenessFacility. The followmg changes are proposed to align the MGS focus with
the client's export development objectives to mtroduce specific measurable outcomes.

     0   A professional organization will be established with a clear mandate and focus on
         exports, cluster development and a focus on mstitutions that support exports. This
         makes the lmpact o f the Export Facility measurable m terms o f export capacity and
         employment generation.


     0   Firm-levelsupport-ExportDevelopmentPlans. Firmlevelsupport will be carried
         out through development o f a comprehensive export development plan that will
         contam all necessary enhancements fkom the production to the market side.

     0   Market-supporting institutions. A thud wmdow will focus on the creation of
         market-supporting institutions that facilitate flows o f knowledge and information
         between Ethiopia and export markets, and reduce transaction costs, mcluding the
         proposed Diaspora Network to creating trade and mvestment linkages between
         exporters and the Diaspora; Supporting the establishment o f Institute o f Directors to
         lay the ground work for the introductiono f the concept o f Corporate Governance and
         its eventual practice by corporate businesses, and training grants to service providers
         for quality certification.

The Ethiopian Competitiveness Facility will require an organizational structure that
supports this enhanced level o f responsibility The organization will require competencies as
a professional mstitutionthat would generate knowledge based support both for fm and the
institutions that can support and enhance the export mdustries m Ethiopia. The lmplementmg
office for the Ethiopian Competitiveness Facility will be staffed by national and mtemational
experts with experience and capability to deliver both firm-level and cluster-level support.
International staff will be gradually replaced by Ethiopian staff, gwmg MOT1the option o f
mamtammg the mstitution past the life o fthe project ifuseful.


    0    A Management Contractor will recruited mtemationally through Terms o f
         Reference that require the firm to hire Ethiopian staff and gradually transfer full
         operational responsibility to Ethiopian staff over the course o f three years. The cost
         o f expertise to develop export capacity based on properly designed Export Plans that
         take mto account both firm level gaps and market requlrements is about U S $ 2.0
         million.



                                                12

      The InternationalTrade Center (ICT) of Geneva is proposed as an mplementing
      partner due to their ability to provide the Facility with market information that    IS
      necessary for the development of Export Plans. This is expected to cost $300,000
      over two years.
                 w
Structure of EthiopianCompetitiveness Facility


                           CapacityBusldingSubcommittee




                                                                           Awareness Building

                                                                           ApplicationSupport

                                                                           Application Support




                                           13

Dh
 8
Y
 %
 0

 e,
Y

'2
 9

Ee,

 C
.C
Bm
c



B2-2
oe,
10Y
- 8'3
i
3 h

            n
            h
                 C




t-4  m d

        `cc
         8




        3      r 4   m    d




BmMC
r


Y
.d


P
+
0

