                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 32617

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                              (FSLT-71370)

                                                  ON A

                                        LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT

                                 IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                               URUGUAY

                                                 FOR A

                              Uruguay Structural Adjustment Loan (PREM)




                                              June 15, 2005




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            (Exchange Rate Effective 2004)

                              Currency Unit = pesos
                                     US$ 1 = $28.72

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1    December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AF      Family Allowances
ANEP    Administración Nacional de la Educación Pública
AUIPP   Support for Public and Private Institutions
BPS     Social Security Bank
CAIF    National Program for Food Complementation for Mothers and Infants
DGI     Tax Administration Department
FCES    Foro Consultivo Económico Social del Mercosur
IADB    Inter-American Development Bank
IMF     International Monetary Fund
INAME   Instituto Nacional de Menores
INDA    National Food Institute
INE     National Statistics Institute
LDP     Letter of Development Policy
MECAEP  Improvement to the Quality of Primary Education
MEF     Ministry of Economy and Finance
MIDES   Ministry of Social Development
MSP     Ministry of Health
MTSS    Ministry of Labor and Social Security
MVOTMA  Ministry of Housing, Urban Planning an Environment
NGO     Non Governmental Organization
OPP     Office of Planning and Budget
PAC     Community Activities Program
PAE     School Meal Program
PNCA    National Program for Food Complementation for Mothers and Infants
PET     Plan de Trabajo Transitorio
PANES   National Assistance Plan for the Social Emergency
PROCAL  Employment Training Program
UI      Unemployment Insurance

                            Vice President:    Pamela Cox
                          Country Director     Axel van Trotsenburg
                           Sector Manager      Mauricio Carrizosa
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Daniel Fernando Oks

                                          URUGUAY
                        Uruguay Structural Adjustment Loan (PREM)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    4
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   5
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         6
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                          16
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            24
6. Sustainability                                                                26
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 29
8. Lessons Learned                                                               32
9. Partner Comments                                                              34
10. Additional Information                                                       35
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             40
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             47
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             51
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             52
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             54
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                57
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            58

Project ID: P077172                                                  Project Name: Uruguay Structural Adjustment Loan
                                                                     (PREM)
Team Leader: Daniel Fernando Oks                                     TL Unit: LCSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 30, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Uruguay Structural Adjustment Loan (PREM)                L/C/TF Number: FSLT-71370
   Country/Department: URUGUAY                                                            Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (30%); Other social services
                            (30%); Banking (15%); Housing finance and real estate markets
                            (15%); Compulsory pension and unemployment insurance (10%)
                  Theme: Debt management and fiscal substainability (P); State
                            enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (S); Other financial
                            and private sector development (S); Improving labor markets (S);
                            Social safety nets (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/19/2002                                     Effective:
     Appraisal: 07/01/2002                                         MTR:
      Approval: 08/08/2002                                      Closing:



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF URUGUAY/MINISTRY OF ECONOMY
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     David de Ferranti
Country Director:               Axel van Trotsenburg                           Axel van Trotsenburg
Sector Manager:                 Mauricio Carrizosa                             Mauricio Carrizosa
Team Leader at ICR:             Daniel Fernando Oks                            David Yuravlivker
ICR Primary Author:             Daniel Fernando Oks


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:


a) Context

The Uruguayan economy was hit by a series of external and domestic shocks since 1999. As a
result, the economy fell into a prolonged slowdown recession which ended in a financial crisis and
deep recession in the second half of 2002. The country faced a steep (about 90%) devaluation of
the exchange rate and the lack of financing placed the economy on the verge of default on its
sovereign debt.

The following external factors contributed to explain Uruguay's recession: (i) poor growth
performance of Brazil and Argentina; (ii) sharp devaluations in Brazil (1999) and in Argentina
(2002); (iii) deterioration of the terms of trade (higher oil prices and lower agricultural commodity
prices); (iv) worsening financial conditions in international capital markets. Domestically,
persistently high fiscal deficits (around 4% of GDP), the appreciation of real exchange rate, weak
financial supervision, and an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease during 2001 contributed to the
recession and financial difficulties.

The 2001-02 argentine banking crisis spread to Uruguay; uruguayan banks lost about one-third of
total deposits between January and June, 2002. Prior to the crisis, the Uruguayan banking sector
was characterized by a predominance of dollar deposits, a system-wide currency and maturity
mismatch, an environment of lax supervisory banking regulation and overall weakness of public
banks. In addition, the government had accumulated substantial amounts of dollar denominated
debt. The Central Bank of Uruguay ("Banco Central del Uruguay" ­ BCU) was restricted in its
ability to act as lender of last resort due to the limited amounts of dollars that it held ­ especially
after the run on deposits. In addition, it was also felt that devaluation would have an adverse
effect on the solvency of the banking system, as it would greatly deteriorate the quality of its
assets.

One of the triggers of the banking crisis was the suspension in Uruguay of the subsidiary of the
Argentine Banco Galicia, a bank that was facing a severe run on deposits. The problems in Banco
Galicia of Uruguay generated concern among depositors and spread to other banks. In this
environment the financial condition of public banks, namely "Banco de la República Oriental del
Uruguay" (BROU) and "Banco Hipotecario del Uruguay" (BHU), deteriorated rapidly despite
receiving over US$1.2 billion of liquidity support, while some private banks, namely "Banco
Comercial" and "Banco de Montevideo-Caja Obrera" were intervened as their deposit base was
quickly collapsing. Most foreign-owned banks received liquidity support from their headquarters.

Despite substantial liquidity support provided by the authorities, the financial condition of the
banking system continued to deteriorate. By the end of July 2002, the government was forced to
impose a banking holiday and to introduce drastic measures to counteract the crisis. These
measures were centered on: (i) a drastic restructuring of the ailing banking system; (ii)
strengthening of the financial sector's regulatory and supervisory framework; (iii) adoption of a
tight fiscal and monetary program; and (iv) floating the exchange rate ­ following the



                                                    - 2 -

flexibilization of the prevailing exchange rate band regime. In view of the public's perception of
the growing difficulties faced by the government to service its debt obligations, in 2003 the
government renegotiated its sovereign debt lengthening the average maturity by about 5 years.

The long recession had a negative impact on poverty and income distribution. In particular,
poverty incidence grew from 16.7% in 1999 to 23.6% in 2002 and 32.1% in 2004. In spite of an
improvement in the early 1990s, income inequality worsened during the 1990s with the Gini
coefficient increasing from 0.416 in 1990 to 0.445 in 2001. This was accompanied by a process of
social exclusion - a relatively new phenomenon in Uruguay - which has traditionally been
characterized as the most homogeneous society in Latin America. The rate of unemployment
increased from 10.1% in 1999 to 17% in 2002 ­ it peaked at nearly % at the end of 2002. Driven
by the strong economic recovery in 2004, unemployment rate dropped to close to 12% at the
beginning of 2005.

b) Original Objectives

         Overall objective

The last CAS (June 2000) Report No. 20355-UR. planned for a progressive reduction in Bank
support and a transition to graduation. In view of the ­ largely unforeseen - adverse circumstances
that affected the country, the Bank drafted the 2002 CAS Progress Report Report No. R2002-0147.
as the economic situation deteriorated rapidly. This Report determined that Uruguay needed
additional support to weather the crisis and to introduce reforms ranging from fiscal measures to
increase revenues and curtail spending, to bank restructuring, maintaining investment in human
capital and strengthening measures to protect vulnerable groups. The 2002 Progress Report was
supplemented with an Update Document No. R2002-0147/1. (August 2002). Both proposed
adjustment lending as the preferred instrument for increased Bank support to Uruguay during the
crisis. In this context, the Bank extended structural loans which included - apart from the SAL
and SSAL - the SAL II, SSAL II operations (approved in April, 2003) which covered the
modernization of the utilities sector and reforms in the health and education sectors respectively.

The proposed Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) and Special Structural Adjustment Loan
(SSAL) were part of a concerted multilateral effort (with the IMF and the IADB), to help
Uruguay withstand the impact of the strong external shocks that affected the economy between
1999 and 2002, set the stage for medium and longer term fiscal sustainability, create conditions
for sustainable growth and mitigate the social costs of the crisis. The SSAL and SAL had a fiscal
focus and included measures in three main areas: (i) fiscal policy, including both revenues and
expenditures; (ii) reform of the National Mortgage Bank ­ BHU (SSAL), a major contingent
liability of the public sector; and (iii) social protection programs, which needed to respond both to
the increased demand during the recession as well as to the tighter fiscal constraints (SAL).




                                                    - 3 -

        Specific SAL objectives

        The specific program objectives were:

(i)     Macro/fiscal. Contain wages of public sector employees and public company workers.
(ii)    Social protection. Ensure that selected social programs targeted on the most vulnerable
segments of the population are protected from budget cuts.
(iii)   Social expenditure efficiency. Improve efficiency of social protection programs through
improved coordination, better monitoring and evaluation.
(iv)    Transparency of social expenditures. Improve information on social spending.
(v)     Unemployment insurance. Increase the efficiency of the unemployment insurance system
and expand training for unemployed in the informal sector.
(vi)    Social consultation. Consult with stakeholders so that they participate in the monitoring
of the program's actions.

The Program's objectives were stated in a clear and timely manner, given Uruguay's urgent need
to avoid a deepening of the social crisis. Aims were realistic and were well directed towards key
aspects: containment of public expenditure and continuity of fiscal reform on one hand, and
protection of the most vulnerable segments of the population and preservation of human capital
on the other.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable.

3.3 Original Components:
The SAL program consisted of six components associated with the six specific objectives outlined
in section 3.1.

Component (I): Macroeconomic / Fiscal Component.

Rising wages and pensions were an important factor behind fiscal imbalances in the 1990s and
early 2000s. The program aimed to curb wages of the non-financial public sector including the
Central Administration, Departmental and Local Governments, public sector companies and
decentralized and autonomous agencies. As part of the emergency fiscal package, all such wages
were not to increase during the second half of 2002. In addition, the program envisaged changes
in the productivity sharing clauses for public enterprise employees. Changes were aimed at
reducing this expense by at least 50%.

Component (II): Protection of priority social programs

A set of eight social protection programs that focus on particularly vulnerable groups (children in
poor households, their families and unemployed people) were to be protected from budget cuts.
The selected programs covered basic services to ensure poor children and their families could
handle the risks caused by income reduction. The programs were: (i) the Family Allowances
Program (the most important) that grants cash subsidies for children, with larger payments going
to poorer families; (ii) food programs targeted to centers that take care of child welfare, pregnant



                                                - 4 -

women, poor elderly adults, poor families and the disabled ­ programs were run by the National
Food Institute (INDA); (iii) the program for Improvement to the Quality of Primary Education
(MECAEP) targeted to all-day schools in critical areas, and the School Meal Program
(PAE/ANEP); and (iv) the Employment Training Program for the unemployed poor.

In addition, selected social programs were to be monitored to ensure their effectiveness. The
Office of Planning and Budget (OPP) was to coordinate the monitoring process, including
beneficiary assessments in two of the selected programs (PAE and INDA).

Component (III): Improvement in the efficiency of social protection programs.

This component was based on the evaluation of the principal programs serving the most
vulnerable groups. It included cross-checking of beneficiaries across beneficiary registers to
improve targeting and avoid duplications. The analysis of strengths and weaknesses of the
programs was expected to provide a solid base for future reforms.
Evaluations were made of the four main food programs belonging to the National Food Institute
(INDA) and the Family Allowance program. These programs were directed at groups identified as
particularly vulnerable, including: children in poor households, pregnant women, and senior
citizens without social security coverage, who are most exposed to problems of nutrition,
education and health due to poverty. Evaluation of the housing program was included as it was
considered that the results of the program were not in accordance with the resources invested.
These evaluations were to include an efficiency analysis, a targeting analysis, and a comparison of
the prices at which the agencies executing such programs acquire goods and the market prices of
such goods. These actions were intended to strengthen institutions and encourage them to make
changes that promoted program efficiency.

The creation of a single register of beneficiaries is essential to improve the efficiency of social
spending. The government was committed to introduce a mechanism to cross-check the data
bases of beneficiaries ­ "Proyecto Vitral" - of the main public institutions (Banco Previsión Social,
Ministry of Health and Ministry of Housing, Urban Planning an Environment).

Component (IV): Consolidated Public Social Spending Information

The program envisaged setting up and implementing an information system for public social
spending which consolidated the Central Government with Departmental and Local Governments.
This was to be the first time that consolidated social spending would have been calculated in
Uruguay. The new methodology would provide an instrument for overall monitoring and
identification of duplications.

Component (V): Unemployment Insurance.

Uruguay has an unemployment insurance system funded out of general tax revenues.                   The
program is geared for workers in the formal sector. The insurance covers six months of benefits,
which could be extended for an additional 12 months. The system has offered effective protection
to barely 15% of unemployed workers. Reforms proposed under the SAL program included



                                                  - 5 -

provisions to: (i) allow unemployment insurance benefits only during an initial eligibility period of
six months; (ii) reduce unemployment insurance benefits over time and require recipients of
unemployment insurance to perform community services while receiving such unemployment
insurance; and (iii) establish a lifetime limit of thirty-six months of unemployment insurance per
worker.

Component (VI): Consultation with stakeholders

Although the consultation with stakeholders did not represent a formal component of the
program, it allowed civil society to participate in the monitoring of social protection actions. The
purpose of the consultation was to: (i) help civil society organizations to understand their rights
and responsibilities; (ii) analyze the opinions of significant players at national and regional level on
the appropriateness of the SAL; and (iii) to design a pilot program for a monitoring system to
measure the follow-up of the program at the national and regional level. The consultations were
to be coordinated by the Office of Planning and Budget (OPP) and ­ representing civil society -
by the Foro Consultivo Económico Social del Mercosur (FCES) The Foro is a coordinating entity
made up of a federation of entrepreneurial entities, PIT- CNT (central national trade union) and representatives
from non- profits organizations and academia, ANONG (national association of NGOs), the federation of
cooperatives, and the university professional association. .

In conclusion, the components of the SAL were reasonably focused in order to help achieve the
objectives of the program. They were presented in a simple and concrete manner and they took
into account the capacity of public institutions to implement them. The SAL components
incorporated lessons learnt on other projects.

3.4 Revised Components:
Not applicable.

3.5 Quality at Entry:


        Quality Assurance Group (QAG) Assessment

The Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA) of the combined SAL-SSAL program was carried out by
a QAG panel of reviewers and the final assessment was completed in November 2003. The panel
found the quality at entry of this operation to be satisfactory Summary assessment sheet: Strategic
Relevance and Approach: S; Structural, Financial and Macroeconomic Aspects: S; Poverty and Social Aspects: S,
Fiduciary Aspects: S; Policy and Institutional Aspects: S; Implementation Arrangements: S; and Risk Assessment:
Marginally Satisfactory (MS). Overall Assessment: Bank Inputs and Processes: MS. , with Risk Assessment
rated as Marginally Satisfactory; and all other dimensions rated satisfactory. Bank Inputs and
Processes were assessed as marginally satisfactory.

It should be noted that there were no specific panel comments or recommendations on the Social
Protection component of the SAL; in fact the QAG assessment focused mostly on the SSAL
specific components, i.e., on the restructuring of the National Mortgage Bank (BHU). However,
it is understood that the general comments apply.

The panel recognized that the task team performed its work well in the face of a considerable


                                                        - 6 -

challenge. The crisis was unfolding with potentially devastating economic and social
consequences for Uruguay. This placed the team under great time pressure. There was a need to
catch up quickly and develop sufficient understanding both of the economic and financial aspects
of the crisis as well as the complex and sensitive social dimensions. The panel found that the team
managed the processing of this operation with considerable skill.

The main weaknesses identified by the QAG panel were four: (i) they would have liked to see the
strategy and a clear sense of priorities, from which the time dimension of the reform program
would emerge, rather that the other way round; (ii) the conditionality did not emerge from a
well-thought-out strategy, nor is it clear how it was to be complemented by other operations; (iii)
measures that affect large segments of the population were proposed without adequate analysis
consultation, e.g., in the case of pensions, or in the case of unemployment insurance; and (iv) the
documentation was weak regarding the road ahead, the degree of ownership, the role of other
financial institutions and the risk inherent in the program.

        ICR Assessment

In considering quality at entry, it should be taken into account that: (i) the program was prepared
over a very brief period because of the critical situation being faced by Uruguay, as a result of
which both the authorities and the team from the Bank made significant efforts to ensure that it
could be implemented quickly; (ii) the depth of the crisis was much greater than originally
expected; (iii) there was considerable difficulty in the selection of social protection programs
because there was no single counterpart responsible for the execution of such programs; (iv) the
Ministry of Economy and OPP were able to influence decentralized institutions such as ANEP
("Administración Nacional de la Educación Pública"), INDA (National Food Institute) and
INAME ("Instituto Nacional de Menores") ­ they were less able to influence the Ministry of
Labor; and (v) OPP was a suitable counterpart mostly in those programs over which it had direct
responsibility (information on social spending, register of beneficiaries, surveys and evaluations).

At the time the SAL program was prepared, the staff of the World Bank correctly diagnosed the
social situation. In particular, it identified the principal risks to which the most vulnerable sectors
of the population were exposed -especially poor children and the unemployed. In addition, the
staff had an adequate understanding of the impact that the macroeconomic and fiscal variables
could have on the population with limited resources. On this basis, the staff designed the SAL
program to provide social protection to the most vulnerable sectors of the population, and to
improve the efficiency of the better targeted programs so that they might improve and extend their
services without needing to incur in additional expenditure.

The SAL program included short term objectives - protection for carefully selected priority social
programs - as well as medium and long-term objectives - increases in the efficiency of social
protection programs and improved coordination between institutions to prevent duplication of
benefits. Unemployment insurance had both a short and a medium-term impact. In the short term,
because it was intended to improve targeting, and in the medium term, because it laid the
foundations for a future reform of the labor market. Simultaneously, consultation of civil society
was introduced at all stages of the operation, and gained support and significant backing for the



                                                    - 7 -

program.

The overall objectives of the SAL Program were agreed with the government, which stated its
commitment to the implementation of the macroeconomic and fiscal objectives and those of social
protection, as reflected in the Letter of Development Policy.

The SAL program made a relevant contribution to Uruguay's return to normalcy, and a start on
the reform of long-standing structural constraints. In the context of a rapid deterioration of
macroeconomic and social conditions, the program's objectives and conditionality were well
defined and would have been beneficial under any long-term strategy that the government could in
the future decide. Both the general and specific objectives were well targeted to deal with the
social emergency. Selected social programs to be protected from budget cuts were well targeted
to mitigate the social impact of the crisis on the most vulnerable segments of the population.

Given the short time available for preparation, the overall assessment of the program is
considered satisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:


4.1. Outcome/achievement of objectives

Despite the difficulties mentioned (section 3.5), the program achieved most of its major objectives
leading to satisfactory development results. The overall evaluation of the objectives is satisfactory
because: (i) Uruguay took advantage of the opportunity provided by the current crisis to advance
in the structural reform program, particularly in macroeconomic actions and public finance; and
(ii) the social protection system was strengthened through better management, increased
efficiency and effective protection of socially critical budget allocations.

Macroeconomic performance in response to the adjustment and reform measures is deemed highly
successful. Output recovered 15% over 2003-04 and the economy is expected to grow a further
6% in 2005. The pass-through to inflation of the (almost 100%) devaluation was only 26% in
2002; in 2003 inflation declined to 10.2% and in 2004 to 7.6%. International reserves rose to over
15% of GDP while banking stability was regained with around half of resident's deposits that
have left the system returning to it. Underlying such performance was an unprecedented fiscal
turnaround; a primary fiscal deficit of 1.2% of GDP in 2001 was turned into primary fiscal
surplus of 3.8% of GDP in 2004. A combination of expenditure restraint and public tariff
adjustments contributed to large dividends of state enterprises; these in turn contributed to the
primary fiscal surplus. Sovereign debt with private creditors was successfully restructured in May
2003 with the maturity of bonds being lengthened on average 5 years at (or below) pre ­ crisis
interest rates and, as a result, country risk spreads declined from over 2000 basis points to around
500 basis points during 2003.

The contribution of the SAL program to macroeconomic and reform outcomes cannot be
explained in isolation from the programs of the IMF and IADB. Indeed, the adjustment and



                                                  - 8 -

reform agenda was supported by the three institutions in a coordinated way.

·       First, overall multilateral assistance commitments in August 2002 totaled US$3.7 billion.
This was a massive and timely infusion of liquidity which allowed ­ in combination with fiscal,
monetary and financial reforms ­ to stop the drain on bank deposits which caused the crisis in the
first place. In particular, the US$ 1.5 billion Bank Stabilization Fund created to provide liquidity
support to public and intervened banks was funded by multilateral agencies.
·       Second, the design and monitoring of the stabilization program has been primarily the
responsibility of the IMF (in close coordination with the other donors); the program has been
successfully implemented through a Stand-By Program. Specific elements of the stabilization plan
­ like wage restraint in the public sector and measures to increase the efficiency and effectiveness
of social spending ­ were supported by the SAL program.
·       And third, in the area of structural reform, responsibilities were shared with the other
multilateral agencies: (i) the IMF focused on the restructuring of "Banco Republica" (BROU)
and the intervened banks, the modernization of the tax administration and police and military
pension funds; (ii) the World Bank focused on the restructuring of "Banco Hipotecario" (BHU)
and the utilities, and (iii) IADB engaged in the improvement of the regulatory and supervisory
framework of the banking sector.
While poverty and unemployment increased to record levels in the aftermath of the crisis,
protected social programs and Uruguay's social safety net helped to mitigate a potentially much
stronger negative impact helping the most vulnerable segments of the population (see below).
Deeper repercussions on social outcomes were by-and-large avoided and, in some cases, social
outcomes continued to improve. This is a remarkable achievement of the program in view of the
fact that the crisis was much deeper than what was originally anticipated and that overall social
spending in 2002 had fallen with regard to the previous year by 9.1% in real terms. Constant prices
of 1999 using Implicit Prices Index deflator. The increase in poverty Poverty rose in 2002-2003 from 23.6
% to 30.9 % and to 32.1 % in 2004 (INE). must be viewed alongside other indicators showing that
despite the acute crisis, the country's human capital was preserved and in fact increased. School
enrollment rates (pre-school through secondary) rose School enrollment (pre-school through secondary)
rose from 793,806 students in 2002 to 807,802 in 2004. (ANEP). Student performance in the national
assessment also suggests that the crisis did not have a severe impact on education quality. Mean
scores in the national assessments show steady improvements through 2002, and the rise in scores
among students of poor socioeconomic backgrounds was greater than the improvement among
students of wealthier backgrounds. Infant mortality rates in 2004 remained at the same levels as in
2002. Health sector coverage continues to be almost universal, and family allowances covered
120,000 more children than in 2002. The SAL program cannot claim exclusive credit for such
outcomes. But it has played an important role in facilitating such outcomes among the most
vulnerable segments of the population.

In summary, having assigned a highly satisfactory ranking to the first objective (macroeconomic/
fiscal) and satisfactory to the second objective (social protection), the overall outcome of this
operation is ranked satisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:




                                                     - 9 -

        General Conditions

The following specific actions contemplated in the Letter of Development Policy (LDP) were
fulfilled:

(i)     The government made significant efforts to modernize the revenue service directorate
(DGI) and reduce evasion. Tax revenue during 2003 rose faster than inflation and tax buoyancy
continued through 2004;
(ii)    The government contained real public expenditures including wages and pensions - during
2003 the share of public wages in GDP declined from 6.9% to 6.2% and the share of social
security benefits declined from 16.3% to 13.7%;
(iii)   The government made progress on gradually opening up competition between public and
private firms, e.g., in the transport and cellular telecommunications;
(iv)    The government phased out specific rights on imports of goods, eliminated temporary
import tariffs imposed since 1998, lowered to either 0% or 2% the tariffs on all imports of capital
goods and to 2% on all telecom and informatics goods;
(v)     The government submitted to Congress comprehensive packages for reform of the police
and military special pension regimes.

Implementation of the LDP was satisfactory as evidenced by better than anticipated
macroeconomic performance - LDP envisaged average growth of 3-4% in 2003-05 whereas
projected average growth over 2003-05 is around 7%. While there have been some deviations ­
especially as Congress did not validate several government initiatives like the comprehensive tax
packages sent in December 2002 and June 2003 ­ the overall progress in policy reform was
satisfactory with major achievements in the fiscal, financial, monetary and social areas. Most
important, the program has been highly successful in redressing the fiscal deterioration and in
stopping - and later reversing - the massive run on bank deposits.

        Specific components

Component (I) Macroeconomic / Fiscal Actions

The government did not increase non-financial public sector wages in the period comprised
between July and December 2002. Salaries dropped in real terms from 100 in 2002 to 89 in 2003.
The government was also able to lower production costs of public companies. ANCAP, ANTEL
and ANP renewed their productivity agreements within the framework of their respective
collective bargaining agreements, and UTE signed a new collective bargaining agreement that
included a productivity agreement. The new agreements introduced changes regarding: (i) the
method of calculation, (ii) the basis on which levels of productivity are calculated, and (iii) the
proportion allocated to improvements in technology, which are to the benefit of the company. The
aggregate reductions in productivity payments measured in constant values compared to 2001
were 51.2% for 2003 and 52.4% for 2004.

Compliance with the objectives of this component was thus highly satisfactory.




                                                  - 10 -

Component (II): Protection of priority social programs

The government preserved priority programs from budgetary cuts. Protected programs included
basic needs like food programs, basic education focused on poor children, and monetary subsidies
to parents of young children with low salaries. The budget for the protected programs recorded a
high overall execution. All individual programs were complied with except for CAIF (Centers for
the Attention to Infants and the Family) - with execution insignificantly below its protected level -
and the workers' training program - which was justifiably downsized and replaced by other
programs. In the wake of the crisis, the government strategy was to (correctly) prioritize food
programs which substantially exceeded the amounts originally protected.

The most important food program, the National Program for Food Complementation for Mothers
and Infants doubled the estimated spending target. This implied a significant level of protection
for pregnant women, nursing mothers and children under six years of age who received assistance
from this food program in coordination with the Ministry of Public Health. Delivery of food requires
presenting a credential from an obstetrician or the health services. Another component of the same
program provided attention to close to 30,000 old age or disabled pensioners per month. The
program for Support for Public and Private Institutions (AUIPP) executed almost three times the
planned amount. This program is directed to close to 600 institutions where the indigent
population receives food. The Program of School Dining Rooms (PAE) provides meals to
primary school children. This program responded rapidly to the crisis, increasing its services to
cover 40% of primary school students - its spending rose 9.4% in real terms between 2003 and
2002, and 53% of the benefits went to children in the lowest income segment.

The Program of Family Allowances was also above its target. The number of formal sector
workers' children covered by Family Allowances fell from an average of 400,000 to around
300,000 in 2003, but this was compensated by better coverage of the informal poor ­ which
expanded from 65,000 beneficiaries in 2000 to 184,000 by the end of 2004. Recognizing that the
traditional contributory scheme was insufficient to provide adequate social protection to the
rapidy growing unemployed and informal workers and their families, the Government extended
the system to households with reduced income.

The Program for the Improvement of the Quality of Primary Education (MECAEP) over
executed by 30%. This program has succeeded in extending coverage of early and primary
education to sectors of the population in the most precarious socio-economic condition. This
program is well targeted and its evaluation has been satisfactory; it provides full-day education
and food for children of low income families. It was thus appropriate not just to protect this
program but also to up-scale it.

The CAIF program caring for children between 0 and 4 years and their mothers by means of
actions in education, nutrition, health and community participation had an execution rate of
98.2%. The evaluation of the program was very positive when measured in terms of the number
of children in early education. The impact of this program goes beyond what execution may
suggest as coverage increased susbtantially even without additional resources.




                                                        - 11 -

The Work Training program ("Programa de Capacitación Laboral") ­ execution rate on the other
hand was only 49.7%. This program has been shown to be highly ineffective (see Component III
below) implying that the reallocation of resources to the other programs - which over-performed -
was justified. The government prioritized the situations of unemployment and falling income
affecting the most vulnerable (vis-à-vis the training needs of the unemployed) by creating in May
2003 a new workfare program (Community Activities Program- PAC) which provided cash
transfers to the poor heads of households in exchange for labor in areas of community interest.
The coverage of the PAC has been limited (approximately 5,000 beneficiaries) but results have
been evaluated as positive. The current government has decided to extend the workfare program
("Plan de Trabajo Transitorio", PET) as a component within the Program for National Attention
to the Social Emergency (PANES). This Program grants a cash subsidy for 4 months in exchange
for work.

In summary, in the aggregate programs were protected in real terms (110.6 %) with the
over-executed programs being the ones with highest social priority during the crisis.
Under-spending in the work training program was justified due to the reallocation of resources to
more effective programs. The assessment is highly satisfactory because protection was provided
to the poorest sector of the population, in the context of fiscal adjustment, by means of programs
that covered the most urgent needs (food, family allowances, full-time schooling for children from
low-income families).

Component (III): Improvement in the efficiency of social protection programs.

The main objectives of program's evaluation were to assess targeting, cost efficiency and
effectiveness of programs for the poor. While the purpose of the evaluation was not to design (or
implement) reforms, program reforms subsequently implemented by different agencies have been
in the direction pointed out by the evaluation.

For example, the evaluation of INDA (food programs) provided a rich analytic framework which
helped to develop the capacity of INDA to quickly expand food programs during the crisis, and
adapt these programs to the specific needs of the population (children, young mothers, old). The
changes included the distribution of food baskets to complement family food and the
decentralization of purchases (CAIF) both of which helped to improve the effectiveness of
programs.

The evaluation of SIAV housing programs showed that targeting was consistent with its
objectives, with household income determining the subsidies to be received. However, the
evaluation also concluded that the government selected the jurisdictions where the housing
complex was built, often neglecting the regional distribution of national demand. The program
was halted eventually as results were not in line with expectations. Such action was preceded by a
similar recommendation in the evaluation.

The evaluation of the Family Allowances program showed that it was well administered in terms
of cost-efficiency and effectiveness. One of its recommendations was to improve the targeting of
the program to informal households with the lowest incomes. In the public consultation with civil



                                                 - 12 -

society (see below), the proposal to extend coverage to informal workers was strongly endorsed.
In 1999 the Low-Income Homes component was created for the children of families in the
informal sector, the unemployed and mothers who are heads of household. In 2004 this
component was extended to cover all poor households. While causality cannot be demonstrated, it
is quite likely that the results of the evaluation had a significant impact in Government's decisions
to extend coverage.

The survey made of the beneficiaries of the PROCAL (work training) shows that there has been
no impact by the training courses on the possibility of employment or on the quality of the
employment obtained in terms of wages, stability or protection of employment for the
beneficiaries. The evaluation was conducive to the down-scaling of the program.

To sum up, the evaluations of INDA, SIAV, Family Allowances and PROCAL complied with the
terms of reference; they served to identify areas where the authorities could take action, such as
the case of Family Allowances or PROCAL. The INDA programs are currently under study by
the new authorities in Uruguay, and the SIAV programs will be redesigned on the basis of more
appropriate criteria. In these cases it is highly likely that the results of the evaluations would have
an impact on programs.
.
The Government carried out a survey of users of the Food and School Dining Room programs
between September and November 2003, this being the first time that the country has undertaken
such a survey. The focus of the program is adequate, as the lower the level of family income, the
higher the cover provided by the program. In addition, the most complete modality is served to
children from the homes with the lowest resources. The Survey also enquired about the
implementation of other food programs (INDA and others).

In short, the evaluation of the different programs achieved their objective. This was to assess the
cost-efficiency, effectiveness and targeting of the most vulnerable. In doing so, they have helped
identifying areas where the authorities could take ­ and in some cases have taken - action. The
impact of these evaluations is thus satisfactory.

Program evaluations were to be complemented by a mechanism to cross-check beneficiary
databases between BPS, the Ministry of Health (MOH) and the Ministry of Housing, Urban
Planning an Environment (MVOTMA) ­ referred to as "Proyecto Vitral" by the government. The
Project was subsequently upgraded ­ "Vitral II" ­ to include a proposal to issue electronic cards
with information on program beneficiaries. The databases of the programs have been adapted to
allow the borrower to cross-check information among each other regarding beneficiaries. This
allowed the Government to identify duplications between BPS and MOH, e.g., patients attending
public hospitals without indicating their affiliation with mutual health providers. However,
cross-checking did not become fully operational. Difficulties to make the system fully operational
stemmed in part from the fact that the entities used different technologies. The impact of this
sub-component is considered substantial.

Component (IV): Improvement of Public Social Spending Information




                                                   - 13 -

After defining a suitable methodology for gathering information from the Central Government,
social security agencies, state companies and Departmental Governments, the government
delivered a report with social expenditures information for 2000, 2001 and 2002. Reports on
consolidated public spending are published annually and communicated via the OPP's Internet
website. The system is being improved continually on the basis of the new information received.
This was the first time that consolidated social spending was calculated in Uruguay and it has
progressed significantly since the SAL has been in effect. In addition, OPP began other
complementary studies on social spending aimed to: (i) break down spending by purpose (current
spending: wages, input, transfers, and capital spending: investments and equipment) and (ii)
quantify the distribution of spending on households classified by socio-economic strata. The scope
of these reforms went beyond the requirements of the program, opening up new lines of research
which are essential for decision taking. The impact of this action is highly satisfactory.

Component (V): Unemployment Insurance.

The government drafted the corresponding bill, but was unable to gain sufficient political support
to pass it through Congress. The government in any case took effective steps to shorten the
effective terms of the unemployment insurance benefits. Through better enforcement, the
government was able to reduce unemployment insurance benefit extensions from around 4000 in
December 2001, to 2100 in December 2002, and 1100 in December 2003. The community work
program has effectively worked as an unemployment insurance program obliging beneficiaries to
perform community services. Even if the law had been approved by Congress, it would have not
resolved the problem of low coverage due to the high and rising share of informal workers among
the unemployed ­ who are not eligible for unemployment insurance. A request for a waiver of this
condition was recommended in view of the fact that the government made adjustments in the
enforcement of existing legislation which allowed it to significantly reduce extensions of the
benefit.

Since many of the objectives of this component were met (even though the condition was not),
the assessment is satisfactory.

Component (VI): Consultation with stakeholders




                                                - 14 -

In compliance with the planned schedule, three consultations were carried out during 2002 and
2003. Two organizations Poringo-IBFAN evaluated food programs and Equipos Mori evaluated the family
allowances program (2003-2005). were selected to evaluate performance. In addition, they had to audit
the information generated by the social protection programs, map the coverage of each area of
intervention, and design a monitoring system explaining the level of compliance with targets at
national and regional level. These consultations made it possible to: (i) empower citizens to
participate, (ii) identify new opportunities for social accountability, and (iii) build capacity of
association among civil society organizations. The instrument created for the consultation
­referred to as the Social Monitor ­ intended to incorporate beneficiaries and users in the
evaluation of results, as well as the impact, level of transparency and accessibility of information.
The results of the work prepared by the two organizations was presented in a seminar last May
which was attended by a broad representation of NGOs. It seems, however, that the level of
interaction between the two organizations and NGOs may not have been sufficient to ensure the
sustainability of the Social Monitor to ensure increased social accountability of the Government in
social spending. Compliance is considered satisfactory.

In conclusion, having rated 3 components highly satisfactory and 3 components satisfactory
(with one sub-component being substantial), the overall ranking for the output by components is
satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutions most involved in the Program were the Ministry of Economy and OPP.
Participating officials incorporated new methodologies, developed evaluation criteria and
management skills, especially in the coordination and monitoring of the program. There was not
enough time for the improvements to be incorporated into the institutions as such, and the recent
change in government has led to changes of officials.

Other institutions - such as INDA, CAIF, MSP (Ministry of Health), MTSS (Ministry of Labor
and Social Security), MVOTMA (Ministry of Housing, Urban Planning an Environment), ANEP
and BPS ­ have played an active role too. Their participation began with the drafting of the
program, as there was no single institution centralizing social policy. In subsequent stages,
particularly in the follow-up of the program and its supervision, they also played an active role,
with a growing commitment by officials to ensure a more efficient administration by their
institutions and better targeting of their actions. Again, there was not enough time to ensure that
the impact on officials would translate into a permanent institutional impact.

Considering the above aspects, the program had a modest impact on institutional development.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:




                                                     - 15 -

5.1. Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency

Approval of an unemployment insurance law by Congress was outside the control of government
and affected the implementation of the program. Lack of support from the parliamentary
opposition made impossible passage of the law. The government sought by other means to
achieve some of the objectives of the law, as indicated above, with positive results.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Within government, the Ministry of Labor was reluctant to support the unemployment insurance
proposal. Also, some stakeholders may have been reluctant to help making the project VITRAL
fully operational. There were otherwise no other factors under government control that affected
implementation. On the contrary, a high commitment was observed by the authorities to
implement the program. For example, after Bank staff indicated that several program evaluation
reports did not meet the conditions of the loan, the government acted swiftly to redo such
evaluations. The relationship between the Ministry of Economy and BPS were fluid.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The Ministry of Economy, with the support of the OPP, worked together to implement the
program and during its development no factors (other than the ones mentioned) were observed
that negatively affected the program.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The SAL was approved by the Board of Directors on August 8, 2002. The first tranche of US$
101,520,000 was released on August 9, 2002. The second and final tranche of US$50,000,000
was released in October, 2004 - although initially it was scheduled for November 2002. The latter
date proved to be realistic as the authorities were unable to comply with the actions planned in
such a short time. Delays in execution were ascribable to: (i) the need to redo the INDA
evaluation that was initially found unsatisfactory by Bank staff; (ii) the presentation of the
execution in 2002 of expenditure on the Selected Programs required the closing of the budget that
year; (iii) the completion of the Survey of Users of Food and School Dining Room Programs
performed in September-November 2003; and (iv) the completion of the Evaluation of the Work
Training Program.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Sustainability has been reinforced by the strategy pursued by the new government (as of March 1,
2005) through the National Plan for Attention to the Social Emergency (PANES). PANES falls
within the guidelines foreseen by the SAL; it encompasses the strategy for the indigent and poor
and includes actions on nutrition, temporary work, education and adequate healthcare. The new
Ministry of Social Development (MIDES) ­ also initiated by the new government - was created to
improve coordination of social programs ­ another objective of the SAL.

The new government plans to reorganize INDA to make food programs more efficient and
effective, to set up a Single Register of Beneficiaries with the participation of the BPS and to



                                                    - 16 -

carry out the necessary re-targeting and coordination of social programs. These actions fall in line
with SAL initiatives. In terms of resources committed, PANES goes beyond protecting social
programs as envisaged by the SAL, at least over the next two years ­ after which, it is scheduled
to be phased out. However, as the strong economic recovery translates into sustained growth and
likely unemployment and poverty reduction, the amounts needed to support social protection
programs are likely to decline as well.

Sustainability of the program will also be enhanced by new Bank operations. The Social Program
Development Policy Loan (SPDPL) approved by the Board on June 9, 2005, is the first of several
operations that provides support to Uruguay's social sector programs under the new FY05-FY10
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The SPDPL supports past and ongoing structural and
administrative reforms in the education and health sectors; it also will assist the early activities of
the new administration in various social policy areas, including the monitoring and evaluation of
PANES.

IADB is preparing a Social Project intended to support implementation of PANES and the
improvement of social information.

In short, sustainability is deemed highly likely.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Not applicable.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank team assisting the Borrower in preparing the project was formed by technical specialists
including external consultants. Four missions to the country took place, each lasting over ten
days. The limited information available and the urgency of the operation required lengthy
discussions with the authorities on its design. The program began to be defined as it was being
prepared, as the economic crisis faced by Uruguay was heading towards a collapse during the
second half of 2002.

The Bank team ensured the highest professional quality in the technical assistance provided during
the preparation phase. As a result of these efforts, the project design was technically and
institutionally appropriate in spite of the difficulties presented by the extreme situation faced by
Uruguay. The preparation of this operation represented an enormous challenge for the Bank team.


Initially, the Bank program (SAL and SSAL) was planned as a single operation, but during the
process, it was decided to split the operation into two, supporting social protection and
Unemployment Insurance under the former, and measures linked to BHU restructuring under the
latter. It should be noted that such changes could have benefited from more extensive discussions
to evaluate the advantages and disadvantages, but there was no time to do so.




                                                  - 17 -

Although it would have been more fruitful for the Bank to have played a more active role in the
design of a longer term strategy for the social sectors; the urgencies of the loan did not allow for
it. The actions carried out before Board presentation were backed by the authorities at the
Ministry of Economy and OPP, with whom dialogue was fluid, and who demonstrated their
commitment to the loan. Note should be taken of the speed with which the release of the first
tranche financing took place shortly after Board approval which enabled the Bank to respond
effectively to the financing requirements of the Uruguayan government.

Bank's support to the government strategy was satisfactory

7.2 Supervision:

The Bank carried out three supervision missions, the first one in March, 2003, the second in
November 2003 and the last one in June 2004. These missions were composed of social sector
specialists - consultants and Bank staff. The supervision included evaluation of the general
situation of the country, the situation of the most vulnerable segments of the population, and the
actions implemented by the government towards meeting specific conditions laid down in the
loan.   In between those missions, the task manager conducted shorter missions ­ part of the
regular macro-monitoring of the country ­ to obtain updates on compliance with specific SAL
conditions. Also, the Bank organized missions to follow up and evaluate the Social Monitor.

The results of the first supervision mission were satisfactory. In overall terms, the program
progressed substantially; four conditions (out of 10 conditions) and one sub-condition needed to
be completed. Meeting some of these conditions - the protected programs ­ would require budget
execution to the end of the fiscal year before they could be verified in any case. Continuity of the
program was confirmed during the second mission. During the third and last supervision mission,
a full assessment of compliance with the remaining conditions was completed. Subsequently, the
government submitted evidence of compliance with the outstanding conditions; shorter missions
were carried out to specify the concepts, methodologies applied and the measurement of results.

From the point of view of the performance of the Bank, it must be considered that despite the
good execution of the program, a more continuous monitoring would have been advisable for the
prompt detection of some of the problems that arose. For example, ensuring that the
cross-checking of data on beneficiaries was fully operational would have allowed to avoid
potential overlaps of social programs earlier on.

Supervision was considered satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
As the Bank recorded a highly satisfactory performance in Lending and satisfactory in
Supervision, the overall assessment of the Bank performance is deemed satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower participated actively in the preparation and implementation of the SAL. This
included the preparation of interviews, information, research, surveys, contacts, meetings and



                                                - 18 -

discussions. The borrower acted quickly, although at the expense of not deepening some aspects
of the program, establishing the conditions that made it possible to protect the most vulnerable
sections of the population from the effects of the crisis. The borrower role in loan preparation was
satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
It should be mentioned that although the Economy Minister was changed almost immediately
after the approval of the loan, no impact was felt in the execution of the program, as the new
deputy minister (and later minister) had been the official responsible for the preparation of the
operation.

Compliance with the conditions was ­ although slow in some cases - total, except for the passing
of Unemployment Insurance legislation, on which a waiver was granted. Mention should be made
of the high quality of the presentations, evaluations and surveys carried out by the government.
Thus, loan implementation has been ranked satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Idem 7.5.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall borrower's performance was ranked satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

The following factors conditioned program implementation and thus become important lessons for
future operations in Uruguay.

(1) Need for the Bank to monitor the economic and financial situation of Uruguay more
closely. The speed with which underlying risks materialized into a deep crisis in Uruguay hindered
the initial preparation of the operation. Both the 2000 CAS as well as the Bank work in the
financial sector at the beginning of 2002 had failed to perceive the risks threatening the
Uruguayan economy. If the program were to have been able to count on a stronger foundation in
the CAS and economic and sector work by the Bank, there would have been greater information
and closeness with government officials, which no doubt would have led to an improvement in the
quality of the operation.

(2) Difficulty experienced by the Bank team in the preparation of the program, as there is
no unified counterpart from the social sector. The actions carried out by the Bank team helped
overcome some serious problems, such as the lack of unified social policy authority in the country
to act as a counterpart, making it necessary to resort to the program level to design and supervise
the program. In this regard, the role performed by the Ministry of Economy was one of a contact
facilitator, but it did not have the power to develop the preparation of the program, especially as
regards social protection.

(3) It is advisable that the set of protected programs should be established on the basis of
programs that can easily be identified in the budget. It is a fact that budget items do not
always coincide with the amounts allocated to programs, because there can be actions in common


                                                 - 19 -

with other programs, or they might be sub-programs or activities of other programs. This makes it
difficult to supervise execution, and therefore, for identification to be totally transparent, the
programs should be registered as such in the Budget.

(4) The passing of laws as a condition under the program could be avoided in crisis
situations. As the passing of laws depends on the Legislative Branch, and the Executive cannot
always count on a majority, their inclusion as a condition runs a high risk of failure. To avoid this
risk, it is preferable to establish as a condition the ultimate objectives sought instead of the
passage of legislation. This would allow the government to find alternative instruments in order to
reach its objectives. In the case of the reform of unemployment insurance, it could be seen that the
failure to pass the unemployment insurance law did not prevent the achieving of some of the
objectives sought through regulations issued by the Ministry of Labor.

(5) Careful review of the wording of the conditions drafted at the time of the negotiation
should be carried out. In the case action in relation to helping the unemployed poor, the term
"100 minimum wages" did not capture the concept that it aimed to define. This was clearly a
mistake, and should provide a lesson for the future.

(6) Need to maintain a dialogue with government on relevant structural reforms/policy
actions with long-term sustainable impact in the social sectors. A more consistent social
development strategy would have helped design a more ambitious reform agenda. In retrospect,
the SAL was effective for the emergency and still had a medium and long term sustainable impact
in areas like transparency, coherency, safety net, social information, monitoring and evaluation of
the programs.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

The document has been sent to the client for comments June 21st but no comments were
received.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                   - 20 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                          1
               Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
GDP growth (UR$)                           Index: 100                             2004: 153
Total debt outstanding and disbursed (TDO) Index: 100                             2004: 109
(US$mn) (*)
Inflation                                  Index: 100                             2004: 65.7
Poverty incidence                          Index: 100                             2004: 132.2
Unemployment rate                          Index: 100                             2004: 76.5
Infant mortality rate                      Index: 100                             2004: 100

(*) Includes public and publicly guaranteed debt, external liabilities of the financial system, private
non-guaranteed, use of IMF credits and net short-term capital.
Output Indicators:
                                                                          1
               Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Public salaries                            Index: 100                             2004: 91.3
Reduction in productivity payments (public Index: 100                             2004: 52.4%
enterprises)
School enrollment (pre-school and primary) 460,826 pupils                         465,240 pupils
Family allowances beneficiaries            391,424 beneficiaries                  503.283 beneficiaries
Community activities program               0 beneficiaries                        5000 beneficiaries
(unemployment poor people)
Malnutrition (*)                           4,88%                                  4.69%
Public protected programs                  Index: 100                             Index: 107 (2003)

1End of project




                                                            - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million




Total Baseline Cost                                          0.00            0.00
                        Total Project Costs                  0.00
                  Total Financing Required                   0.00            0.00


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)




                                                - 22 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
       Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
  1. Works                                 0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  2. Goods                                 0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  3. Services                              0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
  6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
      Total                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.




                                                          - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits




                                      - 24 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              April 6, June           15     Task Manager, Country
              2002                           Economist, 3 macroeconomic
                                             specialists, 2 Public Sector
                                             specialists, 1 Social Security
                                             economist, 1 Public Finance
                                             economist, 2 Public Services
                                             specialists, 3 Social Protection
                                             specialists, 1 employment
                                             specialist.


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              July, 2002              13     Task Manager, Country                 S               S
                                             Economist, 1 Public Sector
                                             economist,1 macroeconomic
                                             specialist, 3 Social Protection
                                             specialists, 2 Public Services
                                             specialists,2 Public Services
                                             specialists, 2 lawyers


 Supervision
              March, 2003               6    Task Manager, 2                       S               S
                                             macroeconomic specialists, 3
                                             Social Protection specialists.
              November, 2003            4    Task Manager, 2 Social                S               S
                                             Protection specialists, 1
                                             macroeconomic specialist.
              June, 2004                2    Task Manager, 2 Social                S               S
                                             Protection specialists



 ICR
              June, 2005                      Task Manager, 2 Social               S               S
                                              Protection specialist




                                              - 25 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                         244,4
  Appraisal/Negotiation                                                87,4
  Supervision                                                          88,9
  ICR                                                                  42,2
  Total                                                              462,9




                                            - 26 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Banco Central Uruguay (2003-2005) Informe Trimestral Monetario, Montevideo, Uruguay.

Banco Central Uruguay (2002-2005) Informe Trimestral Superintendencia de Intermediación
financiera, Montevideo, Uruguay.

Banco de Previsión Social (2003) Evalaución del Programa de Asignaciones Familiares.
Montevideo. Uruguay.

Instituto Nacional de Alimentación (2004) Evaluación de los programas alimentarios del INDA.
Montevideo. Uruguay.

Instituto Nacional de Estadistica (2004-2005) Estimaciones de Pobreza por el metodo de
ingresos. Montevideo, Uruguay

Instituto Nacional de Estadistica (2004) Encuesta de Usuarios de Programas de Alimentación y
Comedores Escolares. Montevideo. Uruguay

Oficina de Planeamiento y Presupuesto ­ Ministerio de Vivienda, Ordenamiento Territorial y
Medio Ambiente. (2003) Evaluación del Sistema Integrado de Acceso a la Vivienda (SIAV).
Montevideo. Uruguay.

Universidad Católica Uruguay ­ Centro de Información y Estudios de Uruguay ­ Equipos Mori
(2003) Evaluación del Programa de Capacitación Laboral para trabajadores del seguro de
desempleo 2000-2001. Montevideo. Uruguay.

World Bank (2005) Uruguay: Sources of growth ­ Policies for the development of human
capital, integration, competition and innovation. Report 31737. Washington D.C.

World Bank (2005) Uruguay: Country Assistance Strategy. Report 32289. Washington D.C.

World Bank (2005) Uruguay: Social Program Development Policy Loan Project. Report 32289.
Washington D.C.

World Bank (2003) Poverty Update. Report 23223. Washington. D.C.

World Bank (2004) Consultation with the Civil Society around social programs in adjustment
loans. Newsletter. Report 311120. Washington. D.C.




                                              - 29 -

- 30 -

