Report No. PID11360
Project Name                     Uruguay-Structural Adjustment Loan
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Economic Policy, Financial Adjustment,
Public Financial Management and
Social Protection
Project ID                       UYPE77172
Borrower                         Republic of Uruguay
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Economy and Finance
Colonia 1089, Montevideo, Uruguay
Phone: (598-2) 902-1017
Date PID Revised                 June 26, 2002
Project Appraisal Date           July 8, 2002
Project Board Date               August 8, 2002.
Background
Since 1999, the Uruguayan economy has been hit by a series of external and
internal shocks that pulled the economy into a recession that is worsening
this year. The main external shocks have been the Argentine crisis, the terms
of trade shocks associated with the rise in oil prices and the fall of export
prices, the devaluation of the two principal trading partners, Brazil and
Argentina, the increased capital flows volatility affecting the whole region,
and the world growth slowdown experienced in 2001. Uruguay is greatly
affected by developments in Argentina and Brazil, which in 1998 were the
destination of 52% of its goods exports. Argentina alone represented 68% of
total tourist arrivals in 2000. Since 1998, the Uruguayan terms of trade
have fallen by at least 12%.   The outburst of the foot-and-mouth disease
during 2001 stopped meat exports, disrupted other agricultural activities,
and had a substantial negative impact on economic activity (estimated at
about 2? of GDP) and on the balance of payments.
As a result of these external and internal shocks, GDP declined by an average
2.4% per annum over the past three years.   Declining economic activity has
been accompanied by rising unemployment and persistent fiscal deficits.
These were financed, until recently, at a marginal cost of 250 basis points
spread over US Treasury bonds, which was among the lowest in Latin America
thanks to the country's investment grade rating and its strong credit
history. The unraveling of the Argentine crisis in late 2001 that affected
some Uruguayan banks, plus the persistence of stagnation and fiscal deficits,
have had a debilitating impact on the county's ability to withstand
additional shocks. These shocks and uncertainties were reflected in a sharp
drop in international reserves and a steep increase in sovereign debt spreads
to 900 bps in April and nearly 1400 bps in late May. With real interest
rates in dollars of about 8% to 9% and no growth, the country's debt burden
is reaching very high levels, and so does the cost of capital, creating a
vicious circle that dims future growth prospects. Hence the Government has
already adopted a fiscal stabilization plan, supported by a new Stand-by
arrangement with the International Monetary Fund, aimed at cutting the fiscal
deficit and containing the increase in public debt. As part of this effort,
and as pressure on international reserves mounted, the Government decided to
abolish the exchange rate band and allow the exchange rate to float on June



20th, 2002.
The Argentina crisis has had an additional perverse effect on Uruguay,
namely, its effect on the banking sector. Initially, the impact had been
limited to the two largest private banks, Banco Galicia and Banco Comercial,
which had about 13? and 17? of deposits in private banks respectively, but by
late April the contagion had expanded to the rest of the system. The banking
system remains vulnerable, as deposits continued their gradual decline.
However, as fiscal measures start showing positive results and as market
participants confirm the permanent nature of the government's commitment to
fiscal responsibility, it is expected that spreads will decrease and the
volume of deposits will stabilize.
The ongoing recession has had a negative impact on poverty and the
distribution of income. In particular, the rate of unemployment has
increased from 11.4 W in 1999 to 14.9t by the end of 2001.    After improving
in the early 1990s, income inequality has worsened too, with the Gini
coefficient increasing from 0.43 to 0.44 between 1999 and 2000 (compared to
0.49 in 1990). This has been accompanied by a process of social exclusion -
- a relatively new phenomenon in Uruguay, which has traditionally been
characterized as a the most homogeneous society in Latin America.
Project Description
The proposed SAL has a fiscal and social focus, responding to the current
economic crisis and also setting the stage for medium and longer term fiscal
sustainability. It includes policy measures in three main areas: (i) fiscal
policy, including both revenues and expenditures; (ii) housing finance,
focusing on the public mortgage bank, which is a major contingent liability
of the public sector; and (iii) social protection programs, which need to
respond both to the increased demand during the recession as well as to
tighter fiscal constraints.
On the fiscal side, the Government's stabilization and adjustment program
includes short and medium term measures designed to restore fiscal balance,
gradually reduce the public debt burden, and facilitate the necessary
adjustment of the main real and monetary variables. The main measures would
reduce the fiscal deficit by both increasing revenues and lowering public
expenditures, mainly by addressing the high cost of pensions and public
services.
On housing finance, Banco Hipotecario del Uruguay (BHU) is the second
largest bank in the country, with more the 350,000 saving accounts and about
9Ot of the stock of mortgage credits in the country. One of BHU's main
problems as a financial institution is the significant currency, term and
interest mismatches between assets and liabilities, which has lead to
mounting losses. Up to now, BHU has had two major recapitalizations as a
result of exchange and management problems in 1964 and 1982, and it's
situation deteriorated again in the past two years. In order to prevent the
recurrence of these problems and to provide mortgage finance in efficient and
sustainable ways, the Government intends to restructure BHU, refocus its
activities on the provision of housing finance and develop both mortgage and
capital markets.
On social protection, the Government is fully aware of the negative impact of
the recession on the poor. In order to address the most pressing problems,
several groups have been already identified as particularly vulnerable,
particularly (i) children in poor households and (ii) unemployed and
underemployed, particularly in poor households. Given the large share of
public expenditures on social programs and the urgent need to correct the
current fiscal imbalances, the Government is determined to make special
efforts to enhance the efficiency and productivity of social spending, in
-2 -



order to provide for the growing needs under the tighter fiscal constraints.
Specific issues and steps would include: (i) protecting the budgetary
resources of selected social programs that focus on children; (ii)
consolidating data bases of social programs; and (iii) improving the
Unemployment Insurance system, by enhancing incentives to workers, preventing
abuses by firms, and expanding training programs to the unemployed in the
informal sector, who are not covered by the Unemployment Insurance system.
Consultations with Civil Society. Many of these measures are being discussed
with various segments of civil society, in order to hear their views and
identify priorities, to achieve a greater ownership of the program, and to
facilitate its monitoring and implementation in the future. The
Consultations are coordinated by the Office of Planning and Budget (OPP), and
on the civil society side, the main counterpart is the Foro Consultivo
Econ6mico Social del Mercosur (FCES), which gathers under its umbrella
entrepreneurs, trade unions NGOs and academia. These consultations will also
help develop indicators to monitor implementation and facilitate program
supervision.
This loan will be part of a concerted effort to provide support to Uruguay,
along with the International Monetary Fund and the InterAmerican Development
Bank.
Environmental and Resettlement Aspects
No environmental or resettlement issues are raised by the proposed structural
adjustment program.
Task Manager
David Yuravlivker
(202)473-6070
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
-3-



