                            Uruguay StructuralAdjustment Loan
                                       -                                -
                                      (LoanNo. 7137-UY)and
                                SpecialStructuralAdjustment Loan
                                         (LoanNo. 7138-UY)
                             ProposedWaiver of Two Conditionsand
                                   Releaseof the SecondTranche


                                        I.INTRODUCTION

 1. The SAL-Social Sectors -Loan 7137 inthe amount of US$151,520,000 was approved by the
 Board of Directors on August 8, 2002. The first tranche of US$101,520,000 (including the front-
 endfee) was released on August 9,2002. The second tranche amounts to US$50 million. The
 SSAL-National Mortgage Bank (BHU) -Loan 7138 inthe amount of US$151,520,000 was
 approved by the Board of Directors on August 8, 2002. The first tranche of US$101,520,000
 (including the front-end fee) was released on August 9,2002. The second tranche amounts to
 US$50 million.

 2. The objectives of the SAL and SSAL at the time of the acute banlung and economic crisis in
 July 2002 were to contribute to fiscal adjustment, reform the National Mortgage Bank (BHU),
 protect social programs, improve the efficiency of social expenditures and reform the
 unemployment insurance regime. The program was part of a concerted effort with the
 InternationalMonetary Fund(IMF)and the Inter-AmericanDevelopment Bank (IADB) to
 support Uruguay's efforts to withstand the impact of strong external shocks, address domestic
 weaknesses and set the stage for sustainable growth over the medium and long term. As a result
 of tight fiscal, monetary and financial sector policies andreforms, Uruguay was able to reverse
 the downwardtrend inbank deposits, freely float its exchange rate without jeopardizing price
 stability, andreduce sovereign risk premia to manageable levels. After contracting sharply in
 2002, the economy recovered in2003 and i s projectedto grow at least 9% in 2004.

3. The success with which Uruguay was able to weather the economic crisis owes much to the
Government's prompt and purposeful responseto events as they unfolded, as well as to the
support for adjustment provided by the opposition. The Government deserves credit for carrying
out policy adjustments through existing institutionalchannels, respecting contracts, and avoiding
interrupting normal government procedures. The Government was able to manage proactively
the social situation and to mobilize an already well established and effective social safety net to
mitigate the sizable increase inpoverty (from 11.7% in 2001 to 21% of households in2003) and
unemployment (which peaked at 19.8% inthe last quarter of 2002); unemployment has
subsequently dropped by one-third (to around 13% inthe second quarter of 2004).

4. With regard to the SAL, all specific conditions except one (condition 9 regarding enactment
of a new unemployment insurance law) have been satisfactorily achieved. Political opposition
impeded condition 9 from being achieved. However, improvedenforcement of existing
legislation has permitted the Government to reduce significantly extensions of unemployment
insurance benefits beyond the initial eligibility period which was a key objective of the proposed
legislation.

                                                  - 2 -




  5. With regard to the SSAL, all eight specific conditions except one (condition 6 regarding
  implementation of an integrated information system) have been satisfactorily achieved. The
  delay in implementingthe information system can be in part explained by the strategic approach
  pursuedby Government of passing key legislation through Congress (e.g., new BHUCharter)
  before beginning the effective restructuring of the bank; and inpart by the appointment of a more
  pro-reform boardin October 2003. Since then, the Uruguayan Government has demonstrated a
  clear intention and pragmatic steps regarding implementationof an integrated information
  system for BHU. The Government i s expected to award a contract for the new information
  system in October 2004 with support from the World Bank's Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)
 45980-UR. However, the implementationprocess i s expected to take at least another eight
  months; it i s for this reason that the Government has requested a waiver.

  6. Inview of the overall performance, progress with the implementationof the program as
 described inthe Letter of DevelopmentPolicy, and compliance with most of the specific
 conditions agreedin Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreements, the granting of two waivers (out of 18
 conditions) as requested by the Borrower i s recommended on a no-objectionbasis for release of
 the second tranche of the Loans 7137 and 7138. The basis for the evaluation of Borrower
 performance and the recommended waivers i s set out below.


         11.PROGRAMPERFORMANCE- GENERALCONDITIONS SAL&SSAL                    -
 7. GeneralCondition. Section 2.02 (e), Loans 1737 and 1738: No withdrawals shall be made
 from each Loan Account after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn from the
Loan Account shall have reached the amount of $100,004,800, unless the Bank shall be satisfied,
 after an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence
 satisfactory to the Bank:

         (i) theprogressachievedbytheBorrowerinthecarryingoutoftheProgram;
             with

         (ii) themacroeconomicpolicyframeworkoftheBorrowerissatisfactory,as
              that
         measured on the basis of indicators agreedbetween the Borrower and the Bank;

         (iii) theactionsdescribedinSchedule3tothisAgreement(ofIBRDLoans1737and
              that
         1738) have been taken in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.

8. Compliancewith conditions (i)and 6).The Bank i s satisfied with the progress achieved
by the Borrower inthe implementation of the programdescribed inthe Letter of Development
Policy (LDP)--condition (i)--and with the current macroeconomic policy framework on the basis
of indicators agreed between the Borrower and the Bank--condition (ii).    The basis for
compliance for conditions (i) i  and (ii)s providedbelow. Compliance with condition (iii), which
i s specific to Loans 1737 and Loan 1738, i s described respectively in Sections I11and IV.

9. Progressachievedbv the Borrowerincarryingout the Program-condition (i).The
Government's program addressedthe key structural problems facing the country as identifiedin

                                                 - 3 -



the LDPby: (a) achievingan unprecedented fiscal turnaround as the primary fiscal deficit of
1.2% of GDP was turned into a 2.8% surplus in 2003 and a projected 3.6% in 2004; (b) adopting
a floating exchange rate regime and a monetary base-targeting regime to simultaneously address
issues of external competitiveness and price stability; (c) aggressively restructuringthe largest
public banks, liquidating weak domestic privatebanks and strengthening prudential regulation
and supervision; and (d) increasing private sector participationintelecommunications, transport
and gas, and, to a more limited extent, progressing inthe development of a regulatory framework
conducive to competition and increased private sector participationinelectricity. Inaddition, the
Government was able to successfully restructure sovereign debt with private bondholders,
significantly improving the time profile of debt amortizations without increasing interest rates
above pre-crisis levels.

10. The following specific actions described in the LDP were fulfilled:

        The Government submitted to Congress comprehensive tax packages that included
        elimination of several low-yielding taxes and broadening the value added tax (VAT)
        base. Timing for congressional approval remains uncertain inview of the upcoming
        elections. However, despite the sharp economic contraction in 2002 and the first half of
        2003, tax revenue during 2003 rose faster than inflation and tax buoyancy continued in
        2004. Significant efforts to modernize the Tax Administration Department (DGI) and
        reduce evasion and a strong economic recovery (output growth of 12.6% was achieved in
        the first half) were conducive to this outcome.

    0   The Government was able to contain real public expenditures including wages and
        pensions during the second half of 2002. During2003, the share of public wages in GDP
        declined further from 6.9% to 6.2% and the share of social security benefits declined
        from 16.3% to 13.7%.

        The Government has made progress in gradually promoting competition between public
        and private service providers. A number of road and port concessions have been granted
        and private investors were engaged in the construction of two new ports. The main
        airport was given inconcession to an international firm during 2003. In
        telecommunications, a new cellular competitor (the third) recently entered the market and
        important developments in data transmission have materialized. The Government has
       established an independent multi-sector regulator covering water, electricity, gas, oil and
        sanitation (URSEA) and a telecommunications regulator (URSEC). A gas distribution
        system has been concessioned and the monopoly on gas imports has been eliminated. A
       privately financed gas pipeline from Argentina was concluded and the distribution
       network i s being expanded. Partial progress has been made inequalizing tax treatment
       between public and private sector providers, e.g., public enterprises in manufacturing
       now have the same treatment as private firms for social security contributions. Also,
       restrictions on public enterprises to contract publicity on public radio have been reduced.

       The Government has fulfilled a promise to revise productivity sharingclauses for public
       enterprise employees reducing this expensein aggregate by at least 50% in real terms.

                                                  - 4 -




      0    The Government has phased out specific rights on imports of goods, eliminated
           temporary import tariffs imposedin 1998,lowered tariffs on imports of capital goods to
           either 0% or 2%, and to 2% on all telecom and informatics goods (these measures
           required a special MERCOSUR exemption from the common external tariff).

           On social security, the Government submittedto Congress comprehensive packagesfor
          reform of the police and military special pension regimes.

 11.Progress with the implementationof the Programhasbeen satisfactory to the Bank andthe
 resulting macroeconomic performance i s better than anticipated. The LDP envisaged average
 growth of 3-4% in 2003-05, whereas projected average growth over 2003-04 i s now in the 5 6 %
 range. There have been some deviations as Congress didnot validate several Government
 initiatives like the comprehensive tax packages sent in December 2002 and June 2003 and the
 Government could not obtain sufficient political support to send other legislation to Congress,
 e.g., changes to unemployment insurance. However, the overall progress inpolicy reform has
 been highly satisfactory, more than compensating the deviations with major strengths inthe
 fiscal, financial, monetary and social areas. Most important, the programhas been highly
 successful inover-achieving fiscal and output targets and inreversing the massive run on bank
 deposits. Approximately two-thirds of resident deposits that fled the system have already
 returned and the banks have regained high liquidity levels.

 12. Satisfactorv Macroeconomic Policv Framework         -condition  Cii).Basedonpolicyactions,
 reforms and overall performance, the macroeconomic policy framework i s satisfactory to the
Bank.

 13. Uruguay's macroeconomic performance over 2003-2004 has reacted favorably to adjustment
and reforms inresponse to the 2002 crisis. Output increased 2.5% in2003 and i s expected to
grow 9% in2004, with inflation inthe 10% range despite hefty increases in tariffs to reflect
higher international energy prices. Internationalreserves have risen to around 20% of GDP--
excluding commercial banks' own reserves--while banking stability has been regained.
Underlyingthis performance are sound fiscal accounts. Fiscal adjustment has been achieved
through a combination of expenditure restraint and more recently tax buoyancy. State
enterprises also contributedto the large primary surpluses. Sovereign debt with private creditors
was successfully restructured inMay 2003, with the maturity of bonds being lengthened at least
5 years at (or below) pre-crisis interest rates.

14. The biggest challenge for Uruguayi s to create conditions for fast and sustainable growth; a
Bank report on Uruguay's sources of growth i s underway with extensive consultation with the
Government, representatives of the political parties and the private sector. While performance
will remain dependent on regional and internationaldevelopments, Uruguay i s inrelatively good
shape to take advantage of the very strong recovery underway. The country's dependenceon
MERCOSUR for its export markets has diminished significantly over 2002-03 from around 60%
to under 30% of Uruguay's exports. The new Government will receive a more solvent financial
system (non-performing loans declined from 26% inlate 2002 to 15% inJune 2004 - provisions
inJune covered 87% of non-performing loans), a sizable primary fiscal surplus andrenewed

                                                  - 5 -



 political support to embark on new reforms necessary to support fast and sustained growth over
 the rest of the decade.

 15. Against the favorable background of economic recovery, the public debt i s large and
 sustainability remains critically dependent on Uruguay's ability to deepen current fiscal efforts,
 particularly after a new government takes over inMarch 2005. Implementationof the structural
 reform agenda has slowed duringthe runup to the elections inOctober 2004. However, all the
 major parties have re-affirmedtheir commitment to honor debt obligations and to maintain fiscal
 discipline. Progress on the de-monopolization of energy infrastructure has suffered a setback
 partly for political reasons, though it continues to advance well intransport, telecommunications
 and gas. The IMFcompleted the fifth review of the Stand-By Agreement in September 2004
 with a positive evaluation of fiscal and monetary policies as well as the restructuringof public
banks. Authorities have agreedto maintain a larger surplus than the 3.4% target if revenue
 exceeds programprojections in2004.


                        111.SPECIFIC CONDITIONS LOAN7137 (SAL)
                                                         -

 16.Specific conditions refer to actions described in Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement No. 7137.

 17. Condition 1. The Borrower has not increased nonfinancial public sector wages (wages of
the central andlocal --departmental and municipal - government, state-owned companies, and
decentralized and autonomous agencies), in the period comprised between July and December
2002.

18. Compliancewith Condition 1. The Government has presented information on wages
prepared by the National Institute of Statistics (INE) on the basis of the Mean Wage Index base
December 2002 equals 100. According to this information, the values corresponding to July
2002 are: 99.49 for the Central Government, 99.89 for public companies, and 99.98 for
departmental or municipal governments. The values for decentralized and autonomous agencies
are includedinthese figures. A descriptionhas been provided of the methodology to allocate
each decentralized and autonomous agency to the Central Government or to public companies
and this methodology i s acceptable to the Bank. Condition 1hasbeensatisfied.

19. Condition2. ANCAP, ANP, ANTEL, and UTEhave signed new agreements ("convenios
colectivos de trabajo") with each of the labor unions representing the employees of said ANCAP,
ANP, ANTEL, andUTE, andinsaid new agreements, remunerations linked to productivity have
been reduced (inaggregate) by at least 50% inreal terms, as evidenced by the new version of (i)
the ANCAP Agreement, (ii) ANP Agreement, (iii) ANTEL Agreement, and (iv) the UTE
                               the                       the
Agreement

20. Compliancewith Condition2. ANCAP, ANTEL and ANP renewed their productivity
agreements within the framework of their respective collective bargaining agreements, and UTE
signeda new collective bargainingagreement that includes a productivity agreement. ANCAP,
ANTEL andUTE signedtheir agreements on October 31,2003, and ANP didso on October 29,
2003. These new agreements have introduced changes regarding: (i)       the method of calculation,

                                                  - 6 -



 (ii) basisonwhichlevelsofproductivityarecalculated,and(iii)theproportionallocatedto
     the
 improvements intechnology which are to the benefit of the company. The aggregate reductions
 inproductivity payments measuredinconstant values comparedto 2001are 51.2% for 2003 and
 52.4% (estimated) for 2004. At the company level for 2003, the reduction compared to 2001
 was: ANCAP 36.3%, ANP 64.3%, ANTEL 55.1% and UTE48.9%. Condition2 hasbeen
 satisfied.

 21. Condition3. The databases containinginformation of beneficiaries of the following Social
 ProtectionPrograms managed by the Borrower's Ministry of Health (databases: "Registro Unico
 de Asistencia Formal" -RUCAF - and "Identificacih Positiva de Beneficiarios" -IPB),
 "Banco de Previsi6n Social" (program: "Asignaciones Familiares", database: Registro de
 Activos) and Ministry of Housing, Urban Planning andEnvironment (program: SIAV, database:
 "Registro Nacional de Postulantes") have been adapted to allow the Borrower to cross-check
 information among each other regarding said beneficiaries.

 22. Compliancewith Condition3. The Government started a project called Vitral which
 introduceda mechanism to cross-check the databases of beneficiaries for the programs
mentionedabove. A demonstration and report showing the advance of the project have been
received. This project has been implementedby identifyingbeneficiaries usingthe identity
document that i s mandatory for all inhabitants as from 45 days from birth. Subsequently, the
project became the responsibility of the Office of Planning and Budget (OPP) and Vitral I1was
drafted, consisting of a proposal to issue electronic cards with information on program
beneficiaries. The databaseshave been adapted to allow the Borrower to cross-check
information regarding beneficiaries of the various programs. While the system operates with
some difficulty - due to the fact that different technological systems exist for each database
(BPS'sbeingthe most advanced) the system is slow and sometimes requires complex procedures
for use - it has indeed been used to identify cases of mis-information, e.g., patients which were
registered with private insurance inone system and were not in another. Similarly, the integrated
database was exported to INDA (managing food programs) to establish a unified register of food
benefit recipients. Condition3 hasbeensatisfied.

23. Condition4. A report on the consolidated national and local social spendingof the
Borrower and local government entities (departments and municipalities) for 2000,2001 and
2002 has been issued.

24. Compliancewith Condition4. A report on the consolidated national and local social
spending of the Borrower and local government entities (departments and municipalities) for
2000,2001 and 2002 has been issued. The Government delivered a report with social
expenditures information for the years indicated. A resolution from OPP dated June 20, 2002 set
up a Technical Working Group (GTT) within the Social Policy Technical Consultancy Area
formed by the National Budget Department of OPP, the National Comptroller-General(CGN)
and the National Institute of Statistics (NE). The purpose of this Technical Group was to define
a suitable methodology for application as from 1999, surveying information from the Central
Government, social security agencies, state companies and departmental governments. The
methodology selected for the consolidationof executed expenditure by the different levels of
government i s considered satisfactory by the Bank and the results obtained show a substantial

                                                  - 7 -



 improvement over previous efforts. Reports on consolidated public spending are published
 annually and communicated via the OPP's internet website. OPP Resolution 635/ 2003 dated
 March 20,2003 expanded the aims of the GTT in order to: (i)      break down spendingby purpose,
 i.e., current spending: wages, input, transfers, and capital spending: investments and equipment,
 and (ii) quantify the distribution of spending on households classified by socio-economic strata.
 Thus, the initial steps taken have beenwidened and anew line of researchhas been openedthat
 i s essential for social policy decisions. Condition4 hasbeensatisfied.

 25. Condition 5. A new information system- satisfactory to the Bank - covering all national
 and local (runby departments and municipalities) Social Protection Programs of the Borrower i s
 inoperation.

 26. Compliancewith Condition5. An information systemhas been installed at the Social
 Policy Technical Consultancy within OPP that includes a database on the information provided
 by various central government sources and the departments and municipalities to generate public
 social spending calculations according to the agreed methodology (Condition 4). The
 Government has delivered a report describing the design and operation of the new information
 system. The systemhas been implementedand i s being improvedcontinually. This i s the first
time that consolidated spendinghas been calculated inUruguay and the system has progressed
 significantly since the Loan has been in effect. Condition5 hasbeensatisfied.

27. Condition 6. The following national and local Social ProtectionPrograms of the Borrower
have been evaluated: (i)    "Apoyo a Instituciones P6blicas y Privadas" -AIPP ,"Programa
Nacional de Complementacih Alimentaria" -PNCA-, "Centro de Atencih a la Infancia y a la
Familia" -CAIF, and "Servicio de Asistencia Alimentaria Colectivizada" -SAAC- executed by
INDA ("Instituto Nacional de la Alimentacih"); (ii) and (iii)
                                                        SIAV;             "Asignaciones Familiares"
(executed by BPS, "Banco de Previsi6n Social"). Such evaluation shall include an efficiency
analysis, a targeting analysis, and a comparison of the prices at which the agencies executing
said programs acquire goods and the market prices of said goods.

28. Compliancewith Condition6. Sub-condition(i). evaluationby INDA of the
                                                           The
programs submitted by the Government i s acceptable to the Bank. The evaluations of the AIPP,
PNCA, CAIF and SAAC programs include an efficiency analysis, a targeting analysis and a
comparison of the prices at which the agencies executing said programs acquire goods and the
market prices of said goods. The evaluation will allow INDA to define the process of
reorganization of its programs on the basis of criteria of management, targeting and follow-up.
Therefore, sub-condition(i) hasbeenmet.

29. Ingeneral terms, there are weaknesses inthe controls of all the INDA programs which were
swamped by the increase in the number of beneficiaries following the crisis. The costhenefit
ratio has beenrising inconstant prices since 1999 and the burden of administrative costs i s high
(11.47%). Targetingis not entirely adequate and the gathering of informationfrom beneficiaries
needs to be improved with cross-checking against other agencies. Although INDA's purchase
prices are lower than those of other public agencies, there i s still a wide margin for improvement
inprocurement procedures. The creation of the CentralizedFoodPurchasingUnit (UCCA) in

                                                 - 8 -



 2003 helped reduce delays infood purchasing and distribution and lower the purchase price of
 inputgoods. Program-specific findings of the evaluation are:

            The AIPP programhas haduneven results andhas not so far implemented
            comprehensive measures to improve organization, control and program access.
            The PNCA programdelivers food baskets andtargets pregnant women, nursing
            mothers, children under the age of six assistedby the health services, and pensioners
            (BPS). Its execution needs to be better controlled.
            The CAIF programis executedin a satisfactory manner. Although providing limited
            coverage, it has goodresults. The NationalDiningRoom System was created in 2002
            with the aim of unifying technical quality and efficiency standards, as well as
            expanding these services into the interior of the country. However, the considerable
            increase indemand has prevented its implementation.
            The SAAC programi s part of the NationalDiningRoom System. The objective of
            the program i s to improve the quality and efficiency standards, however, this has not
            beenachieved due to the very rapidgrowth in demand as a result of the crisis.

 30. Sub-condition (ii).The evaluation of the SIAV programi s satisfactory to the Bank. It
 includes an efficiency analysis, targeting analysis, and comparison of the prices at which the
 agencies executing said programs acquire goods and the market prices of said goods. Therefore,
 sub-condition (ii)has been met.

 31. The SIAV programbecame less effective since 1995 following a change inthe system to
 assign transfers. Under the new system uniform housingproducts were provided, whereas
 before beneficiaries received a cash subsidy which they could use to choose appropriate housing
 solutions in the market. Targetingof the program was consistent with its objectives, with
household income determining the subsidies to be received. However, the Government selected
thejurisdictions where the housing complexes were built, often neglecting the regional
distribution of national demand. The costs of housing units have risen and public expenditure in
social housingover 1995-2000 was very highin comparison to the previous 15 years. This
program was haltedbased on the need to re-focus on less costly solutions to offset the effects of
the crisis.

32. Sub-condition (iii).The evaluation of the programof Family allowances ("Asignaciones
Familiares") performedby BPS i s acceptable to the Bank. It includes an efficiency analysis,
targeting analysis, and comparison of the prices at which the agencies executing said programs
acquire goods and the market prices of said goods. Therefore, sub-condition (iii)has been
met.

33. The administration of the system of Family Allowances has been updated since 1999 with the
application of a re-engineering system that covers the processes for customer attention and
processing, identification of beneficiaries, and control of beneficiaries with integrated databases
and calculation that makes the processes more efficient and cuts delays. Administrative costs are
low. The evaluation of Family Allowances provides analysis on targeting of the program,
pointing out the increased controls to ensure compliance. Family allowances consist of an
economic subsidy equivalent to 16% of the National MinimumWage (SMN) per soddaughter

                                                  - 9 -



 when family income (formal market) i s less than 6 SMNand 8% of SMNwhen family income i s
 between 6 and 10 SMN.

 34. The evaluations of programs under conditions (i), and (iii)
                                                        (ii) submittedbytheGovernment
 meet the requirements detailed inthe corresponding terms of reference. Condition6 hasbeen
 satisfied.

 35. Condition7. The Borrower's budget allocation for each of the Protected Social Programs
 (as defined in the Loan Agreement) for 2003 i s not lower than the 2002 allocation for each of the
 Protected Social Programs as set forth in Annex 2 of the Letter of Development Policy (adjusted
 according to the change of public wages).

 36. Compliancewith Condition7. The protected budgetin2003 for the selected programs
 (AIPP, PNCA, CAIF, PAE,MECAEP, "Centros de Atenci6n a la Infancia y a laFamilia",
 "Programa de Capacitacih Laboral", "Asignaciones Familiares"), applying the public wage
 index (5.68 %, WE), amounts to $1,570.6 million (pesos) and at execution level the total i s
 $1,736.6 million (pesos), with execution at 110.6%. Except for onejustifiably replacedprogram
 (workers' training), budget execution of all of the selectedprograms was protected (execution of
CAIF was insignificantly below its protected level). The Government strategy inthe wake of the
crisis has been to correctly prioritize food programs. Foodprograms have exceededthe amounts
originally targeted, contributing to a social protectionnetwork for the sector of the population
with limited resources at the most crucial moments of the crisis. The INDA food programs
executed 209.2% of the targeted amount (AIPP: 266.5%, PNCA: 197%). The program of School
DiningRooms (PAE) executed 109.4% of the target. The programof family allowances
executed 103.4% of target and the program for the improvement of the quality of primary
education (MECAEP) executed 130.3% of the target. The CAIF (Centers for the Attention to
Infants and the Family) programs caring for children aged between 0 and 4 years and their
mothers hadan execution rate of 98.2%.

37. For the work training program ("Programa de Capacitacih Laboral"), the execution rate was
only 49.7% of the target. The latter programhas been shown to be highly ineffective (see
condition 8), implying that the reallocationof resources to other programs which over-performed
was justified The Government has prioritized the situations of unemployment and falling income
affecting the most vulnerable (vis-&vis the training needs of the unemployed) by creating in
2003 a program of community activities which providedcash transfers to poor heads of
households inexchange for labor in areas of community interest.

38. Insummary, inthe aggregate, the selected social programs were protected inreal terms
(111% of target) with the over-executed programs beingthe ones with highest social priority
duringthe crisis. Under-executionof the work training programwasjustified due to the
reallocationof resources to more effective programs and the creation of a program of community
activities. Condition7 hasbeensatisfied.

39. Condition8. An evaluation of (i) Borrower's "Programa de Alimentaci6n Escolar"
                                         the
(executed through ANEP) and (ii)     "Programa de Capacitacih Laboral" (executed through the

                                                 - 10-


 Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs of the Borrower) has been carried out through an
 assessment of beneficiaries of said programs.

 40. Compliance with Condition 8      - Sub-condition (i).Through   an agreement between OPP
 and INE,the Government carried out a survey of users of the Food and School Dining Room
 programs between September and November 2003, this being the first time the country has
 undertaken such a survey. The results show that the coverage by the School FoodProgrami s
 40% of all school students with 90% of those served indicating their satisfaction with the quality
 and quantity of the food, and 82% approving of the variety. The focus of the programi s
 adequate, with the lower the level of family income, the higher the coverage provided. The most
 complete service i s offered to children from the homes with the lowest resources. The survey
 also covered implementation of other food programs (INDA and others). The survey i s available
 on the INEweb page. Therefore, sub-condition (i)has been met.

 41, Sub-condition (ii).Through an agreement between the Ministry of Labor and Social
 Security and Equipos Mori, UniversidadCatdlica and CIENSU, the Government performed an
 evaluation of the 2000-01 programfor work training. The survey made of the beneficiaries of
 the PROCAL shows that there are achievements as regards the targeting of the population, the
 positiveperception of the beneficiaries and the lower level of discouragement inthe face of
 adverse employment contexts. However, there has beenno impact by the training courses on the
 possibility of employment or on the quality of the employment obtained interms of wages,
 stability or protection of employment for the beneficiaries. Therefore, sub-condition (ii)has
 been met.

42. The evaluations submittedby the Government meet the requirements detailed in the
corresponding terms of reference. Condition 8 has been satisfied.

43. Condition 9. The Congress has enacted a new unemployment insurance law including
provisions to: (i) allow unemployment insurance benefits only duringan initial eligibility period
of six months; (ii) reduce unemployment insurance benefits over time and requirerecipients of
unemployment insurance to perform community services while receiving said unemployment
insurance; (iii) limit the provision of unemployment insurance benefits to workers receiving
severance payments totaling less than one hundredminimumwages; and (iv) establish a lifetime
limit of thirty-six months of unemployment insurance per worker.

44. Compliance with Condition 9. The Government has drafted the corresponding
unemployment insurance bill, but was unable to gain political support to pass it through
Congress. The Government has indicatedthat sending the bill to Congress this election year
would have a counter-productive impact on future prospects to reform unemployment insurance.
The Government has taken concrete steps to shorten the effective term of unemployment
insurance benefits (sub-condition (i)).  Through better enforcement, the Government has been
able to reduce the number of unemployment insurance benefit extensions from around 4000 in
December 2001 to 2100 inDecember 2002, and 1100inDecember 2003. The community work
program which provides cash transfers to the poorest heads of households inexchange for labor
inareas of community interest haseffectively worked as an unemployment insurance program
obliging beneficiaries to perform community services (sub-condition (iii)).

                                                 - 11-




45. Condition9 hasnotbeenachieved. The authorities'requestfor a waiver of this
 conditionis recommendedinview of the fact that the Government hasmade adjustments inthe
 enforcement of existing legislationwhich allowed it to reduce significantly extensions of
 unemployment benefits and has introduceda community work program which effectively
functions as an unemployment program. Evenif the new law would have been approved by
 Congress, it would have not resolved the problem of low coverage--only about 15% of
unemployed are currently registered for the benefit--due to the high andrising share of informal
workers among the unemployedwhich are not eligible for unemployment insurance in any case.
The strong economic recovery underway has already led to a reduction of unemployment from
almost 20% to 13.2% inmid-2004.

46. Condition 10. The Borrower's training programfor the unemployed(Art 317 to 331 Law
 16,320 as amended) has been refocused to target preferentially workers receiving severance
payments totaling less than one hundredminimumwages, as evidenced by a report reflecting the
results of the last six months of said training program including: amount of beneficiaries, social
andeconomic conditions of said beneficiaries, and amount of trained workers that have found
jobs after said training (specifying whether the skills received in such training are used inthe
newjob).

47. Compliancewith Condition 10. Evaluations undertaken under the Program have shown
that the description of "workers receivingseverance payments totaling less than one hundred
minimumwages" applies to effectively 100%of beneficiaries of the work trainingprogramfor
the unemployed. Therefore, there was no need to refocus the existing program. The evaluation
of the training program has been performed in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and has shown
it to be ineffective.

48. The Labor Ministry has refocused its efforts in direct employment programs which have an
effective impact on poverty reduction among the unemployed. Community activities and
neighborhoodwork plans have been implemented startingin2003. They have beenjointly
executed by the Labor Ministry and the Housing Ministry inconjunction with "Intendencias
Departamentales" and NGOs. Such programs have been properly evaluated and shown to be
effective. These programs were designed with the participation of ILO. They establish a
maximum of 5 months of coverage, payments are linked to job delivery, and enrollment i s based
on a transparent auction system. The programtargets heads of poor households and, according to
ILO's Survey of Beneficiaries and technical audit, the program has reached its target population.
Condition10hasbeensatisfied.


                      IV. SPECIFICCONDITIONS            -LOAN     7138 (SSAL)

49. Specific conditions refer to actions described in Schedule 3 to the Loan Agreement No. 7138.

50. Condition 1. Articles 137 through 145 of the bill presented by the Executive to the Congress
on June 30,2002 (Proyectode Ley referente a la Rendicidn de Cuentasy Balance de Ejecucidn
Presupuestal correspondientea1Ejercicio 2001) have been enacted by the Congress in a manner

                                                - I Z -




substantially similar -as determined by the Bank- to the bill presented by the Executive, except
that, in Article 137 changes shall have been made substantially reflecting-as determined by the
Bank- the Annex of the August 7,2002 letter of the Borrower's Minister of Economy and
Finance to the Bank (letter number S/M No. 161/02).

51. Compliancewith Condition 1. Law 17596 enacts Articles 137 through 145 of the bill
presented to Congress inJune 30,2002 (except 143 as explained below) and specifically those
areas inArticle 137 reflectedinthe Annex of the August 7,2002 Letter of DevelopmentPolicy -
"Action Planto Restructure BHU". Condition 1hasbeensatisfied.

52. Key actions that have been enacted in the new law are:

    i)      Amendments of BHU's Organic Charter reflect BHU's new exclusively authorized
            activities with more focused lendingto physicalpersons for the purchase,
            construction or repair of their own residential property and that limit deposit-taking
            activity to ahorro previo deposits (article 1).

   ii) BHUnolongerwillfinancenewconstructionprojects(complejos);onlyconstruction
            projects underway or bindingcontracts as of May 31, 2002, will be finalized. Article
            9 of the new law establishes an aggregate ceiling of UR 1,680 million (UR -
            Adjustable Wage Units) binding contracts, equivalent to US$73.8 million.

   iii) BHU'sprincipalfutureactivitywillbeassetsecuritization. Article2ofthenewlaw
            allows BHUto transfer mortgages or cash-flows associated with them to investment
            funds.

   iv)      New mortgages (excluding those issued to place property/assets already belongingto
            the bank) will not exceed an established ceiling equivalent to an aggregate amount of
            US$50 million. Article 3 of the new law specifies that new mortgages cannot exceed
            the lesser of UI 1,500 million (UI- Inflation IndexedUnits) or 75% of the bank's
            capital (based on central bank accounting principles). The former amounted to US$56
            million inAugust 2002 slightly higher than the US$50 million ceiling mentioned in
           the LDP. However, the condition states that the law should "substantially" reflect the
           LDPAnnex. For a bank with assets of US$1,345 million, a discrepancy of US$6
           million or 0.45% i s considered minor.

   V I     BHUwill adopt amechanism to reduce the capture of bank deposits other than from
           the system of ahorroprevio (article 5).

   vi)     BHUwill cancel all obligations throughissue of securities, bonds or transferable
           assets after 15 years (article 6).

   vii)    The Executive i s authorized to constitute a guarantee fund using 1% of the personal
           income tax to partially guarantee non-performing mortgages. Article 7 of Law 17596
           further restricts the guarantee to social housing and establishes a 20% limit per loan
           and a 20% limit of loans i.e. a 4% total limit which i s inline with the original 5%
           requirement.

                                                 - 1 3 -



     viii)  Article 143 of the Billto Congress requiredthat BHUagree with the Executive on a
            plan to reduce staff, operational expenses and investments 60 days following the
            approval of the proposed law. This recommendation has not been enacted inLaw
             17596. However, BHUand the Executive have indeed complied with the objectives
            since the reduction was done anyway, amounting to 35% of expenses.

     ix)    Article 144 of the Bill to Congress excepted the amount of UR 8,000,000 from the
            restrictions of articles 138 and 139 to fulfill previous commitments with the Housing
            Ministry. Article 8 of the new law enacts this exception, stating the amount inUI
            instead of UR,and adds the conversion of real estate already inthe balance sheet to
            mortgage credits, which i s only a change in assets and not new credit. This i s in line
            with the purpose of the bank statedin article 1.

     4      Article 145 of the Billto Congress requiredthe derogation of Article 447 of Law
            16736. This recommendation i s taken into account by Article 10 of the new law
            which gives payment priority to mortgage credits over subsidies granted by the
            Housing Ministry in case of mortgage execution.

 53. Condition2. Deposits from the general public inBHU, excluding those appertaining to the
ahorroprevio system, are beingphasedout as outlined inAnnex 1to the Letter of Development
Policy (attachment 4). Total outstanding deposits inBHU, apart from those related to the ahorro
previo system, shall be not more than US$750,000,000 equivalent at the Tranche ReleaseDate.

54. Compliancewith Condition2. The Annex of the LDP says that total deposits (excluding
those of ahorroprevio) shall not exceed US$1.1billion at the end of 2002 and should decline by
at least US$275 million each semester thereafter. Article 8 of Law 17523 of August 2002
requires that BHUtransfer its U S dollar deposits to BROU. Through an agreement between
BHU, BROUandthe EconomicsMinistry signed inNovember 2002, all dollar deposits of BHU
mentionedinLaw 17523 were transferred to BROU, i.e., faster than required. According to the
December 2003 balance sheet of BHUreported to the Central Bank, total deposits from the non-
financial private sector inBHU(general public) excluding ahorro previo amounted US$llO
million, which i s less than the maximum of US$750 million originally required. Condition2
hasbeensatisfied.

55. Condition3. A due diligence, i.e., valuation and appraisal to determine the market value of
the credit and investment portfolios of BHU, has been carried out by an entity satisfactory to the
Bank.

56. Compliancewith Condition3. InDecember 2003, KPMGconcludedthe due diligence
covering 63% of the loan portfolio with the non-financial private sector as of August 31, 2003.
The sample covered 47% of loans which were 100% provisioned at the time. Taking into
account other loans that were 100% provisioned, 73% of the loan portfolio of the non-financial
private sector was covered. The appraisal exercise was based on a sample of 400 loans and the
methodology to value the underlying collateral consisted inestimating the net-of-depreciation
replacement value adjusted by the discount implicit injudicial auctions across the country. The

                                                   - 14-


 valuation of the loan portfolio i s then obtained taking into account residual debt, guarantees and
 provisions.

 57. A due diligence of promises to sell real estate--promitentes compradores--the most important
 asset inthe investment portfolio of BHUwas commissioned to Villamide, S.A. and finalized on
 September 24,2004. The valuation was basedon the estimated net discounted cash-flow of
promitentes compradores obligations adjusted for historic performance of these obligations and
 netting out maintenance costs. To assess the extent to which the net present value of the contract
 i s below the value of the underlying property--andthereby ensure that incentives to pay are
 positive--theconsultingfirm conducted valuations of 180properties in the investment portfolio.
 For this purpose, the market price of sales of properties belonging to promitentescompradores
 was taken into account. Other assets inthe investment portfolio include buildings under
 construction (originating inpast commitments) which are valued at historic cost. Condition3
 hasbeensatisfied.

 58. Condition4. A divestment plan (including semi-annual targets for non-performing credit
 portfolio, foreclosed assets, real estate for sale, andpromitentescompradores in arrears) has been
 approved by the Board of Directors of BHU.BHUhas complied with the targets of as many
calendar (i.e., January through June and/or July through December) semesters (with a minimum
of one semester) as have transpired between the approval of said divestment plan and the
Tranche ReleaseDate.

59. Compliancewith Condition4. BHU's Board approved a divestment plan in January 2003
referredto as "Plan Estradgico de Gestidn de Morosidad". The plan envisaged an increase in
revenues as follows: (i) the first half of 2003, an increase inthe average monthly revenue
                          during
of US$2 million, of which mortgage loans US$1.5 million andpromitentes compradores US$0.5
million; and (ii) an increase inthe average monthly revenue duringthe second half of about
US$l million, of which mortgage loans US$750 thousand andpromitentes compradores US$250
thousand. The plan details an extensive set of concrete actions to achieve these objectives.
Based on data providedby the authorities, between December 2002 and March-June 2003,
average monthly payments rose by US$1.9 million and between March-June 2003 and July-
December 2003 by US$1 million. The figures respectively were US$1.5 million and US$0.6
million for mortgage loans and US$300 thousand and US$400 thousand for promitentes
compradores. Thus, the targets set in the plan were nearly met between December 2002 and
March-June2003 (US$1.9 million out of a plannedUS$2 million), and fully met between
March-June2003 and July-December 2003 (US$1 million out of a planned US$1million).

60. InJanuary 2004, BHUsubmitted a divestment plan for 2004 which also provides for six
monthly targets and achievements during2003 of real estate for sale (free and rehabilitated
property), number of refinancedloans, loan cancellations, real estate sales topromitentes
compradores, and number of court cases for repossession of property. All targets were met in
excess except for free real estate for sale (3.5% below target) duringthe second semester, and
refinancedloans for the first semester (1.4% below target) and second semester (2.8% below
target).

                                                 - 15 -


 61. The total number of BHU's non-performing (over 3 months of non-payment) loans and
 promitentes compradores rose from 27.2% inJanuary 2002 to 38.3% inMarch 2003 and then
 declined to 35.8% by December 2003.

 62. In summary, most targets set inthe divestment plans have been met inexcess and the rest
 with differences of the order of 1-5% which i s deemed insignificant in the overall picture and
 within the parameters set inthe specific condition, Condition 4 hasbeensatisfied.

 63. Condition5. The Board of Directors of BHUhas approved a new BHUcredit manual.

 64. Compliancewith Condition5. BHU's Board approved a new Credit Manual inJune 2003,
 enacted by O/S 10306. The manual includes the stipulation that loans should be for residential
 property as stated inthe new Charter, and details procedures for evaluating loan applicants
 considering verifiable payment capacity and proven compliance history with BHUand other
 institutions. Moreover, the manual stipulates loan-to-values of 70% which are in line with
 internationalpractice (higher LTVs are usedfor assets currently on BHU's balance sheet
 indicatingpriority given to divestment and a probable overvaluation of these assets) and
 installment-to-income ratios reflecting normal banlung practices. Reflecting the credit restraint
 policy of BHU, the manual gives priority to clients with deposits inthe bank (ahorroprevio) and
 to the sale of buildings currently on Bank's balance sheet. Condition 5 hasbeensatisfied.

 65. Condition6. An integrated information system for BHU's asset and liability management i s
 beingimplemented.

 66. Compliancewith Condition6. The first concrete plan to restructure BHUand to
implement a new information system date from early 2003 - soon after the Government was able
to pass all the necessary legislation to change BHU's Charter through Congress (December,
2002). However, it was only after a new - and more pro-reform-boardtook over in October
2003 that a well-designed restructuringplan - agreeable to the World Bank - and a proper
specification of the requiredintegrated information system was defined. InNovember 2003,
BHU's management presentedterms of reference for the acquisition of an "Integrated System for
Bank Management" including its technical requirements as well as provisions for maintenance,
training, documentation, and the overall implementationprocess. To help finance the new
system, inDecember 2003, the Uruguayan Government requested an amendment to the
Technical Assistance Loan (TAL) 45980-UR to include the provision of this system within the
project development objectives, estimating a total cost of US$1.7 million. The TAL was
amended in May, 2004 to permit financing of public financial institutions. After Bank staff
agreed on the terms of reference for the information system, an international bidding to provide
and implement the new system was launched with a deadline of October 4, 2004 for receiving all
bids.BHLJ'smanagement estimates that the selection of the provider and signature of contract
will be completed inOctober, while a ten-phase implementation stage including tests and
training will require an additional eight months.

67. Inparallel, BHUhas initiated a series of activities on the information technology front, such
as digitalization of signatures, network security, and data entry that are useful to set the ground
for an integrated information system but cannot be considered part of its implementation.

                                                  - 16-




 68. Although BHUmanagement has initiated satisfactory steps towards the acquisition of an
 integrated management information system, this system i s not considered technically to be under
 implementation before the ten-phase implementation stage including tests and training i s
 substantially advanced. Thus, compliance with condition 6 has not yet been achieved. The
 authorities' request for a waiver is recommended in view of the steps already taken to finance
 and acquire the system, and the commitment of BHU's management to complete the overall
 implementation process incollaboration with the World Bank through the TAL. Progress inthe
 implementation of the new information system i s considered critical by BHU's management,
 especially for timely compliance with central bank informationalrequirements and for
integrating BHU's databases and thereby helping to further systematize the processesof loan
collection and mortgage securitization.

69. Condition 7. A restructuring plan-approved through, inter alia, resolutions ("Actas")
 13770, 13775, 13779, 13786, 13789 and 13790 of the Board of Directors of BHU (including the
appointment and accession of professional management, creation of new loan recovery and
finance departments, and a substantial downsizing of BHU) i s beingimplementedas set forth in
such resolutions.

70. Compliance with Condition 7. The resolutions mentioned above indicate changes in
interest rates, creation of collection and cost reduction teams, reductionin operating costs,  '



approval of financial projections, issuance of bonds, suspension of overtime payments,
suspension of charitable donations, nomination of new Accounting and InspectionManagers,
and creation of Human Resources and Finance areas. Several internal orders (6rdenes de
servicio) have implementedthese resolutions: O/S 1019l,O/S 10195,0/S 10202, while new
resolutions have complemented the restructuring process: 13840, 13846, 13855, 13875, 13884,
13891, 13893, 13895 and 13899. The latter have definedchanges inretirement age, specified
incentives to early retirement, created a Social Housing Area, created a Trust FundArea,
redefinedthe overall organizational structure separating business functions (Social Housing,
Commercial Loan Recovery, Credit Origination and Finance) and support functions, defined an
evaluation process for the nomination and appointment of management, and consolidated
initiatives into an overall Restructuring Plan.

71. The consolidated Restructuring Planincluded in resolution 13891of December 2003 was
prepared with the support of the Bank and the final version was reviewed by Bank staff. The
new organizational structure for BHUresponds to the objectives of the Program. It includes the
appointment of professional management in key positions and the definition of a transparent,
competitive and objective nomination process. Interms of downsizing, total BHUpersonnel
decreasedby 28% during the last two calendar years, from 1384 employees inDecember 2001 to
998 full time employees by December 2003. The reduction i s 45% if the 233 employees
working at the HousingMinistry (MVOTMA) are excluded. Inparallel, personnel expenses
decreasedby 52%, from US$48.9 million to US$23.5 million duringthis period, while overall
operating costs decreasedby 35%.

72. Bank staff have assessed through on-site visits that the change inmanagement processes and
attitudes implicit inthe Restructuring Plan have actually been established. All key managers

                                                - 17-



were interviewed (President, Vice-president, Loan Recovery, Credit Origination, Finance, Social
Housing, Accounting and Administration, Human Resources, and Strategy and Organization)
with satisfactory results. Condition 7 hasbeensatisfied.

73. Condition8. A bill removing existing differences between BCU's supervision powers over
state owned and private banks, including powers of B C Uto impose fines on state owned banks,
presented by the Executive to Congress on September, 20 2001 has been enacted, regulated and
i s beingimplemented. When enacted, said bill shall also prescribe B C Uto inform the Executive
about said fines for the Executive to consider imposing sanctions on the members of the Board of
Directors of said state ownedbanks, as regulatedby article 197 of the Borrower's Constitution.

74. Compliancewith Condition8. Law 17613 was enactedinDecember 2002. Inarticle 6,
paragraph 3, the law explicitly revises Decree Law 15322 and Law 16237 to authorize B C Uto
observe, sanction and impose fines on state-owned institutions. Paragraph 2 of the same article
prescribes B C Uto inform the Executive about non-compliance with regulations by these
institutions and the consequent resolutions andfines for the Executive to consider imposing
rectifications or sanctions on Board members according to article 197 of the Uruguayan
Constitution.

75. The Law didnot require a special regulation other that the Boards of BROU and BHUhave
been notified. The Superintendence of Financial Institutions at B C Uevaluates public banks on a
regularbasis and has already imposedfines as permittedby the new law. Condition8 hasbeen
satisfied.

