Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE O.NLY
Repwt N.. P-3866-UR
REPORT AND RECObNENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONALB RANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$60.0 MILLION
TO TUE
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR PROJECT
August 1, 1984
This docuent bs a restrided didnrbton *nd my be used by rec*ents only ithe performance of
their 5cl  duti. Ift conteot may na oterwibe be discdod witout Wodd Bank anthcioat.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(June 27, 1984)
Currency Unit = New Peso (N$)
US$1 = N$ 52.4
Ll$1 = US$0.02
GOVERNMENT OF URUGUAY FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGfTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BROU           Banco de la Republica Oriental del Uruguay
(Bank of the Republic of Uruguay)
CADA           Comision Administrativa de Abastecimiento
(Commission of Supply Administration)
CONEAT         Commission for Land Agro-Economic Studies
DINACOSE       Direccion Nacional de Control de Semovientes
(National Cattle Control Directorate)
DPS            Development Policy Statement
IMAGRO         Impuesto Agropecuario
(Agricultural Land Tax)
INAC           Intituto Nacional de Carnes
(National Meat Institute)
MAP            Ministerio de Agricultura y Pesca
(Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries)
PLAN           Comision Honoraria del Plan Agropecuario
(Commission of the Agricultural Plan)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR LOAN
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                  Republica Oriental del Uruguay
Beneficiaries:             The Central bank of Uruguay; Uruguayan livestock
and crop producers; Uruguayan meat exporters.
Asount:                    US$60.0 million equivalent including capitalized
front-end fee of about US$150 thousand.
Terms:                     Repayable over 15 years on a fixed amortization
schedule, including 3 years of grace, at the bank
standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:               The proposed loan supports a Government program
to strengthen policies in the agriculture/
livestock sector, with particular attention to
eliminating price distortions and increasing
export incentives. Under the policy package
supported by the loan, the Government would take
additional steps to eliminate trade restrictions,
to improve institutional support systems and
rationalize regulatory procedures.
Risks:                     There are two main risks associated with the
project:
(a) A deterioration in international cattle
prices would mitigate the impact of the
incentives of the policy package for higher
levels of investment, productivity and
exports. This risk, however, is considered
small given the current stage in the
domestic beef cycle and the positive outlook
for the international demand for beef
products.
(b) The new Government, scheduled to take
office in Uruguay in March 1985, may not
continue the process of economic
liberalization. Initial contacts with the
two major parties indicate that a major
change in course is not likely.
Furthermore, the proposed policy package
provides a balance between actions required
immediately and those likely to be discussed
Tig dowa"at hu a rsticWdistribubotk mar  YbUW tw r_ ens only in the _r n *Of
theklilduties lb  tentsmayunothotheris b dosdwithut WorldBnk authontzadw



- ii -
with, and implemented by, the new Government.
The second tranche would be released only if the
new government demonstrates its willingness to
continue with the reform program.
Estimated Costs:           n.a.
US$ million by Bank FY
Estimated Disbursements:
Year        Annual             Cumulative
1985         30.0                 30.0
1986         30.0                 60.0
Rate of Return:        u.a.
Staff Appraisal
Report:                No staff appraisal report has been prepared for this
project.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN OF [SS60 MILLION TO
THE REPrJBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUtAY FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR LOAN
1. *I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
loan to the Republica Oriental Del Uruguay for the equivalent of USS60
million, including the capitalized front-end fee of US$149,626 to
strengthen the Government export promotion policies in the
agricultural/livestock sector, to reduce price and non-price distortions,
and to sustain the level of economic activity by easing the current
pressing import constraint.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An Economic Memorandum (No. 3652-UR) was distributed to the
Executive Directors in March 1982. A new memorandum will be prepared
following the visit of a staff mission in August-September 1984. rhe
following paragraphs provide a summary of recent developments. A summary
of the Country Basic Data is attached as Annex I.
Recent Economic Performance
3.        After having become one of the most prosperous countries in Latin
America in the first half of the twentieth century, Uruguay's economy
deteriorated steadily in the 1950s, 1960s, and early 1970s. Political and
social unrest, followed by the oil crisis in 1973, culminated in a
generalized economic crisis, which forced the country into a fundamental
reappraisal of its basic economic strategy.
4.        The inward-looking policies of the preceding half century, and
the loss of fiscal and monetary discipline, were seen by the country's new
economic leadership as major contributing factors to the country's
prolonged stagnation and periodic balance-of-payments crises. DuLing the
1974-78 period, efforts were made to reverse the historic import-
substitution bias of macro-economic policy in favor of greater integration
with world markets. Export growth accelerated under the impetus of new
incentives, including export subsidies, state-supported credits, frequent
devaluations, liberalized drawback facilities, and a streamlining of
administrative processes. Investment was stimulated by phased reductions
in price controls, expanded fiscal incentives, liberalization of the
foreign investment regime, and decontrol of financial and foreign exchange
markets. Between 1974 and 1980, real investment and exports grew by 14%
and 20% a year, respectively. Overall output increased by nearly 5%
annually, the highest average rate in a quarter of a century. Unemployment
fell from over 12% in the mid-1970s to under 6% in the first half of 1981.
International reserves rose to the equivalent of over one year's imports,



and the debt service ratio declined from 46% of exports of goods and
non-factor services in the early 1970s to 11% in 1980.
5.        However, only limited progress was made in reducing inflation and
raising the technical and managerial efficiency of domestic industry. In
the late 1970s, policymakers gave added emphasis to finding solutions for
these problems. In 1978, the maxidmm global import tariff was lowered from
3002 to 150%, and it was announced that the maximum level would be reduced,
in annual stages, to 35% by January 1, 1985. To curb inflationary
expectations, the US dollar/peso exchange rate, officially-mandated salary
increases, and increases in public utility tariffs were announced several
months in advance at rates well below the prevailing rate of inflation.
The advance announcement of salary and utility rate tariff increases was
discontinued in 1979, but was maintained for the exchange rate until
November 1982. The Central Bank also withdrew from active management of
the domestic money supply during this period. Open market operations were
halted, banking reserve requirements eliminated, and interest rate ceilings
abolished. In the absence of controls on capital movements, the Government
expected that domestic interest rates would converge quickly with foreign
rates adjusted for depreciation of the peso, assuring a continuous source
of credit on reasonable terms.
6.        However, the initial impact of the anti-inflationary strategy was
contrary to expectations. The rate of consumer price inflation nearly
doubled between 1978 and 1979, rising from 46% to 83%, as large amounts of
foreign capital, attracted by high peso interest yields and the
comparatively low rate of devaluation, flowed into the economy. Inflation
was also fueled by other factors, including the one-time liquidity effect
of removing all bank reserve requirements; a surge of tourist and real
estate investment demand from neighboring Argentina; a sharp increase in
international beef prices, removal of longstanding domestic livestock and
beef price controls; shortfalls in domestic crop production; and unused
margins of tariff protection insulating some domestic producers from
import competition.
7.        Although subsequently inflation fell rapidly (to 43% in 1980, 29%
in 1981, and 11% on an annual basis during the first 11 months of 1982), it
remained substantially above the monthly rate of devaluation until late
1981, generating a severe cost-price squeeze that eroded both the
international competitiveness of domestic production and public confidence
in the peso. The boped-for convergence of external and internal interest
rates was achieved only briefly before speculation and financial hedging
once again opened a wide gap between foreign and domestic rates. In
addition, exogenous factors, such as the world recessiort and the
appreciation of the U.S. dollar vis-a-vis the currencies of 'uruguay's other
major trading partclers, exacerbated the adjustment difficulties of domestic
producers struggling to compete with imports.
8.        As a result, Uruguay entered into a serious recession.  GDP
growth declined steadily from 6.0% in 1980 to -0.1% in 1981 and -8.7% in
1982. Unemployment rose from 5.7% of the active labor force in the first
half of 1981 to nearly 14% in the latter half of 1982. Nominal merchandise



- 3 -
export growth in U.S. dollars slowed from 34% in 1980 to 15% in 1981, an-d
then fell by 16Z in 1982. Real peso interest rates rose from -1Z in 1979
to 25% in 1980 and 35% during the 12 months ending in November 1982. The
non-financial public sector fiscal balance shifted from a surplus of 0.5Z
of GDP in 1980 to a deficit of 2.2% in 1981 and 9.4Z in 1982. The Central
Bank also incurred major -quasi-fiscal' losses associated with a variety of
subsidized credit operations, equivalent in 1982 to about 9Z of GDP.
Following surpluses of US$181 million in 1980 and USS12 million in 1981,
the overall balance of Uruguay's external accounts registered a deficit of
USS800 million during 1982, reflecting large-scale capital flight from the
private sector (US$936 million) and a sharp deterioration in the services
accounts, mainly due to higher interest payments on external debt and a
substantial deterioration in net tourism earnings.
Current Stabilization Program and Near-Term Economic Prospects
9.        In late November 1982, the Government abandoned its exchange rate
commitments and price containment strategy, announcing that it would no
longer observe the previously fixed schedule of devaluations, and that
the exchange rate would be freely determined by market forces. While the
daily rate fluctuated widely, the average rate of around UR$34/US$1 during
1983 implied a nominal peso depreciation on the order of 60% relative to
the US dollar parity quoted just prior to the float. In succeeding weeks,
the Government introduced sweeping changes in salary, fiscal, monetary,
trade and external debt management policies designed to reduce rapidly the
size of the public sector deficit, correct distortions in relative prices
which had damaged the competitive position of industries linked to world
markets, and halt the dangerously high losses of foreign exchange.
10.       The IMF supported the Government's stabilization program with a
stand-by agreement. The agreement, effective April 22, 1983, provided
additional resources in the amount of SDR 378 million (roughly USs400
million) over a two-year period. The associated program called for a sharp
reduction in the borrowing requirements of the non-financial public sector,
a scaling down of official external borrowing, a deceleration of central
bank credit growth, and a renewed effort to improve resource allocation by
freeing the exchange rate, continued liberalization of the trade system,
and realistic pricing of public sector goods and services. Shortly after
approval of the stand-by, Uruguay's external payment difficulties were
further eased by agreements with foreign commercial banks and other
external creditors to reschedule US$639 million in public short- and
medium-term debt falling due in 1983 and 1984, and to provide fresh
financing of US$230 million.
11.       During 1983, significant progress was achieved in reducing the
deficit of the non-financial public sector (from 9.4Z of GDP in 1982 to
4.02 in 1983), improving resource allocation via a roughly 40% real
depreciation of the average trade-weighted exchange rate, and slowing the
loss of foreign reserves (from US$585 million to USS34 million). Economic
activity, after declining by more than 8% during the first half of 1983,
experienced a mild recovery in the second half, expanding at about a 2%
annual rate on a seasonally-adjusted basis. A 12% decline in real public



- 4 -
and private sector wages may explain the substantial increase in the labor
force participation rate observed during 1983 (from 542 to nearly 59% of
the economically-active population).   Rence, even though the unemployment
rate rose from 13% of the economically-active population in 1982 to 15% in
1983, total employment actually increased slightly over the course of
1983. The quarterly rate of unemployment, which peaked at 16% during the
second quarter of the year, had declined to just over 14! by the last
quarter.
12.       Despite these considerable efforts, the stabilization program did
not achieve all its major aims. Belays in implementing the stand-by
program, weaknesses in fiscal/financial policy management, uncertainties
related to the political transition, the lower-than-anticipated levels of
economic activity and imports (real declines of 4.8% and 17.0%,
respectively) and the low level of confidence stemming from difficult
conditions in the region as a whole were among the principal factors which
slowed the rate of adjustment. Inflation greatly exceeded the level
projected in the program (562 rather than the projected 392) - thereby
inflating all fiscal variables - and there was a significant shortfall in
general government revenues (20.2% of GDP rather than the projected 23.4%),
stemming from the unexpectedly sharp decline in imports and the associated
tariff revenues, the impact of inflation on lagging tax collections, and an
increase in tax evasion. These developments led to a public sector deficit
which exceeded the end-1983 program limits by about 25%, and substantial
private capital flight which exacerbated the shortage of financial
liquidity.
13.       By the latter part of 1983, it was clear that large imbalances in
the accounts of the non-financial public sector and the Central Bank
persisted.  Difficulties in the latter institution were related to several
policy decisions: (i) high levels of Central Banl assistance to the
National Housing Bank, which was unable either to meet its external payment
obligations or to finance its rapidly-expanding housing program; (ii)
purchases in 1982 of low-quality commercial loan assets on which virtually
no debt service was collected in 1983; (iii) an export prefinancing scheme
which provided credit on subsidized terms; and (iv) the costs to the
Central Bank of assuming the debt service on external loans contracted by
the non-financial public sector, while lending to the Government virtually
interest-free. Globally, the combined deficit of the Central Bank and the
non-financial public sector (13% of GDP in 1983 compared with 18% in 1982)
remained incompatible with a sustainable program aimed at reducing
inflation, decreasing reliance on external savings, and promoting economic
recovery. Uruguay's inability to comply with the stand-by program's fiscal
targets led to an interruption of drawings (currently totalling SDR 151
million) at the end of 1983. Discussions with the IMF on a revised standby
are expected to lead to the announcement of a new agreement in the near
future.
14.       The authorities have stressed their continued commitment to the
restoration of external and internal equilibrium, along with a recovery of
output, before completing the transfer of power to an elected government
(expected in March 1985). In the non-financial public sector, public
enterprise tariffs were raised by nearly 30% in January 1984, and the
Government has indicated that future adjustments would be sufficient to
cover not only increases in enterprise costs, but also to raise the level
of self-financing of new investment. Public sector wages and social



- 5 -
security benefits, which together account for 70% of general government
expenditures, are expected to fall further in real terms in 1984. The
authorities have also indicated that they will raise social security taxes,
if necessary, to avoid placing an undue strain on the finances of the
central administration. While these measures would substantially reduce
the non-financial public sector deficit relative to the level of the latter
half of 1983, the deficit for the year as a whole is still expected to
rise slightly to around 5% of GOP.  The principal factor impeding decisive
improvement in the non-financial public sector accounts is the continuing
decline in the tax burden, which, at 19% of GDP, is now low by historical
Uruguayan stand-rds. Therefore, a tax package with a potential 12-month
yield of 2% of GDP was adopted in June 1984.
15.       With respect to monetary/credit policies of the Central Bank, the
authorities are acting in four main areas. First, the Central bank has
stopped remunerating legal reserve deposits. Secondly, assistance to the
National Housing Bank has been reduced substantially and is now controlled
in the Treasury budget rather than by the Central Bank. The Housing Bank
is also expected to begin liquidating its interest arrears on past credit
obtained from the Central Bank and to agree to a schedule for the repayment
of principal. Thirdly, agreement appears to be near on a plan to recover
part of the portfolio of private assets purchased by the Central Bank from
commercial banks. Finally, the export pre-financing scheme was terminated
in late 1982 and, will occasion no further losses in 1984, since all
outstanding credits have now been repaid.
16.       On the basis of these measures, the deficit of the public sector
(in-luding the Central bank) could be reduced over the twelve-month period
ending in June 1985 to around 6Z of GDP, compared to 13% in 1983. This
would appear to be compatible with a program calling for continued mild
economic recovery (3-4% real growth), similar gains in overall employment,
a modest reduction in inflation (45-50% compared with last year's 562), a
trade surplus of around USS300 million (5.0-5.5Z of projected GDP), a
current account deficit of around USS80 milYion (1.4% of projected GDP),
and approximate balance on the capital account. The debt service ratio
(including interest and amortization of short term debt) would be slightly
over 30% of goods and non-factor service exports.
Medium-Term Prospects
17.       The domestic policy requirements for sustained growth beyond i984
are, in broad terms, the same as those indicated for the short-term.
Uruguay is likely to bear a heavy debt burden for at least the remainder of
this decade, the service of which will require sustained export growth and
continued access to international financial markets. Rescheduling of
approximately US$1.4 billion of principal payments falling due in the
1985-87 period will be necessary because of the bunching of maturities
resulting from the refinancing agreements concluded in 1983. N2vertheless,
public sector requirements for net additional financing could be limited to
USS100 million annually, i.e., a nominal increase in the debt of about 4%
annually. Assuming a moderate sustained recovery in the developed
countries, no major increases in real international interest rate levels,



- 6 -
and continued Uruguayan progress toward improved demand management
policies, there are good prospects for obtaining the required amounts of
financing without endangering the country's creditworthiness. The proposed
sector loan, in addition to supporting Government efforts toward further
agricultural liberalization and renewed export growth, would play a
constructive role in easing Uruguay's external borrowing constraint.
18.       It is notable that, notwithstanding increases in restrictive
practices within and beyond the region and a very difficult short-term
situation, Uruguay has maintained freedom of exchange transactions on both
current and capital accounts and continued its program of general import
tariff reductions. The authorities have indicated their intention to
maintain open economic policies and continue to reduce effective
protection. These commitments should serve Uruguay well. Given Uruguay's
demonstrated readiness to adopt the domestic policy measures needed to
raise its debt servicing capacity, and the prospect of early approval of a
new agreement with the IMF, Uruguay is creditworthy for the amounts of
external financing projected above.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN URUGUAY
19.       As of March 31, 1984, the Bank had made 21 loans to Uruguay,
amounting to US$441.9 million, of which 8 are not yet fully disbursed. The
undisbursed amount as of March 31, 1984 was US$200.0 million. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans. At the end of 1983, the Bank
held 2.8% of Uruguay's external public and private debt outstanding; its
share of the service on this debt in 1983 was 2.6%.
20.       As of March 31, 1984, IFC had committed in Uruguay a total of
US$21.3 million for four projects, of which US$18.5 was in loans and US$2.8
million in equity. The total undisbursed portion (all under the loan
category) was US$2.0 million.
21.       Bank disbursements in Uruguay are generally satisfactory for
repeater projects, such as in the highway sector. Despite delays, it is
expected that the Second Highway Project will be fully disbursed within six
years compared to the Bank LAC average of seven years.   However,
operations in new sectors have experienced initial delays, mostly because
it took the government longer than expected to comply with institutional
covenants and because the executing agencies needed more time than
anticipated to become familiar with Bank procedures. These factors have
adversely affected the execution of operations in the education, ports, and
telecommunications sector. By and large, these problems have been solved
with increased supervision, and disbursements should proceed
satisfactorily. Disbursements of the agricultural and the industrial
credit operations have been affected negatively because of the economic
recession in Uruguay. However, in the absence of alternative lines of
medium and long term credit, there has been considerable recent improvement
in committment levels under the industrial credit.



-7-
22.       First among Uruguay's major long-term development priorities is
Improvement in the efficiency of resource allocation. Progress in this
area will require maintaining the momentum of the tariff liberalization
process, followed by reduction of non-tariff barriers, and speeding up the
restructuring and modernization of production facilities. The Bank's
lending program, through its two industrial credit operations, has provided
critical support to the Government's program to lower import barriers and
reduce price controls. In the current difficult economic situation, Bank
lending will be structured so as to encourage the Government to press
forward with the tariff reforms, to eliminate distortions In relative
prices and output, provide adequate incentives for exports, and resist
strong domestic pressures to reverse the process of opening up the
economy. This will be the objective of the proposed agricultural sector
loan and additional industrial and agricultural credit operations.
23.       Second, Uruguay's human resource base, though well developed in
terms of literacy levels, needs to be further adapted to the needs of an
open economy. Upper and middle managers, in both the public and private
sectors, generally have a background of broad academic training which is
not always well-suited to the pragmatic, problem-solving needs of a modern
society. An on-going Bank supported vocational training and technological
development project is addressing one aspect of this problem. Future Bank
involvement in the process of human resource development would be provided
through technical assistance for projects in individual sectors and,
possibly, through a project focused on management training.
24.       Third, Uruguay has not yet achieved the degree of institutional
development required to assure self-sustaining growth. Some significant
progress has been made, however, with the help of the Bank. Power,
telecommunications, and ports projects supported by Bank loans are
gradually improving operations of three of Uruguay's oldest and most poorly
managed agencies into modern institutions. Longstanding assistance to the
livestock sector has given birth to a high-quality extension service. Two
recent industrial credit projects have led to the establishment of an
independent appraisal unit that is rapidly improving public sector project
evaluation and technical assistance to industry. Bank lending for highways
has promoted the development of a previously nonexistent transport planning
capability. Nevertheless, institutional capacity needs further
strengthening. Future operations In the energy, water supply, and,
possibly, railways would enphasize strengthening of management
capabilities, planning processes and operating costs reductions.
25.       Finally, agriculture is and will continue to be the mainstay of
the Uruguayan economy. The contribution of this sector to GDP and
employment is relatively modest, but it is of crucial importance as a
foreign exchange earner and a supplier of raw materials to domestic
industry. The Bank hitherto has concentrated on the livestock sector,
particularly on strengthening producer incentives and ranch management. It
has been instrumental in setting up a solid extension/appraisal institution
and, more recently, in supporting Government efforts to formulate a series
of reforms. The proposed loan continues the efforts made to improve



policies in this sector. In the future, Bank involvement in agriculture
will shift towards the crop subsector with particular attention to
intensified livestock/crop rotation techniques, more effective export
promotion mechanisms, improved crop-oriented research services and a more
comprehensive crop extension network. Projects under consideration would
be geared to help stabilize producer incomes, enhance productivity, and
reduce soil erosion. Experience derived from an on-going agricultural
development loan, including a pilot lending program and a study, should
further clarify the prospects for intensifying small farmer production.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
26.       Agriculture plays a central role in Uruguay's economy.  The
importance of agriculture in Uruguay's external trade reflects such basic
characteristics of the country as its relatively abundant supply of land
suitable for agriculture and grazing, its small population, and its lack of
known mineral resources. Although the sector accounts for only about 15%
of GDP, agricultural products in various stages of processing represent
nearly 90% of total merchandise exports. Livestock-based products -
chiefly meat, hides, wool and woolen textiles, shoes, and other leather
produicts -- account for roughly two-thirds of agriculturally-based
exports. Although crop exports (chiefly broad grain cereals) have
increased in importance over the past 15 years, rising to around 15% of
total exports in the early 1980s, the livestock sector and its related
industries will likely continue to be the mainstay of Uruguay's export
expansion efforts throughout the 1980s. Since the proposed loan has as its
central objective increasing Uruguay's medium-term export potential, much
of the succeeding discussion will focus on the livestock and related
sectors of the economy.
Sector Composition and Production Trends
27.       Uruguay's agricultural sector consists of two well-defined and
geographically separate subsectors: livestock and crops. Livestock
production accounts for 602 to 70% of agricultural output and consists
primarily of cattle and sheep raising and dairy production. Swine and
poultry farming are still relatively minor enterprises. The crop subsector
is dominated by cereals, -ainly wheat and barley.  In recent years,
however, the dynamism of the subsector has been provided by two new types
of activities: rice growing in the central-eastern and northwestern
regions, and fruit, mainly citrus and grapes, in the central-western area.
28.       Physical, climatic, economic and social factors have combined to
give Uruguay a strong comparative advantage in livestock production. The
country's agricultural areas are characterized by shallow or very shallow
soils that are best suited for pastures and prairie-type vegetation. The
relatively homogenous and temperate climate facilitates legume development
and favors the introduction of most of the recognized livestock breeds for
production of beef, milk, and wool. The comparative advantage of livestock
over crop farming is accentuated by Uruguay's irregular rainfall, which
varies widely around the yearly avtrage of 1,000 mm and poses a more



serious risk to crop development than to livestock (although this risk can
be reduced by a system of livestock-crop rotation)_
29.       Livestock production in Uruguay has fluctuated considerably
during the past 15 years. During the latter half of the 1960s, significant
growth took place, averaging over 6% an:ually. However, since 1970, the
trend Line of livestock production has remained almost flat, partly as a
result of cyclical changes in international prices, bat mainly because of
unfavorable pricefcost relationships resulting from inappropriate
policies.
30.       Beef is the principal livestock product. Annual production
ranges from 350,000 to 400,000 tons, of which roughly half is exported.
Wool production is about 60,000 tons per year, of which 90Z is exported.
About 100,000 tons of mutton are produced annually, mostly for local
consumption. Milk production averages about 700,000 tons annually; exports
of dairy products such as cheese and powdered llk have been increasing
recently, but still represent dnly about 4% of total milk production.
Productivity
31.       Uruguayan agriculture is predominantly extensive, with yields
that are substantially below those obtained in countries with similar
endowments of natural resources. The adoption of relatively intensive
production techniques based on pasture improvement has been limited by
unfavorable cost/benefit relationships. Improved pastures, introduced in
the early 1960s, reached a peak level of 12% of total grazing land in 1973,
but the sharp deterioration in cattle prices in subsequent years, together
with the continuing high cost of inputs, reduced this proportion to 8.5Z in
1977. After rising slightly in 1979-80 following the liberalization of
agricultural policies in 1978 and an upswing in world meat prices, the
share of improved pastures decllned once again to only 5% of total grazing
land in 1982, reflecting not only a downturn in world prices, but also the
price-cost and credit distortions associated with the macro-economic
policies then in effect (see Part I). Previously improved pastures were
overgrazed in an attempt by producers to wait out a recovery of prices;
meanwhile, little refertilization was practiced because of high costs
relative to expected returns. The consequent limited carrying capacity of
unimproved land in the livestock sector (less than one ani=al unit per ha)
is reflected in the low current level of beef production per hectare. At
45 kg/ha, this ratio is equivalent to only 56X of the average level reached
in Argentina, and or-ly 32% of that reached in New Zealand. The cattle
slaughter/stock ratio provides further evidence of the low productivity of
beef production in Uruguay. In 1981, this indicator averaged 17% in
Uruguay, compared to 28Z in Argentina (table 1).
32.       Because of Uruguay's ample land resources and small rural
population, farms are relatively large by international standards, although
they generate comparatively low average incomes per hectare. Furthermore,
land distribution and agricultural production closely follow local soil
conditions, which vary widely in their productivity and suitability for
agriculture. In general, farm size is inverselv related to soil



- 10 -
productivity. (For this reason, actual farm sizes are usually adjusted by
an official productivity index for purposes of taxation and the
administration of credit programs.) Beef and sheep are raised principally
in the interior of the country on medium- or large-sized farms (500 ha or
above) where conditions for crop raising are typically unfavorable.
33.       Overall, the distribution of income is more even than the
distribution of land, because smaller holdings can be more intensively
cultivated. Small, intensive dairy i!arms, for example, produce
considerably higher per hectare incomes than large extensive beef ranches.
Farms of less than 500 ha - the rough dividing line in Uruguay between
smaller and larger holdings - make up about 89% of the total number of
farms in the country, and account for about 27% of the total agricultural
area (mostly around Montevideo and in the Littoral region). These
percentages are somewhat misleading, however, since they include a number
of small holdings which have either mixed rural/urban characteristice or
are being used as part- or full-time homes by people employed in towns.
Institutional Framework
Regulatory Agencies
34.       The production, pricing, domestic marketing, and export of
agricultural products have traditionally been regarded as key national
policy issues in Uruguay, because of their implications for domestic income
distribution, self-sufficiency in basic food supplies, and foreign exchange
availabilities. Moreover, the agricultural sector, in Uruguay as
elsewhere, has looked to the state Lo provide vital support services.
Thus, from the late 1920s onward, there developed a comprehensive set of
public institutions designed to assure governmental influence, if not
direct control, over all key aspects of agricultural production, with
particular euphasis on the livestock and meatpacking sectors.
35.       This process reached its culminating point in the mid-1970s.  In
this period, the Government controlled virtually all facets of meat
production, pricing, and marketing via four semi-autonomous regulatory
agencies, three of which were under the nominal control of the Minister of
Agriculture:
(a) The National Cattle Control Directorate (DINACOSE) was
responsible for monitoring herd developments and controlling
cattle marketing to assure the collection of reliable statistics,
the correct payment of rural taxes, the observance of official
price and marketing regulations, and the prevention of cattle
smuggling;
(b) The National Meat Institute (INAC) was responsible for
fixing the purchase prices of live cattle, the licensing and
inspection of slaughter facilities, the administration of



- 11 -
five state-owned meatpackers, the enforcemaent of export
quality control and sanitary requirements, tbe supervision of
contract negotiations, and the approval of industry investment
pl ans;
(c) The Commission on Supply Administration (CADA) was charged with
the licensing and inspection of butcher shops, control over
retail meat prices, and the management of intervention stocks of
frozen beef for local marketing during periods of rising meat
prices; and
(d) The state-owned commercial bank, Banco de la Republica
Oriental del Uruguay (BROU), controlled the finances of the
meatpackers, was the nearly-exclusive source of credit for
ranching and export operations, and enforced the foreign
exchange, licensing, and tariff regulations governing
external trade in agricultural inputs and commodities.
36.       By the late 1970s, there was growing official awareness that the
agricultural sector was one of a number of key sectors where state
interventionism had become asphyxiating and counter-productive. Over the
previous half century, controls had reduced the supply and profitability of
agricultural exports, increased the uncertainty of domest1c food supplies,
and greatly diminished agriculture's traditional role as the generator of
resources for domestic industrialization. To ease these regulatory
bottlenecks, the Government announced a series of major agricultural
reforms in August 1978, which included the elimination of agricultural
price and geographic marketing controls, the removal of controls on the
slaughter of liveetock by age or type, the conversion of the land tax from
a potential gross to a potential net income base, the privatization of the
state-owned meatpackers, an end to BROU's control of the finances of the
meatpacking industry, the elimination of prior deposits and surcharges on
imports of agricultural inputs, and the reduction of the maximum tariff on
such imports to 10%. In effect, without abolishing any of the regulatory
agencies, these reforms reduced their powers considerably.
37.       Coinciding with an upswing in international prices then underway,
the reforms produced substantial increases in agricultural investment and
growth during 1979-80, but these gains were not lasting. While
inconsistencies in macro-economic policies and unfavorable developments in
export markets were major explanatory factors, so was the incomplete
character of the reforms themselves. For example, nothing was done to lift
the half-century old prohibition against exports of live cattle. Bence,
Uruguayan ranchers, forced to sell their cattle to the domestic meatpacking
industry, continued to receive prices substantially below those prevailing
in neighboring countries. Secondly, although tariffs on imported
agricultural inputs were lowered to insignificant levels, relative prices
of imported inputs in many cases (notably machinery spares and
agro-chemicals) did not decline proportionately; nor was the quality of
domestic similars always satisfactory. High input prices reflected not
only the high cost of operating in a small market, but also the costs and
complexity of import prucedures which represented substantial non-tariff



- 12 -
barriers, particularly for small-to-medium-sized operators. Thirdly, while
there was an abundance of short-term, unsupervised production credit
available to farmers after the reforms (so much so that it helped stimulate
the overborroving and excessive indebtedness which are now slowing the
recovery of the farm sector), the flow of medium-term, supervised credit
was hampered by the lack of clearly defined policies on developmental
credit within BROU, difficulties in harmonizing the credit and promotiona±
activities of the livestock extension service with those of BROU, and the
lack of a national extension service to supervise credit for crop
agriculture. Fourthly, although regulatory and financial controls over the
meatpacking industry were relaxed, important restraints remained. INAC
continued to excercise extensive control over the operations, exports, and
investments of the meatpacking industry, while admitting only limited
particlpation in policymaking by owners and producers. Efforts to
modernize facilities were also thwarted in part by legislation imposing
strict ceilings on BROU credit to the meatpackers for fi-ed and working
capital purposes, and by BROU's increasingly severe requirements for
collateral on outstanding credit.
Meatpacking Sector
38.       The founding of Uruguay's meatpacking industry dates from 1907,
when a consortium of Uruguayan investors formed the Frigorifica Uruguaya
During the following two decades, Uruguayan meat exports grew
spectacularly, averaging 20% annually between 1907 and 1925. However, this
expansion was not sustained. Industry-governmental disputes over pricing
and marketing policies, and local supply difficulties stemming from labor
unrest and growing state intervention were among the key factors leading to
a sectoral crisis in the mid-1950s, at which point all foreian investors
chose to sell their companies to the Government.
39.       'With the withdrawal of the multinational meatpacking companies,
Uruguay lost vital links to international beef markets. At the same time,
a number of traditional meat-importing countries in Western Europe joined
customs unions wherein preference was granted to member countries and to
former colonies of the member countries. Also, Uruguay's nov nationalized
meat industry was plagued with obsolete equipment, high operating costs,
chronic financial difficulties, and weak management - all factors which
hampered efforts to diversify export markets.
40.       Attempts to restructure the failing nationalized meatpacking
industry led to the establisbment in 1965 of the National Meat Institute
(INAC), which soon authorized more than a dozen privately owned
slaughterhouses to begin export operations and administered a modernization
program promoting additional investment. However, the temporary closure of
the British market to Uruguayan -eat exports in 1969, the heavy financial
burden of new investments, and the adverse effects of domestic price
controls, export taxes, and an overvalued exchange rate led to the
bankruptcy of the nationalized meatpacking plants, which together with the
privately-owned plants, were intervened in 1972. The industry's
inefficiency and resultant high processing costs were such that it became
nearly impossible to compete in international meat markets, unless the
prices of live cattle could be fixed below the levels prevailing in



- 13 -
neighboring countries. It was this dilemma, as well as the Government's
desire to maintain low meat prices for domestic consumers, which led in
1972 to the creation of DINACOSE, the introduction of rigorous controls
against cattle smuggling, and the intensification of controls on domestic
cattle prices.  When prices were decontrolled in 1978, only the most
efficient privately-owned plants were able to absorb the sharply higher
costs of their basic input. Large overall industry losses were sustained
in 1978-79, which were reversed only after the collapse of cattle prices in
1980. The industry's operating efficiency has steadily improved under the
more competitive market conditions in force since 1978. Indeed, a handful
of Uruguayan meatpackers now compare well with their competitors in Brazil
and Argentina, although the disparity in average processing costs is still
important. Currently, industry sources estimate that Uruguay's 24 major
meatpacking companies are making an average annual return of 3Z on invested
capital, although there is considerable variability in the results for the
most compared to the least efficient companies.
41.       Uruguay substantially increased its volume of meat exports in
1982/83 (table 2), despite continued adverse conditions in world meat
markets. The worldwide recession resulted not only in sharply declining
prices (in 1983 they were about 402 lower in nominal terms than in their
1979 peak), but also gave rise to increased protectionism, a proliferation
of subsidized export practices anng developed countries, and a notable
increase in governmwnt-to-government compensated trade and barter
transactions in developing country markets, where Uruguay must now sell the
bulk of its meat exports. Thus, to maintain Uruguay's bargaining power and
its international reputation as a reliable exporter of high-quality meat
products, close cooperation between the Government, meatpackers, and
producers has become more important than ever.
Research and Extension Services
42.       Agricultural support services are supervised by the Ministry of
Agriculture and Fisheries (MAP). The Ministry administers six regional
research stations organized around the Alberto Berger Agricultural Research
Center, in coordination with the school of agronomy at the national
university. Within the Ministry, the Directorate for Agricultural Economic
Research and the National Commission for Land Agro-economic Studies
(CONEAT) produce and publish basic agro-economic statistics and data on
land tenure and management and other information of interest to
agricultural policy makers. The National Colonization Institute, a
separate autonomous institution linked to the Government through MAP, is
responsible for agricultural settlement and provides limited technical
assistance to settlers. Other sources of technical support for farmers
include the Regional Centers for Agricultural Experiments and the
Commission for Ovine Improvement sponsored by the Uruguayan Wool
Secretariat to provide sheep ranchers with technical assistance and
extension.
43.       MAP's principal agency for providing extension services is the
Comision Honoraria del Plan Agropecuario (PLAN), an autonomous agency with
a governing body composed of representatives of MAP, producers and the
banking sector. PLAN has been the executing agency for the six



- 14 -
Bank-financed livestock projects, including the ongoing Agricultural
Development Project (loan 1831-UR). PLAN's technical assistance is Limited
to the support of medium and long-term development programs in the
livestock sector, most of which are financed by credit from the BROU; its
activities do not cover crop production. The extension of PLAN's coverage
to the crop sub-sector would be desirable for diversifying cropping
patterns (para. 73).
Agricultural Credit
44.       Since its founding in 1885, the Banco de la Republica Oriental
del Uruguay (BROU), a multi-purpose state-owned bank, has been the
principal source of credit to the agricultural sector. For most of the
past decade, BROU has provided about half of the total credit to the
agricultural sector. Private banks have also played a role, particularly
in financing livestock marketing, but frequently at higher rates of
interest. BROU provides two types of credit to farmers through its
Department of Rural Credit. The first is short-term, seasonal credit which
finances a portion of the costs associated with specific production
activities (planting, plowing, etc). The second type of credit is
medium-term. It may be tied either to purchases of machinery, breeding
animals, soil conservation, etc., or to the financing of capital
improvements called for in development plans approved and supervised by
PLAN. Special purpose loans are subject to fixed ceilings for each type of
loan and currently bear interest at 68% (about 17% in real terms given the
recent inflation rate of about 43%). PLAN credit, which accounted for less
than 10% of BROU's lending to the agricultural sector in 1982, bears
interest at a fixed rate (3 or 5% according to the size of the farm) above
a monthly index of producers' costs.
45.       During the past five years, BROU's credit to the sector has
expanded rapidly in nominal terms (table 3), but has shown practically no
growth in real terms. Its share of total lending to the sector has also
fallen substantially, from 57% in 1977 to 24% in 1982. This relative
decline reflects both large increases in lending by private banks in recent
years (particularly in the peak agricultural years of 1979-80), and
rigidities in BROU's own lending practices. Short-term credit is allocated
by prescribed formulae adjusted at the beginning of each crop year. These
formulae specify the maximum amount BROU is prepared to lend crop-by-crop,
activity-by activity, and according to farm size. Usually, less than half
of direct production costs can be financed. As with all formula lending,
this system is poorly adopted to meeting the needs of farmers operating
under varying conditions and endowments, and frequently takes inadequate
account of inflation-based changes in production costs. In recent years
BROU has substantially raised the collateral and guarantees it requires on
new and outstanding rural credit; on the other hand, it continues to
ascribe little importance to long-term farm plans or projections of future
income as justifications for allocating credit.  Finally, loan application
procedures are cumbersome, in part because few discretionary powers are
delegated to local branch managers. Often, this results in credit being
authorized too late in the planting season to be effective. All in all,
BROU's farm credit policies have tended to generate considerable delay and
uncertainty to the detriment of timely farm management, while being
unselective as far as farMer efficiency or crop suitability are concerned.



- 15 -
46.       To bypass these problems, discussions have taken place on the
possibility of establishing a new Development Bank with more flexible and
development-oriented policies. This would be a slow and costly process,
however, since, to have impact, it would require major infusions of capital
from the Government and would involve duplication of BROU's extensive
branch network in virtually all parts of the country. More can probably be
achieved at this stage through a review of credit policies in the sector,
with a view to reforming BROU's operations (paras. 69-70).
47.       Increases in the prices of cattle and agricultural land in
1978/79 prompted speculation in purchases of land and cattle. These
activities were financed in part by substantial increases in short-term,
peso-denominated credit, especially from private banks that had surplus
lendable resources at the time. Tne Government's policy of devaluing in
small steps on a pre-announced schedule (which lagged behind inflation)
also induced many borrowers to borrow in U.S. dollars. Between 1978 and
1980, the volume of short-term loans from commercial banks expanded by 110%
in real terms. Hovever, once world meat prices reversed their climb and
the speculative bubble burst, prices of land and cattle collapsed, falling
by more than 50Z in real terms in the course of 1981-82. During this
period, banks required many of their borrowers to refinance their
short-term, peso-denominated credits vith credits denominated in U.S.
dollars to protect the value of bank assets in the event of a major
devaluation. When the Government decision to allow the peso to float
freely against major foreign currencies produced a major real devaluation,
many borrowers were no longer able to repay their debts.   The resultant
debt crisis led to a major rescheduling effort by the commercial banks in
1982, involving 45Z of outstanding private commercial debt.
Taxation
48.       The main tax on land is the Agricultural Land Tax (ID'AGRO), which
is levied on potential net income, based on land potential and ,Earm size,
using the CONEAT land classification. Under the IKAGRO system, each farm
is indexed on the basis of its theoretical beef productivity; pc.tential
income is estimated by applying the index to the calculated mean net
revenue from a hectare of pasture, which is recalculated each year at the
national level. Farm investments may be deducted (up to a level equivalent
to 40S of net income), and tax payments are made as a percentage of the
remaining net revenue. The percentage rises progressively from 25% on
farms of less than 500 ha to 70% on land holdings above 10,000 ha.
49.       Late in 1983, the IMAGRO was suspended and an export tax of 15%
was Imposed on traditional exports (i.e. beef and wool). The export tax,
which causes major distortions in relative prices and acts as a
disincentive to exports, was reduced to 10% in January 1984 (paras.
64-65). Other recent measures that have altered net taxes include the
cancellation, in late 1982, of a 10% across-the-board export subsidy and of
an equivalent import surcharge.
50.       Agricultural tariffs on imported inputs have been reduced in
recent years and now are set at 10. Prices of agricultural inputs
generally tend to be higher than those in neighboring countries because of
the small size of the Uruguayan market, which raises dealers' costs, and
because of non-tarlff restraints (para. 67).



- 16 -
Marketing and Prices
51.       As previously noted, the Government ceased to fix prices for the
vast majority of agricultural products in 1978. The only exceptions are
retail prices for high grade fluid milk and essential bakery products. The
price of milk is revised quarterly to allow for changes in the cost of
inputs. The Government has also limited retail mark-ups in butcher shops
to 15Z of the wholesale meat price. However, since mid-1982, market forces
have narrowed mark-ups to levels considerably below this ceiling (they are
currently about 5%). The Government also continues to participate actively
in the marketing of livestock exports through the operations of INAC
(para. 77). There has been a significant shift in the destination of
Uruguayan exports since the mid-1970s, with Latin American countries
emerging as major markets for meat, rice and the newly developing exports
of dairy products. Exports to the US (cooked beef only) and the Middle
East have also increased considerably, and the market outlook for both
traditional and non-traditional exports is currently improving.
Bank Assistance to the Agricultural Sector
52.       The proposed project would be the seventh Bank operation in
support of the agricultural sector. It would bring total Bank lending in
the sector to approximately US$173 million since 1959, when the first loan
for US$7 million was made. The six previous projects, including the
ongoing Agricultural Development Project, Loan 1831-UR, have been in
support of livestock development and have resulted in the improvement of
over 1.4 million ha of pasture land. Local statistics indicate that
participating ranchers have increased carrying rates by 7%, reduced the age
of first calving by nearly a year, lowered the age of marketable steers by
more than six months, and raised extraction rates by 3 percentage points.
Bank assistance has also helped to strengthen PLAN, which has provided
credits to livestock producers totaling US$170 million equivalent (US$74
million from the Bank and US$96 million from domestic revenues).
53.       OED has reported on the third and fourth livestock projects.l/
These reports concluded that: (i) the Bank provided Uruguay with
considerable support on macro-economic analysis; (ii) the relationship
between external market fluctuations, the domestic cattle cycle-., exchange
rate fluctuations, and domestic inflation deserved more attention, so that
improved sectoral policies could be developed; (iii) the diffusion of
improved pastures appeared to be reaching a plateau under the price,
technological, and management conditions prevailing through 1977, but
further improved pasture diffusion was possible if sectoral conditions
changed; and (iv) the indexing arrangements under ,he earlier projects had
been imperfect and had eroded over time. No evaluation by OED was made on
the Fifth Livestock Development Project. However, the Project Completion
1/  Report No. 1321, dated October 20, 1976 (SecM76-708), covering loans
disbursed from 1979-74 and report No. 2572 of June 29, 1979, covering
the Second Stage of the Fourth Livestock Project, disbursed in 1973-77
(SecM 79-51).



- 17 -
Report 2/ on this project concluded that: (a) despite a four-year
disbursement period, instead of the two-year period expected at appraisal,
the project performed as appraised in terms of cost, beneficiaries reached,
and economic profitability; (b) a small-scale farmer pilot component became
operational and was successful; and (c) loan indexing, albeit with an
imperfect index, was applied to all subloans. This report also pointed out
that frequent changes in policies resulted in producers being reluctant to
undertake major long-term investments.
54.       The sixth livestock project was approved following the
Government's announcement of agricultural reforms in 1978, which addressed
some of the main concerns highlighted in the OED reports. The project
also provided for loan indexing based on producer prices. However,
difficult economic conditions in Uruguay, declining international meat
prices during 1980-1983, the high level of farm debt contracted in 1978/79,
and a significant appreciation of the peso against all major foreign
currencies combined to deter farmers from new investment during the
period. The flow of credit was also made more difficult by the complex
lending procedures in BROU. As a result, disbursements under the project
are running at only 30% of the original estimate. In December 1983, real
cattle prices began to improve, and discussions were initiated with the
government to broaden the scope of the ongoing project to include crop
producers as well as ranchers. Together with the rationalization of BROU's
lending procedures anticipated ac part of the proposed loan, it is expected
that the sixth livestock project would be fully disbursed before the
closing date of September 1986.
Future Development in the Sector
55.       Uruguay's agriculture, and in particular its livestock sector, is
potentially quite competitive internationally, despite strong subsidized
export competition from the OECD area and the burden of past domestic
policies. Provided agricultural prices can now be brought more closely
into line with international levels, and macro-policy signals can be held
steady and clear over the medium-term, the potential for growth in the
sector is good. For example, if average yields of beef, wool and the main
crops were to approach those of Argentina (an achievement which is now
technically feasible, but has not been economically attractive because of
unfavorable price-cost relationship), Uruguay's exportable surpluses of
agricultural goods would increase by 40% over the historically high 1982
levels. Completing the major unfinished work of the 1978 agricultural
reforms, as proposed in this project, would constitute a significant
advance toward the central goal of raising expectations of farm
profitability in the medium-term, thereby stimulating the increases in
investment and improvement in farm practices needed to reach the production
possibilities noted above.
2/   Report No. 4271 dated December 30, 1982 (SecM 83-52) prepared in the
Latin America and the Caribbean Region.



- 18 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
1.   Background
56.       During the 1982 Annual Meeting, the Government of Uruguay
requested a structural adjustment loan in the agricultural sector. The
possible modalities and conditionality for such an operation were worked
out by a series of Bank missions beginning in December 1982.  Meanwhile,
the Government has taken a series of steps to improve the macroeconomic
framework within which the sector operates, as well as sector-specific
actions which are detailed later in this report. An outline of the
Governuent's policies is provided in a Development Policy Statement (DPS),
which was agreed on during negotiations and issued in the context of the
proposed loan (annex IV).   Because of the priority given to the promotion
of exports, the DPS concentrates on actions in the livestock sector which
offer the most promising prospects over the medium term. The policy
measures that are incorporated into the loan would be introduced during
1984-85.  Withdrawals and loan committments in excess of nS$30 million
equivalent would be conditional on satisfactory progress on the actions
described in the DPS (Section 3 of Schedule 1 to the draft Loan
Agreement).
2. Project Objective
57.       The macro-policy framework witnin which the sector now operates
is satisfactory: the exchange rate is determined by a 'clean" float of the
domestic currency; regulation of the banking system is kept to a minimum;
interest rates are freely determined and positive in real terms; and, with
the exception of a debt refinancing scheme which is now being phased out,
there are no Government subsidies. The proposed loan supports a Government
program to strengthen policies in the agriculture/livestock sector, with
particular attention to eliminating price distortions and thereby improving
export Incentives. The policy package requires the Government to take
additional steps to eliminate trade restrictions (section 3 below); to
improve institutional support systems (section 4 below); and rationalize
regulatory procedures (section 5 below). The actions taken during the
preparation of the loan, together with the measures proposed below, are
designed to increase profitability in the sector, change farmers'
expectations and bring about a more positive investment climate.
Achievement of these goals should, in turn, lead to higher productivity and
exports.
58.       The loan would provide the Government with the resources to
implement the policy package and to sustain economic activity in Uruguay by
easing current pressing import constraints. The amount of the loan, which
would finance general imports, would be disbursed in two tranches subject
to the conditions discussed in this report. The second tranche is likely
to be disbursed under the new Government, which is scheduled to assume
power in March 1985. This would give the Bank the opportunity to continue
the dialogue on sectoral policies with the new Government.



- 19 -
3. Elimination of Trade-Restrictions
Background
59.       For most of the past decade, the development of Uruguayan
agriculture has been constrained by low profltability, which stems sainly
from Government-imposed trade restrictions. Cyclical factors have
accounted to some extent for the recent decline in profitability; however,
structural impediments have been the main cause for the lackluster
performance of the agricultural sector. Over the last ten years, the
return on capital invested in the livestock sector has averaged 4% in real
terms.3/ After reaching about 6% in 1978/79, it fell to less than 1X in
1981/82, reflecting a combination of low productivity, overvaluation of the
local currency, somewhat lower international prices, and declining domestic
demand caused by the recession.
Actions taken
(a) Tariffs on Farm Inputs
60.       Starting in 1978, and as part of an announced liberalization
policy, the Government undertook a series of step-by-step reductions in
general import tariffs, the most recent of which was made in January 1983.
Tariffs on agricultural inputs, which had been as high as 50%, are now set
at 10%. A temporary 10Z surcharge on all itports was rescinded in late
1982. The Government stated in the DPS (annex IV, section I(B)(i)) that
tariffs on agricultural inputs will be kept to the existing minimum.
(b)  Ex!chage Rate
61.       The Government addressed the issue of overvaluation of the local
currency by floating the peso in November 1982, which produced an
imediste devaluation from about US$1:N$13 to over N$30 and correspondingly
raised export prices. At the same time, however, the Government imposed an
export tax whose rates ranged from 5% to 15% depending on the degree of
product processing, with highly processed products taxed at the lowest
rate. The tax was seen as an urgent revenue measure needed to achieve
compliance with the fiscal targets agreed under Uruguay's stand-by program
with the IMP. In the course of discussing the agricultural policy package
with the Bank, the Government became convinced of the negative effects of
the tax and, as a first step, reduced it from 15% to 10% in late 1983. As
a result of the above-measures and a mild recovery in international meat
prices in recent months, profitability in the livestock sector has already
improved; the rate of return on capital for 1983/84 is estimated at over
6Z, a level last reached during 1978/79.
(c) Import Bottlenecks
62.       Virtually all Imports of agricultural inputs enter Uruguay
through the port of Montevideo. Customs clearance has traditionally been
cumbersome, snd has involved long delays in releasing merchandise from the
port, leading in turn to higher prices and spot shortages. Procedures were
3/ The capital base used for the calculation Includes the value of land.



- 20 -
streamlined in 1982, and customs clearance does not take now more than an
acceptable seven to ten days. However, the effective limitation to
importing through Montevideo is costly to many producers. Furthermore,
there is considerable scope for simplifying import permits.
(d) Marketing and Price Control
63.       Early in 1983, the Government introduced two measures with
significant implications for the crop sector. First, it withdrew from
the wheat trade, where it had previously tried unsuccessfully to stabilize
prices by maintaining an intervention stock. Second, it replaced the
regulation which set a fixed price for bread with a formula based on the
cost of inputs plus a fixed profit margin for the bakeries. This procedure
has reduced potential distortions in prices and output.
Measures to be Taken
(a) Export Tax
64.       The export tax, which was imposed at the time of the 1982
devaluation, is estimated to have yielded receipts of some US$60 million in
1983. Nevertheless, it places a disproportionate burden on livestock
exporters and undermines the Government's own objective of increasing
export capacity. The Government is now ready to replace this tax with an
across-the-board tax on the gross or net revenues of all agricultural
producers. The Government stated in the DPS that it would exchange views
with the Bank on the implementation of this tax (annex IV, section II(B)
(i)).
65.       The removal of the export tax would eliminate the distortions
created by imbalances between export and domestic prices, improve the
competitiveness of exporters and eventually also raise domestic prices.
The measure is estimated to raise producers" net income by 28% (table 4),
and by about 15% after taking into account the effect of the likely
substitute tax. Exports are also expected to rise, but the increase cannot
be quantified. Furthermore, the new tax regime would provide for a more
equitable distribution of the tax load among crop and livestock producers
and among exporters and nonexporters. Finally, the elimination of the
export tax (except for a possible 2% tax which will be destined for use in
the agricultural sector through a fund expected to be managed by a body
incorporating sector and Government representatives) represents an
important signal to producers that the Government does not intend to
interfere in the setting of product prices; it should thus help to promote
a more stable investment climate in the sector, and with it, higher
investment and productivity. The Government is willing to take this step
despite the negative political implications of the expected rise in
domestic prices. During negotiations, agreement was reached with the
Government that, as a condition for loan effectiveness, the export tax
would be reduced to 5%, and that, as a condition for disbursement of the
second tranche of the loan, the tax would be reduced to 2% provided that a
mechanism has been adopted, to the satisfaction of the Bank, to ensure that
the tax proceeds are used within the agricultural sector or, alternatively,
that the tax would be eliminated (Section 5.01(a) of, and Schedule 4 to,
the draft Loan Agreement).



- 21 -
(b) Restrictions on Exports of Live Cattle
66.       In the past, the Government has often restricted live cattle
exports to protect domestic supply and limit increases in domestic beef
prices. These restrictions increased the oligopolistic power of domestic
meatpackers, subsidized domestic consumption and depressed ranchers'
incomes. Although live cattle exports have been legally authorized since
1981, the relevant legislation still gives the Minister of Agriculture the
discretionary power to intervene and restrict these exports, and actual
exports have been few. Action to limit this authority would be a further
signal to producers that the Government intends to allow market forces to
determine cattle prices. The Government stated in the DPS that it would
not restrict the export of live cattle, so long as total exports of cattle
do not exceed 10% of each category of the total steer slaughter stock and
half of the excess of existing stock over the average population of the
last ten years for female breeding stock. This benchmark, equivalent to
37% of total meat exports and 29% of local consumption, is considered
sufficient, under any reasonable scenario, to give livestock producers
adequate export opportunities.
(c) Restrictions on Imports of Agricultural Inputs
67.       The Government has already removed some non-tariff barriers
(para. 62). However, all present import documents have to be cleared in
Montevideo, which effectively rules out importing through other border
points. This results in added cost to thc price of agricultural inputs.
Therefore, during negotiations agreement was reached with the Government to
decentralize import licensing in order to allow clearance of imports of
agricultural inputs through three major border points: Rio Branco, on the
Braziliaa border, and Fray Bentos and Salto on the Argentine border
(Section 1.02 (h) of, and Schedule 4 to, the draft Loan Agreement). This
measure would reduce input prices by lowering transport and storage costs
(and possibly dealer markups). Depending on the final destination of a
product, it is estimated that input costs to farmers could be reduced by up
to 10%. In addition, there is scope for further simplifying the various
forms and licenses now required for import authorization. Therefore,
agreement was reached that the Government would, as a condition for
disbursement of the second tranche of the loan, put into effect the program
to simplify and streamline import procedures (schedule 4 to the draft Loan
Agreement and section II(B)(iv) of the DPS).
4. Improvements to the Institutional Support System
Actions Taken
68.       The Banco de la Republica (BROU) is the only effective source of
medium-and long-term agricultural credit, and accounts for almost a third
of total credit to the sector (table 4). It has been widely criticized for
imposing unduly restrictive lending criteria, which are by-and-large based
on pledgeable assets rather than on the economic and financial merits of
the project financed. Moreover, bureaucratic rigidities within BROU make



- 22 -
for exceedingly slow processing of loan applications, resulting in delays
or cencellation of investments. As a first step in streamlining BROU's
operations, the Government has recently replaced BROU's top management, and
nominated as director of its agricultural credit department a staff member
of Plan Agropecuario. The new management is technically competent and is
well attuned to the sector's financing needs.
Measures to be Taken
(a) Improvements to Banco de la Republica
69.       In view of the dominant position of BROU within Uruguay's credit
system and the caliber of its staff, the Government plans to work through
BROU in making further improvements in the credit system, including efforts
to orient the system more towards development financing. This probably
would necessitate some organizational changes as well as modification in
lending criteria and policies. A statement outlining BROU's development
credit policy objectives is included in the DPS. The Government and BROU
also support review by a consultant of international repute to determine
specific actions that may be required to achieve these aims. Agreement
was reached during negotiations on the terms of reference for a review of
(a) BROU's lending policies in the sector, and (b) its organizational
structure to handle medium and long-term development finance (annex V).
The signing of a contract with the consultant is a condition of
effectiveness for the proposed loan, and agreement on a plan of action
based on the consultant's finding and recommendations would be a condition
for disbursement of the second tranche of the loan (Section 5.01(b) of, and
Schedule 4(c) to, the draft Loan Agreement).
70.       Some improvements could be implemented immediately within BROU
without awaiting the consultant's review. These include: (a) permitting
the one-time approval of multi-year Plan Agropecuario credits, subject to
periodic revievs; (b) designating staff in each branch office to bandle
medium and long-term Plan Agropecuario credits; and (c) Publicizing the
lending circular ahead of the required period of fund utilization for the
specific agricultural activities. The Government stated in the DPS (secion
II(B)(v)) that BROU would introduce these changes by the end of 1984.
(b) FinancLng to the Meat Processing Industry
71.       In 1979-80, rising domestic beef prices led the Government to ban
exports in order to satisfy domestic demand; as a result, the finances of
the meatpacking industry deteriorated, and it was forced into excessive
short-term borrowing from BROU. To prevent overexposure, a decree was
legislated prohibiting BROU from further lending to the meatpackers for
investment purposes. In 1983, thanks to the very high levels of
slaughtering and export, most meat processors were able to pay off a large
proportion of their outstanding debt. Finally, the industry is operating
efficiently and, with additional investments, should be able to cope
adequately with the expected volume of exports. Its access to investment
credit is still legally restricted, however. The Government recognizes
that thiLs across-the-board restriction is no longer justified. Therefore,



agreement was reached during negotiations that, as a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan agreemnt, the legislation restricting
lending to the meat g industry  ould be re-voked (Section 5.01 (d) of
the draft Ioan Agreemnt).
tc) Scope of Plan Agropeeuarlo
72.       Plan Agropecuario (PLATN) was established as part of the Bank's
operations in the livestock sector. It helps farmers prepare long-term
investment plans, which serve as a basis for credit approved by PK=", and
It supervises the use of these credits. PLAN is unable to fulfill its
original objective, however, because its budget, which has not changed
since 1981, does not provide it with sufficient resources.
73.       Because PLAN is geared to technical assistance in the livestock
sector, the important crop sector is denied access to nedium- and long-term
credit. The expansion of PLAN's assistance to include all agricultural
producers is feasible and would enable more farmers to use both PLAN's
services and the medium and long-term credit lines available from BROU.
The expansion could be achieved within a short time and with only a small
increase in staff. Dmring negotiations, agreement was reached that, as a
condition of effectiveness, the Government would expand PLAN's termas of
reference to cover all agricultural producers and appropriate N$45 million
for 1984 and pressure the provision to PLAN of such N$45 million in 1984
and of NS60 million, in real 1984 prices, for subsequent fiscal years in
order to carry out its expanded terms of reference (Sections 5.01(c) and
3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
5. Rationalizaton of Regulatory Procedures
Actions Taken
74.       The National Meat Institute (INAC) was originally created to
promote Uruguayan livestock exports and to provide sanitary and quality
control of the meatpacking industry. However, the expansion of its
functions over the past two decades bas led to over-regulation of the beef
marketing system to the detriment of producers and seat processors. For
example, it has fixed minimum export prices without proper coordination
with exporters, exercised tight control over meatpacking operations and
investment, and entered into some export contracts which have resulted in
losses to meatpackers. The Government has prepared draft by-laws intended
to achieve closer cooperation with the private sector through larger
representation of producers and meatpackers on INAC's Board.
75.       The Government is planning to reduce substantially the functions
of the Commission on Supply Administration (CADA). This agency, which was
responsible for administering an intervention stock of beef for the
domestic market and ensuring supply to public sector agencies, was
frequently accused of incompetence by livestock producers and meatpackers.



- 24 -
Measures to be Taken by the Government
(a) INAC's Operation
76.       The Government intends to consolidate the functions of INAC and
CADA within INAC with a view to allowing a freer play of market forces
compatible with the sustained development of the livestock sector. To this
effect, agreement was reached with the Government to employ consultants
according to terms of reference acceptable to the Bank (annex VI) to
investigate all regulatory powers of INAC and CADA and examine the
feasibility of merging such powers within INAC and of reducing such powers
to export promotion, quality and sanitary control, and negotiations of
Government-to-Government export contracts. The hiring of the consultants
is a condition of effectiveness for the proposed loan and agreement on a
plan of action based on their findings and recommendations would be a
condition for disbursement of the second tranche (section 5.01(b), and
schedule 4(c) to, the draft Loan Agreement).
(b) Allocation of Export Contracts Among Meatpackers
77.       Given the oligopolistic nature of the meat-packing industry, and
the likelihood of price collusion among meatpackers, IlAC allocates
government-to-government export contracts according to a general formula
which assigns weights to each packer's performance over the past three
years in terms of total quantity of beef exported, quality of boneless beef
exported, and plant capacity. Although the formula does not take directly
into consideration measures of efficiency, it makes a reasonable attempt to
ueasure performance-, and has not resulted in excessive profits to the
meatpackers. At the discretion of INAC, a proportion (about 15Z in 1983)
of total contract volume is allocated to producers' cooperatives. This
provision, together with the permit for live cattle exports, puts
considerable competitive p-ressure on the established meatpackers.
Increasing efficiency could be further promoted by expanding the general
formula to include measures of operating cost zs an additional parameter,
or by introducing some form of competitive bidding. The current export
contract allocation formula, and proposals for i.s improvement or
replacement by alternative approaches such as open bidding, would be
analyzed as part of the proposed INAC Study (annex VI).
Loan Tranching, Procurement, and Use of Domestic Currency Equivalent
78.       The loan would be released in two tranches, the first (up to the
equivalent of US$30 million) will be released after the loan becomes
effective and the second after compliance with the conditions for release
of the second tranche, and provided the Bank is satisfied with the progress
achieved in carrying out the actions and policies and attaining the
objectives included in the DPS.   A summary of the conditions for release
of each tranche is provided in Annex III. The second tranche is expected
to be disbursed between six and nine months after the release of the first



- 25 -
tranche; most likely, this would take place after the new Government has
assumed power in March 1985. The loan proceeds would be disbursed agalnst
recelpts for general imports subject to the guidelines and restrictions
contained in Schedules 1 and 3 to the draft Loan Agreement. Contracts for
the procurement of goods, other than petroleum and petroleum products,
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$5 million or more each shall be
awarded through international competitive bidding (Schedule 4 to draft Loan
Agreement). All records and accounts related to expenditures financed
under the loan wiU be audited, and such audits will be submitted to the
bank not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year (Schedule
3.05 of draft Loan Agreement).
79.       The domestic currency equivalent of the loan would be used for
general revenue purposes. The Government is currently facing a severe
fiscal financing gap; although the public sector deficit was reduced from
over 19% to about 10% of GDP in 1983, additional measures to raise revenues
and reduce expenditures would be required in 1984 in order to meet fiscal
targets (see Part I). The proposed loan would materially ease the severity
of the adjustment and reduce the political risks associated with the
stabilization program. The local currency equivalent of the loan could
narrow the financing gap by anywhere from 0.6% to 0.9% of projected GDP.
Seen from a different angle, the loan would also help bridge the gap
created by the elimination of the export tax, as revenues from the
alternative tax (para. 64) are likely to lag in the first year or two
because of administrative difficulties in implementing it.
Benefits and Risks
80.       The policy package which is supported by the proposed project
would benefit livestock and other agricultural producers. The substitution
of the export tax, the removal of the restrictions on live cattle exports,
and the easing of regulations on imports, would eliminate the distortion
between export and local prices, and increa-e exports, domestic prices, and
livestock producers' income. As a result, nvestment and productivity are
likely to increase. To facilitate increased investment, the policy package
provides institutional support through expanded technical assistance by
Plan Agropecuario and through improved credit facilities within BROU.
Finally, the changes in INAC's operation and decision-making process would
benefit both the livestock producers and the meatpacking industry.
81.       There are two main risks associated with the project:
(a) A further deterioration in cattle prices would reduce
the positive impact of the policy package in terms of
incentives for higher levels of investment, productivity and
exports. This risk, however, is considered small given the
current stage in the domestic beef cycle, and the recovery
in the developed countries which should increase demand for
beef products.



- 26 -
(b) A new Government is scheduled to assume power in Uruguay in March
1985, and there are no assurances that it would continue the process of
economic liberalization. Initial contacts with both major parties which
vould cozpete in the elections suggest that the risk of major reversals of
policy is small. In addition, the proposed policy package provides a
balance between actions required immediately and those likely to be
discussed with, and implemented by, the new Government.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMES AND AUTHORITY
82.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republica Oririental del
Uruguay and the Bank and the report of the Committee provided by in Article
III, Section 4(iii) of the Bank's Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special conditions of
the loan are listed in Section III of Annex III.
83.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - REC   DAfON
84.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
August 1, 1984
Washington, D.C.



- 27 -
AN= I
TAIL!  3L
UWGOA!          - SOCW. 2=TATMS DATA UZ
Wsr                     (Pon It,s: *cmQTVEZ) Sl b
R                MN        ST 3Y 00IATX-c
.AW clvn s.. no
TOri.                             176.2      176.2      176.2 
AQRZM.:S                          156.3      156.6      157.3                .
__  mz C&M CM )                      no.o  ztoic.         2920.0            20z 2                    Z453.6
(KrLOCAS Or COAL EOULESIT)    1020.0    11U.0         1160.0            1407.6                   1510_.
YOmA!. AM urn SU?fl!.3
POPM3.ATI0V.MM4EAR Cr(M AS)   2538.0        230L0       29.o                 .
GuF 10rCaTri C( or TOTAL)          30.1       82.1       8.2               65.9                     47.8
POPATM           r
POPULATZOUN LTAX 2000 CMILi)                            3.5
SITIW     PWrCtAOE CHILL)                               5.0
TAR SDTAT103nT 10. roAr.                               2075
IOPCLAT?UI umrT
peg SQ. at.                      14.6       15.9       16.5              35.S                       .0
pu SQ. RI. AO1_ LU               16.2     '11.1        16L5              93.2                    157.2
POPILATINW -c sarYCTUZ CZ)
0-14 IRS                        28.5       23.2       27.2               60.!    -               31.9
15-6 inS                         63.9       63.2       62.6              SiB                      60.5
65 AND ANNE                       7.6        3.5       10.2               4.1                      7.2
POPULATION CEWZ RATE (I.)
ToTE                              1.3        1.0        O.6/C             2.3                      1.6
uRJAJ                             1.5        1.3        0.6               3.7                      3.4
Curc uMli rATE (PER TWOUm)        21.9        20.3       19.9              31.5                     25.0
c-ruE DATH RATE (MM I6W)           9.8         9.8        9.6               8.1                      9.1
ROSS RAtutoCSWII RATE               1.4        1.4        1.4               2.0                      1.7
FAIiILT PLIN
AcCorT0S. AXWA. C.1                ..-
m= OF VOW r20D. Rcr CAPITA
1969-71100)                       96.0       107.0      116.0             113.0                    106.4
MR cAPTrA SURLt 0?
CA.ORTS cZ 0r   S1RJt%sEM)      lt2.0      114.0      110.0             111.3                    129.6
PROtrZDS (CRAS PE DAY)           92.0       93.0       91.0              67.9                     92.3
or WiIT  AmiN. N aD 1=S         62.0       60.0        56.0/d           34.1                     36.6
ILD (CES 1-4) DOEIR RAUT           3.0         2.6        1.7               5.3                     10.4
LIFE EXCT. AT S1ITR ClEr S)        67.8       68.7       71.               64.6                     67.2
[WANT.'DRT. RATE (Pu      )       50.5        46.7        8.A             6CM.6                     71.4
ACsS TO SAFE HAIEt (0PaP)
ZOTIL                             ..          ..       u.0/.             64.
0RB                               ..          ..       §i.d7;*           77.8
RURAL                              ..         ..       41.07;            64.3
ACCESS TO £03ET DISPOSA.
CZ or PoPMnO 0>
TOTAL                              ..       U.0        92.0/.            54.6
A1                                 ..       97.0       94.o07            69.8
RRAL                               ..       13.0       76.07;            29.3
11PULATZOU P  PH!5[CW            960.0/f    910.0       S40.O            1776.0                   109o.S
PO. PER  RSISC PERSOS             ioo.d7l    71O.0R     190.0            1012.2                    762.5
PM. Pu HOSMALE0
TOTAL                          1I0.0       170.0      t70.0             47.o                     134.0
13A                                ..         ..         ..             667.5                    216.0
MURAl.                             ..         ..         ..             1921.6
6Un1s0ss Pu 3s1L NM                  ..         ..       13.0/h            2:.2                    20.0
AElUE S7Z1! OP NO(SVD
TOTAL                             3.811       ..        3.6.
URBAN                              . -..                3.67;.
RUA                                ..         ..        '.@7;              ..
AVeZAC NO. GP PEMSOUSIROM
TOrAL                             1.5ft       ..        2.t/.
U236                              ..      - ..          2.17w ..
RUAL                               ..         ..        2.17;
ACCeS 7T rLT. (t ar DU.LIMCS)
TOTAL                            78.0/1       .. 10.7/.
LI"                              se.o7i       ..       39.27.                      
URAL                             29.07Tr      ..       27.87.



- 28 -
ANNEX I
T-A Z t     3a                            Page 2  oi y
MCUWA!                - SOCIAL IXDDAS  TAML
unaGWI                             RZEEC  G 15P (W1          AVK3AGU) re
Hn"?                    (97ST N5W  ES?IAM* lb
RIC3r            KID=  rS              ?U   1wIZ
1950t      197ot ;EwAI5L        LAT. MUZICA G CAll            WUal
ADJISTED ENRCLiJET RATIOS
PRLWtAN:  TOL                   111.0      113.0       105.0             105.0                   102_2
KALE                 111.0      1t1.0       107.0             106.3                    107.2
&EL                  t111.0     109.0      106.0             103.6                     97.9
SECrY: TOT.L                     37.0       59.0       60.0              40.0                     56.5
WALE                  35.0        53.0       S60               38.6                     63.4
FEALE                 33.0        65.0       65.0              4t.2                     48.9
VOCATIONAL C OF SEC!WDAa)          22.5       20.6       25.31             34.0                     22.4
PUP.-TEACE  RATIO
PRIMARY                          33.0       29.0       22.0               30.7                    24.7
SECONDAZY                        13.0         ..          ..              16.7                    22.1
ADC.L LTERACa RATE Ct)               ..       9t.0       94.0/1             79.5                    69.7
wrza
PASSEYM  CARSITOMOSAD POP          39.3       43.1       75.6              45.6                     52.9
R0A0 REEITERS/TUOUSASD POP        315_2      356.1      560.5             22JL2                    165.5
;V  ECEIVtRS MOsSASD POP            9.9       91.9      124.8             10.L3                    124.2
DISPADM VDALY   LENPL
LM,ERES) CZRCULATIOS
PFR TI0CS2A POPM.AT10%           207.8ff    140.0       224.1/*            64.1                    96.3
C.-WUA AINUAL AITE5DAJCECAPTTA      97-t        ..        2.2-               2.9                     2.9
LABO,W n
TOAIL LADONt VOCE C200S)         1.017.C    1098.0      1123.0
PDtALE (PERCENT)                 24.3       27..       29.9               24.8                    31.5
AMICULrURE (PENCECr)             20-6       15.2        10.8              31.3                    40.7
t  STRY (PERCENT)                29.5       3L.2       32.4              23.9                     23.4
PARTICIPATIOI RATE (PESCEM
M.-AL                            40.1       39.1        38.              31.3                     *Z.O
P-AtY                            60.5       57.1        54.7              49.8                    55.2
ThJLE                            19.5       21.3        n2s               14.8                    29.1
f100IMIC DEPENDEIXY RATIO           0.9        0.9        1_0               1.4                      0.9
INESIK DISUI3BUlOU
PERcErT oF PRIVATE r
RCEIVE BY
H IOIEST X2 OF HOCSEHOOS           -        x7.oh.    19-5/.
HICFST 20: or HORSEHODS                    43.4.1     46.4/__
LWEST S2: OF HOUsERLDS             .         6.          5.67.
LUXIsr &(M or 0ousaE1 S            -        16. 5       I .-  16 27__
ESTW.ATED ABSO.urE PoVET  iNcGIE
EYEL (CUSS PER CAPITA)
IRBA                               _          . .         ._             28.8 
ROUL.                              . _   .     _.        ..              16. 5..
ESTDLATtD RELATIVE POVERTY INCCmE
LETEL (LSS PER CAPITA)
LIAN                                          ..       697.0             519.8                       -
RURAL                                          .        97.0            372.1                    409.0
ESrIATED POP. BELMR AISU.CSE
PO.ERTY rICOIE LEVML C:)
RURAL                              ..         ..          ..               __                       __
.NOT AVAI.A-R.E
NT APPL ICA8LE
Ia  -he group averages for each indleator are populatton-welthted arttmtltc _mans  Coverqe of castrise mon the
trldlcators depends on uvsllablIhty of data and is not ttEors.
lb Unless otherwtse noted. -ata for 1960- refer to any year between 1959 ad 1961; DDat for 1970 betw_ 1969 aSn
1971: and data for Most Rcrent Entiitee between 1979 *od 1931.
Jc Due to lawlgr-aton. popularton growth race Is lor than rate of natural Incrse. /d 1977; le 1975; If 1962;
1 1972; /h 1976; ft 1963; L 1978; 1k 1958; /1 1967-68 data; In cbne.ldso reglon. saIried perems osly.
my 1983



SAil £55                                                                                                     m11olvp.m1  ml1W`Ils   - 5..l
u,-3u0iq -lx[.smsi p-  .r.dlom  -TouI                                                     ago J - -  - a .. i£io mamnm  AO Aimd-am   VWss£lo  -'
*101558 *inC 7.iin I- 5i-51U                                                         J5 * aeSma. 15511   4315'to  IF.7   lo. oola.iI..- a)3 -OK-  A-
tolodI1 op.58n       1i5      aI3loam. ,5£4  P loffio         -    -!
F-   --  I, --   V-10 ol-f I.            or tam-ma au        - a-   P
C                      -amo-om ou  "Ns 41001 I.£4II  -p"2       *A Vij     - bq*, -,  .e4
t   a -s sos '1- PS- 5-..  -.7PI  ft. ss.as o-o Sme   .                       .  a.mi   4 -sAm   iP .2ma  mm pm. sq  *m
--      I4   5.     4  '. .- *-l-a   J-I5   -mimii  PSi55                         m  So    enagd .qnamts.ip ............M               La -  -
T.*4 .    ps5.V5 -Ss             3,mslp,           3s                 .As   5               nFlnsaSi iilS    s T".  ae 
5~A  45 -a    iCP S   S"-    :55.   .j  -               ems                         5    -nsis   .sam t.i np                  ensa  - s-tZ  F  "o"-
*.i£4s  d *S,.s i -oP  &Su; .  . s~ ~-I. Al.msi m~Iof.j I'mosin  Pop*.- oftoval   n ft"impij   m-4a£5nPS lj-
- le- P    *4~~- (*Iiin   P tc) 1-i   t.s.j    miap.ls                                   -.I..             Sss  .m4.s      mfls  ateI     lima-
p-                                  -W-1                               lkw~~~pin,54   a..    ~ftl .TS.-A    43-o osmao. en  4-ni   *ss,s. .1m  A. Sm-
7..i*sI   55 -5om,~    .5n   mi'45   5i4                                                              liii PS cii oft  P. .a41    iPS.tAitm5                L
- *~is,m ..4a r- _=   s          ks i-si Ma-i Sui.m   5,mm..mi- e.en  P jloop Tumet                                        --(aa)m    .64Is   mI
idma    P. AAmAsi
5  .    to RF-.tSt - ph    S%S5  .3314ams   7.5- .in.a                                   nt-op~Ia Out                 S.4 voo  ma .5-141   mani cmIi- Noma
-    -s-d -T-d ..Cr.1- P--- -  ofti  I-am  ZZ*vPSooeus  -                     iP -a'.mai -mp  -ft vS-o itme     at imw  mi*.  aI -a -
Jm.-   .i    5.4mmmmeZo- maS   5.s~*i a   5                                                      .ims.e   -J.M --imin  p
-    'a3  .q -ama enJ. ip            - ........    £3-l- a,i Po                           a mePSP of  g    V£4    immi~   J.  -isa.3011 aPlnA.11s
aaA~   ila 105) i  -.-Jm  - PS  J.                                                     las .ui.mi  . ... 4im                      MS.."ai *-SIiti  SI.m Al-
moo;.1sa    'A.s . *-,a j  *15:s, p. iaa  . -                                        mm a.a- .a..  as ims-V-  J loo p .W-  M *.s.rca As.mlmm£h mo        Pml
enainAa... oImlm 3          m;       -                                       P     45       i ibueawl.M  --o v-4 WIftl-4  dPsi mn. 4aP- -
- .I.A-.    "u I ilis ..i.p..T.*"£                                                 -I*4im    n55P                0 -5iA       nTa- -imps.  -A-
imA --n*-.   3pSP *m.            ms3- pa2e as                                     AP-   oa £Aimooa e.li.atds 76-o P                5  p  mi.-i. P.s.
5.*  S5IpP'lsA   s V.T-.    -fl   EP                     ---cfta  P .mip.-~Am5                                                 u     -i-a                 Io--4.  m  p
P.~ ~ ~ ~     ~       ~      ~     ~     ~    ~     ~ ~~li PPS           IAf *SLi  %4tiI *.Nx  "4 -   Namu(J.      tsmluo - -G
.- *mai 455  l"Ps i. s.-.ift ii JI -A.Ii.%-   a                     na-5F-               -somPi   *PSllItmoa Pp   7     iuPP*
p.4pt )Iisi    1ca- .l4.4...Ali.sA  r...  s;d5sA                              .)S)Aa  .             i:-s-s, .--2a            4.p44m-a...
- r-.-s..-e..  .n... ..3.   ,a.t-ejs~~~~~ a~.4-a                               l J.  --  --a    -I-Upa. -its
as 1.-S-.-  ~.g-   - --1 ....a  -A euia-W loi.As                       .1    ..mi- -T-   T       m-Fsa. s  s.5   .44.C -            -mss o Jot
*J 3*lS   n  .A.a .5-- I Iein p.A   fmma5                                                                                                    d.a
S.)  514.Sa P  As 5~5   A   -  t)5  eea."*'S                                 Nsame  pf6 'SaS   "a X-  -.i    -e -ol-1 AiuT-    mi3i1 -lm
p. PA      5.SieAlai.5 n.e.~mc  . PS                                         SIAT-fl-ft -a-SJash!                PI-silt
.IP.    --a i-.m    .smi5-   .s).iapaPe..                   .Ia  75                       5i515    m.sd in..i            'ft"a ji  pi- -ck6  -o
ol uwt s: PSM *oa t# C.. lii51P. A.s5
p- P~  .") -atfo oawarl     16-1 --a I a II" v                ots     S.-a loso   quoait  melw ia    - I F-555I'   "B's M.-    WOU1
*I..  ip      a13-OsI loo  S10i  S.-Oi .=  :=mi  P.
ZA*S 1415  o'oouoa             toAPS~  pisitS  757  4e.P    S£5.                     -M   " set.    -Ift. ..sna  70t   - tou.3 - CZ mm..  a~.            uztSiAft
I    -i 5   SP31  -         -p- p.  PIi'-5.4aP-icapIi   S~505    n5i
.mmi..siI..pe3J   Vpinum.            £Js                       --4iPmt A. ..tm...d -                                 s Seao(op.iCe    1m_A5.
-am.   55 ll..msaa.   .i-,5liiP                            l-i *kfi.tml                      'C.-*(4i  97.03 n.ei5  - C3sm.Saj ...... .6   nisis
n.. -la zlti -.5  - f..ee          u,       SsaaaiaP    S                                                                         5It 051li.
P-i--  AiiAn                            S   .mi-4m45             -  Pl-op        -; p1 _   %.Si.e   .54  -m 
4.   aiAA .I tsis,                              -vm   .   asa   t~ es-id   P- (s.CC. sOGn  4.10-SW S   J" .esl.al-                ___". ______,
£m-a   'sas. -P. . sj  n55  semI   *1 J. a-                                                                                mS.  11 
5544  Ttn-lI    a m-    5   4  ?                .~LIsi -Sa.                                       .47&  -  -A   I  1WW. A-n5S  C
-7.  T    A5i4 AF-Sidi- Ais.smeiami -a               .a   £.amiaA --                .aamaoe Pala            -;  UM  --a -0  p- Zs.          -%  J-. np..-
-7eIT~  pd -5.OaA-  ..1'a- --n  l       ~w        om-s.   a A..-I" .An£PnP55                                  £il  Ii.)) immiosuo    o ma..  a-t
_I   e P   .* -.-d  ama-?            - i.AP.1   -~s I"   a A.     a ..S    eC .1s Aa anoois sin p  -.i                               -5m -on        nt.
-T-a  7-.   -  Ws P3                                                        Z~~~~~~~~5.  4.iovofts.   ma.- a. a-o i-h     la- m-  a.si
-27~~~~~                saP api se AP it.aV- £ams-VWa. a-    -             lap.is    5   1
a..sna     .atam   PAsi*-l  isSs..t SI. PuI¶ 7.ml.ipi             l.   a.    -   ili. v-   _   Zo    Lam - voi  -_  -ap bimald
ja..ss.~ ..nsaa    .4 en   aem- J I.s u..e  -    I.n..  JmC *.  a.    nm..m, sum a. £ns. L.17x-  J sun.  .n
in  'ine' ie.  A. ns    sa    . .-         5aPPl1.                                 ..s.e - Snea 9v-z A.313ama   .3,4.Caov .pm
a.iSi 4.-ee.  p  -ism  .m 4141  S  ~      i55 PnS   --   iPi4.. i  mjeiL radims  - as ouo         i -i
.......  of                                           vo~~t.ts~  i..  aZiT     p  W. v-   im- `o AmL) ia-    C
-T-.  (17~j ~ ~          m-  5~5  'ol  i% =       .   =-Ul.S15   S0i   55I  ip~  -"PM   Sul  a   -ow                                             1- 
- S* I...dP   ?e4.tsimiai_ a  asat d'iqi S                                    r.lmAs    .at.   a                           511mi PSco  
7.3in   i  PS  nci-WA   £4         9    .ok-931  -*4Z-- £ ms  issie                  iinl-                    - *aa-   nai -abo     - PW)a  ali-inSf to-
151pm£_     ma   smesise-       -             --u "',,d     -s.ic   ""'aus. "Oi`sSe-ail  .l'mqlost4 P53S SaSSi
-iSSi ntindoa - 7mos-en v--        -sPine ~Sov    sw    3-wS                               -du-ui---o-o-                          iod ni       .l.i5  *S  PSI. PS Gill
-wn           1-           I A! W~~-a.    i    "I  .isIm-s   .£I.    .mP5Imt3I  s.S
*in.7 L.IsAs.Im 55 5saaoa ~ *                                          fl-iUrnsAzz iS       --Pma  F-si biIjm loo   5-5   s-ol-
So  liSaAP -P  £4 F--ptZ.-                           fSuom- o    A                                           v-pm1   slisa-.Iei£5        -a-.  nps)
PSia-    5   m    .I   le *I5  SASPt  £43 ima-Af. p  1555PWSin .               555l5  i5st- 9-sMl soo o           P S1 fs.ia    "oociliaS FPl
*55  Pis3- a  p3 £eis(  sin 3faimg o-.e   -So.esm   a-S II..         Mt.& lAdo 41   pcP1a- nIec%As  .4."Noa...ols" a. a.      Asses -as swa. .1  octlSu
Sq       se  a-s.1 s   i  ama   Psass  aS4   ~       455 im =C Ia-ft5 l((         S4.i  o5.m- a- P imP omm -P9  a) (Uo  3 -                    u a-s.  -a~
-%3 J. .2-4-   1-        --3l   si    l sams-_asClp asP- . a-m  aiaet oiosa.  ,n .-we in-mm11 ouoPo    -P .a.e  a)ammsj
a  seam    Aiam -fta.           .--  Aoft  -%-  s. p. al-O  -Aiuo ne £                fiamaF-!  JSmIi. "p  APM-Pn5     a-? Ca. p sm"Ai  .75C
I  ~~~~~~~~~~~                                                    -          --i-l-a--m  ot-



- 30-                                                            AXM= I
Page  ofe 5
RUEP(1lC VIRPIUC   DATA
(Amots in .illlo. of US dollars)
Actual          ratiltd    Prolce           Avere Ansua Crowth Rare  11  Ae Percent of e301
1979     1981     1982    -93        1984     1987   1975-79  1979-3  1913-t1       1979   1983    1917
lATIOWAL ACCOWT                                   Az 1978 P       rc   &, EI7hAmee  teta
Crss Dometlc Products                   5.419    5.738    5.D39    4A937    5.190    5.690       4.1   -2.1       3.4        100.1  103.6  102.0
Colin  from _rsr. of Trade C.)             -7     -13      -166      -174     -150    -110        .       .        .         -0.1  -3.6   -2.0
Crass Dontic Incw           o           5.41 2   TX5T   35,o5f5 I               W               7;         5      .8 I-2.9  100.0IC00  100.0
IVPport (Inc. IFS)                      1.263    1.373    1.184       9UI   1.010    1.;00       9.6   -6.0       2.7        23.3  20.5   19.7
Eporrs f      -_ )(Copmciet  to Import)    966     91       797       886      935    I.[0       9.6   -2.1       6.7         17.8  18.4    20.6
Resource cap                              297      382      387       102       75      --0      9.6  -23.         .           5.5   2.1   -0.9
Consumption Expenditurs                 4,697    5.083    4.717     4.394    4.490    4.8aO      2.2   -1.7       2.7        86.A  91.3   87.5
bnveanat Expendieure Clcd. Stocks)  1.012          954      763       521      625      650     19.0  -15.3       5.7        18.7  10.8   11.6
Daoestic Savings                          715      572      356       419      550      700     31.5  -12.5       13.6        13.2    8.7    12.5
watitoul  Savings                         674      527      217       169      250       00     46.6  -29.2      24.0         12.5   3.5     7.2
MERCRAu SE TRADE                                    Annmal Data at Current Pic.o                                         Am S of Total Merchandise
Zipediture
Capital Goods                           174      243      154        76       o0      110     32.3  -18.7       9.7         14.4  10.8    11.3
Intermediate Goads (Excl. Fuel.)       564       658      434       313      35)      480     22.1  -17.1      11.3        55.0  44.3   49.5
Pmela 4 Related 'lterials               290      483      420       273      210      330     13.8   -1.5       4.9        24.0  38.7   34.0
Cooa.mtion Coods                         79      257      102                 S 0     50    45.6  -13.6        3.2         6.6   6.2       5.2
Total  erch.Iaprt  (cif)              TT    1,641    1.110          706      760      9T      21.9    12.5      8.3        100.0  1000   100.0
Exports
Primary Product. (Cel. Pues)            416      843      726       723      736    1.079      9.7    14.8     10.5        52.8  68.4   66.6
-4anufactured Goods                     372      372      297       334      389      541    33.6   -2.7       12.8        47.2   31.6   33.A
Total Herch. Ezports (fob)              7e8    t.215    1.023     1,057    1.182    1,620     19.7     7.6     11.3        100.0  100.0  100.0
TourlSa                                 268      146      106        90      130      125    28.6  -23.9        8.6        34.0    8.5     7.7
Merchandlse Trad- Indleae
Export Price Index                      125.1    143.6   127.4      122.8    127.3    157.0   9.7   -0.5        6.3
import Price Index                      126.9   155.5   153.9       146.9    154.2    175.2   7.3      3.7      4.5
Term  of Trade  ne                       99.3    92.3    32.8        83.6     32.6    a9.6    2.3   -4.2        1.7
Export Voluwe Index                      94.8    115.5   111.2      116.3    125.4   139J1   9.1       5.2      4.7
VALtE ADD  BT -SECTR                      Annual Data at 1979 Prices and Exchange Ratas                                       Aa Z of of Total
Agrlculture and Fishing                   *4       568      529       516      530      600    -0.6      1.6      3.7         10.5  12.2    12.4
Induacry and Con-tructito               1.423    1,416    1,185     1.061   ;.100    1,280       6.6   -7.1       4.7        30.9  25.0   26.5
Services                                2.69    2.898    2 743     2.667    2.720    2.950      3.9    -.3       2.0        58.6  62.8   61.1
Total CDP (At Factor Cost)              4.606    4,882    4  S      4.244    4.350    4.830      4.1   -2.0       3.3       100.0 17-00.   100.0
PUBLIC FrSA    (In Constat USS)                                                                                                  A S of CGD
teoral _Goverment)
Carran  Receipts                      1.136    1.222    1.038       956    1.020    1,230      9.6   -4.2       6.5        21.0  19.2   21.6
Cirreut Expe-nditure.                   975    3 15     1 311  1.009    1 090    1 140         2.7     0.9      3.1        18.0  20.2   20.0
badRatary  avtnX                        161        ^    ±7J 90                                  .       .        . 3.0    =2                1.6
Otber Current PubUc Sector              101      123                 34       30      110      ..   -23.8      34.1         1.9   0.7      1.9
Publlc Sector nveant                    271      323      266       183      210      260    20.5   -9.3        9.2         5.0   3.7      4.5
SZLECD  IKDICEA3OS                     1960-65     1965-70     1970-75     1975-80
(Calculated fros 3-S.r averaged date)
AveraW  ICDW                             17.01        4.56       15.49        3.43
laport Elasticity                        -7.25        6.19        1.51        3.92
Marginl Doastic s5vig  Rat*               1.50       -0.46        1.11        0.30
-arginal National Saving  Ratc            1.40       -0.49        0.93        0.26
Total Labor Porce                  Value Addd Par Worker (1975  rceo 4 ECc. Rates)
LAM  FORE  AND  UrFU7T  U 'WORKUR        In Mlli5ons      : of Total    Crowth Rates    In UTS Dellas    Pc  ot    A   Ep         Growth Rate
T953  19h       75T9Y3  1        1975   93-75    -Ir-3   1r5         19       1;5975      193-1975
Agriculture                              0.18  0.21      17.9   19.8        1.3            2.366  1.762       0.79     0.60          -2.2
Industry                                 0.26  0.31      25.7  29.0         1.5            3.519  3.439       1.13     1.16          -0.2
Service                                  0.56  0.55      56.4  51.2        -0.2            2 932  3 143       0.98     1.06           0.6
Total                                    1.00  T 5T     100.0  100.0         .                                   eW 1.0DO             4-.
not applicable.             - nih  or negllgble.
not avaIl-ble.             -les than bhaf the smallest unit shown.
I/  Cbomod a1nal growth rates.                                                                    July 1984



- 31 -
MIM I
SUANIZ OF PAT18. STUVIAL ASSISTANC  AND car
Cansuate in nSlUu. or U.S. dolUar at currsct prices)
AV-   rlUS
Actual               rcisCated                  lected                Crewth Rate.
1979      19810      1981   -  1982   -rr3          1        1965      19 397             1933-1987
53D166  UALACE OF PAWrs
Exports Clue!. M,5)              1.198.4   1.526.0   1.666.5   1.322.4  1.312.1   1.450.0  1.590.0  1.790.0  2.010.0           11.3
T_  (SwI. WS)            I 3504.    2 143.7    2 072_5    1 571.3   1 074.7   1.150.0   1.250.0   1380.0   1.530.0     9.2
1W1                3n6 4    is         406D       -2 9  J    237.4     3000    'U0.O   *ILOJ7   '40.0
V etor a viceB (oat)              -57.a    -100.4       -73.6    -167.6   -317.J    -30.0    435.0   -510.0   -4OA.           30.9
Private tyrme_fr (nt)               7.1        '.7        9.7       10.A     11.0       11.0     I3.0      11.0.    11.0        -
Balance on curr-at aecount        357.1    -709.4    -470.1    -426.1  -69.4          -79.0    .34.0    -49.0        11.0
Ptiwat dIrece Invut_st             215.d     268.9      4*.3      -13.2    -15.0        50.0     5OX       60.0      60.0
Offidal capcal grst                 6.5        6.5        7.1       7.0       7.0       7.0       7.5       7.0       7.0      -
Pblc "LT lame
Diabursensut                     191.7     293.0      296.6      469.7    500.4      340.0    500.0 5O0.0    550.0           2.4
leuneseet                         54.d      93.0       60.6       70.A      8.0      200.0    425.0    450.0    690.0       51.1
Net D-lurb                         IJ6       2nt.0 3T.9    0       W.1      V iw:- 1T46          75.0      90.05    60.0   --.0
Other capital 1/                   60.5      395.4      166.4    -766.5   -65.3    -200.0   -100.0    100.0    200.0
Qbm  In reerve   -- nc         )2  -62.6    -131.4      -11.9     7Y9.5    136.3        12.0     52.0   -168.0   -338.0
Actual
US? AND OVgr 3VCE              1979    190      1961    1932      1983
Public debt out. G dlabarsd  933.2  1.127.7  1,369.0  1,738.3  2,560.1
C*ANS at LOAN COMMENTS                                                         Snter_st on pubtlc debt     70.6    104.5    126.1    155.8    198.3
Eapayneuta an puiblic debt   54.8    93.0      60.6      70.4     94.0
1979    1960    1931    1982   1963             Total publie debt service  125.4    197.5    1660.    226.2    292.4
Public IAS lobe
13311                        50.5    76.0    70.0       -      45.0
Ds                            -        -        -       -       -
Othsr _ltilataral            35.5    30.2   103.0       -       10.0       Burden a  spect _ eoimign
- s-                           -     92.5    10.7    14.8        4.7
Suu,lser                      2.4     3.0      5.0      3.0    10.7          Publc If. debc servic       10.Z5     1.9    I.t        17.1      22.3
Fin5cial lStntutine         130.6   141.9   IS7.6   322.0   430.7
souda                          -       -      50.0   100.0      -            Total pbilic debt service 210.5       12.9     11.1      52.5      59.3
Public lass n.ie.
Torta PWblIS MLI lbane      211.9      .4   3r        -4I    50i.3          A1 rae ers_ of public debt
Actual Dbt Ostanding oe Dac. 11. 1963             blt. _   prior year DOD    6.9    11.2         11-0      11.5      11.0
rUEIA  am D3S3                                         Pe rcent                Aort. eA S prior year DOW   6.9    10.0        5.4      39.      22.9
WoRd fla                    -      1.9                  3
IDA                                                    I-RD debt oat. & diebursed
Otr"r sbtluaerel                 122.1                  *4                     as _   public debt 0M      7.9      6.4      5.2       3.7       3.5
Cevarmute                        168.1                  6.5          S         a   Public debt service   11.3      6.6      6.4       1.9       2.8
Suppliers                         30.4                  1.2
PimScel Iotiturf.             I 57.8                 72.6
lOu                              239.6                 11.3
Puble debts i.a.                   -                     -
Total pulSic NIL? d bt              9
not pllicable                        a *tuff ratuete
.oc aalale                           - anl or naegluble
nMt avilale separately              -1 es ten  af the
but incind in tateal amalt show
1/   icldi  errors aNd oaniSen.
21  Sefore adSmatimste fo  vauation of rea rvs.
31  As a abre of elpwtt of Rlode and sos-factor survice.
41 InYcludn  interet  md mortatio on short-tar debt.                                                                                         198



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN URUGUAY
A. Statesent of Bank loans (as of March 31. 1984)
CUSS million)
Amount
loan                                                    (Less cncellations)
No.    Year  Borrower                Pupse              Bank   Undisbur8ed
Loans fully disbursed                                   192.7
1594    1978  Rep. Oriental   Vocational Training
del Uruguay     and Technological
Development              9.7      9.5
1689    1979  Rep. Oriental   Second Highway
del Uruguay                   .          26.5     11.1
1779    1979  Aduinistracion  Fifth Power
National de
Usinas y
Transuisiones
Electricas                               24.0     11.6
1798    1980  Administration Montevideo Port
Nacional de
Puertos                                  50.0     41.6
1831    1980  Rep. Oriental   Agricultural
del Uruguay     Development              24.0     17.5
1930    1980  Rep. Oriental   Second Industrial
del Uruguay     Project                  30.0     24.4
2033    1981  AMuinistracion
Nacional de
Telecom.      Telecommunications         40.0     40.0
2238    1q83  Rep. Oriental
del Uruguay   Third Highway              45.0    44.3
Total (net of cancellations)              441.9
of which has been repaid                149.9
Total now outstanding                     292.0
Amount sold                   4.6
of which has been repaid    4.6           0.0
Total nov held by Bank                    292.0
Total undisbursed                                  200.0



- 33 -
ANNEX 1I
Page 2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments - March 31, 1984
Fiscal                                 Type of        (Amount in US million)
Year            Obligor               Business         Loan   squity   Total
1976     Fabrica Uruguaya de      Motorvehicles        3.80     -        3.80
Neumaticos               and accessories
1979     Acodike Supergas S.A.  Chemicals and           .95     -         .95
petrochemicals
1979,    Astra Pesquerias         Food processing      5.92    2.25      8.17
1983      Uruguayas S.A.
1980     Sur Invest Casa          Money and capital  10.00    0.59    10.59
Bancaria S.A.            market
Total gross commitments                      20.67    2.84      23.51
Less canceUs'tions, terminations,
repayments and sales                        2.17     -         2.17
Net held by InC                              1850      2.84    21.34
Total undisbursed                             2.00        -      2.00



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page I of 2
URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR LOAN
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to prepare the project:  14 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:                   Ministries of
Agriculture
and Finance
[c)  First presentation to Bank:                      September 1982
(d)  First mission to review project:                 December 1982
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:                  February, 1984
(f)  Completion of negotiations:                      June 20, 1984
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:                   October 31, 1984
Section II:  Special Bank Iplementation Actions
None.
Section III:  Special Conditions
Assurances were obtained during negotiations as follows:
(a) Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed loan agreement
(i) the export tax be reduced to 5% (para. 65);
(ii) the Government would have contracted a consultant for a
study of BROU lending policies and organizational
structure for handling medium- and long-term development
financing based on terms of reference agreed upon with the
Bank (para. 69);
'{ii) the legislation preventing lending by Banco de la
Republica to the meatpacking industry would be revoked
(para 71);
(iv) the Government would expand Plan Agropecuarlo terms of
reference to cover all agricultural activities and
appropriate N$45 million for Fiscal Year 1984, in order to
carr- out its expanded terms of reference (para. 73);



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(v)   the Government would have contracted  consultants to carry
out a study of INAC's and CADA's regulatory powers and
investigate the feasibility of merging such powers within
INAC and reduce their export promotion, quality and
sanitary control and negotiations of
Government-to-Government export contracts (para 76).
(b) Conditions for disbursement of the second tranche of the loan
(i) the export tax would be reduced to 2% provided that a
mechanism has been adopted, to the satisfaction of the
Bank, to ensure that the tax proceeds are used within the
agricultural sector, or, alternatively, that the tax would
be eliminated (para. 65);
(ii)  the Government would put into effect the agreed program to
simplify and streamline import procedures using the border
points of Rio Branco, Fray Bentos and Salto (pars. 67);
(iii) the Government would agree with the Bank on an action plan
for improvements in BROU based on the recommendations and
findings of the consultant study (para. 69);
(iv)  the Government would agree with the Bank on an action plan
on the limitation of INAC's regulatory powers based on the
findings and recommendations of the consultants (para 76).
(c) Other Conditions in the DPS
Ci) tariffs on agricultural inputs will be kept to the
existing minimum (para. 60);
(ii)  the Government would exchange views with the Bank on the
implementation of the proposed substitute for the export
tax (para. 64);
(iii) the Government would not restrict the exports of live
cattle as long as total exports of cattle do not exceed
10% of each category of the total steer slaughter stock
and half of the excess of existing stock over the average
population of the last ten years for female breeding
stock (para. 66).
(d) Other Condition in the Loan Agreement
In order to enable Plan Agropecuario to carry out its
expanded terms of reference, the Government would provide
PLAN with NS45 million in Fiscal Year 1984 and with NS60
million, in real 1984 prices, in subsequent fiscal years
(para. 73).



- 36 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 6
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR POLICY STATEMENT
I. BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES
A) Introduction
Despite Uruguay's comparative advantage in the production of
livestock and certain crops, the agricultural sector has been characterized
by long periods of economic stagnation. While attempts to reverse this
situation met with some success in the 1970's, the new sectoral policies
require further deepening and consolidation in order to strengthen
confidence in their sustained implementation and stimulate long-term
planning and investment in tbe sector. The present Administration believes
that the best guarantee for the survival of the new sector strategy lies in
the transparency of its benefits to the rural sector and the economy as a
whole. Although these advantages may at times be obscured by other
macroeconomic developments, as at present, it is expected that in the long
run they will etimulate sustained growth in production and exports of
primary and agro-industrial commodities. Because of the limited scale of
Uruguay's domestic market, this appears at present the only viable option
for economic development.
B) Sector strategy
While the liberalization measures taken in August 1978 with
regard to the agricultural sector constituted a marked improvement with
respect to the previous situation, it is nevertheless true that this
process of decontrol was neither complete nor, in some aspects, fully
implemented. Apart from its economic consequences, this has led to a
certain skepticism among rural producers regarding the permanence of the
progress achieved to date in areas of structural reform. This, in turn,
had a counter-productive impact on further sectoral growth.
(i) Policies
It is the current administration's intention to consolidate and
complete the process of liberalization in the agricultural ax-. livestock
sub-sectors via the implementation of the following general policies:
(a) Internalization of the external terms of trade of the sector's
outputs and inputs. Export taxes will be gradually removed,
except for a 2Z tax on traditional exports whose proceeds shall
be used within the agricultural sector. Tariffs on imported
inputs will be kept to the existing minimum.
(b) Application of a neutral fiscal policy towards the sector, thus
reducing the perverse effect of distorted prices and profit rates
on the allocation of resources among different sectors in the
economy.



- 37 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 6
(c)  Increase in the volume and quality of financial support to the
sector. Short-term crop and livestock credit will be integrated
with long-term investment credits, combined with technical
assistance.
(d)  Simplification of agricultural input import procedures.
Costly and time-consuming processes will be rationalized so as to
allow greater efficiency and competition in the distribution of
imported inputs.
(e) Reduction of administrative intervention in markets for the
sector's output. Exports of live cattle will be liberalized, and
rural producer and meatpacking industry representation will be
strengthened  i the National Meat Institute.
(ii) Objectives
The above policies are aimed at achieving the following goals via
the expected increase in sector stability and profits:
Ca) Sustained expansion in primary and agroindustrial output, with
concomltant growth in traditional and non-traditional exports.
(b) Ihe introduction of improved technols y and the modernization of
far- managent techniques, resulting in higher yields and
productivity.
(c) Positive direct and indirect impact on the level of employment in
prmiary and agroindustrial activities.
Cd) Improvement in living standards and basic infrastructure in the
country-side, which will reverse the trend in migration to the
urban centers.
II. SECTOR ISSUES AND REHEDIAL ACTION
A) Problems pending resolution
Despite the vast improvement in underlying conditions for the
sector activity during the 1970 v, there still exist problem areas which
must be resolved before full potential can be achieved. These issues may
be grouped in two maiu sets: those which affect sector profitability by
artificially reducing output prices or increasing inputs costs, and those
which restrict investment due to shortcomings in the financial system.
The first set includes such problems as the persistence of export
taxes on beef and wool, restrictions on the exportation of live cattle,
direct intervention by the authorities in the local and international beef
markets, and the inflated cost of imported inputs.



- 38 -
AI(E IV
Page 3 of 6
The second group refers to institutional issues in the financial
sector such as the lack of integration between short, medium and long-term
credit for mixed farming projects, the need to expand financial and
technical assistance programs to include cropping, the need to Improve
organizational structure and decision-making procedures within the state
commercial bank, and the limitation on new indebtedness by the meatpacking
industry.
B) Remedial steps
Each of the corrective measures to be implemented will be
analyzed in this section in terms of its current institutional context and
its expected results.
(i) Elimination of export taxes and fiscal policy reform
Export taxes or retentions tCdetracciones-) were abolished in
1978 but were reintroduced in 1982, following the heavy depreciation of the
peso which accompanied the float. To the extent that a valid distinction
can be drawn, their current justification is mainly fiscal (i.e. to balance
the budget) rather than allocative, although their depressing impact on
sector prices is obviously independent of the motives behind them.
In December 1983, these taxes were reduced from 15% to 10X, and a
further reduction to 8% is now being implemented. It is the Government's
intention to implement further reductions to the level of 2%. The proceeds
from this finsal 2% export tax will be destined for use in the agricultural
sector via the establishment of a fund to be managed by a body incorpo-
rating the sector and Government representatives. These steps will
evidently have an adverse fiscal impact at a time when the reduction of the
fiscal deficit is the main official priority in the economic area.
The agricultural producers are normally taxed according to
theoretical values on a minimum productivity scale that varies with the
quality of land. This tax was not levied in 1982-83 because of
the depressed state of the rural sector in the former year and its
substitution by export tax2s in the latter.  This sytem proved deficient
because it bears little relation to the sector's contributory capacity, or
to the situation of individual producers.
The government is currently studying an alternative system of
taxation on the agricultural sector which would simplify the collection
methods and minimize distortionary effects. The Introduction of the new
tax will coincide with the phasing out of export taxes, and the Government
will exchange views with the Bank on its implementation.
(ii) Liberalization of live cattle exports
The ban on live cattle exports goes back a long way in the
history of Uruguay. The principal objective of this prohibition was to
ensure the profitability required for the growth of a domestic meatpacking
itdustry. Its main results were an adverse impact on the.efficiency of the



- 39 -
ANME  IV
Page 4 of 6
industry and the distortion of the relative price structure between
different categories of cattle. With a fixed world beef price at the end
of the production process, the burden of adjustment to intermediate
inefficiencies (packing. slaughtering and fattening) was inevitably borne
by the price of lean cattle. The creation of a captive supply market for
the meat industry (slaughter cattle) and for livestock fattening (lean
cattle) has protected both these activities to the detriment of livestock
raising, thus altering the pattern of comparative advantage.
The ban on cattle exports in all categories was partially lifted
in 1981, although exports remained subject to authorization by the Ministry
of Agriculture and Fisheries on a case-by-case basis, according to criteria
which are not entirely defined. It is the intention of the authorities to
remove these controls, by the end of 1984, via a general authorization of
live cattle exports in all categories, subject to an initial volume Limit
of 102 in each category (one-to-three year old and over three-year old) of
the total steer slaughter stock and half of the excess of existing stock
over the average population of the last ten years for female breeding
stock.
The expected impact of this action will be reflected In an upward
adjustment of cattle prices in all categories to levels closer in line with
international prices (i.e. neighboring markets minus transport costs),
creating a relative price structure among categories that will stimulate a
more efficient use of the sector's resources. At the same time, it will
guarantee access to alternative markets for slaughter cattle, thus
pressuring domestic meat-packing plants in the direction of greater
efficiency.
(iii) Revised charter for the National Meat Institute (INAC)
Recent developments in the international beef market, which have
given rise to an increase in counter-trade agreements, have enhanced the
role of INAC (Instituto Nacional de Carme) with respect to Uruguay's beef
exports. IfiAC-i actively involved In export markets, leading the
negotiation of counter-trade agreements and long-term supply contracts on a
government-to-government basis. It also enforces a variety of measures
regarding the sanitary and hygienic condition of meat exports, and issues
export licenses to meatpacking plants and approves all physical investments
in the meatpacking industry.
In the past, INAC has employed its legal powers to indirectly
affect the domestic price of beef, either through the outright prohibition
of exports or via compulsive guidance to slaughterhouses on maximum prices
to be paid for live cattle. This behavior bas generated a certain degree
of producer distrust of the government's commitment to the liberal policies
launched in 1978. New legislation to alter INAC's present organic
structure is currently under consideration. To this effect the Government
wlll undertake a study of the present functions of INAC in an effort to
minimize the probability of recurrence to this kind of intervention in the
future.



- 40 -
ANEX IV
Page 5 of 6
Rural producers and the meat-packing industry will be allowed
full representation on INAC's Board of Directors, alongside the
government. This should guarantee a closer identification of market
behavior with the general policies set forth by the authorities in 1978,
increasing the credibility and permanence of these policies in order to
fulfill an essential condition for the inducement of long-term investment
in the livestock sub-sector.
New formulas for the distribution of export quotas among
meatpacking plants in government-to-government supply contracts will be
sought. The currently employed formulas do not take into account relative
efficiency among packers as a criterion for assigning quotas. The new
method vill attempt to incorporate this criterion so as to stimulate
productivity.
(iv) Simplification of import procedures for agricultural inputs
Very significant progress has been achieved in recent years with
regard to the reduction of import tariffs on agricultural inputs, as a
means of internalizing the external terms of trade. Most sector inputs are
currently subject only to the minimum 1OZ tax on imports.
Despite this, it is frequent to encounter significant differences
iu the prices of agricultural inputs between Uruguay and neighboring
economies, which could be signalling the existence of other types of
restrictions on their importation. The authorities are currently in the
process of reducing non-tarlff barriers to the minimum levels consistent
with sanitary precautions and requisites. At the same time, mechanism are
being considered which would reduce the administrative red tape required
for the importation of agricultural inputs, and allow their entry at
several different border points. This would reduce the time and transport
costs involved in customs procedures. It is also expected that the action
will result in greater competition amongst importers, reducing their profit
margins and effectively internationalizing the input prices paid by
producers in the rural sector.
(v) Improvements in financial assistance to the rural sector
One of the most serious limitations to growth in the agricultural
sector is the inadequate level and quality of credit, particularly for crop
production. Most credit lines are short-term and aimed at financing the
working capital required during one crop season.  They are not always
approved in time, and do not discriminate by producer efficiency or crop
suitability. Furthermore, there is a lack of integration between short,
medium and long-term credits, which creates an element of uncertainty with
regard to ability to complete long-term investment projects.
There is an evident need for integrating short-term with longer-
term lines of credit, including a technical assistance component, in order
to promote the use of a more adequate technology, and linking interest
rates and repayment terms to the nature of the production cycle and its
repayment capacity.



- 41 -
ANNX IV
Page 6 of 6
The actions to be undertaken by the government in this field are:
(a)  Extending credit assistance under the Plan Agropecuario (in
coordination with the World Bank) to the crop subsector,
with emphasis on technical assistance and product
diversification.
(b) Eliminating current restrictions on new borrowing for
purposes of fixed asset investment by the meat-packing
plants, in order that the structure of the beef industry may
adapt quickly to the new competitive sittuation in the beef
market.
(c)  Achieving greater coordination between short-term Banco de
la Republica loans and Plan Agropecuario and other long term
lending programs, in order to meet the needs of agricultural
diversification and crop-livestock rotatlon projects. To
this purpose, by the end of 1984, BROU shall: (i)
commission a study to identify the existing problems which
prevent an adequate integration of BROU's short-term and
long-term credit lines, and to recommend the required
changes. This  study will include the analysis of BROU's
organizational structure in order to determine whether there
are institutional obstacles to a more efficient support of
the rural sector; (ii) permit the one-time approval of
multi-year Plan Agropecuario credits, subject to periodic
reviews; (iii) designate staff in each branch office to
handle medium and long-term Plan Agropecuario credits; and
(iv) publicize the lending circular ahead of the required
period of fund utilization for the specific agricultural
activities.



- 42 -
AINEX V
Page 1 of 3
URUGUAY
Agricultural Sector Loan
Banco de la Republica Lending Policies in the Agricultural Sector
Consultants Study - Terms of Reference
Introduction
1.        Since its founding in 1885, the Banco de la Republica Oriental del
Uruguay (BROU) has been the principal source of credit to the agricultural
sector, and is likely to remain so for the foreseeable future. It has been a
main-stay of the livestock sector and played a key role in the promotion and
diversification of agricultural activities into promising new areas, such as
rice production, while maintaining a prudent financial strategy. It has,
however, devoted most of its resources to short-term lending for agriculture,
so that now BROU's management seeks ways to increase the bank's development
impact through a review of its agricultural credit policies and its
organizational structures for handling medium and long-term development
finance.
Objectives
2.        The principle aims and objectives of this study are to identify
practical, concrete actions consistent with BROU's strong banking record but
with more development orientation compatible with prudent banking practices
in order to:
Ci) promote long-term supervised agricultural leading more effectively;
and
(ii) improve the coordination of short-term credit allocations with
long-term farm development investments.
Scope of the Study
3.        The study should include the following topics in respect of BROU's
agricultural credit operations:
(i) Organization and Management
(a) an analysis of the organizational and administrative structure
of BROU;
(b) an evaluation of BROU's physical and human resources and an
assessment of BROU's recruitment and personnel management
policies and the technical competence of its staff;



- 43 -
ANE V
Page 2 of 3
(c) an evaluation of BROU's decision-making process, including the
degree of delegation of powers, the procedures used, the
required processing time, and the coordination between BROU
and Plan Agropecuario.
(il) Financial Structure
(a) a description of BROU's overall sources and uses of funds and
its financial ratios including debt-equity, liquidity ratios,
etc.;
(b) a description of BROU's overall loan portfolio by sector;
(c) a relative comparison of loan terms within BROU among
agricultural and non agricultural activities and a comparison
with lending terms for agricultural loans made by private
commercial banks;
Cd) an evaluation of the agricultural loan portfolio by credit
line including siza of loan, amortization schedules and
existing and probable overdues.
(iii) Lending Policies and Procedures
Ca) a description of the various credit lines available to the
agricultural sector and a description of the lending
priorities that determine the available funds for each line;
Cb) an analysis of BROU policies in setting interest rates,
guarantee requirements, repayment periods, technical
asslstance requirements, adjustment formulas, etc.;
(c) an evaluation of the procedures followed in making loans,
including the technical and financial evaluation of credit
applications and an evaluation of responsiveness of BROU's
services to the needs of its clients.
(vi) Conclusions and Recommendations
(a) recommendations and action programmes to improve BROU's
management and administration in lending to the agriculture
sector, including any needed staff training or reassignment,
or additional human resources;
(b) recommendations and action programme for improving
administration of the agricultural loan portfolio,
on future levels of funding for the agricultural sector, and
planning and programming of lending priorities among credit
lines;



- 44 -
ANNE V
Page 3 of 3
(c) recommendations and action programme for improving efficiency
in lending procedures, improving BROU's ability to attend to
the needs of its clients and improving coordination between
BROU and Plan Agropecuario.
(d) evaluation of the policies of BROU with regard to debt
restructuring and provision of additional funds to help
recover non-performing loans.
Facilities and Working Environment
4.        BROU will make available to the consultants adequate office space,
equipment and facilities, and will satisfy all necessary transportation
requirements of the consultants. BROU will also make available capable
counterpart and support staff from its owm personnel and will enable access
of the consultants to records, installations, etc., as the performance of
their duties will require.



- 45 -
ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 2
URUGUAY
Agriculture Sector Loan
National Meat Institute Study - Terms of Reference
Background
1.        The National Meat Insitute (INAC) was created through decrees 172,
202 and 729 of 1983, which entrusted INAC with: (a) promotion of exports of
Uruguayan meat, (b) issuance of export licences, (c) setting of export
reference prices, (d) negotiation of Government-to-Government export
contracts, and (e) regulation of the meatpacking industry (including sanitary
and quality control, approval of physical investments and auditing of
financial statements of all meatpacking plants). In addition, a Comission
on Supply Administration (CADA) was established by decree No. 105 of 1969 to
license and inspect butcher shops, to excercise control of slaughterhouses
for domestic market supply and to purchase and stock meat for distribution
during seasons of low availability of live cattle for slaughter.
2.        The Government intends to consolidate the functions of these two
organizations within INAC with a view to allowing a freer play of market
forces compatible with the sustained development of the livestock sector.
To this effect, the Government has decided to employ consultant services to
investigate whether INAC's and CADA's current regulatory powers should be
fully merged within INAC and whether they are Justified by the domestic and
world market environments in which these organizations operate. The
consult-at's) would analyse the feasibility of reducing such responsibilities
to expsiit -romotion, quality and sanitary control, and negotiation of
Government-to-Government export contracts.
Export reference prices and export licensing
3.        The consultant(s) will investigate the effects of INAC's power to
set reference (i.e. minimum) prices on exports and the feasibility of
abolishing this funtion of INAC. The consultant(s) should also explore the
feasibility of eliminating the requireim'*t for obtaining INAC's approval for
every export contract.
Investment in the mestpacking lidustry
4.        The consultant(s) shall investigate the feasibility of eliminating
INAC's power to: (a) control entry into the meatpacking sector; (b) approve
all physical plant expansion; and (c) supervise civil works during plant
construction.



- 46 -
ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 2
Negotiations of Government-to-Government export contracts
5.        The consultant(s) will study the way in which INAC conducts such
negotiations and, based on past experience, recommend any changes which could
result in increased levels of exports or higher export prices. The
consultant(s) would specifically look into the representation of the
livestock producers and the meatpacking industry on the negotiating team and
recommend the guidelines to be adopted in this respect.
6.        The consultant(s) will review the formula used by INAC to allocate
Government-to-Government export contracts and examine the possibility of
replacing the formula with some form of competitive bidding among meatpackers
and/or possible modifications in the current formula which would encourage
increased competitiveness and efficiency among meatpackers.
Quality and sanitary control
7.        The consultant(s) will examine existing practices and recommend the
exact functions to be fulfilled by INAC in these areas.
Promotion of the Uruguayan meat industry
8.        The consultant(s) will review INAC's promotion activities and
recommend any marketing, organizational and manpower changes which could
increase its effectiveness in this area.
Other
9.        The consultant(s) would review which of the remaining functions of
CAPA should be retained within INAC and which should be abolished.
Organization
10.       In light of their findings, the consultant(s) will recommend any
required organizational changes in INAC. These shall include the ninber of
staff in each organizational unit, including their required qualifications,
and adequate participation of the livestock producers and meatpacking
industry in INAC's decision-making process.
Facilities and working environment
11.       INAC will make available to the consultants adequate office space,
equipment and facilities, and will satisfy all necessary trns-portation
requirements of the consultants. INAC will also make available capable
counterpart and support staff from its own personnel and will enable access
of the consultants to records, installations, etc., as the performance of
their duties will require.



Table I
URUGUAY
Agricultural Sector Loan
Comparative Agricultural Yields
1. Livestock
Beef: X off-take of herd             Wool: kg wool per head
1979   1980    1981                  1979   1980   1981
Uruguay              12.4   14.0    17.0                   3.6    3.3    3.5
Argentina           27.5   25.2    27.8                    4.8    5.2    5.5
Australia           41.8   33.9    33.8                    5.2    5*2    5.2
USA                 33.3   13.1    33.3                    3.9    3.8    3.9
2. Crops
Wheat (Kg/ha)                  Soya (Kg/ha)             Sunflower (Kg/ha)            Linseed (Kg/ha)
1981     1982      1983      1981    1982       19d3      1950     1981    1982    1980    1981    1982
Uruguay      1311      1353      1580      1216    1324      1136       553       708     642      667      591      605
Argentina   1377       2067      1812     1724    2005       2012       889       984    1152      806      733     846
Australia   1383        771      1466     1450    1584       1717       641       703     648      745      918      571
USA          2323      2396     2656      1776    2027       2163      1139      1319    1296      729      793      896
Source:  FAO*



- 48 -
Table 2
URUGUAY
Agricultural Sector Loan
Exports of Livestock Products
1982                      1983
Item                   Volume      USS ('000)    Volume      US S ('000)
Live Anials (head)                          15,176                      30,701
Horses                         5,029       2,581         4,956          1,899
Bovines                       39,912       8,488       116,506        19,697
Ovines                       187,018       3,598       512,842         8,913
Other live animals            26,633         51f        26,640           192
Heat  (tons)                               202.815                     241,330
Beef                         119,213     171,174       154,259       218,493
Sheep                         13,681      21,509         9,527        13,467
Equine                         1,597       2,276         1,605          1,848
Offal                          3,295       4,528         4,429         5,159
Poultry                        2,578       3,016         2,161         1,910
Other meats                      188         311           333           417
Fish, crustacea, and
Molluscs                        -         46,519           -          39,409
Milk and dairy products           -         15,723           -           32,510
Egsi                              -            260           -              581
Natural honey (tons)             2,544       2,282         1,542          1,380
Other livestock products          -          8,824           -           8,405
Source: Miuistry of Agriculture based on data from BROU.



-49 -
Table 3
DRUGUAT
Agricultural Sector Loan
Loans Outatudl ea   o the Arcultrl Sector b  Pnanclzx Sources. 1969-81 1
-1 - -lUon)
Croy Producero                                   Wirestock Producare 2/                     Total Agricultural Sector
lrLstu                                      Plan        Private u100 G   Plan    Private
Tear       110s        Deka         Sub-Total       3m00       hE2m     uoro    lanku       Sub-total    Agropcanka                   Ttal
1969       3.4           1.7            5.1            1.8          1.5           5.7           9.0             6.7          7.4       14.1
(66.7)        (33.3)        (100.0)         (20.0)       (16.7)        (63.3)      (100.0)           (47.5)      (52.5)   (100.0)
1970       6.3           2.7            9.0            3.4          2.1           9.0          14.5            11.8         11.7  _   23.5
(70.0)        (30.0)        (100.0)         (23.4)       (14.5)        (62. ;)     (100.0)           (50.2)      (49.8)   (100.0)
1971      10.4           2.2           12.6            5.1          4.4          11.6          21.1            19.9         13.8       33.7
(82.5)        (17.5)        (100.0)         (24.2)       (20.8)        (55.0)      (100.0)           (59.1)      (40.9)   (100.0)
1972      14.2           3.1           17.3            7.7          6.9          24.9          39.5            28.8         28.0       56.8
(82. 1)       (17.9)        (100.0)         (19.5)       (17.5)        (63.0)      (100.0)           (50.7)      (49.3)   (100.0)
1973      30.6           S.2           35.8           20.4         15.0          57.3          92.7            66.0         62.5      12J.5
(05.5)        (14.5)        (100.0)         (22.0)       (16.2)        (61.8)      (100.0)           (51.4)      (48.6)   C100.0)
1974      88.4           8.5           96.9           41.6         21.8          17.0         150.4           151.8        .95.5      247.3
(91.2)         (8.6)        (100.0)         (27.7)       (14.5)        (57.8)      (100.0)           (61.4)      (38.6)   (100.0)
1975     166.8          21.0          187.8           68.1         33.1          99.5         200.7           268.0        120.5      38.a.5
(88.8)        (11.2)        (100.0)         (33.9)       (16.5)        (49.6)      (100.0)           (69.0)      (31.0)   (100.0)
1976     284.3          42.5          326.8          110.6         51.1         181.0         342.7           446.0        223.5      669.5
(87.0)        (13.0)        (100.0)         (32.3)       (14.9)        (52.8)      (100.0)           (66.6)      (33.4)   (100.0)
1977     438.4          37.1          525.5          206.3         62.6         434.1         703.0           707.3        521.2   1,228.5
(83.4)        (16.6)        (100.0)         (29.3)        (8.9)      *(61.S)       (100.0)           (57.6)      (42.4)   (100.0)
1971     608.5         164.5          773.0          327.6         85.8       1.001.4       1,414.8         1,021.9      1,165.9   2,187.8
(78.7)        (21.3)        (100.0)         (23.2)        (6.0)        (70.8)      (100.0)           (46.7)      (53.3)   (100.0)
1979     833.3         433.0        1.266.3          614.8        190.9       3,307.2       4.112.9         1.639.0      3.740.2   5.379.2
(65.8)        (34.2)        (100.0)         (15.0)        (4.7)        (80.3)      (100.0)           (30.5)      (69.5)   (100.0)
1980   1.204.4         697.7        1,902.1        1.15i.5        229.8       5,570.2       6,952.5         2.586.7      6.267.9   8.854.6
(63.3)        (36.7)        (100.0)         (16.6)        (3.3)        (80.1)      (100.0)           (29.2)      (70.8)   (100.0)
1951   1,926.9         970.5        2.897.4        1,060.5        294.5       6,948.1       8,303.1         3,231.9      7.918.6  11,200.5
(66.5)       (33.5)        (100.0)         (12.8)         (3.5)       (83.7)       (100.0)          (29.3)       (70.7)   (100.0)
1932   1,986.4       1.413.7        3.400.1        1,415.0        377.3      10,898.8      12,691.1         3.778.7    12.312.5  16.091.2
(58.4)        (41.6)        (100.0)         (11.1)        (3.0)        (85.9)      (100.0)           (23.5)      (76.5)   (100.0)
1983   2.098.5         891.9        2.990.4        2.316.3        399.7       9,274.2      11,990.2         4.814.5    10,166.1  14,98O.6
a 4 of Septeber 30, 1983 except fur fIanclug of cattle suctLons vbich  to as of December 31, 1983



- 50 -
Table 4
URUGUAY
Agricultural Sector Loan
Effects of Elimination of Export Tax
(500 ha beef-sheep ranch)
1983/84 estimate
Gross Revenue NUS per ha        Export Tax at 10   Export Tax at 5S   No Export Tax
Revenue from beef                      781.9                821.0             860.1
Revenue from wool                      400.5               420.5              440.6
Other revenue                          189.3                189.3             189.3
TOTAL REVENUE                     1,371.7              1,430.8           1,490.0
Wages                                  156.1                156.1             156.1
Machinery                              119.3                119.3             119.3
Maintenance of pastures                119.9                119.9             119.9
Administrative costs                    93.1                 93.1              93.1
Miscellaneous costs                    181.7                181.7             181.7
TOTAL COST                          670.1                670.1             670.1
NET REVENUE                         701.6                760.7             819.9
Capital Employed                    11,410.0             11,410.0          11,410.0
Return on capital employed             6.12                 6.7%              7.2%
Source: PLAN Agropecuario



k--7-   ~ ~ ~~~~~          ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U  R t-.  Vit   
\ I  a    1  , \s                  AGRICULTURAL SECTOR lOAN
,, o ""^88 ~  / ...........................                         LI              At  .....
zt  ,1C                       * tA J             -a\X . 
A, Ac ;'6 1, T I ' N ?').- A   zt'                                                            -~'swS
1   ^       i                    so-^m''-X  1                                     ' b Fll&A b-AM It i   14I






