RESTRICTED
FLE      COPY                     Report No. P-63
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TOGO
FOR A
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
September 13, 1968



ETTEF1!ATIOANAL DZVELOPi-NJT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOM0Z4DATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS CN A DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF TOGO FOR A HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to
US$3.7 million to the Republic of Togo to assist in the financing of a
highway maintenance project.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        The proposed credit would be the first lending operation of the
Bank Group in Togo. The country became independent in 1960 and joined the
Bank, IDA and IFC in 1962. On the basis of a USAID-financed study of
Togo's highway maintenance requirements, the Government prepared a four-
year highway maintenance program (1969-1972) and applied in September 1967
for IDA assistance in the financing of this program. The project was
appraised in November 1967; subsequently, in January 1968, the Government
submitted an additional request regarding preinvestment studies for high
priority secondary roads. In March 1968, about 450 kilometers of roads
for feasibility studies were identified.
3.        Formal negotiations took place in WZashington between August 8
and August 19 with a delegation headed by H.E. Alex Mivedor, Minister of
Public Works, Mines, Transport, Post and Telecommunications.
4.        I do not expect to submit other projects in Togo for your con-
sideration in the immediate future, but the preparation of agricultural
projects is in hand and three of them (East Mono settlement scheme,
development of the Klouto-Akposso area and Sio-Haho irrigation project)
could, at various stages, develop into projects which I would recommend
for financing.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
5.        Borrower:       Republic of Togo
Amount:         Various currencies equivalent to $3.7 million
Purpose:        To assist in financing: (a) a four-year (1969-
72) highway maintenance program, and (b) feasi-
bility studies for about 450 kilometers of
secondary roads, with subsequent detailed
engineering for about 300 kilometers of high
priority roads.
Amortization:   In 50 years including a 10-year period of grace,
through semi-annual installments of



1/2 of 1' from January 15, 1979 throughi July 15, 1988 and of
1-1/2I from January 15, 1989 through July 15, 2018.
Service
charge: 3/4 of 1% per annum on the principal amount of the credit
disbursed and outstanding.
PART III - THE PROJECT
6.        A detailed description of the project is given in the attached
report entitled "Appraisal of a highway maintenance project - Togo"
(T0-668a) dated September 10, 1968.
7.        The Togolese highway network consists of only about 4,700 km
of roads of all standards, which serve practically all the transport needs
of the country. The present condition of the roads is generally poor and
deteriorating as a result of an increasing maintenance backlog. Large
sections of roads are closed to truck traffic after heavy rains. The
Department of Public Works is hampered by the poor condition of its equip-
ment and lack of adequate personnel and funds. Maintenance installations
and shop equipment are insufficient, and maintenance personnel have
limited skill and ability. The proposed four-year maintenance program
(1969-72) aims at eliminating the existing backlog and ensuring that, in
the future, national roads will be maintained to satisfactory service
standards.
8.        The project is in two parts.  The first consists of this four-
year maintenance program providing for the purchase of maintenance and
shop equipment, the improvement of the efficiency of maintenance operations
and the training of personnel at all levels. The maintenance program wvill
be carried out by the Department of Public Works, with the assistance of
international consultants acceptable to the Association. A contract
between the Republic of Togo and the U.S. consulting firm Louis Berger, Inc.
for maintenance advisory services was negotiated at the time of the credit
negotiations, and the signing of the contract is expected in the near future;
its effectiveness is subject to the effectiveness of the Credit Agreement.
An amount of $2.7 million of the proposed IDA credit including $58O,,O
for the consultants' contract, would be applied to the capital expenditures
of the four-year program (1969-72), and would cover all the foreign ex-
change costs as well as some $80,000 of local subsistence costs for the
consultants.  All procurement under the IDA credit would be made on the
basis of international competitive bidding.
9.        All the recurrent highway maintenance expenditures for the four-
year program, totalling about $5.9 million, as well as most of the local
currency component of the capital expenditures (about $450,000 equivalent)
would be borne by the Togolese Government.



10.       The execution of this maintenance program would result in a
substantial reduction of vehicle operating costs, leading to an annual
economic rate of return on the investment of about 15 percent. In addi-
tion, project implementation would help avoid further road deterioration,
and would reduce the amount of expenditures required in the future for
road rehabilitation and reconstruction.
11.       The second part of the project consists of feasibility studies
for about 450 km of secondary roads, with subsequent detailed engineering
and preparation of bidding documents for about 300 km of high priority
roads selected by the Togolese Government in agreement with the Association.
Contracts between the Republic of Togo and (a) the Canadian consulting
firm Kez and Associates for the study of 270 km of roads, and (b) the
German consulting firm Walter for the study of 180 km of roads were nego-
tiated at the time of the credit negotiations, and the signing of these
contracts is expected in the near future; their effectiveness is subject
to the effectiveness of the Credit Agreement. The foreign exchange com-
ponent of these two contracts, estimated at $1.0 million would be financed
under the proposed IDA credit.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMThWTS AND AUTHORITY
12.       The draft Credit Agreement between the Republic of Togo and the
Association and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article V,
Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
13.       The draft Credit Agreement conforms generally to the pattern of
credit agreements for similar highway maintenance projects.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
14.       A report entitled "Present Economic Position and Prospects of
Togo" (AF-65a) dated March 29, 1968, was circulated to the Executive
Directors on June 17, 1968.
15.       The overall rate of growth since 1960 averaged around 4 to 5
percent per year in real terms, and significantly higher in recent years,
due mainly to the increase of both investment and exports. The high
rates of investment reached in 1964-65 (20-25, of GDP), of which over
half was financed from domestic sources, is the result of a few indus-
trial and transport projects (port of Lom6). The rapid growth in exports
followed the exploitation of rich phosphate deposits, beginning in 1961.
On the other hand, overall agricultural production has shown no appre-
ciable improvement in recent years except that exports of coffee and
cocoa (partly cocoa smuggled from Ghana) increased moderately compared



-h -
to the pre-independence years. Capital inflows have more than covered
the balance of payments current account deficit and foreign exchange
reserves have increased.
16.       The report concluded that most of Togo's external borrowing
should be on soft terms, commercial borrowing playing only a complement-
ary role, and that, to maintain the inflow of external capital without
creating financial difficulties, the Government needs to improve the
process of project identification and preparation, and restrain the
rate of increase of public current expenditures.
17.       Improving project preparation and implementation, especially
in agriculture, is essential if both investment and exports are to be
maintained or increased, as foreseen in the 1966-70 development plan.
The plan has started slowly, notably in agriculture, though performance
in this sector has apparently improved in recent months' thanks partly
to a reinforcement in foreign technical assistance. Also, thanks to
external financing provided mostly by the European Development Fund,
the year 1968 has seen a marked increase in the volume of new infra-
structural work started, mainly in road construction, a sector to which
the plan allocates over 20% of total investment.
18.       As regards budgetary policy, the Government achieved an 85S%
increase of revenue between 1960 and 1966 to match a fast and necessary
increase in current expenditure of the same order following independence.
This was done while maintaining low overall rates of taxation, a policy
consistent with the prevailing low wages and low producer prices.
Continued public savings at the recent level of CFAF 1.5 billion implies
a much lower rate of increase of current expenditure than during the
1960-67 period. The budget for 1968 appears as a step in that direction.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMNT
19.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
20.       I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
Resolution:
Resolution No.
Approval of a Development Credit to the Republic of Togo
in an amount equivalent to US$3.7 million.



Resolved:
that the Association shall grant a development credit to
the Republic of Togo in an amount in various currencies
equivalent to three million seven hundred thousand dollars
($3.700,000) to mature on and prior to July 15, 2018, to
bear a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
percent (3/4 of 1A) per annum, and to be upon such other
terms and conditions as shall be substantially in accord-
ance liith the terms and conditions set forth in the form
of Development Credit Agreement (Highway Maintenance
Project) betwJeen the Republic of Togo and the Association,
which has been presented to this meeting.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
iTashington D.C.
September 13, 1968



