I
CREDIT NUMBER 131 TO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Highway Maintenance Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED OCTOBER 10, 1968


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 131 TO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Highway Maintenance Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED OCTOBER 10, 1968


﻿Betreloment QGriait A1greement
AGREEMENT, dated October 10, 1968, between the RE-
PUBLIC OF TOGo (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL   DEVELOPMENT    AssoCIATION  (hereinafter
called the A.-ociation).
WiiEREAS the Borrower has requested the Association to
make available a development credit to assist in financing
the capital expenditures of the Four-Year Togo Highway
Maintenance Program and preinvestment studies, as de-
scribed in Schedule 1 to this Development Credit Agree-
ment, and hereinafter referred to as the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association is willing to make a develop-
ment credit to the Borrower for the said purposes and for
the related services referred to in the said Schedule 1, on
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
Credit Regulations
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit
Agreement accept all the provisions of Development Credit
Regulations No. 1 of the Association dated June 1, 1961
as amended February 9, 1967 (said Development Credit
Regulations No. 1 being hereinafter called the Credit Regu-
lations), with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to make available
to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions in this Devel-
opment Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, a devel-


﻿4
opment credit in an amoant in various currencies equiva-
lent to three million seven hundred thousand dollars
($3,700,000).
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Association shall open a Credit
Account on its books in the name of the Borrower and shall
credit to such Credit Account the amount of the Credit.
(b) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and the Credit Regulations and hi
accordance with the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Development Credit Agree-
ment, as such allocation shall be modified from time to
time pursuant to the provisions of such Schedule or by fur-
ther agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 2.03. (a) The Borrower shall be entitled to
withdraw from the Credit Account in respect of the rea-
sonable cost of goods required for carrying out the Project
and to be financed under this Development Credit Agree-
ment:
(i) such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the
Association shall so agree, such amounts as shall be
required to meet payments to be made) for the c.i.f.
(Lome) price of goods produced, or for services sup-
plied from, outside the territories of the Borrower and
included under Categories A(1), B, and C of the allo-
cation of the proceeds of the Credit set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Development Credit Agreement; and
(ii) the equivalent of such amount as shall have
been paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, such
amounts as shall be required to meet payments to be
made) for expenditures under Category A(2) of said
Schedule 2.
(b) Except as shall otherwise be agreed between the
Borrower and the Association, no withdrawals shall be
made on account of:


﻿5
(i) expenditures made prior to the date of this
Development Credit Agreement; or
(ii) any payment for any taxes or duties levied on
the import of goods into the territory of the Borrower,
such as customs duties, "droit fiscal", "ta=e de sta-
tistique", "taxe forfaitaire", or any other similar
taxes or duties which may be subsequently established;
or
(iii) expenditures made in the territory of any
country which is not a member of the Bank (except
Switzerland) or for goods produced in (including
services supplied from) such territory.
SECTION 2.04. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of paragraph
(a) of Section 3.02 of the Credit Regulations.
SECTION 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (3/4 of 1%/) per annum on the principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-
annual installments payable on each January 15 and July
15 commencing January 15, 1979 and ending July 15, 2018,
each installment to and including the installment payable
on July 15, 1988 to be one-half of one per cent (  of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (11/%o) of such principal
amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall apply the proceeds of
the Credit in accordance with the provisions of this Devel-


﻿6
opment Credit Agreement to expenditures required to
carry out the Project described in Schedule 1 to this
Development Credit Agreement.
SECTIoN 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree:
(a) the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding in accordance with "Guidelines for Pro-
curement under World Bank Loans and. IDA Credits"
published in February 1968, and in accordance with such
other procedures supplementary thereto as are set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Development Credit Agreement, and
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion; and
(b) any contract for the procurement of any of the goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
subject to the approval of the Association, except that no
such approval shall be required for items or groups of
items from Category B of Schedule 2 to this Development
Credit Agreement expected to cost less than the equivalent
of ten thousand dollars ($10,000).
SECTION 3.03. Except as the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause all
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
in the territory of the Borrower exclusively in the carrying
,out of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause its Direc-
tion des Travaux Publics to carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound high-
way maintenance, engineering, administrative and financial
practices, and shall make available, promptly as needed,


﻿7
all funds, facilities, services, and other resources required
for the purpose.
(b) To assist in carrying out the Project, the Borrower
shall employ or cause to be employed competent and expe-
rienced consultants acceptable to the Association, to an
extent, and upon such terms and conditions as shall have
been approved by the Association.
(c) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished
to the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the
reports, plans, specifications, contract documents, and work
schedules for the Project and any material modifications
subsequently made therein, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(d) The Borrower shall take all steps necessary to insti-
tute and to enforce right-of-way standards satisfactory to
the Association for its national highway system.
(e) The Borrower shall take all measures reasonably
required to ensure at all times that the dimensions and
axle-loads of vehicles using the roads in its national high-
way system shall not exceed limits consistent with the
design standards of such roads, as set forth in the legis-
lation of the Borrower in force at the date of this Devel-
opment Credit Agreement.
(f) To ensure the development of adequate statistics for
future transport planning, the Borrower shall establish and
maintain facilities to collect periodically and to record such
data as are required to assess the technical, economic, and
financial aspects of its national highway system.
SECTION 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to identify the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, to disclose the
use thereof in the Project, to record the progress of the
Project (including the cost thereof) and the operations
and financial condition of its Direction des Travaux Publics
with respect to the national highway system; shall enable


﻿8
the Association's representatives to inspect the Project,
the goods and any relevant records and documents; and
shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably
request concerning the expenditures of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Project, the goods to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit, and the operations and administration
with respect to the Project, of its Direction des Travaux
Publics.
SECTION 4.03. The Borrower shall at all times ade-
quately maintain or cause to be adequately maintained the
roads in its national highway system, in accordance with
sound engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilitir:, services and other resources
required for the foregoing.
SECTION 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall cause the railway
branches of the Reseau des Chemins de Fer du Togo from
Lom6 to Palim6 and from Lom6 to Anecho to be phased
out over a period of 10 years after the completion of the
Lome-Palime and Lom'-Anecho roads; and
(b) The Borrower shall not extend the Lome-Blitta rail-
way line of the Reseau des Chemins de Fer du Togo north-
ward from Blitta;
provided, however, that the obligations of the Borrower
under paragraph (a) or (b) shall not apply if a feasibility
study, carried out by competent and experienced consul-
tants, establishes to the satisfaction of the Association
that the continued operation of the railway branches re.-
ferred to in paragraph (a) or the extension of the railway
line referred to in paragraph (b), as the case may be, is
economically justified.
SECTIOx 4.05. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them
shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall


﻿9
reasonably request with regard to the general status of the
Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information shall
include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territory of the Borrower and the inter-
national balance of payments position of the Borrower.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall from time
to time exchange views through their representatives with
regard to matters relating to the purposes of the Credit,
the maintenance of the service thereof, the Project, and the
operations, administration, and financial condition of its
Direction des Travaux Publics with respect to the national
highway system.
(c) The Borrower shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to
interfere with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit or the maintenance of the service thereof.
(d) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportu-
nity for accredited representatives of the Association to
visit any part of the territory of the Borrower for purposes
related to the Credit.
SECTION 4.06. (a) The Borrower shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provi-
sions acceptable to the Association for, insurance of the
goods required to carry out Part I (b) of the Project which
shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
sound practice.
(b) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the
Borrower undertakes to have the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit insured against
marine, transit and other hazards incident to acquisition,
transportation, and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation.
SECTION 4.07. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free


﻿10
from, any taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territory and free from all restric-
tions imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in
effect in its territory.
SECTION 4.08. This Development Credit Agreement shall
be free from any taxes that shall be imposed under the
laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territory on or
in connection with the execution, delivery or registration
thereof.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the A. 'ociation
SECTION 5.01. (i) If any event specified in paragraph
(a) or paragraph (c) of Section 5.02 of the Credit Regula-
tions shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty
days, or (ii) if any event specified in paragraph (b) of
Section 5.02 of the Credit Regulations shall occur and
shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the
Borrower, then, at any subsequent time during the continu-
ance thereof, the Association, at its option, may declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and
payable immediately, and upon any such declaration such
principal shall become due and payable immediately, any-
Thing in this Development Credit Agreement to the contrary
notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 6.01. The following event is specified as an ad-
ditional condition to the effectivene,s of this Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 8.01(b)
of the Credit Regulations, namely, that the consultants
referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of this Devel-
opment Credit Agreement shall have been retained.


﻿11
SEcTIoN 6.02. The date December 15, 1968 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 8.04 of the Credit
Regulations.
SECTION 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under
Sections 4.01, 4.02 and 4.03 of this Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate on the date on which this De-
velopment Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date
ten years after the date of this Development Credit Agree-
ment, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1973
or such other date as may from time to time be agreed
between the Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Credit Regulations.
For the Borrower:
Ministre des Finances et de 1'Economie
Lome
Republic of Togo
Alternative address for cables:
Minfinances
Lom6, Togo
For the Association:
International 'Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Alternative address for cables:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.


﻿12
SECTION 7.03. The Minister of Finance and Economy of
the Borrower is designated for the purposes of Section 7.03
of the Credit Regulations.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
By /s/ ALEXANDRE J. OHN
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssocIATIoN
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿13
SCHEDULE 1
Description of Project
The Project consists of the following:
I. A four-year highway maintenance program providing
for:
(a) The improvement of the efficiency of maintenance
operations and the training of maintenance per-
sonnel at all levels; and
(b) The purchase of maintenance and shop equipment.
II. Preinvestment studies by consulting engineers, con-
sisting of :
(a) Feasibility studies for the following road sec-
tions, totalling to about 450 kilometers:
(i) the Natchamba-Kabou-Awandjelo     road
(about 78 km long), North of Bassari;
(ii) the Lamakara-Ketao-Dahomey border road
(about 35 km long), East of Lamakara;
(iii) the Sokod6-Kambole-Sotouboua road (about
156 km long), East of the Blitta-Sokod6
highway;
(iv) the Yegue-Pagala-Langabou road (about
47 ki long), South of Blitta;
(v) the Elavagnon-Kouniohou road (about 55
km long), West of Atakpam6;
(vi) the Palime-Ghana road (about 13 km long),
West of Palim6; and
(vii) the Agou-Nuatja road (about 70 km long),
West of Nuatja; and
(b) Detailed engineering, and preparation of bidding
documents, for about 300 kilometers of road see-


﻿14
tions identified by the feasibility studies to be
of the highest priority, and acceptable to the
Association.
The Project is expected to be completed by December
31, 1972.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Allocation of the Proceeds of the Credit
Maximum Amounts
Expressed in Dollar
Category                                  Equivalent
A. Consultants' advisory services:
(1) Salaries, air fares, transport, office
furnishings, reports and bidding
documeits                          500,000
(2) Subsistence allowances                 80,000
B. Procurement of maintenance equipment
and spare parts                        1,700,000
C. Preinvestment studies:
(1) Feasibility studies                   700,000
(2) Detailed engineering and
bidding documents                   300,000
D. Unallocated                               420,000
Total    $3,700,000
Reallocation upon Change in Cost Estimates
1. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any
of the Categories A through C shall decrease, the amount
of the Credit then allocated to, and no longer required for,
such Category will be reallocated by the Association to
Category D.
2. If the estimate of the cost of the items included in any
of the Categories A through C shall increase, an amount
equal to the portion, if any, of such increase to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit will be allocated by the
Association, at the request of the Borrower, to such Cate-
gory from Category D, subject, however to the require-
ments for contingencies, as determined by the Association,
in refspect of the cost of the items in the other Categories.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement of Goods
1. With respect to all goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of this Development Credit Agreement, in accord-
ance with the allocation of proceeds of the Credit set out
in Schedule 2 thereof, the time interval referred to in
Section 3.1 of "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" dated February 1968 (here-
inafter referred to as the Guidelines), between the invita-
tions to bid and bid opening, shall be equal to at least sixty
days.
2. Prior to inviting bids with respect to items or groups
of items expected to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or more,
information concerning the advertising coverage, as well
as the bidding documents and the draft contracts shall be
submitted to the Association for its approval. Such bidding
documents shall state that the bidder must submit sepa-
rately one schedule of unit prices excluding duties and
taxes levied on the import of goods into the territory of
the Borrower, and another schedule of unit prices including
duties and taxes levied on the import of such goods.
3. Before awards of contracts are made with respect to
items or groups of items expected to cost the equivalent of
$10,000 or more, the Borrower shall send to the Associa-
tion for its approval an evaluation of the bids received
and the Borrower's proposals concerning the contract and
the award. The evaluation of bids shall be made on the
basis of the schedule of unit prices excluding duties and
taxes levied on the import of goods. If the Borrower pro-
poses to award the contract to other than the bidder offer-
ing the lowest evaluated bid, the reasons for such an excep-
tion to Section 3.9 of the Guidelines shall be stated. One
conformed copy of the contract for such goods, items, or
groups of items, shall promptly be sent to the Association.
4. Before placing orders for items or groups of items
expected to cost less than the equivalent of $10,000, the


﻿17
Borrower shall periodically send to the Association, for
its approval, lists of such items intended to be procured
without resort to competitive bidding, indicating the ex-
pected price of such goods and the intended suppliers
thereof.
5. Whenever a contract under the Project is awarded to
a supplier not registered in Togo, the Borrower shall facil-
itate the accomplishment by such supplier of all regulatory
formalities which may be required to enable it to carry out
such contract.


