Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
S ,Z2                                     7fY-19 
Report No. 11367-TA.
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TANZANIA
POWER VI PROJECT
APRIL 13, 1993
. . ,,    . :Y
',4         ,         ''.'...., t,'1  1  i.   - t.; .-;
Eastern Africa Department
Infrastructure Operations Divison
This document has a resricted distribution and may be used by reciplents only in the performance of
their offlicial doties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed wh0out Wodd Ba  authoizaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of Jauuary 193)
Currency Unit  = Tanzanian Shilling
Tsh 1.0 - US$ 0.003
US$ 1.0 = Tsh 350
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)    =    3.28 feet
I square meter (m2)    =    10.75 square feet
I hactare (ha)    =    2.47 acres
I cubic meter (m3)    =    35.3 cubic feet
1 kilovolt (kV)    =    1000 volts
I kilowatt hour (kWh)    =    1000 watt hours
1 megawatt (MW)    =    1000 kilowatts
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)    =    1 million kilowatt hours
1 megavolt ampere (MVA)          1000 kllovolt ampere.
- ,OSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
AIC     =    Average Incremental Cost
EA      =    Environmental Assessment
EIB     =    European Investment Bank
ESMAP       =    Joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector Management
Assistance Program
JICA     =    Japan Interrational Cooperation Agency
KfW      =    Kreditanstadt fUr Wiederaufbau
LRMC       =    Long Run Marginal Cost
MIS     =    Management Information System
MTNRE       =    Ministry of Tourism, Natural Resources and Envi.onment
MWEM        =    Ministry of Water, Energy, & Minerals
NORAD       =    Norwegian Aid Development
NUWA       =    National Urban Water Authority
ODA      =    Overseas Development Administration
PIP     =    Productivity Improvement Program
PPF     =    Project Pr_paration Facility
SADCC       =    Southern African Development Coordination Conference
STAMICO       =    State Mining Corporation
TAC      =    Tanzania Audit Corporation
TANESCO       =    Tanzania Electric Supply Company Ltd.
TIPER      =    Tanzaman & Italian Petroleum Refinery Company
TIRDO      =    Tanzania Industrial Research an Development Corporation
TPDC      =    Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation
Tn      =    TANESCO Technical Institute
ZSFPC      =    Zanzibar State Fuel and Power Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
Government: July I to June 30
TANESCO: January 1 to December 31



FOR OFF CLAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
Table of Conets
PMw No,
Credit and Project Summary        .................................   iv
I. THEE  NERGY SECrOR  .            ................................    1
Overview          1................................... 
Ecoomic Backgrund    1................................. 
Energy Resources ............................                                         1
Enery Constumption and Sources of Supply         .......................   3
Energy Efficiency and Demand Management ...................... .                      4
Organization of the Energy Sector .................. ...  ....    5
The Government's Energy Sector Objectives, Strategy and Policy  ......... .           6
Past Bank/IDA Participation in the Energy Sector .... ........ .                      8
Summary Impact of Past and Ongoing Bank Lnding, Sector Work and
Technical Assistance .................................   9
Lessons Learned in Past Power Project and Actions to Implement Them   .....  10
Rationale for Continued IDA Involvement ..........        ..        .............  12
II. THE BORROWER AND THE IMPLMENTING AGENCIES ....                              ..........  13
The Borrower  ..........................................   13
TANESCO  ............................................   13
ZSFPC   ..............................................   23
III. THE ELECRCITY SUB-SECTOR  ..............................  25
Overview  .............................................  25
Existig Power Sector Facilities ...............................  25
Access to Electricity ..................... - . -. - .26
Electricity Demand and Supply ....................                                  27
Power Systems L.................... 27
Hydropower Supply Constraint ...................   28
Load Forecast ..........................................  29
Capaity Balance ....................  30
Eny Balance ....................  31
Ihis report is baed on the findings of an appraisa mission which visited Tanznia in JuneJuly 199.
ne appraisal mission was led by Mr. Asaf Malk, Sr. Financl Analyst (AF6E. Ms. Paivi
Koijonen, Economist eSMPD), Mr. Alfred  ultne, St. Power Engineer (AFPTS), Mr. Anthony
Sparkes, Sr. Power Engineer, Mr. Reynaldo Castro, Financal Anayst (ARPM, Mr. Petter
Lanpeh, Sr. Peson   Officer, and Mr. Jack Mossp, Chief Peoel Officer  ?WFN) were the
additional mission members. Ms. Elisabeth Bd (AFIE) led the p-appal misn. Valuable
advice was received from Messrs. Barry Trembath (ASTEG) and Robert Tillman (AFrEN). Mr.
Bashar Ahmad, Ms. Fannie Goff, Ms. Dod1da Sidbe, Ms. Rona Cook and Mr. Scott Smith
provided seretarl sppor  Mr. Stephen Wesnuan (AMI)   and Mr. Francis Colaco (AP2DR) are
the managing Dsion Chief and Depatment Diretor.  he Pe Reviewer was Mr. Joseph Ghing.
[Tis document has a resticted distution and may be used by recipients -yin th  pefmane   of
their otficl duties. Its contes may not othewis be dcosedwhout wm . dd Bank authoriztion.



-Hi
1V.THINfVEsTMENTPROGRAMAND THE PRoJEcr ..................  33
hle IeStnemMPVn  ...............................                              33
Wors in P         .............................. 36
ComnittedPrOects ..............................                               36
The Project ..............................                                    36
PojectCostS ..............................                                    43
PIrojectFbising ..........                ....................   45
Compoxnentfor lmI4mentationbyTANESCO  .....            .....  ..........  47
Compouentsfor linlementaionbyZSFPC . ........................  49
Compoents for  l      aonbyMWM   . .......................  49
Procurem    ....................                                              SO
Project PrepuraonFaly(PPF) ....................   52
Disbrenens....2.................  52
Special Account.                  ................... 2
EvlrowntaAct.52..................... 52
ProjectRlsbb ......                                                            53
Projea MonitorgandSupervision .............................. 54
InterinmReview .........................................   54
V. FINANCALU ASPECTS AND COST RECOVERY ......................  55
Overview ...........                                                          55
Finanial Position and Ps Oting  ..55
AccountigaAudk .....................................  58
Non-Technical        adBR    ...........Losan.         ..................  58
Collections .........................................                         59
Tariffs, StIctue ad Leves        .................................   61
FutureFnancialOpeations andPoddon                       ..                    62
oposd Financing Plan ....................................  63
VI. PROJECT JUSTEFICATION AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .....                     .......... 65
Bkgrund .........................................                              65
Economic  trnd Rae of Retum for Conmonent In TANESCO's Investment
Program              ........................66
EwcnomicCostof the Inve nenwProgam   ........................  66
ProjectEcoomic Bendfts ...................................  66
SensitivityAnalysis .......................................    67
Averagnemental Econmic Cost of Etkricity                    .        .         68
Justfication of Mnazi Bay Development ..........................  68
VII. AGREEMfENTS REACHED AND RECO'IMENDATION  .....                      ...........  69
Schedule1 ............................................ 73
Annex1.1 HydrodectricPotundaofTanzank  ........                ..................  75
Annex 1.2 EneWy Bala (1ce      ) ..................................  76
Anex 2.1 TANESCO Mianagenent w              ........Struct...................  77
Annx 2.2 TANESCO Selected Peformae Idkos ......                     ...............  78
Annex 3.1 Sales, Geneadon, Los    and Peak Demand 1985-1990 ..............  79
Annex 3.2 Eectrty DeiniFoest ................................  80
Annx 3.3 Forecat Capacity and Energyw  B..........................  84
Anmex3.4 ExisthitG* raC tonFaclidesatEnd of1990  ..................             ..  85
Annex4.1 LeastCost oEfuasio          theP   syse  ......................  90
Anmn  4.2 TANESCO I                 System  nvesmn  Prgam   1992-1998 .93



- iii -
Annex 4.3 DetaWled Project rDescription  .............. .,                      94
Annex 4.4 Project Cost Estimates                    ..                         108
Annex 4.5 Procurement Packages  ................................. 129
Annex 4.6 Procurement Schedule (IDt Financed Pacdges)                        . 132
Annex 4.7 hIplementation Schedules ...............                             136
Annex 4.8 Monitoring Guidelines        ..145
Amnex 4.9 Estmated Schedule of Disbursements     ..146
Annex 4.10 Lower Kihansi Enviomenl Assessment Summary            . . .   147
Annex 4.11 Terms of Reference for Panel of Experts          .     .     .      156
Annex 5.1 TANESCO Tariff Structure (Jan 1992) .........    158
AnnexS.2 TANESCOIncomeStatements ... ...... 160
Amnex 5.3 TANESCO Sources and Application of Funds    .       ........ .... 161
Annex 5.4 TANESCO Balance Sheet .....................  162
Annex 5.5 TANESCO Financial Projections ...........              ......  163
Annex 6.1 Econonic Rate of Retun .......... 166
Annex 6.2 Evaluation of Economic Benefits ................  168
Annex 6.3 Cost Effectiveness of Mnazi Bay Developmet .........  173
Amnex 7.1 TANESCO Sttement of Policy ...           ...... 177
Amex 7.2 Possible Target Options for the Power Sector ..................... 179
Annex 8.1 TOR for Distbution Rehbilitation and Expansion .....        .... 186
Annex 8.2 TOR for Strengthening Distribuion Planning  .....1.... 
Annex 8.3 TOR for Corporate Planning .............1.9.........    .4
Anmex 8.4 TOR for Systems Manager .............................     ,196
Annex 8.5 TOR for Manement Consultat ............................  197
Annex 8.6 TOR for Manpower Consultant ............................. 199
Annex 8.7 TOR for PIP Consutant ........................                     ' 201
Annex 8.8 TOR for Study of Structre of Power Sector .....   ...........    .. 203
Annex 8.9 Selecd Docments in Project File       ...207
MAP: IBRD 22/62



POWER VI PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
lDorOwern                 Government of Tanzania
AmouLt                    SDR144.2 million (US$200 million equivalent)
Beneficiaries:            Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited (TANESCO);
Zanibar State Fuel and Power Corporation (ZSFPC);
Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals (MWEM).
Ten":                     IDA Standard Terms, with maturity of 40 years including 10 years
grace period. US$180 million will be relent to TANESCO at an
interest rate of not less than 7.43% per annum, to be repaid over 20
years including a grace period of 5 years, with TANESCO bearing the
exchange risk. US$2 million will be relent to ZSFPC with the same
terms. The balance, US$18 million will be passed on to MWEM as a
grant.
Project Objecves:        The man objectives of the project are to: (i) help meet the growing
demand for electricity at least cost; (ii) help the Government
retucture the power sector to promote efficiency and private
investment; (iii) continue improving energy efficiency by reducing
system losses, upgrading service quality, and suppordng demand sido-
mnanagement initiatives; (iv) provide traiiwig and technology to staff of
sector instituons; and (v) promote the development and operation of
gas-fueled generation by private investors.
Project Desciptio:        The project consists of three main parts: The first part, which
TANESCO will implement, includes: (i) the 180 MW first stge of
the Lower Kihansi hydroelectric scheme; (ii) expansion,
reinforcement, and loss reduction in the distribution systems of major
load centers; (iii) vehicles, tools, and meters to improve distrbution
and commercial operations; (iv) completion of rehabilitation of the
Kidau hydroelectric plant; (v) management support and training; (vi)
computeizd management information systems, and services to
support TANESCO's decentralized operations; (vii) studies including
tariffs, assets valuation, power system master plan, hydroelectric plant
feasibility, and distribution standards; (viii) demand side management
activities, including audits and advertising; (ix) upgrading of the
dispatch center; and (x) provision of workshop equipment. The
second part, which ZSFPC will implement, includes: (i) a study of
the operation of ZSFPC to define feasible options for its future
structure; (ii) a commercial manager to oversee commercial
operations until the completion of the utility restructuring; and (iii)
prepayment meters and associated materials to help improve
collections. The third part, which MWEM will implement, includes:



- vi -
(i) a study of the structure of the power sector and its associated
regulatory framework in Tanzania to define options for restrucring
to improve efficiency, and to explore ways of involving the private
sector; (ii) consulting services to promote private sector financing and
opertion of thermal generation using gas from Songo Songo; (iii)
development of generation (about 9 MW) from the Mnazi bay gasfeld
in a joint arrangemen with the Private Sector; and (iv) traiing and
office technology for energy staff of the ministry.
Beet and Risks:           The project wiUl help Tanznia meet additional dewand for power at
the least-cost, improve service quality, reduce losses and improve
planning and management of t&5 power sub-sector. The estimated
economic rate of return (ERR) of TANESCO's investment program,
of which the proposed project is a significant part, is 14 percent,
which is above the opportunity cost of capital m Tanzaia. Subantial
project management imputs by specialist consultants should help
minimize risks to the proposed project's implementation.
Nevertheless, because of Tanzania's overall economic situation and the
nature of the work, the tollowing present higher than usual risks: (i)
inancing for critical project components; (ii) delays in commissioning
the Lower Kihansi hydroelectric plant due to unforeseen geological
conditions; and (ini) difficulties in completing institutional reforms.
Financing: The Government and TANESCO expect cofinancing to
come from at least six tuItilateral and bilateral institutions other than
IDA. If problems occui, bccause of changing priorities of the
-nstitutions involved, IDA is prepared to reallocate resources from
other components to the Kihansi plant. Geological Conditions:
Because of the difficult terrain at the Lower Kihansi site, the
consultants have done only sufficient investigations to permit design,
costmg, and tendering, viewing the construction process as the final
definitive exploration and definition of subsimface conditions. An
Independent Panel of Experts endorsed this approach. If a delay in
commissioning becomes inevitable, TANESCO can respond by
increasing the capacity of short-delifery gas turbines it plans to install
prior to commissioning Kihansi. Institutional Reforms: The project
envisages significant institutional reforms, which are usually difficult
to implement because they affect control of the sector and often have
significant impacts on employment and personnel practices. The risk
of failure will be reduced by employing competent consultants,
maintaining a clear view of the fundamental objectives and carefully
crafting the transition to minimize any hannfil impact on the
stakeholders in the process. The other major risk is the perception of
country risks by potential investors whose participaxion will be an
integral part of sector reform. The Government's macro-economic
policy reform and its planned adoption of a well defined regulatory
framework along with IDA's continuing dialog with the Govermnent
should help reduce this risk.



- vii-
PM        oteign    Total
Lo0wer Kibansi                                 30.0       179.5      209.5
Distribution Improveme                          4.1        36.8       40.9
Generation RebIliton                            1.3        11.8       13.1
Eqipmn & Vehicles                               0.3         6.0        6.3
Institutional & Studies                         1.7        20.6       22.3
ZSFPC Component
Assistnce to ZSFPC                              0.0         1.7        1.7
MWEM Cftm_nt
Power Sector Study                              0.0         0.8        0.8
<was Field Development                          0.0        15.6       15.6
Technical Assistance                            0           Q           Q
Total Base Cost                                 37.4       273.7       3i
Physical Cowingencies                           3.9        24.3       28.2
Price Contingecies                              1.9        42.5       44.4
Total Project Cost                              43          34A        38.
Interest During Const.                         56.7         0.0       56.7
Total 1_andu Required                           22,        340        44Q



- viii -
ElSoect Pinanine Flan
USS Million Equivalen
Lacal     Foreign    Total
TANESCO                                          99.9                    99.9
IDA                                                          200.0      200.0
NORAD I/                                                      51.3       51.3
EIBW g                                                        24.0       24.0
KfW ^/                                                        35.3       35.3
OD.A                                                           3.1        3.1
Govt. of Belgium Al                                           14.3       14.3
DANJDA Al                                                      3.9        3.9
PRIVATE                                                        3.0        3.0
OTHER                                                          5.6        5.6
TOTAL                                            22.9        340.5      44A,4
Ai To be confrmed. Discussions with these cofinmciers are ongoing.
ES1TIMATED DISBURSEMENT OPWIA RDff
IDA FY       1993   1994   1995   1996    1997         1998     1999    2000
Annual       0.8     10.2   44.0    51.2    44.4    29.5         14.7    5.2
C3mmulative  0.8     11.0   55.0   106.2   150.6    180.1    194.8   200
Economic Rate of Return: 14% on TANESCO portion of the poject



I. THE ENERGY SECTOR
1.1   The following review provides the energy sector seting and selected macroeconomic indicators
which support IDA's rationale for involvement in the proposed project. There are three main themes that
emerge from this o-verview. First, recent economic teforms have promoted GDP growth. These results
provide an encouraging famewcrk for achieving the institutional objectives of the proposed project and
related sector reforms, including possible privatization of certain segmeans of Tanzania Electric Supply
Company Limited (TANESCO), the government-owned electric power utility. Second, the power system
currently is operating under a severe supply constraint. The proposed project will help develop
Tanzania's substanmi hydropower resources and increase power supply at least cost. Third, the project
includes components which build on past and ongoing measures to support IDA's policies and standards
for efficient utility operation in Tanzania.
Economic Background
1.2   Tanzania is located on the east coast of Africa and includes the islands of Zanzibar and Pemba in
the Indian Ocean. The country is predominantly agricuiw. l with a population of about 25 milion
growing at a high rate of three percent per year. With a per capita GNP of only US$100 in 1991,
Tazania is one of the 25 poorest countries in the world. During the 1970s and first half of the 1980s, all
important sectors of the economy declined. This decline led to widespread shortages of essential goods
and services along with a rapidly deteriorating infrastttcture. Inflation, as measured by the consumer
price index, fluctuated between 10 percent and 35 percent per year. The Government took various steps
to stem the decline, first, through a modest structural adjustment program in 1982, and then tbrough a
more radical Economic Recovery Program in 1985. These reform programs resulted in an improved
GDP growth rate of about 4.5 percent per year over the 1986-1990 period, a major reversal from the
virtual stagnation of the economy in the early 1980s, when the growth rate was only 0.7 percent per year.
E =r Resources
1.3 Tanzania has substantial and diverse energy resources, but their exploitation is relatively low. In
addition to large but unevenly distributed wood resources, the country has substantial coal deposits in the
southwestern region, estimated at about two billion tons, of which 300 million tons are proven.
Significant, proven, offshore natural gas deposits, totalling 72S billion cubic feet (bcf), are located near
Songo Songo island some 220 kilometers south of Dar es Salaam. Another gas deposit of about 20 bcf is
located at Mnazi Bay, north of the Mozambique border. Despite active oil exploration in the Rift Valley
and offshore, there has been no commercially viable oil discovery. Tanzania's hydro potential is
estimated at 3,800 megawatts M.
1.4    Wood Fuel. One td of Tanzania's land area consists of woodland or forest amounting to some
28 millon hectares (ha). Of this total, about 13 million ha are protected forest reserves and the
remainder is public land. The vast majorky is miombo woodland-scattered, slow-growing indigenous
hardwood trees and bushes. Softwood plantations cover a total of 70,000 ha. Estimates of the country's
sustainable wood supply range from 61 million i3 per year by the Joint UNDP/World Bank Energy



-2 -
Sedor Managemlent Assistn  Pgam  (ESMAP) to 150 million m3 per year by the Souhern African
Development woordination Conference (SADCC) 'uelwood Study. Although etmted nadonal
woodfuel consumption is lower than these figures, the rate of consumption clearly exceeds that of
sustinable supply in certain areas, principally those with heavy concenration of population and
agricultural activity, such as around Dar es Salaam, Kilimanjaro, Dodoma and Mwanza, and the semi-arid
central regions of Tabora and Shinyanga. In these areas, sustainable wood supply is declining due to
pressures from agricultual extension and, to a lesser extent, wood use for energy and constuction. A
tradition of free wood-gathering, uncertain land tenure, and weak agricultural extension services is
limiting the application of more effective supply management and supply-enhancement progmns.
1.5   Natural Gas. There are offshore naur gas discoveries near Songo Songo island, about 20 km
off the coast and 220 km south of Dar es Salaam, and at Mnazi Bay, near the Mozambiqve border. In
addition, there are potental gas-bearing structures at Nyuni, Songo Songo West and Barakuni. Songo
Songo's proven reserves are 725 bef and probable reserves are about 1 trillion cubic feet. Gas reservoir
evaluation, pipeline feasibility and gas utilization studies, completed in the late 1980s and early 1990s
with IDA and Canadian assistance, concluded that the most economic uses for gas are for power
generation and industial use in Dar es Salaam. Two private gas development companies are exploring
the possibility of exporting gas-enerated power to Kenya, but a firm export contract has not yet resulted.
Also, a recent evaluation of the Mnazi Bay field, with IDA assistance, concluded that the field has
potential for fueling small-scale power generation to serve the neighboring market, which currenty
depends on burning imported diesel oil.
1.6 Oil. Although Tanzania has numerous oil-bearing samrtures, after a drilling program of about 23
exploratory wells there have been no oil discoveries. However, intensive exploration of the Rift Valley
and the Coastal Sediment ry Basin has shown promising results and the Government is contimuing its
efforts to promote further exploration by attractng private sector interest. For this purpose, there is a
comprehensive exploration promotion package, with IDA support, under the ongoing Petroleum Sector
Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 1604-TA). Following exploration promotion meetings held in 1989,
several companies expressed possible interest in further oil exploration, but no signifcant new activity has
occurred.
1.7 Coal. Tanzania's estimated total resources are two billion tons of sub-bituminlous and bitwninous
coal. Reserves of about 300 million tons are proven. There has been a detailed investigation of two coal
fields in Southwestern Tanzania, Songwe-Kiwira and Ketewake-Mchuchuma. Currenly there are two
underground mines operating with identified reserves of about 30 million tons. The larger, mechanized
mine, Kiwira (developed with assistance from the People's Republic of China), started production in 1988
and is designed to produce 150,000 tons per year (tpy). The capacity of the equipment currently installed
there, however, corresponds to an actual production capability of about 100,000 tpy. The lima mine is
smaller and older, with a production rating of 10,000 tons per year by manual mning techniques. In
practice, production is sporadic and seldom exceeds 2,000 tpy. Its reserves are nearly exhausted,
although exploitation of an adjacent block of reserves could be possible.
1.8   Hvdr . Tanzan  has hydropower sites with an estimated power production capacity of
3,800 MW and 22,000 GWh of firm annual energy. Of the current installed generating capacity of 474
MW, 334 MW is hydro. A further 66 MW is under construction at Pangani Falls. The current unit at
Pangani has an installed capacity of 18 MW but is operating at only 13 MW. The retirement of this unit
at the commissioning of the new unit in 1996 will result in a net capacity addition of 53 MW. Most of



-3 -
the hydro sites are located on the easten wp of the mountaine that nm down the center of Tanzania.
These sites are reatively smll and far from the main consumion ceners, such as Dar es Salaam. As a
result, the need to transmit power over long distances raies technical losses and reduces the reliability of
supply. Annexes 1.1 and 3.4 provide the deails of hydro potential and of installed and available power
generation capacity.
Energy Cmdon and Sour  of Suppi
1.9   Estimated total energy consumpton (1990) is 11.4 million tons of oil equivalent (toe) or 0.5 toe
per capita. Per capita consumption of commercial energy was about 0.04 toe, which is considerably
lower than the average 0.07 toe for low-income, Sub4ahaan Africa. Approximately 92 percent of total
energy cornsumed was woofuel, 7 percent was petroleum products and 1 percent electricity. Table 1.1
summ=a   the respective shares of each end-use sector in consumption of total energy compared to those
for commercial energy.
rable 1.1 Eneg Conumti  by Consumer Catry
Percent of             Percent of
Category                            Total(*)           com ial
Industry                               6.7                   31.3
Trnsport                               2.7                   31.5
Agriculre                              5.3                    98
Household                             84.2                   20.6
Comnmce & Others                       1.1                    6.8
TOt                                    100                    100
'a' Tota enay include5 woodfie and residis.
1.10  WYLo1. Esimaed total primary consumption of woodfuel (1990) is about 43 million n3, of
which 90 percent was firewood, and the balance charcoal. Regions with a deficit of woodfuel supply are
using agricultural residues as fuel, with resulting adverse conequences for soil fertility. Despite donor-
supported afforestation efforts, supply shortfals coud worsen in these areas and further action is needed
to Icrease tree planting and to implement wood conservation measures. An IDA Forest Resources
Management Project (Cr. 2335-TA) is addressing some of the supply issues. Furthermore, the Power
Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1687-TA) has provided assistance to manuacue and disseminate more
efficient woodfuel stoves. However, additional support is required for country wide diss ion of
energy conservation measr  for woodfuels.
1.11   Eole    Products. Imports of crude oil and refined petroleum products totalled 1,066 metric
tons in 1990, represting about 40 percent of foreign exchange earing, amounting to US$528 million
in fiscal year 90/91. Of these impots, 623,000 tons were cride oil for processing at the Dar es Salaam
reiery, and the balance was refined products. In addition, 128,000 tons were reexported as residual
fuel oil or bunkers while refiery own-use and losses amounted to 62,000 tons. Diesel and gas oil
accounted for the largest share of total petroleum product consumption, about 45 percent; kerosene and



-4-
jet fuel had the second largest share of consumption, about 25 percent, while gasoline and fuel oil
consumption each amounted to about 15 percnt of the total. The refinery also produces about 4,000 tons
of LPG for local sale. The high proportion of refmed products imports to total supply is due to a
mismatch between the refinery output nix and the structure of product demand, 70 percent of which is
for middle distillates (diesel, gas oil and kerosene). The structure of petroleum product consumption by
end use sector is as follows: transport, 40 percent; industry, 25 percent; and households, 20 percent.
The agriculture and the service sectors account for the balance, i.e. 15 percent.
1.12 Electricity. Electricity generation totalled 1,629 GWh in 1990 with corresponding sales of 1,304
GWh. Compared to 1989, total generation increased by 8 percent and sales by 13 percent. The
interconnected system, which consists mosdy of hydroelectric units, generated 1,565 GWh, amounting to
96 percent of the total, and the remaining 4 percent of generation (64 GWh) came from small, isolated
systems. With assistance under the Power Rehabilitation Project, TANESCO reduced estimated losses in
the system from 25 percent to about 21 percent of net generation. The proposed project will address the
issue of losses further, in conjunction with system rehabilitation work. Peak demand in 1991 was 297
MW, an increase of 4 percent over 1990.1/ Industry and commerce accounted for 54 percent of
consumption and residential consumers for 31 percent. Agriculture, water pumping, public lighting and
bulk sales to Zanzibar accounted for the remaining 15 percent. Currenly, the system is operating under a
severe supply constraint due to recent drought conditions affecting hydropower availability (para 4.2).
1.13  Coal. Total sales of Tanzanian coal were about 16,000 tons in 1990. The major coal consumers
are the Mbeya Cement Company (MCC), Southern Paper Mills (SPM) and the tea industry, all located
near the mines. The total consumption of coal in Tanzania totalled 75,000 tons, most of which Tanzania
imports from Zambia The low demand for Tanzanian coal results from its high ash content and its
inconsistent quality which does not meet industrial requirements. So, despite the existence of extensive
coal reserves, Tanzania imports much more coal than it produces. The potential for increased production
of better quality coal to displace imported coal is therefore an important consideration in the development
of Tanzania's energy sector.
E =,a Efficiency and Demand Management
1.14 A recent ESMAP study of efficiency in the energy use of large industrial energy consumers
concluded that there is considerable scope for low-cost energy efficiency improvement, and owitlined a
related program of action. The Tanzania Industrial Research and Development Organization (TIRDO),
which collaborated in the ESMAP work, has done some fobow-up work on the recommendations of the
study. But additional incentives for industries to increase energy efficiency are required.
1.15 ESMAP has recently received funds for the preparation of a demand side management strategy for
Tanzania. TANESCO and the Myiistry of Water, Energy and Minerals (MWEM) will jointly formulate
the strategy which will focus on improving the efficiency of electricity use by the major industrial an.
commercial consumers. The proposed project wfll finance the implementation of the strategy. IDA and
TANESCO have agreed that TANESCO will produce, by December 31, 1993, a detiled plan of action
1/    The peak in 1991 was truncated by load shedding.



for a demand management program acceptable to IDA (Schedule 1).2/ Distortions in energy pricing
have hampered efficiency improvement efforts for a long time, but the Goveranent has also started to
bring petroleum and electricity prnces into line with the full economicz cost of supply. In the traditional
energy market, IDA and several bilateral donors have supported measures to increase the efficiency of
woodfuel use e.g. through development of more efficient charcoal stoves and kilns and improvement of
the efficiency of woodfuel use in small industries.
Oranization of the Ener' 1j;s
1.16  The Government cwti:f'-y plays a dominant rote wa establishing and implementing energy policy.
The MWEM is responsible wor policy on hydrocarbons, electricity, energy efficiency (including woodfuel
conservation) and coal. The Ministry of Lands, Tourism and Natural Resources (MLTNR) is responsible
for forestry and fuelwood supply. In addition to their policy fornmlation responsibilities, the miistries
also oversee the activities of the organizations operating in the energy sector. In the case of MWEM, the
most important of these are TANESCO, the Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC), the
State Mining Corporation (STAMICO) and the Tanzan and Italian Petroleum Refinery Company
(PER).
1.17  Within MWEM, the Department of Energy handles energy sector maes. The Department is
responsible for national energy planning and policy review, evaluation of energy projects, energy pricing
and oversight of TANESCO and TPDC. The Head of the Deparnment is the Commissioner for Energy
and Petroleum Affairs. The current orgamization has divisions for petrolemn, electricity, new and
renewable energy resources and national energy planning and policy making. The Department has about
30 professional staff.
1.18 TANESCO, established in 1931, is the major power company operating in Tanzania (para 2.2).
it became the national power utility in 1964 and since then has been responsible for all power generation.
ransmission and distribution throughout mainland Tanzania. Although TANESCO exports electricity to
zanzibar through an interconnecting submarine cable, a separate authority, the Zanzibar State Fuel and
Power Corporation (ZSFPC), administers power distribution within Zanzibar.
1.19 The initial role of TPDC, established in 1969, was to cooperate with AGIP, an Italian oil
company, in oil exploration. But in 1977, the govermment expanded TPDC's role to cover all oil
exploration activities, the import of crude oil and oversight of refining and bulk sales. TPDC has 50
percent ownership of TIPER, the oil refinery company, and fity percent ownership of two of the five
established petroleum distribution companies operating in the country: BP Tanzania and AGIP Tanzaia.
2/    SADCC is planning an electricity demand side management project for the SADCC region.
Within this project, TANESCO will have the opportunity, in collabortiton with other SADCC
utilities, to investigate and develop additional utility demand side management programs.



-6-
The Gover_ment's EnerQv Sector Objectives. Strateav and Policy
1.20  The Government's seven broad objectives in the energy sector are to: (i) exploit the country's
considerable hydroelectric resources; (ii) develop and utilize other indigenous energy sources, such as
coal and natural gas; (iii) increase petroleum exploration activities; (iv) arrest forest depletion; (v)
ensure reliability and security of energy supply; (vi) minimize energy price fluctuations; and (vii)
develop the country's human resources in the energy sector.
1.21 Exploitation of Hvdroelectric Resources. During the past two years, about 95 percent of
electricity generation has come from hydroelectric sources, with the balance coning from diesel oil. This
situation has began to change, however, due to the severe drought conditions of recent years and the
consequent reduction of hydro generation (para 4.2). In 1992, an esdmated 18 percent of totl generation
came from thermal sources. The least-cost expansion of the power system during this decade will
continue to include exploitation of Tanzaia's hydro potential. The next major generation plant will be
the 53 MW Pangani hydro-electric redevelopment scheme, which is scheduled to come on stream in 1996.
The proposed project would follow this with the 180 MW Lower Kihansi hydro scheme in 1998. The
Government also is emphasizing the expansion of the derconnected transmission and distribution system
to make electricity available to most of the major populaion centers by the year 2005.
1.22 Develooment of Other Enerey Resources. The Governument will focus its strategy to develop non-
hydro energy resources during the 1990s on exploitation of the Songo Songo natural gas reserve.
Assuming the development of this field for the domestic market, the current plan is to transport gas by
pipeline to Dar es Salaam by 1998/99 for use in fueling a gas-fired power generation plant, and to
displace fuel oil and diesel in large industrial plants. An acceleration of field development and pipeline
construction could occur under two conditions: (i) to displace diesel fuel for around 100 MW of gas
turbines that will be necessary before the Lower Kihansi hydro plant is commissioned; or (ii) if a viable
power export contract with Kenya can be developed. TANESCO's planning consultants concluded in
earlier studies that the least-cost means of meeting power demand after completion of Lower Kihansi is
gas-fired thermal generation usiog gas from Songo Songo.3/ The proposed project includes a study to
re-examime the least-cost sequence in light of several new developments. These include the role of the
gas turbines that are being installed prior to Lower Kihansi, the possibility of increasing peaking capacity
at Kihansi up to 300 MW at low incremental cost, and at least two new candidate hydro plants which the
project will study to the feasibility level. The study also will include an update of the load forecasting
models and consider the potentl impact of demand management. In addition, the Government plans to
develop the Mnazi Bay naural gas field (para 1.3). The proposed project includes a scheme to bring the
gas field into production and generate electricity, using small gas turbines, to supply surrounding towns.
In addition to options for gas use, the Govermment plans to identify further markets for coal, particularly
in the Mbeya area, to better utilize the capacity of the Kiwira coal mine.
1.23  Petoleum       o . IDA assisted Tanzania in preparng a petroleum exploration promotion
package whieh was presented to the oil industry in 1989. This has stimultd some futher interest, in
addition to the exploration activities already underway or planned in southern Tanzania and off-shore at
yI    The addition of relatively low-ost, flexible, gas-fired capacity to the hydro-based system is both
economic and environmentally atactive: gas is a clean buming fuel and can back up hydro
supply in dry years.



-7-
Mafia Island. In view of the heavy drain of petroleum im   on Tanzn's scarce foreig exchange
resources, the Governmen plans to continue an active exploration promotion effort with the goal of a
viable oil discovery.
1.24 Wogdfgel Deoletion. Localized depletion of Tanzania's wood resources has serious implications
for energy, environmental and agricultral policy. Both the use of woodfuel and land clearing for
agricultural expansion have greatly depleted the country's forests. Growing energy demand is
contributing significanly to the depletion. The Government's strategy is to tackle the problems of
shriking supply and rising demand for woodfuel simultaneously. The emphasis in supply policy is on
improved management of existing forests and woodlands and increased vi1lage planting on farms.
Clarifying resource ownership and improving the collection of wood fees are two essential steps in the
process. On the demand side, the Government, with IDA support, is introducing and promodng efficient
charcoal stoves and charcoal production tecniques as well as encouraging wood buning industries to
increase their energy efficiency. Although the scope for wood substtution is limited, expansion of the
power system and of coal utilization will make a marginal contribution to reducing woodfuel demand.
1.25 Reliability and Sec;ritY of EnemQV SUDpIy. The Government's major policy goals are to improve
the reliability and reduce the cost of petroleum products distribution, which IDA is supporting through the
petroleum Sector Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2202TA). In addition, the Government, with support from
]DA, has focussed on improving the reliability of power supply, which was the major objective of the
Power Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1687-TA) and will continue this work under the Project, through the
reinforcement of the distribution system.
1.26 Energy Prices. The Government has set a uniform price for petroleum products to meet social
objectives. This has resulted in significant inter-regional cross subsidies and periodic petroleum product
shortages in some of the more isolated areas, due to the reluctance of the distributors to extend supplies to
areas where fiull cost recovery is not possible. The ongoing Petroleum Sector Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 2202-TA) is addressing this issue. Also the government recendy increased petroleum prices. In
electric power, the Government is committed to setting tariffs to cover TANESCO's financial costs,
generate a reasonable return on its investments, and to reflect the long-run economic cost of supply
(LRMC). In 1988 TANESCO received government permission to raise tariffs every six months in order
to achieve the financial objectives. The increases, however, have not been sufficient to compensate for
the contined devaluation of the Tanzanian currency or to raise the rates to the level of economic supply
costs. TANESCO recently raised its taifs substtally and has agreed with IDA that it will increase the
average tariff level again in mid 1993, and adjust them to offset inflation (para 5.24), while awaiting the
results of tariff study under the proposed project.
1.27  Human Resource Developm . The development of human resources will remain largely the
responsibility of the energy organizations themselves, particularly TANESCO, TPDC and a proposed gas
utility, when established. The Govenment plans to complement the traing efforts of these organizations
with expanded teaching of energy and environmental analysis in the schools and universities. The
proposed project will complement this effort by financing further training of TANESCO and MWEM
staff.



-8-
Past Bank/IDA Participation in the Energy Sector
1.28 Electric Power. The Bank Group has long been involved in Tanzania's power sector. The first
Bank loan (518-TA) to TANESCO was for US$5.2 million in 1969, to meet projected power demand
during 1970-71, by adding 20 MW of diesel generating capacity to the system. The Bankl made the
second power loan (715-TA) of US$30 million in 1970 to help finance the first phase of the Kdatu Hydro
Project, with a capacity of 102 MW, located on the Great Ruaha River. The project also financed the
expansion of diesel capacity by 15 MW, and construction of a transmission line from Kidatu to Dar es
Salaam. A third window loan (1306-TA) of US$30 million, which the Bank approved in 1976 to finance
the second phase of the Kidatu development, involved the construction of an upstream dam at the Mtera
site and the addition of 102 MW generating capacity at Kidatu. TANESCO completed all three projects
broadly within their orginal construction schedules, though there were cost overruns in the second and
third power projects, due mainly to unexpectedly bad rock conditions encountered during the excavation
and the higher than anticipated interational inflation that affected the cost of civil works. 4/ The Bank
Group provided supplementary funds to cover the cost overruns (US$5 million for Power 11 and US$7
million for Power Im). In 1983, the Bank approved Credit 1405-TA for US$35 million equivalent to
partly finance the Fourth Power Project. This US$160 million project comprised the construction of an
80 MW power plant and related civil works at Mtera, the constuction of a national control center,
tainng and management planning and pricing studies. TANESCO completed the project in 1991 and a
project completion report (PCR) is in a draft phase. The Power Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1687-TA)
included the rehabilitation of the generating plant, transmission and distribution facilities, engineering
services, training and the introduction of energy-efficient charcoal stoves and kilns. The credit for this
project closed in 1992, and a PCR is being prepared. In early 1992, IDA approved the Power
Engineering and Technical Assistance Project (Cr. 2330-TA), which includes detailed engineering studies
and preparation of the bid documents for the proposed Lower Kibansi hydropower scheme, along with
modern billing and accounting systems and associated training.
1.29  Proleu. In the petroleum subsector, IDA provideL three credits for exploration (Cr. 527-TA,
Cr. 1199-TA and Cr. 1604-TA). The first, for US$30 million in 1980, was for the initial phase of the
Songo Songo exploration program. The second, in 1982 for US$20 million, was to fiance the second
phase of the program. The combined driling program resulted in the discovezy of natural gas reserves.
Tanzania, Zaire, Burundi and Uganda completed an aeromagnetic survey, financed in the context of
existing World Bank Group technical assistance projects, in each of these countries. The Bank also
sponsored a seismic reconnaissance program over Lake Tanganyika that confirmed the findings of the
aeromagnetic survey. In 1985, the Bank approved the third credit, a Petroleum Sector Technical
Assistance Credit for US$8 million. This credit also has financed a workover of the Songo Songo gas
wells, a domestic gas utilization study, and a petroleum product distribution study. In addition, the Credit
has helped Tanwania to: (i) prepare a comprehensive exploration promotion package; (ii) reconfirm gas
reserves; (iii) prepare the Petroleum Pricing Policy Study; (iv) evaluate the domestic gas pipeline
option; and (v) improve the capability of local staff through training. The Bank approved a Petroleum
Sector Rehabilitation Credit (para 1.26) early in 1991, to help improve facilities for the bulk handling,
internal transport and storage of petroleum products.
4/    Project Completion Report No. 4622 (Loan 1306-TA) June 1983.



-9-
1.30 Cal. A Coal Engineering Project (Cr. 1371-TA) ended in 1991. The project provided the
Governmet with updated geological infomation, assisted with the exploration and delineation of reserves
to extend the life of the Ilima colliery, and strengthened the manpower capabilities of MWEM and
STAMICO.
1.31   Technc  Assistance. In 1984, ESMAP completed a comprehensive analysis of the energy sector
(Issues and Options in the Energy Sector, Report No. 4969-TA). The Government has implemented
several of its reconmendations, including the formation of a Department of Energy within MWEM and
an analysis of gas utilization options. ESMAP has subsequently assessed the options for energy efficiency
improvement in industries and has identified components of a possible forestry project to increase the
supply of woodfuel. An ESMAP Power Loss Reduction and Distribution Expansion Study (199011991)
introded modem distribution plannig techniques, successfully trained TANESCO staff in their use, and
assisted TANESCO in preparing an action plan to reduce both technical and non-technical losses. This
assistance helped in the preparation of the Power Engineering and Technical Assistance Project (para
1.28) and has helped to identify the distribution components of the proposed project.
Sumar Imgact of Past and On,oing Bank Lendina. Sector Work and Technical Assistance
1.32 Development of an Energy Planning Capability. The Bank, through an energy assessment, helped
establish the Energy Department of MWEM, which is responsible for national planning, among other
functions (para 1.17).
1.33 Identification of Potential Energa Savings Through Demand Manaaement. The ESMAP study
(para 1.15), in cooperation with MWEM and TANESCO, will help defme an appropriate electricity
demand management strategy for Tanzania. Furthermore, the Bank, through ESMAP, has identified
significant potential energy savings through low-cost improvements in the end-use efficiency of large-scale
ndustrial consumers, but further work, including energy audits, an examination of incentives, etc., will
be necessary to achieve a better grasp of expected net benefits.
1.34 Transfer of Mana_ement and Technical Skills. Through substantial training support to the power
sector, and more recently to the petroleum sector, Tanzanian nationals are playing a much greater role in
the management and operation of public sector energy enterprises, reducing the number of expatriate
suaff.
1.35 Promotion of Petroleum Exploration with Private or Donor Risk Capital. IDA, through several
credits, also has been instrumental in establishing a petroleum sector exploration program, finanm
largely by either international oil companies or outside donors. The major result so far has been the
discovery of commercial-scale gas deposits which, after development of the necessary infrastructure, will
make a sigifican contribution to Tanzamia's energy supply and possibly earn the country foreign
exchange through exports.
1.36 Expansion of the Electric Power System at Least Cost. A succession of loans and credits (para
1.28) has helped transform the power sector, on a least-cost basis, from a small, diesel-based operation to
a substantial, hydro-based power system with a record of good technical performance.



- 10-
1.37  Idenifwaton and Inmlemention of mprovements to TANESCO's Operational Efficiency. The
Bank. hrough an ESMAP study, has helped TANESCO determine system losses and develop a program
of awvities to minimize them. The ESMAP study identified the main cause of the technical losses as
deficiencies in the tram ion system and recodmmeed reactive power compensation equipment in
both the transmission and distribution systems to reduce losses. An important aspect of the ESMAP study
was close cooperation with TANESCO staff and an emphasis on training counterpart staff in the
techniques and methodologies of distrbution system planning. To facilitate this process, in the course of
the study, TANESCO established a distribution system planning unit to collect and analyze power
distribution network data. This unit has now become a regular part of the organizational structure. The
ESMAP study also investigated the non-technical losses in the system and found their principal causes to
be unmetered supplies, defective metering, meter reading errors and deficiencies in the system of billing
and collecting payments for electricity used. The study recommended that TANESCO establish a task
force to conduct a country-wide program of reducing non-technical losses based on a program of
prioritized actions to ensure proper connection registration and billing of all customers.
1.38 Based on ESMAP study findings on non-technical losses, IDA provided TANESCO with a Credit
for a Power Engineering and Technical Assistance (TA) Project in 1992 (para 1.28) to correct some of
the deficiencies identified in commercial operations, and established an improved accounting system. For
overall commercial operations, the TA will help TANESCO provide high-quality customer service, bill all
of its customers on time, manage non-technical losses and collect the money customers owe the utility on
time. The TA for the accounting system will replace the existing system with one that produces accurate,
timely accounting and management information consistent with internationally accepted electric utility
accountig principles. The new system also will include modem computer software for managing all
aspects of electric utility accunting, including payroll and employee accounts, materials management,
cost accounting, debt, etc.
1.39 Productivitv Incentive Program (PIPM. TANESCO began a program in 1991 to reduce the surplus
work force through severance packages and provided incentives, such as bonus programs, to encourage
higher productivity among renaining staff. The program resulted in better employee atndance and some
reduction in costs (para 2.31). However, after a period of initial success, there was a relaxation of
productivity. Therefore the proposed project will provide for technical assistance to monitor further
progress under the progrm.
Lessons Learned in Past Power Projects and Actions to nplemrent Them
1.40 IDA has reviewed the major lessons leamned from past experience with power projects in Tanzania
and has incoworated them into the design and implementation framework of the proposed Project. The
lessons focus mainly on improvements to technical design, project cost estimation, financing
arrangements, the bidding an contracting process, meeting TANESCO's financial objectives and
strengtheing the skills of TANESCO staff. Box 1.1 outlines these lessons, along with actions IDA has
proposed to incorporate in the project framework.



- 11-
flgjfl  Major Lessons Leaed From Past Power Projects and
Actions to Implement Them
ON l~~U. thoogh   a            e_iew o ethe disi work live arisLFor aydoe-twI
IxJ*p   uma #0  t w qmfta byevm* *Ol
-Id Of pmlh DoNSPter t ndfirt _wIdd to revew poInt d*I r
:' Y          r ~~~~~~~.euterlatueout esiteto .ne  thatthe are relU.
A        C     _ JfbAd        t_pc s                         _ . ,!.-:.J,'.E-u,. -1S 
|     ~~~0 21* Oaem           S  .tC  re he aIen  slgdcninet cm  t   *
2XYXS~~~~~~~uleisM (putat:nerodoitt uaEigefth&wMb
t"~~~6m'l 7 =      ==V
.-s.        .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O-Oi 
A-'th.p..U4.*t.i. .     gro.p.ter .       ofa.pe$oz.e.*ct..to
, -::0YN# hare. -8 ttpe.. -k--W -, wtlhastt. - mtfh . A.o -h .ema - s
~~~~ if tsffd *tlc wM 0fi*n*U                            A. :P  .':46, 
Af. o#   amstms                    $20 no; .           US         M    e  A
UI,IWSv_''\    . l
f5=:==lhlf3fdf d=r7
AWi 



- 12 -
Rationale for Continued IDA Involvement
1.41   As a result of the Government's economic recovery efforts. Tanzania's per capita GlDP has grown
at appreciable levels for the past six years. Furthermore, the Government has initiated several reforms in
parastatal enterprises including some privatization and, in this context, recognizes the need to increasw
TANESCO's autonomy for improved productivity and to promote greater private sector participation in
the power sector. These developments promise an improvement in the future operating environment for
TANESCO, which IDA supports. Hence, IDA's objectives in remaining active in the energy sector are
the promotion of:
*     energy supply expansion based on least-cost criteria, consistent with available financial
and foreign excharge resources.
*     efficient domestic energy resource development and end use.
*     sound fmancial management and financial planning for energy enterprises through
appropriate pricing policies and prudent capital structures.
3     capable national energy planning and management through training, studies and technical
assistance.
*     promotion of efficient structural reform, including privatization of selected energy sector
activities.
1.42 The proposed project will directly serve the five IDA objectives outlined above. Also, it will
continue the process of least-cost power system development by financing the Lower Kihansi
hydroelectric scheme, the next major hydro project in the least-cost generation expansion program, on a
timetable consistent with the need for additional generating capacity. Through a series of generation,
transmission and distribution rehabilitation measures, combined with the promotion of end-use efficiency,
the proposed project will ensure efficient use of existing power facilities and investment in new facilities.
The credit will also finance a study of the long-run marginal cost of power supply, which should result in
a power tariff that reflects the future economic cost of supply. The introduction of systematic corporate
planning and a computerized management information system should help improve the flow of critical
performance data and strengthen management control. Finally, the proposed project's components for
insttutional strengthening should help improve TANESCO's operating performance and financial results,
in line with sector reform policies which include promotion of the privatization of parts of TANESCO's
operations.
1.43 Continued IDA assistance to Tanzania's energy sector includes a gas project scheduled for the
mid-199Os. The proposed project would facilitate private sector involvement in gas production, treatment
and transport from Songo Songo to Dar es Salaam, construction of a gas-fired power station, development
of a gas grid to serve industrial enterprises in the Dar es Salaam neighborhood, conversion of industries
from oil to indigenous natral gas, and the establishment of a gas utility, preferably with private
participation.



II. THE BORROWER AND THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES
The Borrowr
2.1   The Governmen  of Tanzania would be the Borrower of the proposed IDA credit of SDR 144.2
million (US$ 200 million equivalent). The implementing agencies for the Borrower are the Tanzaia
Electric Supply Company Limited, the Zanzibar State Fuel and Power Company (ZSFPC) and the
Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals (MWEM).
TANESCO
2.2 Backeround. TANESCO, the govermment-owned power utility, originally was a private
enterprise, incorporated in 1931 as Tanganyika Electric Supply Company. The Government bought the
utility in 1964, established it as a public limited company, and adopted the present name, TANESCO. As
a public utility, TANESCO operates under both the country's Company Ordinance, and the Electricity
Ordinance. Under the Company Ordinance, TANESCO is subject to the general rules and regulations of
al other public limited companies in the country. Through the Electricity Ordinance, the MWEM, in
consultation with TANESCO, controls electricity produced by other entities (small captive plants) through
a licensing mechanism. Currently TANESCO supplies about 95 percent of all electricity consumed in
Tanzania.
2.3   TANESCO's Board of Directors consists of a Chairman who is also the Chairman of Parastatal
Sector Reform Commission, a Managing Director and nine other Directors who represent most interest
groups in Tanzanian society, including the workers. The Government, as the sole shareholder of the
utility, nominates all directors. The appointment of Board members is staggered, each serving for a two-
year period. The Board is required to meet every third month but in practice meets more frequently.
2A    In accordance with TANESCO's Articles of Association, the Board of Directors is responsible for
the appointment of the Managing Director. The Maraging Director is the Chief Executive of TANESCO.
In practice, however, the President of Tanzania nominates the Managing Director and the Board ratifies
the appointment. As indicated in Annex 2. 1, there are three Deputy Managing Directors who report to
the Managing Director. They are responsible for the following three activities: (i) Operations; (ii)
Technical Services; and (iii) Administration, Finance and Corporate Services. In addition, the Director
of Internal Audit, Director of Security and the Company Secretary report to the Managing Director. The
positions of Managing Director and the Deputy Managing Directors are crucial to both the success of the
project and the sustainability of TANESCO as an effective and viable institution.
2.5   TANESCO has seven geographical zones of operations-South, Southwest, Central, Northeast,
West, Lake and Coastal. Previously the zonal managers as well as the heads of three interconnected
generating stations (Kidatu, Mtera and Pangani) reported to the Department of Finance, at headquarters,
on financial matters and to the Technical Departnent, at headquarters, on technical matters. But the 1990
reorganization upgraded the positions of zonal managers and heads of major generating stations to that of
director level. As a result, each zonal director, and each manager of the three major generating stations,
now has full responsibility for the operations of the respective zone or station. The revised organizational
structure, shows a third position of Deputy Managing Director (operations), to whom the zonal directors
now report. The other two positions, that of the Deputy Managing Director (Technical Services) and the



- 14-
Deputy Managing Director (Adminstration, Finance and Corporate Services), remained intact. The
heads of power stations report to the Technical Services Department. Another significant refinement
under the reorganized structure is the establishment of the Management Information System (MIS)
Department at headquarters. Since the reorganization, TANESCO has spent considerable effort and time
to refine the utility's institutional structure to meet its emerging needs. In addition to these improvements
under the curnt electricity sector structure, the Government's program for parastatal reform is
considering overall sector changes which will have a major impact on TANE5CO's organizational set-up,
including possible privatization of certain activities (paras 2.32-2.39) which this proposed project would
support.
2.6    As a public utility, TANESCO has the following objectives:
*     Contribute to the economic development of the country by meeting the current and future
demand for electricity cost-effectively and with mutually acceptable levels of reliability
and quality, while respecting the integrity of the environment.
*     Recover its costs of capital, operation, and maintenance, from its revenues (mostly tariff)
and generate a reasonable rate of return on its investnents.
*     Cover a reasonable portion of system expansion costs from internal cash generation and
mainain the utility's credit ratings and, therefore, the ability to raise additional capital
from domestic and/or foreign sources at reasonable costs.
The Govemment supports all of the above objectives. Additionally, as part of the country's development
program, the government ultimately would like to extend electricity to the entire population, and, in
meeting this objective, may wish to make electricity available to consumers that lack the means to pay the
fu,ll cost of power services, or maintain low tariffs for selected income groups. However, this policy may
intfere with the utility's ability to meet its financial objectives. The Government can reconcile
conflicting objectives by direct payment to the utility of the differential between the normal taiff
applicable for services provided to such groups and the revenues actually received from them by the
utility. Such an arrangement would allow the Goverment to target clearly the needy groups of customers
and limit subsidies to them. To provide a policy for TANESCO to operate on a commercially viable-
basis, and to ensure self-sustain ibility, the utility has adopted a Statement of Policy to which the
Government has agreed (Annex 7.1). This statement, among other things, reflects the separation of
utility and goverment objectives and provides a stable basis for TANESC& v fuure development.
TANESCO has agreed that it will not change the policy without IDA's approval (para 7.2(v)).
2.7 Onerating Performance and Problem Areas. Despite the difficult operating environment in
Tanzania for more than a decade, TANESCO's performance has been relatively good and it is considered
as one of the better Government owned organizations in the country. TANESCO's overall management
quality is acceptable but has several problems which it needs to address in order to ensure its
sustainability as an independent, tecbnically and financially viable utility. These are: (i) skill deficiencies
among both professional, tecnical and administrative staff; (ii) absence of medium and long-term
corporate planning; (iii) extemal influence in management of corporate affairs; (iv) lack of integrated
functiong among the different operatig and functional units; (v) scant awareness of the business
objectives of the institution, especially among the lower level headquarters and field staff; (vi) inadequate
financial resources; and (vii) inadequate delegation of authority leading to a low level of incentives to



- 15 -
take initatives. As a result, staff efforts often lack direcion or a grasp of major issue and priorities.
Also field managers are often hesitant to fully accept their responsibilities, pardcdulary in collecting
overdue accounts and disconnecting delinquent customers. Furthere, the lack of appropriat, guidance
and direction from the Head Office at tim  has contributed to less than satisfactory performance of field
staff. Compounding these problems is the declining level of employee compensation. Based on the
lessons learned from the past experience, TANESCO will focus its institutional development efforts on
four key areas: (i) corporate planning; (ii) management; (iii) manwer development; and (iv) the
Productivity Improvement Program (PIP).
2.8    TANESCO has a dedicated management and staff. However, middle-to-lower level managers,
accountan, engineers and technicians are scarce due pardy to loss of qualified people to better paid jobs
elsewhere. Although the company nas had to follow the pay scale for the civil service, it has been
innovative in creating incentives in the form of group allowances for, inter alia, overtim and special jobs
performed well and on time. The incentive system has provided some protection against a drop in real
incomes, although there have been some abuses of the system since aX staff do not have access to the
group incentives program and it has received little supervision and monitoring. However, despite the
incentive system, the average salary in TANESCO has declined drastically from about US$220 equivalent
a month in the 1970s to about US$50 equivalent per month at present. At this level, many employees are
not able to support their families and sometimes are forced to have a second or even a third job, which
they occasionaUy perform during official working hours. TANESCO has agreed with IDA that it would
do a survey of salaries which competing commercial organization in Tanzania pay and, based on the
resuts of the Survey, establish a competitive ompensation structure by January 1, 1994 for all levels of
employees (Schedule 1).
2.9     FM=  Plan. For several years the demand for electricity in Tanzania will substantially
exceed the capacity of TANESCO to supply it and coherent planning in the use of scarce resources will
be crucial. So, beginning on July 1, 1994 and thereafter, on each anniversary date, TANESCO has
agreed to prepare an Annual Corporate Plan for each year, startng with Jamnary 1, 1995. This plan will
establish medium-term, five-year business objectives and financial projections as well as annal budget,
acceptable to IDA. (Schedule 1). Also, it will specifically reflect the objectives of TANESCO's
Statement of Policy and will estimate: (i) aggregate power demand and its distribution by type of
consumers (industrial, commercial, household) and area; (ii) financial, human and fixed physical
resources available to TANESCO; (iii) proposed capital expendits on infrastructure and other
facilities; and (iv) manpower development and training programs. Based on these estimate, the plan
will establish: (i) priorities among customers (by type) and geographical location, based on commercial
considerations; (ii) aggregate supply targets linked to those priorities; (iii) cash requirements and sources
of funds (internal cash generation, equity amd loan capital); (iv) non-financial resource requirements e.g.
personnel by number and distribution within the staffing pattern, facilities, and equpment; and (v)
assignment of responsibilities to specified units within the organization.
2.10   The Annual Corporate Plan will be the principal insument for an on-going review of
TANESCO's operations and institutional development. It also will determine TANESCO's funding needs
in relation to its projected growth. The Plan will detail the budget for the fo4lowing year, including the
availability of financial resources through normal business operations, loans, the issue of share capial and
bonds, etc.; as well as a program for capital and other expenditures, and manpower development and
training. It will reflect the future operations of TANESCO based on inputs which the operating units
(zones, power plants) as well as headquarters, provide. In addition to a detailed budget for TANESCO,



- 16-
the plan will discuss the assunptions used and strategies designed for improving performance in the
following areas: billing, collection, employee/customer ratio, productivity improvement, operating and
inestment programs, an amalgamation of yearly plans into five-year projecdons (including justification
for investment proposals). Also, the plan will permit a critique of performance in key areas such as
collections, disconnections, write-offs, administrdtive costs, staffing and performance evaluations and
manpower/training activities. Fina1ly, Annual Corporate Plans will also include information on, and
rationale for, any changes in the agreed investment program.
2.11   DePgartmental and Unit Work Planning. In practice, to make corporate plans work, it will be
necessary to disaggregate them into annual departmental and sub-departnental work plans. Each
deparment, division, zone, power station and other work unit within TANESCO would be directly
responsible for preparing its own specific work plan according to guidelines which the Planning Division
in the Administration, Finance and Corporate Services Department (para 2.12) issues. Managers from
departmental through zonal and sectional levels would specify tasks for staff to implement work plans
efficiently and effectively, allocate available resources in support of those tasks and supervise staff
performance. The Managers should delegate the operational responsibility for task performance to staff
and devote their time to monitoring performance.
2.12  ManaMement of the Planning Process. The Planning Division in the Administaon, Finance and
Corporate Services Department would have specific responsibility for coordinating and developing
TANESCO's Annual Corporate Plan and financial objectives as a framework for preparing and updating
five-year projections. However, the planning process also would require inputs from TANESCO's
managers at all levels. In order to ensure effective and timely participation in the process, the Planning
Division would develop an annual "Planning Cycle", for which it would issue d:tailed instructions
explaining the corporate objectives, outlining the kind of information required and its format, and
designating responsibility for its preparation and timing for submission. These instructions also would set
up a process for reviewing the operating and financial performance along with cost control incentives at
appropriate levels within TANESCO. In order to establish the Planning Division, develop the related
Planning Cycle and provide appropriate training to relevant staff in TANESCO, the proposed project
provides for the employment of a Planning Manager, by January 1, 1994, for a period of three years.
Annex 8.3 provides terms of reference on which IDA and TANESCO have agreed for this position.
TANESCO also has agreed that the qualifications and experience of the candidate considered for this
position as well as the terms and conditions of the Planning Manager's employment would be acceptable
to IDA (Schedule 1).
2.13 The Planning Division would assemble inputs from the various planning units into one corporate
plan for the utility. Formal approval of the Annual Corporate Plan, as an aggregate of all departmental,
divisional, zonal and unit plans, would be the responsibility of TANESCO's Board of Directors. After
adoption of the Annual Corporate Plan by the Board, the Plan would serve as the program of action for
the following year's business activities. TANESCO would measure actual performance against planned
activities on a monthly basis and present the results in a formal report for Board review.
2.14 Systems and Procedures. TANESCO does not have well-defined systems and procedures to assist
employees, at various levels of the organization and at different locations (zones, power plants), to
accurately delineate their responsibilities and the extent to which they are authorized to commit the
organization and its resources. At the senior management level, employees often rely on precedence and
institutional memory. However, at middle and lower management levels, the absence of up-to-date,



- 17-
wrtten sysms and procedures can impede the exereie of initiative in fiuthering institutional objecdves.
TANESCO's management is aware of this shortcomg and has therefore agreed to engage an
internationaltv-recruited Syste  Manager for a period of three years. The Systems mMar would head
a small Systems Unit witbin the Directorate of Fhinance. This unit would be  ponsible for reviewing the
existing systems, pcedues and practices, in onction with concened operational and staff functions,
in order to establish their relevance to the exiting and fue institutional needs. Based on its findings,
the unit would moditr existing systems as appropriate, dicard those systm  which are no longer relevant
and introduce new systems and procedures to meet the institution's emerging needs. A special Systems
Mamnal would consolidate all the new and modified systems and this manual would be available to
TANESCO employees as a guide in the perfomce of their duties. Annex 8.4 provides terms of
reference for the Systems Manager, as agreed between IDA and TANESCO. Also, TANESCO has
agreed to employ the Systes Manage by January 1, 1994, and that the qualificadons and experience of
the candidate being considered, as well as the terms and conditions of his/her employment would be
acceptable to IDA (Schedule 1).
2.15   Manaaement Infonation Svstem. IDA and TANESCO recognized the need to implement a
comprehensive program for modernizing TANESCO's data processing system under the Power
Rehabilitation Project (CR. 1687-TA). That operation financed the services of a senior financial advisor,
and a systems analyst to implement the progrm. But TANESCO's difficulty in attng and retaining
competent advisors unfortunaely has delayed the implementation of a fully funcdonal MIS. In the
meitime, the situation has deteriotated to the point where a group of experts is now required, in the
short term, to prevent the existing system from collapsing and, in the longer term, to assist TANESCO in
acqiring modern computrized accuntb iing systems and procedures along with an up-to-date MIS
at headquarte, as well as in the zones. The above activities, including training of TANESCO staff, are
now receiving financing under the Power Engineering and Techical Assistance Project, which IDA
approved in 192. In the meantdme, TANESCO has developed a mini-MIS to assist in monitoring
performance under Productivity Improvement Program (PIP).
2.16   Manow  Development. TANESCO does not have a systematic manpower development
program, or the resources to develop one, and the absence of such a program has affected the
peformance of TANESCO adversdy. Therefore TANESCO is placing greater emphasis, in the future,
on istitutional and manpower development, which will consist of the following: (i) rationalizing its
saffing paer; (ii) improving the staffs managerial, professional and tecnical skills; (ii) providing
sustainable capacity tough orderly trsitions from one employee generation to another; (iv) offering
adequate inucives to motivate staff performance at opmm levels; and (v) developing and maintaining
up-o-date systems and procedures to provide appropriate staff guidance in performing their fincions
systematically.
2.17    .ff . TANESCO has put a freeze on staff hiring except to fill essential vacancies pending the
preparation of a staffing plan. Considering existing and pending positions, TANESCO would have 7,500
employees, with an employee/customer ratio completely out of line with similar utilities in the region.
Also there is an inadequate match between the qualifications and experience of this staff and TANESCO's
staffing needs. The detmination of the appropriate size, availability and distrution of staff within
TANESCO is an ongoing proress which will depend on the requrements resulting from the utility's
Anmual Corporate Plans. However, TANESCO urgently needs to address the availability of resources, an
initial revision of the staffing patter and determination of both staffing gaps and redundancies. In order
to facilitate this work, TANESCO, as part of the proposed project, has agreed to recruit a manpower



- 18-
expert externally, and retain the services of this expert for six months. Annex 8.6 provides the terms of
reference for this position as agreed between IDA and TANESCO. The expert would review
TANESCO's work in each work unit, prepare a detailed stfing plan, and rxcommend the means to
implement it. TANESCO has agreed to maintain the freeze on new appointments, pending the results of
the staffing assessment. TANESCO also has agreed that it would review staffing proposals with IDA no
later than December 31, 1993 and would implement the agreed recommendations by June 30, 1994.
TANESCO further has agreed that the qualifications and experience of the candidate being considered, as
well as the terms and conditions of his/her employment, would be acceptable to IDA (Schedule 1).
2.18 Training. Training requirements within TANESCO far exceed what TANESCO is able to
provide. TANESCO's manement is aware of this and is main,g efforts to bringte lFtvel of t.a' 
for all its staff to a point which would meet its future managerial, techical and other needs. In this
context, here is a need to modify, srngthen and expand present training programs to meet TANESCO's
current objectives and evolving requirements under the decentralized organization. Additional instructors
and investments in physical facilities also would be necessary to support expanded training activities. An
essential element of thel new training program would be greater emphasis on conducting specialhized
training at the zones ahid the three major power stations. The administration of training programs which
address the common needs of the organization would continue on a centralized basis. Achieving these
objectives would require strengthening the personnel training and administrave functions in the zones
and at the three major generating stations. Conspondingly, there would be appropriate curilment of
these functions at the Head Office. To facilitate realignment of fctions among headquarters, the zones
and the power stations, and to introduce and implement new training programs for the managers and
supervisors, the proposed project will finance a Management Training and Personnel Expert for a three-
year period. This expert, togeier with 1 ANESCO's Director of Personnel as his/her counterpart, will
report to the Deputy Managing Director Admmistration, Finance and Corporate Services. Annex 8-5
gives the terms of reference for the Management Development Expert as agreed between IDA and
TANESCO. Also, IDA and TANESCO have agreed on the hiring of the Management Training and
Personnel expert by January 1, 1994, and that the qualifications and experience of the candidate being
considered for this position, as well as the terms and conditions of employment of tne Management
Training and Personnel Expert, would have to be acceptable to IDA (Schedule 1).
2.19 For middle and lower level managers and supervisors, it is possible to organize suitable training
in upgrading the general management, financial management and supervisory and communications skills
within the country. However, it will be necessary to hire training experts from outside the country, for
short periods of time, to design and conduct the training programs. These training programs would take
place, as the needs dictate, in collaboration with local training institutes and involve local industry
representatives who have demonstated exceptional management skills and practices. Bringing together
foreign experts and the best available local managers in the training programs should ensure that the
training provided is pracdcal, has a problem-solving orientation. and responds to the needs of the utility.
Both foreign and local trainers will need to collaborate closely with the Management Training and
Personnel Expert in assessing the training needs, preparing and conducting training programs, evaluating
the impact of training programs and assisting individual participants in making use of the newly acquired
skldls and management practices in their own working enviromnent.
2.20 While TANESCO intends to implement most of its training programs in Tanzania, a selective
group of TANESCO managers will require training outside the country. For senior managers, it would
be advisable that they not only attend the above-mentioned training programs within Tanzania, but also



- 19-
gain exposure to specialized external courses which focus on problem solving as well as theoretical
courses.
2.21   Financial and Commercial Training. TANESCO's Commercial School in Dar es Salaam teaches
basic accounting skills. But the physical facilities of the school are too limited to even serve present
needs. Therefore, TANESCO is in the process of constructing a bigger, better-equipped school at
Morogoro where, inter alia, commercial and financial training, including triing in computer use, would
take place. To make the training programs more responsive to TANESCO's needs, there would be an
expansion of the curniculum, placing more emphasis on corporate finance, management information
systems and new accounting procedures. TANESCO will hire an expatriate Director of the Institute and
an expatriatc .ead Instructor, 'fr about t  ye:ars, to assist TANESCO clearly define the objectives of
the school, articulate an appropriate strategy for fulfilling them and help design and implement the
revised, expanded training programs. IDA and TANESCO have agreed that the hiring of the Director of
the Institte and Head Instuctor would take place by January 1, 1994. Also, TANESCO has assured
IDA that qualifications and experience of the candidates being considered for these positions, along with
the terms and conditions of their employment would be acceptable to the Association (Schedule 1).
2.22   Comnuter Skills Training. TANESCO is in the process of insalling new computers and
mplementing up-to-date acounfi  and biing procedures, being financed under the recently approved
Power Engineering and Technical Assistance Project. The consultants and the suppliers of the
software/hardware will train TANESCO staff in implementing and operating the new systems. In
addition, that project is also financing training abroad of TANESCO staff in computer science and data
base management. However, there is a need to train staff in the use of personal computers. It is possible
to provide certain training effectively at the new training center at Morogoro. Some TANESCO
employees, particularly those in charge of the MIS data processing and system analysis divisions, would
benefit from working with utilities abroad for a few months to obtain more practical experience. The
proposed project will provide such overseas training.
2.23   Technical  rairi. On the technical side, there are two main problem areas which TANESCO
needs to address. These are: (i) deterioration of the distnbution network, due partly to overloading and
sbstrd qwJity of work; and (ii) low availability of the diesel stations due mainly to inadequate
maintance. TANESCO has a shortage of good-quality, mid-level engineers and technical staff. Also,
its craftsmen have received little training. TANESCO needs to train linesmen in upgrading and
standardizing the maienance of the distnbution network. There is also a need to train the protection
engineers in operatng and mntaining the power grid. Under the proposed project, financing would be
available to send line protection engineers overseas for specialized courses. Regarding the linesmen, the
consultant who will suprvise the distribution work will also provide them with training.
2.24  TANESCO staff, with the support of FINNIDA, are receiving training iinland on maintaing
the diesel plants that TANESCO uses. In addition to this program, long-term training would be necef-ry
at the technician level. This type of training would take place at the Technical Training Institute (flI) at
Kidatu, which currfftly provides courses in electronics, mechanics and auto-diesel. The proposed project
would provide financing of an extemal specialist for a three year period, to assist in preparing course
material and provide classroom and practical training, as well as procutnent of a diesel generator,
teaching materials and equpment. IDA and TANESCO have agreed that the employment of the Training
Expert will take place by January 1, 1994, and that the qualifications and experience of the candidate



-20-
being considered for this position along with tfe tenns and conditions of employment, candidate would
have to be acceptable to the Association (Schedule 1).
2.25         There is also need for training in maintaining hydro stations. TANESCO has recently
obtained financing from SIDA to rehabilitate the Kidatu Hydroelectric Plant which includes maintenance
training as part of the contract.
2.26   The supply of newly-qualified technicians from TM at Kidatu is insufficient to satisfy
TANESCO's requirements. This is partly due to a large number of students leaving before graduating.
TANESCO also has faced difficulties in attracting promising students since the school is not recognized at
the nattional level. The I  tefor requir cx pansion to accommodate a iiaioe vicisive curriculum
and pro-vide for rmore students. Worishops, laboratories and classrooms need modern equipment. In
a4dition, there should be an increase in the level of the technician's diploma to correspond to the national
level in order to attract good students. The Credit for the proposed project would finance the foreign
exchange costs of the above requirements.
2.27 Power System Planning. TANESCO has a small group of staff within the Directorate of Planning
who have received training from consultants abroad in load forecasting and preparing least-cost generation
development plans. They also have participated in reviewing consultant work in this field. However,
there is a need to strengthen the unit. The proposed project would finance overseas training for three
employees in power system planning.
2.28 Distribution Planning. Recently, TANESCO established a distribution planning unit at the
utility's headquarters with the assistance of ESMAP. This unit, however, needs to be expanded and
replicated in the zones. The proposed project includes the services of the consultant to set up distribution
planning and train TANESCO staff in the zones. IDA and TANESCO have agreed on the hiring of the
consultant for taining in distribution planning by January 1, 1994 and that the qualifications and
experience of the candidate being considered, along with the terms and conditions of his/her employment,
would be acceptable to IDA (Scbedule 1).
2.29 Qn-the-Job Training. TANESCO staff would continue to receive training under contracts for
construction work, both as counterparts with the contractors as well as at the manufacturers' facilities
abroad. This mode of training has proven to be successful in the past and would continue under the
proposed project.
2.30 Productivity Inmrovement and Incentive Program (PIP). In early 1990, TANESCO devised an
incentive program aimed at raising the productivity and efficiency at all levels in the company. With the
active participation and support of employees at all levels, TANESCO set performance criteria and targets
for all operating and functional work units. Under this scheme, the intention was to reward groups of
employees achieving agreed performance targets developed by zonal and functional (HQ) teams.
Furthermore, TANESCO designed a Management Information System (MIS) to allow accurate and timely
monitoring of the performance versus the targets. The PIP was to address many of the chronic problems
in TANESCO with the following major objectives: (i) providing high-quality service to power consumers
at reasonable cost; (ii) raising productivity and efficiency in all major operating and functional areas of
the company so as to maximze output from existing fa,ilities and delay the need for new major
investments; (iii) generating sufficient savings through PIP activities to make the program financially
self-sustaining and raise the incomes of participants appreciably; (iv) eliminating or reducing power



- 21 -
system and inventory losses as well as the high level of accounts receivable; and (v) motivating
employees to understand and accept TANESCO's overall objectives and actively participate in their
fulfilhment, including the need to reduce staff t,o a level that would allow the utility to operate more
efficiently.
2.31   The implementation of the program began in March 1991. The program experienced notable
success in the initial phase of its implementation. Against the overall planned reduction of 30 percent in
workforce (from 6,500 to 4,550) spread ove, a period of three years, actual reduction in the first six
months was about 500. The reduction, which took place through a severance package, was consistent
with the overall PIP objectives of having a smaller work force with higher productivity at better pay.
During the frst six months of PIP inmlementation, employee attendance and attention to work improved
with a resultant increase in productivity, as demonstrated by reduction in accounts receivable and
operating costs. On the other hand, the employees' compensation nearly doubled. Initial success,
however, led to relaxation of commitment on the part of the management with a corresponding lowering
of commitment by the participants. Early in 1992, TANESCO took some urgent measures to address this
reversal, such as reducing bonuses until performance improved.  These measures partially restored the
previous level of commitment of the participants as well as the level of their compensation. In order to
provide the impetus for the successful implementation of this program, a full-time, experienced person
would be necessary to manage it. The project therefore provides financing for the services of an
internationally recruited expert for a period of three years. Annex 8.7 provides terms of reference as
agreed between IDA and TANESCO. Furthermore, TANESCO has agreed that hiring of the
qualifications and experience of the candidate being considered for this position, along with the terms and
conditions of his/her employment, would be acceptable to IDA (Schedule 1).
2.32  Institutional Reform of the Power Sector. Earlier this year, the Government of Tanzania issued a
policy statement on parastatal reform as a part of a development strategy which emphasizes creating an
efficient, well-functioning and rapidly-growing economy. The basic objectives of the parastatal reform
program are to:
*     improve the operational efficiency of enterprises that are currently in the parastatal sector
and their contribution to the national ec>iiomy;
*     reduce the burden of loss-making ,parastatal enterprises on the Government budget;
*     expand the role of the private sector in the economy, permitting the Government to
concentrate public resources on its role as provider of basic public services, including
health, education, and social and economic infrastructure; and
*     increase and encourage a wider participation of the people in the running and management
of the economy.
2.33  In line with these objectives, the Government intends to take specific steps to restore the operating
eficiency of Government-owned enterprises, both by improving the existing management and supervisory
capability and by attracting capital, technical know-how and management resources from the private
sector. This will include diversification of shareholding and equity participation in these enterprises.



- 22 -
2.34 To implement its institutional reform program the Government has established a Public Sector
Reform Commission which the Chairman of the Board of Directors of TANESCO directs. The Bank
plans to support the Commission's endeavors through the proposed Public Sector Adjustment and
Technical Assistance Credits. Further support to the Commission's work i likely through grants from
bilateral donors.
2.35 This project provides institutional strengthening measures to improve the operational efficiency
and financial performance of TANESCO in line with the Govermnent's parastatal reform objectives.
Successful implementation of these measures will help establish TANESCO as a well-managed, financially
self-sustaining entity and facilitate a move to privatize portions of the utility. As a first step, TANESCO
proposes to offer for sale to private investors all or part ot the transmission and distribution line
construction. TANESCO will contract these services in future. To this end, the government has agreed
to offer TANESCO's transmission and distribution constuction business for sale to pnvate investors by
December 31, 1993 (para 7.1(i)).
2.36   TANESCO has already started restructring itself so as to facilitate possible privatization (para
2.5). It has decentralized its distribution operations and is upgrading management in its seven distribution
zones. Under the Engineering Credit (Cr. 2330-TA), TANESCO will install independent accounting and
customer service systems in each zone. These zones may serve as the nuclei of fure independent
distribution compames. It is relatively easy to privatize distribution compai and regulate tariffs using
indexed formulas so as to promote competition with a conceptual "ideals company for the zone and this
will be explored in a study (para 2.39). A prerequisite for privatization of the distnuton zones is
permittng competition in generation. At present, TANESCO does not have a legal monopoly for
generation, so there is no existing legal impediment to competition in generation. In fact, both the
Government and TANESCO are actively seeking private participation in the provision of emergency
thermal generation and development of gas based generation using the gas from the Songo Songo gasfield.
2.37 The aforementioned approach to institutional reform is consistent with experience in other
countries, which has shown that privatization is most successful through the division of the utility into its
component parts so as to separate those parts that are natural monopolies from those in which competition
is possible. In this way, normal conmmercial forces regulate the operadon of the parts in which
competition is possible, restricting the regulatory effort to the parts that are natural monopolies. Annex
7.2 discusses the advantages and disadvantages of various feasible structures for the sector.
2.38 Carefil planning is essential for successful instdtutional reform, including privatization. Some of
the major issues the transiton must address are the following:
*     The inMact of the changes on employment Although any new entidtes formed would
absorb many of the present employees, special provisions will be necessary to retrain and
find useful employment for those employees not hmmediately required.
*     Phase-in gf tarff cges Tariff changes need to be co n  with improvements in
the reliability and quality of electricity supply to minimize opposition by the customers.
*     Legal frork The legal framework governing the sector needs revision to
accommodate the proposed structure and provide a mechanism for setting disputes
between all interested parties.



- 23 -
*     Regulatory framework A regulatory framework ppropriate for supporting the selected
option must be finnly in place at the introduction of die new structure. This framework
nmust address price, safety, quality of supply and environmental issues.
*     Valuation and tmsfer of assets and debt The assets of any entity under restructuring
need commercial valuation and will require rational decisions on the transfer of the assets,
and the responsibility for debt service.
*     Power Sector Planing: For a decentralized option, it is necessary to form an
organi7ation to plan the sector biut the activities of this organization must not 1w;zfere
with competition in the sector. Rather, the organizaton should guide rationa
development by collecting, analyzing and providing information on rational generation and
transmission expansion strategies. An important part of this organization's work would be
idenifying sites and evaluating potential hydroelectric resources. Also, it would have to
evaluate effects on the ecology and settlements, as well safety issues.
-     Managi  the transi: Special adminisfttive arrangements by the Government and the
Utility would be necessary for managig the transition and resolving problems as they
arise.
2.39 The project includes consulting services to help the government and TANESCO examine options
for institutional reform, set up the necessary regulatory framework, and create a timetable for
implementation and the first steps. Terms of reference for the work are shown in Annex 8.8. To start
the process as soon as possible, the Government has agreed with IDA to engage consultants, no later than
January, 1994 to: (i) prepare a study examining options for institutional reform, including privatization;
(ii) review the study's recommendations along with IDA's comments; (iii) agree with IDA on the plan of
action; and (iv) implement the plan (para 7.1(ii)). Furthermore, IDA and the Government have agreed
that the aforementioned review should take place by the end of June 1994 (para 7.1 (vii)).
ZSFPC
2.40 ZSFPC is the public company responsible for administering electric power distribution to the
island of Zanzibar, which is supplied via an iterconnecting submarine cable. At present, ZSFPC
experences difficulty in managig its commercial operations because of both a lack of an experenced
commercial manager and outdated billing and collection systems. Under the project, ZSFPC will
supervise a US$2 million component which addresses the company's rstructuing and improvement of its
commercial activities (para 4.31).



m. THE ELECTRICITY SUB-CTOR
Overview
3.1   Tanzania has experienced high electricity demand growth in recent years due to an upswing in
economic growth, which followed a period of virtual stagnation in the early 1980s. This increased
demand, coupled with only panal availability of generating units due to drought and repair, has resulted
in a system which is operating under a severe supply constraint. As a result, the system will contne to
experience energy deficits in the short term. Forecasts of electricity demand indicate a continued high
rate of growth, though not as high as during recent years due to the impact of expected efficiency
improvements, tariff increases and demand management measures. The following sections describe
existing power failitics, outie recent deman  and generauon trends, and provide a load forecast which
serves as the overall framework for the proposed project.
Exisin Power Sector Facilities
3.2 Generation System. TANESCO provides electrical energy to its consuiers through an
interconnected system which receives its supply from hydroelectric and diesel generating stations. The
total installed capacity of the system is 474 MW of which 326 MW is hydropower. Two major stations,
located west of Dar es Salasm, in the Great Ruaha River basin, supply the bulk of hydropower to the
system: (i) the Kidatu station, built in 1975, with an installed capacity of 204 MW; and (i) the Mtera
station, built in 1988, with a total installed capacity of 80 MW. The output of Kidatu has been about 153
MW since 1989 due to the failure of one unit and more recenty declined to about 95 MW due to low
reservoir levels caused by drought conditions. SIDA financed the repair of the unit, which was put back
in service in late 1992, and in financing the replacement of exciters on the other units. The proposed
project includes additional work reqwired to improve reliability at this generating station. Moreover, the
mtera station has been operating at only 30 MW due to low reservoir levels, since October 1992 (para
4.2). Tbree smaller stations in the Pangani River basin, built in 1934, 1964, and 1969, with a total
available capacity of 42 MW, are also connected to the system. In addition, ten diesel generating
stations, in varying stages of availability, provide an alternative source of energy during low river-flow
periods, and during equipment failures. A second-hand gas turbine (13.5 MW), installed at Ubungo in
1973, has been out of commission for several years. The forecast demand for electrical energy indicates
that additional thermal generation will be required immediately to meet peak demand and energy
requirements, especially if poor hydrology prevents the Kidatu and Mtera stations from operating at
maximum capacity.
3.3   TANESCO also owns and operates 20 small diesel generating stations, providing service to
isolated areas too distant to receive electricity supply from the grid. Finland, through FINNIDA, has
provided many of these units and also has an extensive program for repairing tem and providing
maintenance training. Additionally, there are a number of private generating plants. These plants
service sugar, tea, and cotton estates, with a total installed capacity of about 43 MW. Annex 3.4
provides a list of the existing generating facilities.
3.4   Load Disptgch Center. TANESCO inlled a new load dispatch center in 1990 with financing
from KfW. Unfortunately, the available fimds were inadequate, and the contract did not include several
featumes which would have improved the system. Also, there are several equipment deficiencies, both in



- 26 -
the center and in the various sub-stations, which prevent accurate data transmission. Completion of this
facility and upgrading the data transmission system are components of the proposed project.
3.5    Tasmission and Distribution Systems. Transmission and distribution lines operating at 220,
132, 66, 33 and 11 kV deliver elect-  -'wer to the system's customers. There are about 1600 km of
220 kV lines, which form the main transmission link between Kidatu and Dar es Salaam (via Morogoro),
with an interconnection to Mtera to the southwestern section down to Mbeya on the border with Zambia,
and the northwestern section up to Mwanza on the shore of Lake Victoria. The 132 kV network,
consisting of about 1200 kn of lines, supplies the towns of Musoma, Tabora, Tanga, Moshi and Arusha,
as well as other small load centers in the western part of the country. It also connects Zanzibar with
mainland Tanzania through a submarine cable. In addition, 128 km of 66 kV lines connect the hydro
station at Nyumba ya Mungu and the Moshi area via Arusha. Annex 3.4 provides a list of these lines and
IBRD Map 22162 shows their location. These transmission lines are in good operating order, except the
132 kV line in the vicinity of Dodoma. TANESCO has received CIDA fimds to repair defects in this
line.
3.6   TANESCO operates about 3,000 km of 33 kV lines and 2,900 km of 11 kV lines, as wei as
440/220 V lines to small consumers. Some of this low-voltage system has deteriorated or is severely
overloaded. Frequent, unplanned shutdowns on the 33 kV and lower voltage lines have reached a level
that imposes significant costs on industrial and commercial consumers and causes inconvenience to the
domestic consumer. The proposed project includes the repair and rehabilitation of these lines in the main
load centers.
3.7 Insuramce. Duties and Taxes. TANESCO's insurance coverage is typical of other power utilities;
it covers fire, public liability, and comprehensive coverage on vehicles (third party only on vehicles over
six years old) as well as group personal accident insurance for its employees, but it does not cover
machinery or equipment breakdown. The latter is self-insured because it is very expensive, and claims,
are fiequently hard to settle because of the difficulty in assigning responsibility. The coverage is
adequate. The insurer is the sole Government isurance company, the National Insurance Corporation,
which re-insures with the European market. TANESCO is exempt, on request, from duties on imported
equipment and parts, but is subject to corporate tax.
Access to Electricity
3.8   Tanzania has a population of about 25 million people but only 6% have access to electricity
because it is available only to those living in the major cities and towns. The system rehabilitation
component of the proposed project will examine options for lowering the cost of distribution, thus making
electricity more affordable for rural populations.
Electricity Demand and Suplv
3.9   After a period of practically no economic growth in the 1980s, electricity demand rose rapidly in
the second half of the decade, in large measure due to the government's Economic Recovery Program.
During 1985-90, electricity demand averaged 10.3 percent annually compared to an average GDP growth
rate of about 4.5 percent. Maximum demand on the system concurrently increased at an average yearly
rate of 7 percent. In 1990, total electricity generation was 1,565 GWh in the i  system and
64 GWh in the isolated diesel systems. Corresponding electricity sales amounted to 1,304 GWh with



- 27 -
maximm demand at 297 MW. Since 1985, the share of isolated diesel generation has declined from
about 10% to around 4% due to the increasing integration of these units into the main grid.
3.10   Sales of electricity amounted to 1304 GWh in 1990 of which industrial and commercial consumers
accounted for 54 percent; residential consumers for 31 percent; the National Urban Water Authority
(NUWA), public lighting and bulk sales to Zanzibar for 10 percent; and agriculture for 5 percent (Table
3. l).S/ As noted in Table 3. 1, the combined share of industrial and commercial electricity
consumption in total consumption has declined markedly since the 1970s, when it averaged 80 percent of
sales./ This decrease mainly relates to the downturn in the Tanzanian economy in the early 1980s.
By comparison, residential consumption more than doubled during 1980-90 due to:  (i) greater
purchasing power resulting from improved economic conditions in the latter part of the decade; (ii)
expanded availability of electricity appliances; and (iii) the low tariff that applies to this group of
consumers.
Table 3.1. TANESCO Electricty Sales by Cosumer Category
(Per)
1978                1984                  1990
Industry/Commerce                  80                   69                    54
Residental                         19                   25                    31
Agriculture                        n.a                 n.a                    5
Bulk Sales/Other                    1                   6                     10
Power Systems Losses
3.11   Energy losses in generation, transmission and distribution have decreased from about 25 percent
on the interonncted system in 1987 to the present level of about 21 percent of net generation. This is
mainly a result of the network rehabilitation which the Power Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1687-TA)
financed. About half of the losses are technical losses, which are due to a lack of reinforcement of the
network. The other half are non-technical losses, which result from problems with metering and issuance
of bills, as well as outright theft. The Power Engineering and Technical Assistance Credit, which the
IDA Board approved in anmuy 1992, is financing consltants to assist TANESCO implement a new
billing system and identify unauthorized connections. In addition, the ESMAP Loss Reduction and
Distribution Expansion Study has identified measures to reduce both technical and non-technical losses.
The efforts of the task force TANESCO created to implement ESMAP recommedations to redmce the
non-technical losses already has resulted in increased sales revenues. The proposed project will provide
/        o1990 was the most recent year for which detailed sales data was available at the time of the
appraisal mission for the proposed project.
/    This is an esimation because of changes in the tariff classification that have taken place regarding
this consumer group making it difficult to cite an exact figure.



- 28 -
further assistance to improve billing, accounting and revenue collection, which should help decrease non-
technical losses to two percent by 2002. At the same time, the goal of the distribution rehabilitation and
loss reduction component of the proposed project is to reduce technical energy losses to seven percent by
1998.
Hydropower Suppl Constraint
3.12   Since July 1992, TANESCO has practiced severe peak load shedding due to drought in the
Southern Africa region. As a result of the lower than average water inflows during 1991 and 1992, the
water level of the hydro reservoirs has declined significantly, resulting in reduced generation capacity in
the hydro plants both in the Great Ruaha and the Pangani River systems (para 4.2). Table 3.2 shows the
rated capacity, available capacity and reduced capacity of each major hydro plant. TANESCO's very
limited capacity reserves are exacerbating the shortfall fiurther because the company has not been able to
secure financing for the rehabilitation of all the diesel units as originally planned. As a result TANESCO
has been unable to compensate sufficiently, with diesel capacity for the reduced hydro capacity of 114
MW. Peak load shedding has at times been more than 100 MW, but TANESCO has tried to reduce the
energy shortfall as much as possible. In fact, to avoid even greater load shedding, TANESCO in the past
operated the hydroplant at very high plant factors which ultimately led to low reservoir levels.
TANESCO expressed its concern to IDA about the low water levels and IDA responded with a mission to
examine hydro plant use and the status of the reservoirs. As a result of this mission, TANESCO and
IDA agreed on a strict rule curve to govern hydro plant operations and avoid a major shutdown of the
system before the rainy season. However, the water level at the Mtera reservoir has been rapidly
decreasing, is currently close to its minimum operating level, and probably will not completely fill up
even if the rainfall in the next rainy season is at its normal level. Thus, TANESCO's shortage of
capacity is likely to continue through 1994.
Table 3.2 Available Capacity of TANESCO's Major Hydro
Power Plats in 1992 m
Power Plant             Rated capacity      Available capacity  Reduced available capacity in
October 1992 due to drought
Mtera                      80 MW                80 MW                    30 MW
Kidatu                     204 MW              153 MWV'                  95 MW
Hale                       21 MW                21 MW                    15 MW
Pangani Falls             13 MW                13 MW                    13 MW
Nyamba Ya Mungu             8 MW                8 MW                     8 MW
TOTAL                     326 MW               275 MW                   161 MW
a)    Due to rehabilitation of all the four 51 MW units, 51 MW will be out of service intermittently until 1996.
0)    iTe installed capacity is 18 MW but due to the age of the plant only 13 MW are operational.
In addition, about 3 MW is installed at Kikuletwa, Tosamaganga and Mbalizi, of which about lMW is
avsLrable.



-29-
3.13   The proposed project has considered two forecasts for the period 1992-2002: a base case forecast
and a low-growth scenario. The base case forecast projects TANESCO's generation to rise at an average
annual rate of 5.8 percent, with a corresponding 6 percent average annual increase in peak demand. In
the low-growth scenario, the average annual increase in generation would be 4.1 percent, with a related
average increase of 4.3 percent in maximum demand. Table 3.3 summarizes the base case forecast and
Annex 3.2 provides the detailed background.
Table 3.3 TANESCO - Actl Sales and Generation 1987-1990 and
Foet 1991-2002 Interconnected System Base Case
Growth  Rates
1987   1990   199l t"   1992    1995    1998    2002   1987-1991 1991-
2002
CONSUMPTION (GWh)
Residentiwl                   240    395      441      484      589     722      931     16.4%     7.0%
small Commerial )              77     134     149      161      196     239      307     17.9%     6.8%
dusrial 0                     506    673      750      803      991     1227    1597    10.3%      7.1%
Sales to Zanzibar              49     52      55       58       67       77      94       2.9%     5.0%
TOTAL (GWh)                     872    1254    1395    1506    1843    2265    2929    12.5%        7.0%
LOSSES (GWh)
Technical                      180    156     174      188      202     182      225
% of Gross generation        15.4   10.0    10.0    10.0      9.0      7.0      7.0
Non-Technical                  117    153     170      184      202     156       64
% of Gross Geneaton          10.0   9.8      9.8      9.8     9.0      6.0      2.0
GENERATION (GWh)               1169   1563    1739    1878    2247    2603    3291    10.4%         5.8%
SYSTM PEAK LOAD (MW)            200    264     297      325      395     457      565      10.4%    6.0%
"Inchides Public Uightng.
a Includes LIae Conmnercial, Agriulre and NUWA.
o Prelimiry Data.
3.14 IDA's forecast is a revision of the projections which TANESCO prepared as part of its 1990
Power Sector Update Study. This revision consists of adjustments IDA has made to take account of
actual 1991 generation, actual and projected tariff rate increases, and potential increases in the efficiency
of industial electricity use. Additionally, IDA has made a change in the forecast's estimated technical
and non-technical losses to conform to the expected impact of proposed project components to help reduce
system losses. The forecast assumes that some of the electricity going to non-technical losses at present
will become sales.
3.15   The base forecast assumes an average annual GDP growth rate of about 4 percent during 1992-
2002. For industrial demand estimation, the forecast uses a declining elasticity of electricity demand to
GDP, which the forecast assumes wil take place because of higher capacity utilization and the use of
more energy-efficient technology. For residential demand, the forecast considers the number of new



- 30-
connections expcted and an estimated average electricity conumption per household. The forecast bases
the munber of new connections on those that have taken place In recent years and an esthnated average
anmual increase of 4 percent in the number of urban lhouseholds. For the average electricity consumption
per connection, the forecast uses historical data buw assumes a decrease in the average consunption per
household, which should result from consumer response to increasing tariffs and the increasing proportion
of lower-income households in the network as it expands.
3.16   According to the base case demand forecast, the system peak will increase from 297 MW in 1991
to 565 MW in 2002. The corresponding generation requirement will rise from 1,739 GWh in 1991 to
3,291 GWh in 2002. While this represents a faster growth rate than in the early 1980s, it is less than the
growth over the past five years. The projected generation requirement also assmes a substantial
reduction in both technical and non-technical losses, from about 21 percent at present to around 9 percent
in 2002. Under the base case, there will be a need for substantial new generation during the 1990's. The
rehabilitadon of the existing diesel units wiUl provide additional thennal capacity, and both the
redevelopment of the Pangani Falls station and the commissioning of the Lower Kihansi scheme will
provide new hydro capacity. However, despite these additions, the installation of new intermediate
capacity will be necessary before the conmmissioning of the Lower Kihansi plant. Even under the low-
growth forecast scenario, new short-terms generation will be necessary.
Qgagait B_alance
3.17 The capacity balance, (Figure 3-1 and Annex 3.3) shows that the margin between available
capacity and maximum demand was negative in 1992 and probably will remain negative in 1993 as well.
This is mainly due to the reduced hydro capacity as a result of the current drought conditions. Also, as
noted earlier, the delay in rehabilitating some of the existing diesel units has added to the problem and
forced TANESCO to shed peak loads. To alleviate the negative impact of load sheuding to the economy,
TANESCO is currently identifying options to reduce the demand through voluntary load shedding and
encouraging industnes with existing generatior. capacity to use their own generation. Furthernore, the
ESMAP demand management study and components in the proposed project to implement some of
ESMAP's recommendations will provide further assistance to TANESCO in managing peak loads and
energy consumption efficiently. The capacity balance also illustrates that capacity reserves will not
provide sufficient back-up until commissioning of the Lower Kihansi plant. Therefore, it will be
necessary to install additional thennal umts. The forecast indicates slightly positive capacity balance in
1994 and 1995, increasing in strength from 1996 onwards, assuming: (i) prompt rehabilitation of diesel
units (totalling 78 MW); (ii) installation of new thennal capacity in 1993 and shortly before the
commissioning of Lower Kihansi (up to 108 MW may be necessary); (iii) operation of all units at Kidatu
(totalling 204 MW) in 1996; (iv) full operation of Pangani redevelopment in 1996 (53 MW net addition
to capacity); and (v) commissioning of the Lower Kihansi scheme at the end of 1998. If, however, there
is a delay in some of the scheduled capacity additions, available capacity may fall below maximum
demand, making peak load shedding unavoidable. Moreover, if there is a delay in conmissioning Lower



-31 -
Kihans' by the end of 1998, TANESCO may need to install additonal themal generating capacity in the
late 1990s.
Figure 3 -1 Peak Demand, Resewve & Installed Capacty
mw~~~~~~w
MW
800
0
1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1996 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 20012002
Year
Maximum Demand            MM Thermal Capaoity
EJ Hydro Capacity               A, Peak # Reserve
Reserve w 2 units out (91 MW)
Enargy Balnce
3.18 The energy balance (Figure 3.2 and Annex 3.3) shows that the system is short of firm energy
because the existing diesel units cannot produce the energy required to cover the gap between energy
demand and firm energy from the existing hydro stations. The commissioning of the Pangani
redevelopment will provide an additonal 172 GWhlyear of firm generation capability, and the Lower
Kihansi scheme about 953 GWh in 1999. Thermal generation will increase to more than 20 percent of
total generation until the commissioning of Lower Kihansi. Subsequently, thermal generation wiU fal
sharply in 1999 but increase again with the expected commissioning of gas turbines burning Songo Songo



-32 -
gas at the begirming of the next dccade.2/ TANESCO's consultants have experienced some difficulty in
prditing the firm energy capability of the hydroelectric system because of sparse data on evaporation
rates. In the meanime, however, TANESCO has arranged for increased data collection both in the
context of this project and the Pangani Redevelopment project to overcome this difficulty. As the energy
balance in Figure 3-2 shows, substantial thermal generation will be necessary in the short to medium-
term, due to the assumption of low expected hydro energy.
Figure 3.2 Energy Balance
(TWh)
TWh
3.5
3    -.      ..     .      .    .     ... 
0
1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 20012002
Year
-  Generation Requir.        -   Firm Hydro
rn Hydro Generation                Thermal Generation
7/    TANESCO's planning consultants have completed an analysis of short-term generation expansion
requemen  in August 1992 and concluded that the installation of gas turbines is the lowest cost
option. Continued use of thennal generation when gas becomes available in Dar es Salaam
reinforces the preference for the gas turbine option.



IV. THE ENVESTMENT PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
The Investment Program
4.1             . The origin of the present investment program is the 1985 Power Sector
Development plan, updated and refined in 1990 by TANESCO's system planning consultants, Acres
Intemational, to take into account new information about the estimated supply and cost of natural gas
from the Songo Songo gas field. These least-cost analyses showed that the Lower Kihansi hydroelectric
project and a gas-fueled power plant were about equal in cost (Annex 4.1). Uncertainties about the
development of the Songo Songo gas field, however, made the Lower Kihmsi project more viable. The
Power Sector Development Plan also examined the option of power imports but concluded that, due to the
location of the load centers and the lack of substantial surplus generation capacity in either Kenya or
Uganda, power imports will not play a significant role in meeting future generation needs. The minor
exception is a plnned interconnection of the isolated diesel system at Bukoba with the nearby Ugandan
grid, which will improve the quality and reliability of supply to agro-industries and other energy
consumig activities in the Kagere region. Government officials and TANESCO discussed the contents of
the report with IDA and all parties have agreed that the Lower Kihansi Hydro Project would be the next
major investment in power generation.
4.2   In addition to long-term planning, IDA has helped TANESCO find a solution to the severe
shortage of generation that has led to frequent, widespread load-shedding which in turn has theatened to
stifle the economic recovery of the country. In response to a request from the Government, IDA sent a
mission in 1992 to study the problem. This mission recommended a set of short term measures to make
the best use of the water remaining in the hydro reservoirs, and the staged installation of several gas
turbines prior to the commissioning of the Lower Kihansi project. The effects of the generation shortage,
camsed by a drought, have been exacerbated by several coincidental technical problems. Planning studies
had predicted a potential shortfall of generation if a drought occurred, but in stuch a case estimated a
fairly small deficit. However, the drought that actually occurred coincided with: (i) higher load growth
than expected, due to the economic recovery; (ii) the extended outage of a unit at the Kidatu plant caused
by a generator fault; (iii) operational constraints caused by a defect in the design of the Mtera plant; and
(iv) delays, due to the Persian Gulf war, in the rehabilitation of diesel units. While recommending the
installation of new gas turbines, the mission recommended against rehabilitating the existing 13 MW gas
turbine, concluding that it has reached the end of its economic life.
4.3   Least-Cost Generation Plan. Tre revised least-cost generation development program for the
period 1992-1998 includes: (i) the rehabilitation of diesels connected to the grid (increasing capacity by
about 48 MW compared to 1991); (ii) the rehabilitation of the Kidatu hydroelectric power station
(increasing reliable capacity by 51 MW in 1996);A/ (iii) the redevelopment of the Pangani Falls
hydroelectric system (increasing capacity by 53 MW in 1996); (iv) construction of the first stage of the
Lower Kihani hydroelectric station for commissioning in 1998 (capacity 180 MW in 1998); and (v) the
8/    The station has four 51 Mw units installed. One had a damaged generator thai has been
repaired. The others will be taken out of service one after the other to upgrade excitation
systems in an effort to prevent a repeat of the failure.



- 34 -
installation of new gas turbines (36 MW in 1993, 18 MW in 1994, 18 MW in 1995 and 36 MW in
1997).2/
4.4   LeastCost Transmission Plan. The corresponding transmission investment program shows
construction of a second 220 kV line from Kidatu to Dar es Salaam to be the highest priority investment.
The line is needed to improve the reliability and voltage regulation of the supply to Dar es Salaam and to
accommodate rapid load growth in the capital city area. Construction of a 220 kV line from Singida to
Arusha is the second priority. The existing 132 kV line from Hale substation near Pangani falls to the
Moshi-Arusha region will be overloaded by 1993 or 1994. The line from Singida to Arusha will
strengthen the supply and have the additional advantage of creating a loop in the northeastern transmission
system, thus increasing reliability.
4.5   Least-Cost Distribution Plan. There is a need for substantial investments in the distribution
system to reduce network losses, improve reliability, and serve new loads. TANESCO has not given
sufficient attention to maintenance and expansion of the distribution network, mainly because of a lack of
finance. The least-cost development plan puts the focus first on the expansion, strengthening and
rehabilitation of networks in and around the four major load centers at Dar es Salaam, Arusha, Moshi and
Tanga, and then on the remaining networks, to reduce losses and improve the quality of service.
4.6   Investment Required. IDA and TANESCO defined and established the cost of the investment
program for the inerconnected system during the project's preappraisal.Q/ The appraisal mission
reviewed the investment program and agreed on its content with TANESCO. The Project includes all the
components for which TANESCO had not yet secured financing, except for the gas turbines required to
meet the present shortfall in capacity, rehabilitation of some existing diesels, and rehabilitation of
distribution networks outside the four main load ceters. The Government has recently secured financing
for two gas turbines totaling 36 MW and is discussing financing for another 18 MW unit with a donor.
4.7   TANESCO's proposed investment program for the isolated systems includes: (i) installing about
9 MW of gas turbines in the MtwaraALindi area to utilize gas from the Mnazi Bay natural gas discovery;
(ii) rehabilitating diesels; (iii) constrctng a 132 kV Transmission line between Bukoba and
Masaka(Uganda); (iv) developing a mini-hydro plant near Mto wa Mbu; and (v) various rural
electrification projects. The gas turbines and associated facilities at Mtwara/Lindi are included in the
project in a scheme that includes private sector participation. Financing has not yet been secured for the
other componens. TANE.SCO plans to seek financing to develop a simple planning tool and criteria to
examine the economic and financial viability of rural electrification schemes to help rank them for
potential financiers.
4.8 To develop both the interconnected and isolated systems according to least-cost economic
principles, TANESCO has agreed to provide justification to IDA and seek its concurrence before
2/    As part of the proposed project, this plan will be reviewed and fuirher refined to take into
account newly identified candidate generation sources, changes in the forecast, and the
impact of any feasible demand side management measures.
jQ/   Electricity is produced and distributed in an interconnected grid system and several small
isolated systems.



- 35 -
implementing any nrur electrification progrm or any other investment of more than US$5 million that is
not included in the agred investment program. Also, becse the needs of the power system change
continuously, TANESCO agreed to review its inestment program amnually and incorporate the changes
mutualy agreed with IDA (pam 7.2(iv)). To help TANESCO operate  ording to comercial
principles, the Govemment agreed that if for social reasons it requires TANESCO to male an investment
that is not financially viable, for example a rural electrification project, the Govermnent would provide
full fining and reimburse TANESCO for adminisng and maintaining the investment. Table 4.1
shows a summary of the investment progm  and Annex 4.2 describes it in detail.
Tobl 4.1 TANESCO-Jermnected System   ement Program  1992-1998
Total Investmnt Costs in Constat 1993 Prices(l)
TaTAL                      TOTAL
(rah Bmi)               (US$ Million)02a
Generation                                              141.1                      403.2
Transmission                                            39.3                        112.2
Distribution                                            51.3                        146.5
Other                                                   18.7                        53.5
TOTAL                                                  250.4                       715.4
Of which:
the Proposed Power VI Project                           111.8                      319.3
(I)   Investment costs exclude expenditure incuned before 1992.
(2)    Bxchngerate  US$ = 350 Tsh.
(3)    Costs include physicaont ci but not price coigencies nor intere during consuction.
The cost shown for the Power VI Project excludes T.A to MWEM, the Songo Sougo and Mnazi Bay
naural gas developments and assistance to ZSFPC.
4.9 The total cost (in constant 1993 prices) of TANESCO's investment program for the
intrconnected system for 1992 to 1998 is US$ 715.4 million, of which US$ 572.2 million is in foreign
exchange ad Tsh 50.1 billion (US$ 143.2 million) is in local currency. The total foreign exchange
compo   is expected to be financed by grants ad borrowing, while the local cost of the investment
program is expected to be financed by funds generated internaly by TANESCO (paras 5.17-5.18). In
additon to IDA, NORAD, BIB, KfW, ODA, the Goverment of Belghm, and DANIDA are considering
financng those compnents of TANESCO's investment program that are included in the proposed
project. The total estimated cost of these components in constant 1993 prices is US$319.3 million. The
foreign exchange financing required (including price contngencies) for the TANESCO components of the
proposed project is estimated at US$317.7 million. The finacig of the foreign exchange costs of most
of the compoet outside the proposed project has already been approved and/or committed. TANESCO
still needs to identify financing for some of the gas turbines required before the commissioning of
Kihansi, and for distution rehabilitation outside the four major load centers.



- 36 -
Works in Progress
4.10 TANESCO has several projects underway in various parts of the country involving additions and
repairs to its facilities. The projects are: (i) phase II of a Diesel Operations and Maintenance Training
Project scheduled for completion in 1995; (ii) repair of exciters at Kidatu; (iii) reconstruction of the
Pangani Falls hydro station, expected to be completed in early 1996; (iv) rehabilitation of the remaining
two Pielstick Diesel generating units at the Ubungo station, scheduled for completion in 1993; (v)
construction of a second 220 KV transmission line from Kidatu to Morogoro scheduled for completion in
1993, and a 220 Kv line from Singida to Arusha on which construction has just started; and (vi) an
ongoing rural programs near Mbeya in the Southwest Zone.
Committed Projects
4.11   TANESCO has obtained funds to implement the following projects included in its 1992-1998
investment program: (i) construction of a mini-hydro scheme in an isolated area near Mto wa Mbu; (ii)
rehabilitation of the northwest grid in the vicinity of Dodoma; (iii) construction of the 220 KV line from
Morogoro to Dar es Salaam, a condnuation of the line from Kidatu which is under construction; (iv)
construction of a new 132 KV line from Bukoba in the Lake Zone to Masaka in Uganda, along with
distribution schemes in both the Lake and South West Zones; and (v) implementation of three rural
electrification schemes, one in the Lake Zone between Mwanza and Ngudu, another to supply six
ginneries in the Mwanza region from the grid, and the third to supply agricultural areas in the southern
part of the country.
-h he roect
4.12 Objectives. The main objectives of the proposed project correspond to Government policy
objectives for the power sector, which IDA supports. These are: (i) meeting the growing demand for
electricity at least-cost manner through the construction of the Lower Kihansi hydroelectric scheme; (ii)
helping the Government restructure the power sector to promote efficiency and private investment; (iii)
continuing the work already started on improving energy efficiency by reducing system losses, improving
service quality, and supporting demand side management initiatives; (iv) providing training and
technology to improve the skills and management effectiveness of staff in sector institutions; and (v)
promoting the development and operation of natural gas fueled generation by private investors.
4.13   Rationale for IDA Involvement. The proposed project addresses the 'rincipal issues in the power
sector. Increased generating capability and reliable service are essential for onomic development and
for the general well-being of the country. The Government has expressed its commitment to sector
reform and recognizes the need to increase TANESCO's autonomy for increased efficiency and
productivity. By remaining active in the power sector, IDA will be able to promote: (i) the expansion of



- 37 -
power supply based on least-cost criteria encompassing both supply and demand side options; (ii)
efficiency in energy supply and use; (iii) sound financial management and fiancial planning for the
sector through appropriate pricing and prudent capital structures; and (iv) capable national energy
planning and management through training studies and the importation of appropriate technologies.
Moreover, IDA has and will continue to play an important role in coordinating the traditonal sources of
financing while developing new sources in the private sector.
4.14   Project Preparadon. The Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) financed a detailed
feasibility study of the Lower Kihansi site. JICA's report, dated September 1990, forms the basis of the
Lower Kihansi development. An IDA mission visited Tanzania in October 1990 for pre-appraisal of the
project. During 1990, ESMAP helped TANESCO prepare the distribution component of the Project. A
draft report, first issued in December 1990 and reissued in November 1992, contains the results of this
work.
4.15 During pre-appraisal in January/February 1991, IDA and TANESCO analyzed the various
components of the Project in detail and agreed on the project's design. During that mission, the
Government and TANESCO requested IDA to finance, through a technical assistance credit, the detailed
design and preparation of bid documents for the Lower Kihansi hydroelectric scheme, as the
Government's request for financing from a different source was not being met. An IDA mission
appraised the Technical Assistance Project in May 1991 and IDA's Board approved it in January 1992.
A condition for appraising the proposed Power VI Project was the satisfactory completion by
TANESCO's consultants of a draft inception report, by June 1992, on the detailed design and latest cost
esdmates of the Lower Kihansi scheme to assure its economic viability. The consultants completed the
draft inception report in June 1992, and a Project Definition Report in Febmary 1993. The draft
inception report reconfinmed the cost estimates for Lower Kihansi and its attractiveness relative to the
competn Songo Songo gas-based project. Furthermore, TANESCO employed a Panel of Experts to get
an independent review of the design of the Lower Kihansi Project. The Panel reviewed the Project
Definition Report and visited the site in March 1993. Annex 4.11 shows the Panel's terms of reference,
and Annex 4.3 includes a summary of the panel's comments on the project design concept and
preparation. An appraisal mission visited Tanzania in June/July 1992 and, with cetain changes,
principally the deletion of rehabilitation of diesel engines, confirmed the project components agreed to
during preappraisal.
4.16 Project Description. The proposed project has three main parts: The first part, which
TANESCO wi1l implement, consists of:
*     the 180 MW first stage of the Lower Kihansi hydroelectric scheme;
*     expansion, reinforcement, and loss reduction in the distribution systems of major load
centers;



- 38 -
*     provision of vehicles, tools, and meters to improve distribution and commercial
operations;
*     completion of the rehabilitation of the Kidatu bydroelectric plant;
*     management support and training;
*     provision of computerized management infonrion systems and services to support
TANESCO's decentralized operations;
*     studies including tariff, assets valuaion, power system master plan, hydroelectric plant
feasibility, and distribution standards.
*     demand side management activities including audits and advertising;
*     upgrading of the dispatch center equipment and comuication systems; and
*     provision of workshop equipment.
The second part, which ZSFPC will implement, consists of:
*     a study of the operation of ZSPPC to define feasible options for its future structure;
-     provision of a commercial manager for ZSFPC to oversee commercial operations until the
utility is restuctured;
*     provision of prepayment meters ad associated materials to help improve collections.
The third part, which MWEM implement, consists of:
*     a study of the structure of the power sector and its associated regutory framework in
Tanzania to define options for restructug to improve efficiency, and to explore ways of
introducing private sector financing and management;
*     provision of consulting services to help promote private sector financing and operation of
thermal generation using gas from Songo Songo;
*     provision of eqpmt to help develop geneation from usmng the Mnmzi bay gasfield in a
joint arrangement with the private sector;
*     training and office technology for energy staff of the ministry.



-39-
A summary of these components follows. Annex 4.3 provides a more detailed description.
4.17 Lower Kiihansi Hydroelectric Scheme. The proposed scheme is located in southwestern Tanzania,
about 440 km from Dar es Salaamn. It utilizes the flow of the Kihansi River, which has its source on the
Central Plateau at about 2100 m above sea level. The river, in descending the Uzungwa Scarp, falls about
1000 m over five kllometers to the foot of the scarp, where it flows into the Kilombero River. The
proposed hydroelectric development consists of a low dam, at the head of the steepest section of the
scarp, diverdng flow through a power tumel, to an underground powerhouse, and then back into the
river at the foot of the escarpment. A head of 851 m is developed over a total conduit length of 5.4 km.
4.18  The concrete dam is designed for a maximum height of 25 m above foundation level, to provide a
live storage of some 870,000 m3 which is sufficient to provide for full daily regulation of flow for an
ultimate instlled capacity of 300 MW. This design provides for an intake adjacent to the dam on the left
bank to be connected to the headrace tunnel by a vertical shaft 240 m long and 25 mn in area. The
headrace tunnel would be 2900 m long and 25 i2 in area, with an inclination of 1 in 5.0, followed by a
125 m long steel lined setion leading to the powerhouse. The underground powerhouse cavem is
planmed to be 95.5 m long, 12.6 m wide and 30 m high, supported by systematic bolting and shotcreting.
From the powerhouse, individual outlet tunnels from each turbine would merge into a 1500 m long free
flow tun1el, which in turn would lead into an 800 m long canal, discharging back into the Kilansi River.
The powerhouse will ultmately accommodate five (initally three under the proposed project) Pelton
turbines, each developing 60 MW, with a power flow of 8.3 n/s, under a rated head of 845 m, with
vertical synchronous generators rated at 70.5 MVA at 0.85 power factor. The station would be connected
to the grid through two 220 kV transmission lines. One transmission line is phnned to connect with the
substation at Iringa, 113 km to the north, and the other one to the substation at Kidatu, 90 kn to the
northeast. These transmission lines also would serve to reinforce the transmission grid between Iringa
and Kidatu and so reduce the probability of total system collapse in the event of a fault in this part of the
grid.
4.19  Distribution Works. ESMAP, with the assistance of TANESCO staff, did extensive studies in
1991 to determine the needs of the distribution network. A report entitled, "Tanzania: Transmission and
Distribution System Technical Loss Reduction and Network Development," of March 1992, presents the
results of the stxdies which analyze the economic benefits of loss reduction and network expansion. The
proposed project includes the three main activities that the report recommends:
*     System Development and Reinforcement, focussing on reducing losses and increasing the
reliability of service to customers;
*     Rehabilitation and strengthening (including reducing losses) of existing facilities that have
deteriorated due to normal aging and, in some cases, insufficient maitenance; and
* System Expansion in the four main load centers to supply electricity to customers at
investment levels that yield a reasonable rate of return.



-40 -
Along with its primary goal of connecting new customers, the system expansion work will introduce new
technologies and demonstrate new standards and construction techniques resulting from studies described
later in this chapter.
4.20   Rehabilitation of the Kidatu Hydroelectric Station. The Kidatu generating station, which is 15
years old, requires major rehabilitation of the main generating equipment as well as the control and
auxiliary equipment, because the necessary foreign exchmge has not always been available to carry out
maintenance on time. Also, the generator of one of the units failed in October 1989. The apparent cause
of the failure was the design of the excitation system which resulted in carbon dust entering the windings.
A consulting firm studied the problem and recommended replacing all the exciters with static excitation
systems that had the additional advantage of providing better transient response. The firm also defined
other measures to catch up on deferred maitenance, modernize the control system and return the plant to
peak operating condition. After a delay in securing financing for the repair, SIDA, in 1991, agreed to
finance the urgent aspects of the work covering the repair of the faulty generator, replacement of all the
exciters and some work on the turbines. The defective generator was returned to service in late 1992.
The work on the remaining exciters and turbines will be done as soon as the units can be scheduled out of
service. The proposed project includes the less urgent work recommended, which SIDA financing did not
cover. It also includes the engineering services for supervising l hle work.
4.21   Exoet Services. TANESCO does not have sufficient ;taff to properly supervise the significant
volume of work planned during the period of the proposed p. oject, which will finance the several experts
required for this supervision. One expert will act as Project Manager, representing TANESCO's interests
in the construction of Lower Kihansi and the employment of this manager is a condition of effectiveness
of the proposed credit (para 7.3(iii)). In addition, TANESCO has retained a Panel of Experts to provide
guidance and advice on technical matters, safety and construction problems (para 4.15). The proposed
project also includes engineering services for preparing construction drawings and supervising the
construction of the Lower Kihansi hydro scheme. Expert services in Corporate Planning, Distribution
Plamning, Systems Improvement, Management and Personnel and Training, which the proposed project
also provides, will help strengthen TANESCO's institutional capability, implement its Productivity
Improvement Program, and rationalize its manpower resources.
4.22   Trainin,e. The project includes both fonnal and on-the-job training for TANESCO staff at all
levels, with particular emphasis on operation and  nhteance of generation, transmission and distribution
facilities, finance and accounting, planning, and management supervision. A new school, under
construction at Morogoro, will accommodate 70 students, for training in accounting, finance, commerce
and technical subjects. The project includes expansion of the facilities at Kidatu to provide additional
training for the operation and maintenance of the generating stations. Also, as further on-the-job training,
TANESCO will continue to assign staff to work with consultants and equipment ma er in offices
and             facilities overseas; this practice will continue on site during the project construction.
4.23    Manageenformation S        . TANESCO has started to upgrade its Accounrmg and
Customer Service systems using fiuds from the Power Engineering and Technical Assistance Credit.



- 41 -
Once completed, th.e new systems are expected to help reduce non-technical losses, improve collections,
and provide timely and accurate management information. The installation of the new systems correlates
with TANESCO's efforts to decentralize its operations. The proposed project aims to expand the
coverage of these systems and install necessary sub-systems that the Power Engineering Credit did not
include. The proposed project includes additional software, computers, meters, service material,
prepayment metering and vehicles. Also, to complement the accounting system, the proposed project
includes a new materials management system and a personnel management system.
4.24   Studies. The proposed project includes several financial and technical studies to help guide
development of the sector. The financial studies are a tariff study and an assets valuation study. The
former is needed especially to review the structure of tariffs and to determine how to restcture tariffs to
promote efficiency and conservation. The assets valuation study is needed since TANESCO has not done
a full engineering valuation for several years. Such a study is periodically necessary to correct structural
problems that accumulate when the asset value is updated using indices.
4.25 The main technical studies include one that will evaluate the potential of four hydroelectric sites
and bring the soundest two sites to feasibility level. Another study will consider these two sites along
with gas fired plants as well as other options, including any feasible, cost effective demand side
conservation options, in a power system master plan study. This study will include a comprehensive
revision of the load forecast model to reflect the significant changes in the economy that have occurred.
A third study, associated with significant training activities, will review TANESCO's present distribution
standards and explore ways of lowering the cost of connecting each customer without adversely affecting
the quality of electricity service supplied.
4.26 Demand Side Management (DSM). The project includes equipment, consulting services, training
and provisions for an information program to promote and support demand management. These inputs
will help implement work which ESMAP will define in detail. The overall approach to DSM is to focus
efforts on getting the maximum impact with a coordinated set of actions set in the context of Tanania's
present energy consumption patterns and institutional arrangements.
4.27 In a follow-up to its loss reduction study, ESMAP will begin work, in May 1993, to identify
specific DSM measures and formmlate an implementation strategy. The project will help carry out the
resulting strategy. The tariff increases that the Government has agreed to, as a condition for this project,
will provide the correct economic incentive for implementing cost effective DSM measures. One of the
outputs of the ESMAP work and the work in the proposed project will be a clear definition of the costs,
including adnistration and management, and potential energy saving of DSM measures for their explicit
consideration in the proposed power system master plan study.
4.28 Present indications are that the measures that will yield significant benefits will be in the industrial
and commercial sectors. At present, 541 large industial and commercial customers consume about 40
percent of total energy; about 35,000 small industrial and commercial customers consume 14 percent;
and 118,000 domestic customers consume 31 percent. Of the domestic customers, about 12,000 consume



- 42 -
50 percent of the energy for the group, that is 16 percent of the total. Therefore, the initial DSM efforts
will be focused on the large industrial and commercial customers. Annex 4.3 describes the proposed
DSM activities in greater detail.
4.29  DLspatch Center Upgrade. TANESCO has been unable to complete certain aspects of its Dispatch
Center because of limited finmcing. Therefore, the proposed project includes computer equipment to
give the dispatchers an off-line computing capability, and improvements to the communications systemi to
pemrit more information transfer into the center from remote stations. This will allow TANESCO to plan
the use of its energy resources better, especially in drought conditions.
4.30   Works_hps. The lack of proper workshop facilities has hindered repairs of mechanical and
electrical equipment. The proposed project will help to remedy this by providing adequate facilities in Dar
es Salaam, in the seven zones, at Mtera, Kidatu, and Pangani. Equipment for these facilities would
include a complete set of hand and power tools, drills, lathes, grinding machines, and welding equipment,
as well as safety equipment (gloves, hard hats, and goggles).
4.31 Project Components for Zanzibar. The proposed project will provide ZSFPC with a package
designed to start improving the commercial activities of the utility while a parallel study evaluates the best
option for its future management. Commercial improvements, along with tariffs that reflect real costs,
are essential to reduce the drain on the Island's treasury and enable ZSFPC to pay for the bulk supply of
electricity it receives from TANESCO. The package consists of providing, for about two years, a
commercial manager who would build on the commercial operations reform which ZSFPC has begun
with assistance from the African Development Bank. Also, the manager would supervise the installation
of prepayment meters, financed by the project, for almost half the customers on the island, and contribute
to the institutional study to be performed by consultants. Some of the options to be considered in the
study are privatizing the utility, if feasible, and performance based management contracting.
4.32   Assistance to MWEM. The project includes technical assistance for the Ministry of Water,
Energy and Minerals to improve the skills of and provide office technology for staff in its Department of
Energy and a study of the future structure of the power sector (para 2.39). Furthermore, two important
components designed to promote involvement of the private sector in natural gas fueled generation are
included.
4.33 The first component consists of preparation work, including consulting assistance, to help the
Ministry promote the development of the Songo Songo gas field by private investors. This component
will help evaluate project design alternatives and prepare, evaluate and negotiate contracts as necessary.
According to plans, the gas turbine which TANESCO will install will initially use diesel oil and then
convert to gas use after the development of the Songo Songo field. Since the capacity of the field is
sufficient to support generation of up to about 250 MW, the development should also contribute to fture
generation expansion needs and possibly to the export of power.
4.34   The second is to install a pilot gas fueled generation project at Mnazi Bay to serve the isolated
systems in the area and reduce the need for imported diesel fuel. This part of the project has several
important featues. First, it seeks to demonstrate a use for remote gas resources found in the course of
petroleum exploration for the domestic market; several other African countries have abandoned the
development of such resources. The plan is for the government to finance the necessary pipeline and



-43 -
power geneaon equipmt and as it to the private investor/operator, who would develop the gas weil
to Production and maage te gs and power generation failities. Remuneration for the investor would
ocr under a power sales contsa witb TANESCO, wich opeates the distibution system in the area.
Also, tet would be an dexn of the sales tariff, with its initial value being set though the invitation
of bids fbr the opration.
bRioct osts
4.35  Table 4.2 provides a sunima_ y of poject costs, for which Annex 4.4 provides detailed
backgrund iormation.



-44 -
Table 4.2 Summary of Project Costs
Local     Foreign     Toa            Local      Foreign      Tot
(Tsh billion)                        (S-$ miIon)
TANESCO Components
Lower Khasi
Resetlemen                  0.6          0.0       0.6            1.8          0.0       1.8
Civil Works                 5.2         22.1     27.3            15.6         62.4      78.0
Mechaical                   0.4          8.8      9.2             1.3         25.2      26.5
Electrical                  0.5         16.5      17.0           1.5          47.0      48.5
Transmission and subs       2.2          9.2      11.4           6.4          26.0      32.4
Engineering and             1.0         6.8       7.8            3.4          18.9      22.3
overheads
Sub Total                  9.9        63.4      73.3           30.0         179.5     209.5
Disibon Improvement            1.2        13.1      14.3            4.1         36.8       40.9
3eneration Rehab.              0.5         4.1       4.6            1.3          11.8      13.1
MIS and Systan Control         0.0         1.7       1.7            0.0          4.8        4.8
Vehicles and Tools             0.0         0.5       0.5            0.0          1.5        1.5
Workshop Equip.'ent            0.1         1.6       1.7            0.3          4.5        4.8
Cosulting and Trining          0.5         5.0       5.5            1.5          14.1      15.6
Demnd Side Mangement           0.1         0.5       0.6            0.2          1.7        1.9
Sub Total                    24          26.5      28.9            7.4         75.2       82.6
Assistance to ZSFPC             0.0         0.6       0.6            0.0           1.7       1.7
MWEM Compoets
Developmea  of Gas fields      0.0         5.4       5.4            0.0         15.6       15.6
Technical Assistane            0.0         0.3       0.3            0.0          0.9        0.9
Powe Sector Structure Study    0.0         0.3       0.3            0.0          0.8        0.8
Sub Total                                  0 6      u                          17.3       17.3
Tota DbseM Costs             12.3        96.5     108.8           37.4        273.7      311.1
Pbysical Contngencies         1.4         8.5       9.9            3.9         24.3       28.2
Price Contingencies           5.5        48.4      53.9            1.9         42.5       44.4
Tota Project Costs           19.2       153.4    172.6            43.2        340.5      383.7
Intr  During                 26.2         0.0      26.2           56.7          0.0       56.7
Constuction
Total Fmnaning               45.4       153.4     198.8           99.9        340.5      440.4
R    e4 _               _ .                                                   30         440.4



-45 -
4.36 The estimated total cost of the proposed project, including physical and price contingencies but
excluding duties, taxes and interest during construction, is US$383.7 million, of which US$340.5 million
(89 percent) is foreign exchange and US$43.2 million (11 percent) is local cost. The esimated total
financing requireme, including interest during construction, is US$440.4 million. All project costs are
based on January 1993 prices, and most of the proposed project items include physical contingencies of
10 percent. The excepdons are dam and intake structures and powerhouse, 15 percent;
electromechanical equipment, 5 percent (based on recent quotations); and tunnels, 25 percent.
NORPLAN, the consulting firm designing the plan, based its estimate for the tunnels on a lrgely unlined
design. If geological conditions are not as good as expected, excavation costs and the proportion of the
tunnel to be lined will increase. The Panel of Experts, while agreeing with the amount of sub-surface
investigations carried out, noted in its first report that with the level of uncertainty of sub-surface
conditions, the estimates of cost and schedule are perhaps slightly optimistic.11/ Therefore, the
proposed project provides an increase in the level of contingencies for the tunneling works from the 15
percent recommended by the Consultants to a more conservative 25 percent. The price contingency
calculation is based on the total of base cost plus physicai contingencies, assuming domestic inflation rates
of 15 percent for 1993 and 10 percent for 1994 through 1996, and 10 percent thereafter. The
corresponding international inflaion rates are 3.9 percent for 1993 and 3.8 percent thereafter. The
assumed base exchange rate for January 1993 is 350 Tsh to the US Dollar.
4.37 NORPLAN prepared the project cost estimates for the Lower Kihansi scheme based on January
1991 prices. During the project appra  all costs were aligned to a common base of January 1993 by
adjusting for the exchange rate between the US$ and TSh, and international and local inflation rates.
TANESCO prepared the distribution component of the proposed project with the assistance of ESMAP,
operating on the assumption that foreign contractors would do the work on the substations, the 33 Kv
lines and about half of the distribution. The remaider would be carried out by TANESCO workers.
The cost estimate for rehabiiting the Kidatu hydroelectric station was prepared by consultants and
TANESCO and appears to be reasonable. The remaining components were prepared by TANESCO and
the appraisal mission based on quotations from suppliers and prices for similar goods and services
recently provided elsewhere.
Proiect Einaninr
4.38   A tentative plan for finlancing the foreign exchange component of the proposed project is shown in
Table 4.3 below. The local cost component of the proposed project, including interest during
constuction, is expected to be financed by TANESCO's inernally generated funds for the components
implemented by TANESCO, and by ZSFPC and MWEM for the components implemented by them. The
local costs associated with the ZSFPC and MWEM components are expected to be small.
llJ    A summary of the comments of the Panel of Experts is presented in Annex 4.3.



-46-
TabRo4.  E_s
(IIS$ minonl)
otorcla     IDA    NORAD    OM1   KMW     ODA    Gt of   DA A    Pitt   phoau
Rd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d=o
TANESC0 Components
Civ Watl s             81.0    81.0
Mecani Pla             30.8               30.8
Oenenots               24.0                      24.0
Controls and           20.5               20.3
AuxHfind
T tansfonue             14.3                                               14.3
Transt  n & Subs.      33.5                             33.5
BnglauiE_ipg           21.7    21.7
Sub Totdal           225.8   102.7       51.3   24.0   33.5     0.0       143         0.0       0.0      0.0
Disbuon                4S.9    4S.9
Gm Rdlab.               13.6    13.6
Comukancy and          17.7    105                                3.1                   3.9                0.2
Wodkhops                5.4                                                                                5.4
MIS & Ssem              4.7     2.9                      1.8
Demand Side Man         2.0      2.0
Vabdes & Tool           2A       2.4
Sub Toal              91.7   I7.3         0.0    0.0    1.8     3.1       o0           3.9      0.0       5.0
ZSFPC Comont
Co_m    y Services      0.8      0.8
Me  & Assoc.             12      1.2
Sub Tosal              2.0     2.0        0.0    0.0    0.0    o0          0.0         0.0      0.0       0.0
MWDM Componat
GaleIds                 16.6    13.6                                                             3.0
Devdopnme
TIrhdP8                 0.8      0.8
ConuAsCY Servi          3.3      3.3
Offie Tec:nlogy         0.3      0.3
Sub Total             21.0    18.0        0.0    0.0    0.0     0.0        0.0         0.0      3.0       0.0
TOWal                3405   200.0        51.3   24.0   35.3      3.1      14.3         3.9      3.0       5.6



- 47 -
4.39  The estimated total foreign exchange required for the proposed project is US$340.5 million of
which IDA will provide US$200 million (59 percent). The EIB has expressed interest in financing a part
of the electrical plant at Lower Kihansi. EIB's initial offer was up to about US$15 million, but IDA has
asked it to consider a complete procurement package. EIB plans to appraise the component in early May,
1993. ODA has agreed to finance the tariff study and assets valuation study for a total of US$ 3.1
million. If these amounts are taken to be the only funds available, there would be a financing gap of
US$122.4 million. Other donors, however, have expressed interest in financing various components,
although several will have to arrange it in the context of their bilateral negotiations with Tanzania.
NORAD has expressed interest in financing electromechanical components at Kihansi and is discussing
the matter with the Government now that it has identified energy as a priority area for assistance. The
Belgian Government has expressed interest in financing the transformers at Kihansi. KfW has started
discussions with the Government and at its request is considering financing the transmission lines and
substations to link the plant to the grid. The Government has approached DANIDA for financing to
cover feasibility studies. This should be possible by reallocating funds allocated to existing slow-moving
programs. TANESCO expects private company participation of about US$3.0 million, through a
competitive bidding process, in financing the Mnazi Bay gas development. Taking these into account, the
financing gap becomes about US$5.8 million, a more manageable figure given that some Donors, for
example ODA, have indicated that they may be able to include components that disburse later in the
project schedule in subsequent rounds of cofinancing arraigements. Although all the components of the
proposed project are of high priority, if there is a shortfall in the tentative cofnancing scheme outlined in
table 4.3, IDA is prepared to reallocate its resources, principally from distribution and generation
rehabilitation components, to assure completion of the Kihansi project.
4.40   To complete the financing arrangements, the Government has agreed to continue to approach
donors and place a high priority on financing for the project componeniz. Satisfactory progress in making
cofinancing arrangements and the execution of an onlending agreement with TANESCO are conditions of
the Credit's effectiveness (para 7.3(ii)). The onlending terms for TANESCO are an amount of US$180
million at an interest rate of aot less than 7.43 percent with repayment in 20 years, including five years of
grace. TANESCO will bear the exchange risk. The Government will onlend US$2 million to ZSFPC
umder the same terms. ZSFPC's disbursement of the funds is contingent on the execution of a satisfactory
onlending agreement, and the Government of Zanzibar maintaining the average electricity tariff in line
with TANESCO's average retail tariff (para 7.4).
Components for Implementation by TANESCO
4.41   TANESCO will implement most of the power components of the proposed project. Annex 4.7
provides a Project ImplementatioL Schedule. TANESCO has agreed to establish a project management
unit (PMU) and appoint a Project Manager from its existing staff for the proposed project, who would
have the following responsibilities: (i) coordinating the supervision of the proposed project's execution;
(ii) liaising with IDA and the co-financiers on the various components of the proposed project; (iii)
dealing with all correspondence, procurement activities and progress reports; and (iv) liaising with
consultants to be employed for the supervision of Kihansi and the distribution work. Appointment of a
Project Manager, with qualifications acceptable to IDA, and establishment of the project management unit
are conditions of the Credit's effectiveness (para 7.3(iv)).



- 48 -
4.42 Lower Kihansi Hydroelectric Plant. TANESCO hlred consultants in January 1992 (financed by
Credit 2330-TA) to do field surveys and subsurface explorations, as well as prepare detailed designs and
cotact documents for Lower Kihansi. According to the present schedule, TANESCO will award the
consultancy contract for construction stage services by mid 1993. There will be two civil contracts: one
for construction of access roads and construction camp infrastucture, and the second for the main civil
works. The award of the preliminary works contract should take place in the third quarter of 1993. To
meet this schedule, TANESCO has adopted post-qualification of contractors, based on clearly defined and
stringent criteria. Designs and documents for the main civil contact will take longer to prepare, since
they are dependant on the site investigations which TANESCO completed in October 1992. Bidders for
this contract, which is expected to be awarded in March 1994, will be prequalified. While consultants
will be responsible for fulfilling the role of the engineer in construction supervision, TANESCO, with
funds from the proposed project, will hire an experienced, externally recruited, project manager to assist
the utility in managing the activities at Kihansi. Employment of the project manager is a condition of the
Credit's effectiveness (para 7.3 (iii)). In order to assure the continued safety of the proposed dam and
strucures, TANESCO agreed to send to IDA, no later than one year before the expected completion of
the structures, details of its arrangements for inspecting and maintaning the dam and associated structues
(Schedule 1).
4.43 Construction of the project should take a total of 58 months from the award of the preliminary
works contract. The critical path passes through the access and camp infrastructure facilities, access
tunel to the powerhouse, powerhouse excavation and equipment installation.
4.44   Rehabilitaton of Kidatu. Contractors under the supervision of a project management consultant
employed by TANESCO will do the rehabilitation work on the Kidatu hydroelectric plant.
4.45  Improvement of the Distribution Network. The present schedWe calls for consultants to design
and prepare bid documents for the rehabilitation and construction of the distribution network early in
1994. TANESCO proposes to retain the services of a consulting firm to organize and manage the
proposed distribution rehabilitation work. In addition, the firm will have to review TANESCO's present
way of organizing and performing distribution work, and help introduce new techniques and tools to
improve productivity. Terms of reference for the consulting services are given in Annex 8.1.
4.46 TANESCO and contractors are expected to start construction early in 1995 and zomplete it at a
uniform pace by the end of 1997. On-the-job training of TANESCO staff is expected to reach a stage
whereby they would be able to carry on with the distribution work after the consultants have left.
4.47 Distribution PlanninS. A consultant will assist the distribution planning group formed by ESMAP
and expand the activities of this group to the Zonal offices. The intention is for the headquarters group to
be responsible for setting distribution standards based on economic criteria, and for the zonal offices to
apply these standards and maintain t;   ibases in their Zones. Terms of reference for the consultant
are in Annex 8.2. These training actlvtlies are scheduled for the period 1993 to 1994 and should bring
TANESCO staff to a level to enable them to continue the planning work after the consultant has left.
4.48 Overseas Training. TANESCO has an ambitious training program beginning with the managerial
training at Eastern and Southern Africa Management Insitute (ESAMI) that took place in the latter part of
1992. The new school at Morogoro should be completed by mid-1993, so that the training of financial
staff and line constuction workers may begin. An expatriate instructor for each group would prepare a



-49-
curriculum (pam 2.21 and 2.23), and after they leave in mid 1995, local trainers would continue the
instuction. The new facilities at Kidatu would be completed and equipped by the end of 1993, but in this
case, a technical instructor would renain to teach for three years. During 1993 and the following two
years, the eighteen managers wold each spend about three months visiting utilities abroad to become
acquainted with modern utility management practices. In 1994, 10 engineers will be sent to take training
in relay and protection procedures. In the 1993-95 period, three engineers will be sent to take six to
eight week courses in power system planing.
4.49  Msement Information System. The Stores system and expansion of the Accounting and
Customer Service systems will be completed by 1996. This work will add modules to the basic
accountig system installed under the Technical Assistance Credit.
4.50  Worshops. TANESCO will constmrt the workshops, giving priority to those at the three hydro
power stations. Those in the zones would follow soon after, so that it all should be complete by the end
of 1995.
4.51 Panel of Experts and Proiect Manaaer for Lower Kibansi. TANESCO has retained the services
of a Panel of Experts to advise on the design and implemenation of the hydropower plant. The panel
met for the first time in March 1993 and reviewed the draft Project Definition Repor. which the
consultants prepared. The panel will normally meet at about six month intervals or more frequently if
required, to review design and onstuction progress until the Lower Kibansi Scheme is completed. The
project manager for Lower Kihansi will be appointed prior to credit effectiveness (parm 4.42).
4.52  Technical Assistance and Studies. The employment of all the expatriae technical assistance
persoanel (paras 2.12, 2.14, 2.18, 2.21, 2.24, 2.28 and 2.31) will take place by January 1, 1994. ODA
expects to start fte tariff study in mid 1993 and the Assets Valuation study soon after. The first phase of
the Power System Master Plan Study should start in 1994 and the second phase about a year later. The
hydro feasibility studies will be started by April 1994.
CMpnn  for Implementation by ZSFPC
4.53   The project provides for a qualified commercial manager for ZSFPC and, according to the present
schedule the commercial manager should be in place by January 1994. Along with improving
commercial operations, the manager will be responsible for supervising the mangement study and the
installation of the prepayment meters included in the project.
gam2am  for Impmeation  MWM
4.54 The Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals will be responsible for implementing the Power
Sector Study, the work on Songo Songo, the development at the Mnazi gasfield, and the other assistance
and training which MWEM will provide.



- so -
Ewstmn1
4.55   Table 4.4 summarizes the procurement arrangements for the project, Amex 4.5 lists the
procurment packages, and Annex 4.6 shows the procurement timetable for IDA financed packages.
4.56 Only US$ 27.0 million of the goods and services financed by IDA will not be procured by ICB.
These consists of:
(a)    US$ 25.7 million worth of consulting services, studies, technical assistance and training.
Procurement will take place following the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
(b)    US$ 1.0 million worth of specialized tools and software. Only a few suppliers produce
the required items. Procurement will take place, following IDA approval, on a case-by-
case basis by Limited International Bidding.
(c)    US$ 0.3 million worth of proprietary software and special hardware is required, for
reasons of compatibility with the existing system, to expand TANESCO's distribution
analysis and mapping system. Procurement will take place, following IDA approval, by
direct contracting.
4.57 ICB contracts represent about 87 percent of the proposed project procurement financed by IDA.
The preparation of bidding documents will take place in accordance with the Bank's sample document for
the procurement of works, and the Bank's sample document for the procurement of goods. Local firms
most likely will bid on civil works contracts. In these cases, the Bank's standard domestic preference
provisions will apply in the evaluation and companson of bids for contracts procured by ICB. The
Bank's sample LOI package and contract will be used for employment of all consultants.
4.58 IDA financing will apply to approximately 46 procurement packages. Contracts worth US$
200,000 or more, representing more than 98 percent of the amount financed by IDA, will be subject to
prior review by IDA. The remainder will be subject to selective post-award review. Prequalification of
contractors will be necessary for the main civil works contract. Procurement of works and goods
cofinanced with other agencies will take place in accordance with those agencies' practices.



-Sl -
Ta4lu4,w_y of Pr4en4t Sumehy
(US$ nillion)
ICB              Od0z"               NI5*               TOW
TANESCO Coepoma
Resenlwuent                                                                        2.2               2.2
P roi & Chdl Wob                           99.9                                                     99.9
(81.0                                                   (81.0)
92.7             92.7
Ttamminsk A Sub$Wl=                                                               41.3              413
Dlsrbdon Meeias                            50.1                                                     50.1
(4S.9)                                                  (4S.9)
Vehides & Toob                              1.8                 0.6                                  2.4
(1.8)              (0.6)                                (2.4)
MIS & System Control                        2.6                  0.4               1.9               4.9
(2.6)               D.4)                                  (3)
woesops                                                                            5.7               5.7
Dumnd Side Man_guat                         1.8                0.5                                   23
(1.6)              (0.4)                                (2.0)
Gameation RdAathdun                        15.3                                                     153
(13.6)                                                  (13.6)
Services                                             33.2                7.6              40.8
(29.1)                              (29.1)
T--*g                                                           2.7                0.1               2.8
(2.7)                               (2.7)
P iey Sofwae &J BgIpm                                           0.3                                  0.3
(0.3)                               (0.3)
Cauuhnncy Services                                             0.8                                   0.8
(0.8)                               (0.8)
Mae  J Asc. Mats                            1.2                                                      1.2
(1.2)                                                    (1.2)
MWEM Ounponems
Gssfidd Equpme                             16.6                                                     16.6
(13.6)                                                   (13.6)
Comulancy Services                                              3.3                                  3,3
(3.3)                               (3.3)
TaIig                                                           0.8                                  0.8
(0.8)                               (0.8)
Office Materas                             0.3                                                       0.3
(03)                                                     m3i
aea                                      189.6               42.6                15               383.7
(161.6)             (38.4)                              (200.0)
Amoutsm in bracets ame IDA finAnced.
Consult wngevices, techica &asistnc, Limite  Intenatna Bkiddn, direc pmoureznest, and
(C)      Not H          by _EblDA.



- 52 -
Project Preparation Facility (PPP)
4.59 IDA has approved a PPF of US$ 750,000 equivalent to assist the Government finance part of the
detailed design for the Lower Kihansi hydroelectric scheme. In the event that the proposed credit does
not become effective, the Government would have to reimburse IDA in accordance with the standard
clauses in the PPF Agreement.
Disbursements
4.60  The disbursement of the proposed credit proceeds should take place over a period of 66 months,
from July 1993 through December 1998. Disbursements from the proposed credit will be in accordance
with the disbursement procedures of IDA and will be made for 100 percent of foreign expenditures for
those components which IDA will finance. There will be no disbursement of proceeds from the proposed
credit against local expenditures. For contracts of less than US$200,000, IDA will allow simplified
disbursement procedures on the basis of Statements of Expenditure. On the basis of estimated anmual
project costs, Annex 4.9 gives anticipated disbursements, which match closely the standard profiles for
Bank loans and IDA credits for power projects in the Africa region. The closing date for the Credit is
June 30, 2000.
Special Account
4.61  In order to ensure the timely availability of funds, TANESCO will open a Special Account in a
banldng institution acceptable to IDA, in the amount of US$ 1,500,000; this amount is equal to an
estimted four months of average project expenditures, excluding direct disbursements under major
contracts. Funds in the Special Account will be available to finance only eligible expenditures under the
project. IDA will replenish the Special Account as needed.
Environmental Asects
4.62   The Lower Kihansi hydroelectric scheme is a Category A project for Environmental Assessment
(EA). Consultants, on behalf of the government and TANESCO, prepared the EA in stages between
1989 and 1992. Concerned departments of the Government and TANESCO were involved, and extensive
discussions with representatives of vaious interest groups have taken place in Tanzania. The final EA
report, dated February 28, 1992, is available for review at TANESCO's headquarters in Dar es Salaam.
Annex 4.10 gives a summary of this report. Most importantly, the Lower Kihansi dam will inundate 30
hectares and create a pondage of 1.4 million cubic meters. Roughly 50 percent of the affected area is
agricultnral land, and the remaining 50 percent is second-growth natural forest. The project will require
the removal of two dwellings, which are occupied temporarily. The run-of-river project is not expected
to have a serious downstream impact on wildlife or fisheries. The expected effects on flora and fauna
should be minimal and temporary. The scheme will not adversely affect water quality, although an
indirect effect of improved access to water may be intensified agriculture, which may have some adverse
consequences over the long run. The project will not increase water-related diseases. However, there is
a distinct hreat that members of the labor force may introduce AIDS into the remote and sparsely
populated region. To minimize that risk, bid documents for civil works would require that the bidders
propose effective measures to control the spreading of AIDS during the construction perod. Safe
diposal of material excavated for the intakes, penstock and ta,trace tunnel may pose an environmental



- 53 -
problem of limited magnitude. However, TANESCO has agreed to implement, by June 30, 1994, an
Environmena Mitigation Plan for the Lower Kihansi Scheme, and the transmission line from Lower
Kihansi to Iringa and from Lower Kihansi to Kidatu (Schedule 1). Furthermore, TANESCO, with the
help of consultas, has completed a separate Enviromnental Assessment of the trarsmission lines between
the Lower Kihansi power plant and Iringa and Kidatu (Schedule 1).
Project Risks
4.63 The inclusion of substantial project management inputs by specialist consultants for the critical
components should help minimize various risks to the proposed project's implementation. Nevertheless,
because of Tanzania's overall economic situation and the nature of the work, the following present higher
than usual risks:
*     financing for critical project components;
*     delays in commissioning of the Lower Kihansi hydroelectric plant due to unforeseen
geological conditions;
*     difficulties in completing institutional reforms.
4.64 inancing. The project requires substantial foreign currency financing which the Govermnent and
TANESCO expect to come from at least six multilateral and bilateral institutions other than IDA. But it
may be difficult to coordinate this arrangement, as priorities of the institutions sometimes change. In
order to minimize the risk of disruption to the major project component, the Lower Kihansi plant, IDA is
prepared to reallocate resources from less critical components. These resources would come principally
ftom distribution and generation rehabilitation components and if necessary from some of the institutional
strengthening components. The Government is conducting intensive discussions with the donors involved
and they have indicated a willingness to provide support. Satisfactory progress by the Govermment in
finalizing co-financing arrangements is a condition of effectiveness of the project.
4.65 Commissioning Delays. Because of the difficult terrain at the Lower Kihansi site, the consultants
have done sufficient investigations to pemt design, costing, and tendering, viewing the construction
process as the final definitive exploration and definition of subsurface conditions. The Independent Panel
of Experts endorsed this approach as appropriate for the conditions and noted that it requires a flexible
risk-sharing contractual philosophy and strict supervision. The Panel will review the contract documents
to assure adoption of the correct contractual approach and will review progress of the project regularly.
These arrangements, coupled with the project management resources that the project provides, should
permit prompt adjustments in response to unforeseen problems. If the problems are serious enough to
affect the critical path of the project and a delay is inevitable, the scheduling is such that TANESCO
should be able to respond by increasing the capacity of the short-delivery gas turbines it plans to install in
the period prior to the commissioning of Kihansi. This would limit the potentially deletrious impact of
unserved demand.
4.66 Difficulties With Institutional Reforms. The project envisages significant institutional
restun, which should result from the study on the sture of the power sector that the
Government has plamed. These reforms are usually difficult to implement because they affect control of



-54 -
the sector and often have significant impacts on employment and personnel practices. However, it is
possible to reduce the risk of failure by maiaWning a clear view of the    objectves and
carefly crafing the transition to minize any harmfWl hpact on the stakeholders in the process.
Moreover, the Governm    will mneimize the risks by employing competent consultants to plan the
tsition to the agreed stucture. The other major risk is the perception of country risks by potential
investors since the participation of the private sector will be an integal part of sector reform. The
carrying out of the Govermment's overall macrconomic policy reform program, and its planned
adopton of a well-defined reglatory framework along with IDA's conminng dialog with the Government
should help reduce these risks.
Proect Monitoring and S rvsion
4.67   During project preparadon, the Government, IDA and TANESCO discussed and agreed on the
records and reports necessary to monitor the progress of the project and the achievements of its
objectives. During the lifedme of the project, there will be a mnimum of two supervision missions per
year to monitor target dates for project implementation as well as costs and compliance with legal
covenants. There would also be close attention paid to peformance indicators and monitoring guidelines,
which Annexes 2.3 and 4.8 provide. The Govenment and IDA have agreed that as part of normal
supervision of the proposed project, there would be a midterm review in mid-1996, with the participation
of the Government, IDA, TANESCO and other co;nmfciers (para 7. 1(vi)). The main purpose of the
review will be twofold: (i) to conduct a comprehensive asessment of progress of physical compones
and agree on actions required, if any, to put the implementation on schedule; and (ii) to ensure that
TANESCO has taken or has received permission to take the necessary actions to meet their obligations
under the project, particarly in the areas of corporate aunomy, tauiffs, compeitive remuneration
paages for its employees, and improved collections. Some of TANESCO staff would benefit from
brefins on Bank's procurement pwoceue at hedquarts prior to project launching. Futher,
discussion of the reporting requirems will take place durng project lamnchig soon after the declaraton
of effectiveness of the project. TANESCO will prepare a Project Compltion Report within six months
of project completion.
hfrfn Review.
4.68 Two major objectives of the proposed project are to improve the performance of TANESCO and
achieve its partidal privatization. Thus, implemation of the instional component (Chapter 2) is
etremely impcrtant. The Government and TANESCO concur with this assessment, and the Government
has agreed with IDA that no later than June 30, 1994, there would be a joint review of the proposed
project by the Govemment, TANESCO, IDA and the co-financiers to assess the progress achieved in
meeting the key conditions designed to improve TANESCO's perfomance, including partial divestiture of
its operations (pam 7. 1(vii)). The purpose of the review, jW ALa, would be to assess whether
TANESCO has: (I) inaeased and maintied the average tariff stipulated in the legal documents; (ii)
reduced its accounts receivable to about 75 days of sales revenue; (iii) implemented the agreed staffing
proposals (para 2.17); and (iv) offered its consuction business for sale. There wil be a discussion of
the findings and reom  ions of the consultants ened by the Goverment to study the stunre of
the power sector, including possible divestitre of TANESCO's distibuton tems, at this time and IDA
will agmee with the Government on the imple tion of the findings. The Gevrment has agreed that
following this agreemen it will promptly implement the conultants'  ons (pan 2.39). The
timing of the interim review is such that only about half of IDA's finds will have been committed at this
point.



V. FINANCIAL ASPECTS AND COST RECOVERY
Overview
5.1   Since 1988, the Government of Tanzania and TANESCO have made a steady effort to improve
TANESCO's financial position and operating results following two crises which have had an adverse
impact on TANESCO's finances. The first crisis was a major devaluation of the Tanzanian Shilling,
beginning in 1986, and the deleterious impact it had on the servicing of TANESCO's debt in foreign
currency. The second crisis was a drought which substantially increased the average cost of electricity
generation because of the need to use high-cost thermal generation to make up for unavailable lower-cost
hydropower.
5.2   Following a major devaluation of the TSh, which began in 1986, the Government and
TANESCO, in 1988, embarked on a restructuring program which consisted of: (i) rescheduling
govermnent loans to TANESCO; (ii) an immediate tariff increase of 45 percent followed by regular tariff
increases of 15 percent semi-annually (in local currency terms); and (iii) conversion into equity of grants
which the Government had received from foreign donors and had onlent to TANESCO. These actions
helped to improve TANESCO's financial results over the 1989-1991 period.
5.3    After improvements in TANESCO's financial results during 1989-91, a drought, which began in
1991, increased reliance on costly diesel generation and load shedding, at times equivalent to nearly one
third of available hydro generating capacity (para 4.2). Consequently, the regular tariff increases which
the Government had adopted as part of TANESCO's financial restructuring bave not been sufficient to
offset higher costs resulting from drought conditions. In response to this second crisis, the Government
recenly increased the average electricity tariff from the equivalent of about US$ 0.06 to US$ 0.07 per
kWh. Furthermore, to ensure continued improvement in TANESCO's financial results, TANESCO,
under the proposed project has agreed to: (i) increase the average tariff to U$ 0.09 as a condition of
effectiveness of the project; (ii) establish annual tariff increases in US$ terms indexed to the international
iflation rate; (iii) implement the results of studies on appropriate tariffs and asset revaluation; and (iv)
include, within the proposed project, components to complete the work started on improving TANESCO's
billing, collection and accounting activities.
Financial Position and Past Operating Results
5.4   The operating results and financial position of TANESCO for the 1988-1990 period are based on
audited accounts. The results for 1991 are based on actual and estimated data. Table S.1 summarizes
TANESCO's financial performance during the 1988-1991 period.



- 56 -
Table 5.1 Summary Cash Flow
1988        1989         1990         1991
Units Sold (GWh)                      1060        1188         1305         1425
Average Revenue (TSh/kWh)             4.25        6.90        10.70        14.20
(TSh billion)
Operating Revenues                     4.5         8.3         14.0         20.2
Operating Expenses (excl.depr)         3.8         4.4          9.0         15.2
Internl Cash Generation                0.7         1.9          5.0          5.0
Debt Service Paid                      2.1         3.6          4.3          5.1
Accum. Debt Service Deferred           2.3         5.6          8.2
Deferred Debt Service
Converted to Equity                  0.9           -            -
Loans converted to Equity              1.3         0.6          0.4
Debt 'srvice Coverage                  neg         neg          1.0          0.2
Net Cash Gen./Constr.(%)                16          19           45          46
Accounts Receivable (days)             105         168          213          133
5.5   TANESCO has experienced a tight cash siuation in recent years due to (i) devaluation of the Tsh
relative to the US$, making it difficult for TANESCO to service its external debt; (ii) high account
receivable; and (ii) increases in operatn costs following severe drought conditions which began in 1991,
requiring increased use of thermal generation capacity. Initially, after the 1986 devaluation, TANESCO
was able to make payments on the foreign currency loans it had contracted directly but deferred some of
the payments due on grants which the Government had received but had relent to TANESCO as loans.
Also, after meeting operating expenses, TANESCO was able to finance most of the local cost of its
capital expenditures. But by 1988, TANESCO realized the need to take action to mitigate the impact of
the devaluation on its debt servicing capability and establish a more solid financial base.
5.6   In 1988, the Government and TANESCO embarked on a financial restrucuring program. First,
the Government rescheduled some of its loans to TANESCO and converted into equity some of
TANESCO's overdue debt to the Government. Second, the Goveroment allowed TANESCO to increase
the average electricity tariff in domestic currency terms by 45% in mid-1988 and establish semi-annual
tariff increases thereafter. Third, the Government converted into equity some of the grants it originally
had received from foreign donors but had relent to TANESCO. Improvements to TANESCO's fiancial
situation enabling TANESCO to service its debt entirely, resulted from implementing this package of
financial measures combined with automatic, semi-annual tariff increases of 15% during 1989 to 1991.
5.7 Beginning in 1992, the increased use of thermal generation began to increase TANESCO's
operating costs, but TANESCO recently raised its average tariff from US$ 0.06 to US$ 0.07 equivalent to
help offset these higher costs. Purthermore, as a condition of effectiveness of the proposed project,
TANESCO has agreed to another tariff increase, to US$ 0.09 per kWh which is expected by the end of
July 1993, and to apply an annual rate of increase equal to projected US$ inflation until it implements
the results of a proposed tariff stdy.



- 57-
Tibae S2 Summary Balce Sheet
(TSh billion)
1988        1989         122          1991
Assets
Net Fixed Assets in Oper.             75.8        119.9        143.3        176.9
Works in Progress                      8.1         18.8          6.5         40.8
Current Assets
Cash                                   0.6          0.8          1.1          1.5
Accounts Receivable                    1.2          3.8          8.1          7.4
lnventory                              2.4          2.9          4.6          6.9
Other                                  1.1          0.4          0.5          1.2
Total Assets                         89.2        146.6        164.1       234.8
Equitv & Liabilities
Equity                                36.4         59.7         62.6        136.2
Long Term Debt                        41.8         70.0         77.9         91.9
Current Liabilities
Overdraft                              0.3          0.5          0.8            -
Deferred Debt Service                  7.1          5.6          8.2            -
Other                                  2.1         10.8         14.6          6.7
Total Equity & Liab.                 89.2        146A         164.1       234.8
Debt/Equity Ratio                    53:47        54:46        55:45        40:60
Rate of Return on Avg.
Net Fixed Assets (%)                  1.0          3.8          3.7         6.8
5.8   The conversion of some Govermment loans into equity has increased TANESCO's equity base
which requies cautious interpretation, keeping in mind that TANESCO, in recent years, has not had a
professional revaluation of its assets, which would include, inter al. a detailed assessment of all
equipment in operation. Pending such an evaluation, TANESCO has applied a yearly index to reflect
domestic and international inflation as well as devaluation. This may overstate the company's equity
since the annual revaluation by index does not separate out old assets which are no longer in service. An
overstatement of the company's equity implies a better company performance in reducing its debt:equity
ratio and an understatement of performance in the net return it received on its fixed assets. Nevertheless,
taking the data in Table 5.2 as the best approximation at the present time, TANESCO's debt:equity ratio
improved from 53:47 in 1988 to 40:60 in 1991 and the rate of return on average net fixed assets
increased from % in 1988 to 6.8 % in 1991. In order to construct a firmer base for measuring
TANESCO's financial performance, ODA has agreed to finance a detailed asset valuation study along
with a tariff study. TANESCO has agreed to: (i) engage consultants by June 30, 1994, to perform the
Asset Revaluation Study under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA; (ii) funish the draft
recommendations of the study to IDA for its review and comments; (iii) finalize the study taking IDA's
comments into account; (iv) implement the recommendaDons of the study within six months of the
study's completion; and (v) annually, thereafter, revalue its assets according to the methodology
recommended in the study (Schedule 1).



58-
Accuni  and Audit
5.9 The present accounting procedures in TANESCO involve too many manual transactions and
insufficient intnal control, resulting in difficulties in reconciling the accounts and closing the books on
time. The Power Rehabilitation Project made an attempt to improve the accounting function by providing
two financial experts (Computer Advisor and Financial Advisor) to assist TANESCO in strengthening its
Finance Directorate, but this attempt failed. The reasons for this failure were that the Computer Advisor
TANESCO hired left after only five months of service, and TANESCO terminated the Financial
Advisor's contract after one year due to poor performance. TANESCO has experienced difficulty closing
its books on time due to frequent breakdowns of the old mainframe computer, a lack of cmpetent
computer personnel and an out-of-date accounting system. is a result, completion of the audit for 1988
accounts did not take place until about a year after the end of the financial year, and the audit for 1989
accounts was not complete until October 1991. TANESCO submitted its 1990 audited accounts to IDA
only in February 1993 and now expects that 1991 audited accounts will be available by June 1993. To
achieve the requisite improvements in the prparation of its accounts, TANESCO, with the assistance of
consultants, will be installing a modern computerized accounting system (financed under the recently-
approved Power Engineering and Technical Assistance Credit). The new computerized accounting
procedures should be in place during the 1994 financial year.
5.10   The external auditors for TANESCO, as well as for other parastatals in Tanzania, are the
Government-owned Tanzania Audit Corporation (TAC). Tbe present auditing arrangement is satisfactory
to IDA. IDA and TANESCO have agreed that qualified auditors will audit TANESCO's accounts,
including the Project Account, Special Account and the Stateme  of Expenditures, and tha TANESCO
would send the reports to IDA, within ten months after the 1993 financial year and within six months
after the end of the financial year for every financial year thereafter.
Non-Technical Losses and Billing
5.11 A 1992 ESMAP study estimated TANESCO's non-technical losses at 10 percent of net
generation. These losses are due mainly to illegal connections, meter tampering, inefficient meter
reading, improper reporting of customers in the billing system, and various problems with TANESCO's
computerized billing system, including keypunch errors and tampering with the computer progmms.
These deficiencies in TANESCO's commercial operations have caused losses which have reduced
TANESCO's revenue. Moreover, inefficiencies in the outdated, mainframe-based billing system, and
difficulties in counicating with customers in various parts of the country have led to poor customer
service.
5.12 TANESCO recognized the above problems in 1989 and dismissed several employees suspected of
tampering with the billing system. As a part of its Productivity Improvement Program (PIP), TANESCO
assigned more capable, better-paid staff to read meters and changed meter reading routes frequently to
avoid collusion with customers. Also, TANESCO strengthened its inspection crews and assigned senior
nunagers to monitor the meter reading process weekly. Pollowing the 1992 ESMAP i+udy, TANESCO
established crews to check the integrity of customer databases and to check for illegal connections.
Despite these efforts, TANESCO's inadequate computer systems and software hindered the company from
making significant and ltng progress in controlling non-technical losses and providing proper customer
service.
5.13  IDA, through its Power Engineering and Technical Assistance Credit in 1992, provided financing
for conslting services to help TANESCO select and install modern billing software and computers to



- 59 -
manage its customer services. TANESCO has selected consultants and the work should start in mid
1993. There will be a decentralization of the billing system to support the decentralized organizational
structure now in place, which makes the manager in each of the seven distribution zones fully accountable
for the individual zone's operating results. The billing system software will allow the use of
microcomputers to facilitate eventual decentralization to the level of small local offices which will have
customer records in an on-line environment to facilitate prompt response to customer enquiries.
Furthermore, the software will have several important security and audit functions to prevent software
tampering and to facilitate monitoring customer usage. The various billing centers will operate
independently at first, with periodic consolidation of records, and with subsequent interconnection within
a network once communications improve. The consultants' terms of reference require them to help
TANESCO re-establish the integrity of the customer database as they install the new system and, in the
process, reduce non-technical losses immediately. The proposed project tncludes meters, service
materials, vehicles and tools to aid in this effort along with additional software and hardware to expand
the coverage of the system.
Collections
5.14 The second major problem TANESCO faces in increasing its revenue is difficulties with
collecing revenues once it issues bills. The latest information available relating receivables to total
billing is for 1991. Total billing in that year was about TSh 15,409 millior. compared to total receivables
in December 1991 of about TSh 9,073 million, and these are equivalent to about 215 days of billing.
More recent figures are available for receivables only, and Table 5.3 provides a breakdown of these by
customer as of March 1992. Some of the arrears (about 10%) have been outstanding for over two years
and TANESCO will probably have to write them off. To improve collections, TANESCO, in recent
years, has started to disconnect most categories of delinquent customers. The campaign was successful
initially, but the continuing inability of the computer system to produce accurate, timely bills hampered
progress. Also, TANESCO was forced to dismiss the head of its computer unit for alleged dishonesty
and was unable to find a suitable replacement immediately. The new billing system will help solve the
collection problem sine it provides the custoner service function at several centers in the zones and no
single staff member will be able to subvert the system. Also, the Consultants' terms of reference require
the installation of a pilot pre-payment metering system. This system has the advantage of requiring the
customer to pay before using the service and therefore the utility does not carry receivables.
Table 5,3 Accounts Receivable
March 31, 1992
(TshMillionM WJS$minlion) % of Total
Odher Parastals                        2872          9.37          31
Private Accounts                       2764          9.02          30
water Supply                           1174          3.83          13
Zanzibar State                         1128          3.68          12
T.P.D.F.                                550          1.80          6
Hospitas                                315          1.03           3
Ind. & Com.                             253          0.83           3
Reg. Water Eng.                         161          0.53          2
Embassies                               127          0.41           1
Others                                   13          0.04           0
9 3S7a/                    IgQ
1 At the exchange rate of TSh 306.4.



- 60 -
5.15 Table 5.3 shows that Parastatals owed the most to TANESCO, accounting for 31 percent of
accoumts receivable as of March 1992. The shares of other customers in total accounts receivable were:
30 percent for private customers, 13 percent for the Water supply company, and 12 percent for the
Zanzibar State Fuel and Power Corporat5on (ZSFPC). At appraisal, the outstanding bills of Government
agencies and Parastatals amounted to TSh 2.2 billion and TSh 3.3 billion respectively. The Government
settled Tsh 1.1 billion of the outstanding bills of Government agencies prior to negotiations. TANESCO
has had difficulty in having the remaining outstanding bills certified for payment because it involves
sending staff into most major towns in the country. So far, the Government has paid Tsh 263 million of
the 1.1 billion and has issued promissory notes, in the amount of the outstanding bills, that TANESCO
can convert to cash by presenting them along with the certified bills to the Treasury. To ensure that the
matter is fully resolved, TANESCO's completion of the certification of the bills and the government's
payment of all the certified bills is a condition of effectiveness of the project (para 2.3). The Government
has settled the TSh 2.2 billion owed by Government agencies and has agreed to settle the arrears of the
Parastatals by monthly payments from April 30, 1992 to April 30, 1993 in equal installments.
5.16  In the past, bec;use of limited information processing facilities, TANESCO concentrated its
efforts on large customers. It also targeted various zones to clear up the accounts for smaller customers
and rewarded staff performance through the Productivity Improvement Program. The new billing system
will enhance these efforts by making it much easier to track delinquent customers. Also, with the
installation of a new accounting system (para. 5.9) TANESCO will be able to write off any unrecoverable
accounts.
5.17   The Government has agreed to allow TANESCO to collect aggressively from Government
agencies. Nevertheless, there are some agencies that TANESCO cannot disconnect for humanitaian
reasons. So the Government and TANESCO have agreed with IDA that: (i) starting September 30,
1993, the Government will pay TANESCO directly, every quarter, the electricity bills of those customers
that TANESCO cannot disconnect for humanitarian reasons; (ii) TANESCO diligently will enforce the
plan of action for collecting overdue accounts from govermnent agencies and Parastatals and its policy of
disconnecting delinquent private customers; (iii) TANESCO wfll prepare a quarterly report summarizg
its outstanding customer accounts for IDA's review; and (iv) TANESCO will gradually reduce its
accounts receivable from the present level to no more than 60 days of sales by December 31, 1994 and
maintain it at that level thereafter (Schedule 1).
5.18 The Zanzibar State Fuel and Power Company (ZSFPC), since 1985, has been receiving bulk
power from TANESCO to supply its consumers. Until 1991, an interim tariff was in effect. The basis
of this tariff, outlined in the contract between TANESCO and ZSFPC, was a supply cost accounting for
the fact that ZSFPC had paid the capital cost of the submarine cable and equipment associated with the
interconnection. TANESCO and ZSFPC agreed to revise the tariff on January 22, 1991. TANESCO
adjusted the average tariff to ZSFPC at a base price of TSh 3.9 per kWh for 1990, subject to firtuer
annual adjustment using a fornmla based on the economic cost of generation and transmission in the grid.
Using this formula, the two utilities agreed that ZSFPC owed TANESCO TSh 1.4 billion, including the
back payments. Therefore, the Government has agreed: (i) to ensure that ZSFPC settles its overdue
accounts with TANESCO; (ii) to compensate TANESCO for any shortfall in payments in future; and (iii)
to cause ZSFPC to comply with its tariff agreement with TANESCO (para 7. 1(ix)). ZSFPC has been
short of cash and unable to pay the overdue accounts in filll. But it al-eady has made a payment of TSh
400 million and has promised to pay the remainder in equal monthly installments over two years. Also,
IDA has agreed to help ZSFPC improve its management to improve its capacity to earn reasonable
revenues. The assistance includes a commercial manager to start improving the customer service system



- 61 -
while he manages a study by consultants of appropriate future management arrangements (including
cotact management), and the installation of prepayment imetering for about half of the customer
population. Disbursement of the funds for these activities is contingent on ZSFPC raising its retail tariff
to the level of that prevailing on the mainland (para 7.4).
Tariffs. Structure and Levels
5.19   The demand and sales of electricity have increased substantially, due in part to the success of the
implementation of the Economic Recovery Program, but also because of deficiencies in the existing tariff
structure. A tariff study which Cr. 1405-TA financed, produced recommendations which the Government
implemented in 1986. Since then, the Government has increased average tariffs regularly but the
structure has gradually become distorted. The present tariff structure favors domestic consumers, and is
discriminatory with respect to commercial users, with rates for the latter more thar f-'ur times higher than
domestic ones. This apparently has led to widespread misuse and faulty end-use ciassifications.
Moreover, because uniform tariffs are applied throughout vanous regions of Tanzania, a substantial cross-
subsidy exists between consumers which the interconnected system supplies and those who receive
supplie. from isolated diesel plants where costs are much higher. However, it is estimated that the
isolated systems account for less thar. 5 percent of total electricity sales.
5.20  In January 1992, the Government made some adjustments to the tariff structure by differentiating
the unit energy charges at each consumption level, depending on the total monthly consumption, and
increasing the charges for the initial consumption for larger consumers within a tariff category. Annex
5.1 outlines the tariff level and structure effective from January 1992. This structure provided for an
average charge of about TSh 28 per kWh (US$.09) for high voltage consumers and an average charge of
TSh 7.2 per kWh (US$.02) for residential consumers. The structure also subsidizes smaller commercial
and industrial consumers, as well as agriculture, public lighting and supplies to the water authority
(NUWA). Furthermore, the unit energy rates for residental consumption of up to 1,000 kWh per month
were very low, between US$.01 and US$.03 depending on the level of total monthly consumption.
Although low tariffs, offering poor households the benefit of electricity, may be justified on social
grounds, there is no apparent justification for subsidizing consumers that use more than 100 kWh per
month. Also, TANESCO subsidizes light industrial and commercial consumers which consume up to
1,000 kWh per month. This is not warranted because such enterprises have the ability to pay for their
consumpton. TANESCO, however, has introduced measures designed to conserve energy such as: (i)
increased incremental unit energy price to residential, small commercial and light industrial consumers
with higher consumption.
5.21   Despite the above adjustments in the structure of TANESCO's tariff, it needs careful review and
streamlining. Moreover, a fuel-cost adjustment mechanism could be useful to take into account the
variation in fuel cost resulting from changes in hydrology. To address all the tariff related issues,
TANESCO has agreed to engage consultants to recommend an appropriate tariff structure and level.
ODA has agreed to finance the study. TANESCO has agreed to take into account IDA's views in
finalizing the terms of reference as well as the recommendations of the study. TANESCO also agreed to
conplete the study by June 30, 1994, with the implementation of the agreed recommendations to occur
within six months of the study's completion (Schedule 1). TANESCO also agreed to update the tariff
regularly based on the methodology proposed by the study.
5.22 IDA has made a preliminary estimate of the Long Run Average Incremental Cost (LRAIC) as a
proxy for the LRMC of the system, based on the present least-cost investment program. The calculation



-62 -
of the LRAIC represents the average incremental economic cost of meeting increases in demand,
estimated to be between US$ 0.09 and US$ 0.10 equivalent per kWh sold, expressed in end-1992 prices
and at a discount rate of 12 percent.
Future Financial Operations and Position
5.23 Annexes 5.2 to 5.5 show projected financial statements of TANESCO for 1991 through 1998,
together with notes and assumptions used in these statements, while Table 5.4 provides the major
financial performance indicators for 1992-98. The basis of these projections is a set of assumptions
conceming the revalued asset base, domestic inflation, currency exchange rates and load growth forecast,
which are all subject to some uncertainty (Annex 5.5). Under the Base Case load growth scenario,
resulting from the load forecast which consultants (Acres International Ltd. of Canada) prepared, energy
supply will grow approximately 40 percent over the project period (1993-1998). Projected balance sheets
for the years ending Decmber 31, 1992 through 1998 show that, under the above assumptions, the
debt/equity ratio will increase gradually from 46:54 in 1992 to 53:47 in 1997, reflecting the need for
increased borrowing to finance the large investments required. But in 1998, the debt/equity ratio will
drop to 52:48 following the completion of major investments and repayment of loans. IDA considers
TANESCO's debt/equity ratio satisfactory for the period under review.
Table 5.4 S_umary of TANESCO's Projected Finandal Performance"
IX22   1993   1994   1995    1996   1997   1998
AverageTariff(UScents/kWh)        6       8      10     10       11      11     11
Debt Service Coverage (times)    1.2    1.5    1.7    1.4        1.5    1.6    1.8
Net Cash Generation/Constr. (%)    neg   21     28      33       36     45      46
Debt Equity Rado              46:54  47:53   50:50   51:49    52:48  53:47   52:48
Accounts Receivable (days)      144    ''8       60     '0       60      60     60
4 Projections are based on 1991 closed book figures which are the most recent source of financW
information available to IDA.
5.24 TANESCO's average tariff in 1992 was about the equivalent of US$ 0.06 per kWh. Projections
of future tariff levels are based on two criteria. First, TANESCO must have a tariff that allows it to eam
sufficient revenue to cover its operations cost, its debt service and contribute a reasonable amount to
future investment. Second, the tariff level should be close to the LRMC to provide the correct economic
signals to users for efficient electricity use. FinancW projections show that TANESCO needs to increase
its average tariff to about US$ 0.09 by mid 1993 with subsequent anumal increases. Table 5.4 shows the
projected average tariff over the year for 1993 to 1998. TANESCO raised its average tariff to US$ 0.07
in March 1993 and has agreed to raise it again to US$ 0.09 by mid year, as a condition of effectiveness
of the proposed credit (para 7.3(v)). These increases will reult in an average, over 1993, of about US$
0.08, as shown in Table 5.4. The value of US$ 0.09 per kWh is within the range of the LRMC which is
estimated to be between US$ 0.09 and US$ 0.10. The Tariff Study (Schedule 1) will establish a more
accurate estimate of LRMC and TANESCO has agreed to implement promptly the recommendations of
the study with respect both to structure and to level. TANESCO has also agreed that until it implements
the recommdations of the study, it will increase tariffs in US$ terms at 3.5 percent per annum, the
estimated US$ inflation rate.



-63 -
5.25 The implementation of the above tariff adjustments, coupled with the projected growth in sales,
will result in adequate finds to finance at least 27 percent of TANESCO's capital investments from funds
which it will generate during the 1993-1998 period and yield an average rate of return on net revalued
fixed assets of about 5 perce during the project period. The projected operations of TANESCO indicate
that its future financial performance will be satisfactory with a projected debt service coverage varying
between 1.4 and 1.8 for this period. TANESCO has agreed that it will not incur any debt unless a
reasonable forecast of its revenues aud expenditures shows projected internal cash generation of at least
1.3 times the projected debt service requirement on all debt (para 7.2(iii)). Also, TANESCO agreed that
it would seek IDA's approval before nmking any additional investments in excess of US$ 5 million which
are not included in its investment program, and provide IDA with satisfactory evidence of the
investments' economic and technical viability (para 7.2(iv)).
5.26  Credit 1687 liiked TANESCO's financial performance to a 10 percent rate of return on average
revalued net fixed assets in operation. But because of the uncerty surrounding the current value of
TANESCO's assets and the funure value of the TSh, it is preferable to monitor TANESCO's future
financial performance to a covenant stipulatng an agreed level of cash generation. Therefore, according
to the agreme, TANESCO will generate sufficient cash to finance yearly, from inhernal sources, the
equivalent of not less than 16 percent for 1993, and 25 percent thereafter, of the average annual capital
expenditures incurred or expected to be incurred over a three year period, comprising the year in
question, and those immediately preceding and following such years. Furthernore, each year, no later
than 90 days prior to the end of the fiscal year, TANESCO has agreed to review, with IDA, whether
TANESCO will be able to meet the targets for internal cash generation. In the event such review showed
that TANESCO would not meet the requiement, TANESCO has agreed that it promptly will take all
necessary measures in order to meet such requirements, including increasing rates (para 7.2(vi)).
Proposed Faning Plan
5.27 Annex 5.3 provides a detailed funds flow statenent for TANESCO and Table 5.5 shows a
summary financing plan for the proposed project's implementation period.



-64-
Table S.S  TANESCO Finan   Pla 1992-199S
US$         Percent
Acatio of Fumds
Construction Expendiatr
Proposed Project (Power VI)                       360.7         39.9
Generation                                        145.0         16.1
Distribution                                       36.1         15.1
Other                                              86.4          4.0
Total Expenditures                             764.4           2_
Interest During Construction                       81.4         84.6
Dividends                                          57.6          6.4
TOTAL REQUIREMENTS                             9034            100
&es of Funds
Internal Generation                                  702.8          77.8
Less:
Debt Service                                      437.5         48.4
Inr. in Working Capital                            22.3          2.5
Net Internal Generation                           243.0         26.9
Consmers Deposit                                       0.8           0.1
Consumer Contribution                                  2.9           0.3
Equity Contribution                                   29.2           3.2
Grants                                                74.8           8.3
Loans                                                552.7          61.2
TOTAL SOURCES                                  903.4         100.0
5.28  During the implementtion period of the proposed project, from 1992 through 1998, the estimated
cost of TANESCO's construction program is US$764 million, excluding interest during construction of
US$81.4 million. The proposed project represents about US$ 360.7 million or 40 percent of the total
investment program during this period. The above investment program excludes the TANESCO's rural
electrification program.
5.29 TANESCO's internal cash generation, after covering debt service and increases in working
capital, will produce about 27 percent of the funds required for construction expenditur  during the
1992-1998 period. Committed grants would finance eight percent of the investment program for the
period 1992-1998. Borrowing will provide an estimated US$552.7 million or 61 percent of TANESCO's
total funding requiements. Of this total, TANESCO has received commitments or agreements on
US$367 million or 66 percent of total borrowing.



VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
6.1   Two demand forecasts form the basis of the least-cost analysis that justifies the project (pam
3.13). The base case forecast envisages an average annual energy generation inrease of 5.8 percent
through the year 2002, linked to a forecasted anmial GDP growth of about 4 pecent. The corresponding
forecast of peak demand is a increase from 297 MW in 1991 to 569 MW in 2002. The low growth
forecast envisages an average annual increase of ener-v generation of 4.1 percent, linked to an annual
GDP growth of 3 percent. The corresponding forecast of peak demand is an increase to 477 MW by
2u02. TANESCO's planning consutants, Acres Interational prepared the forecasts and an IDA appraisal
mission refined them further (para 3.1).
6.2 Acres International proposed a generation sequence, in 1990, with the Lower Kihansi plant
followmg the redevelopment of the Pangani hydro station. This sequence was modified in 1992. The
main change to the original generation sequence is the proposd ialation of a series of gas turbines of
about 50 to 60 MW and subsequen additions up to about 110 MW. As pam 3.2 notes, this addional
dtrmal generation will be necessary because of projected deficits in geneaion due to higher than
expected load growth, severe drought hydrology, equipme  failures, design defects, slow rehabilitation of
thermal plants, etc. This change also has intrduced great flexibility in the generation sequence both with
respect to energy and capacity. The gas turbines will allow better uwe of the available water by
permittng more freedom in the dispatch of the hydro plants. Since gas turbines have a relatively short
delivery period, TANESCO can respond quicldy to an increasing or decreasing rate of load growdt by
acceleraing(assuming financing is available) or deferring installation of some of these units. Also, in
determining the ultimate capacity of the gas turbines, TANESCO's consultants have experienced some
difficulty in predicting the firm energy capability of the hydro plants because of sparse data. Therefore,
TANESCO has arranged for increased data collection both in the context of this project and the Pangami
redevelopment project to overcome this difficulty.
6.3   The selection of Lower Kihansi as the next major geneaing plant in the least- cost sequence
resulted from a combined assesment of its economic viability and risk. The studies supporting the kast-
cost generation sequence showed that on the basis of discounted present worth costs, the Lower Kihansi
project and a termal plant using gas from the Songo Songo field were equal within the margin of error.
The Government and IDA concluded that the Songo Songo gas fired generation and the related gas-field
seemed more likely to attract private sector financing than a hydroelectric project. However, the
Government and IDA agreed that there were major risks with arrangig such financing, such as finding a
mechanism to ensure foreign investors of currency convertibility, and preparing an equitable operations
contract. Takdng all these factors into account, the Government and IDA agreed that the risk of not
meetng the commissioning date for required new capacity was too high for the gas-fired generation
pion given the importance of electricity to the economic recovery of the country.
6.4   The other components of the project that relate to TANESCO's investment program are
transmission and distrbtiion developments to complement the generation expansion and institutonal
measures to provide for the management of the system. The components which ZSFPC will implement
are needed to help bring urgent improvements to that company's commercial operations. The components
which MWEM wil implement include a sector study needed to direct development of the power sector
with private sector involvement, and developments of generation based on indigenous natural gas. The
development at Mnazi Bay is justified to replace the use of diesel fiuel. The promotion of the Songo



-66-
So  gas-field development is a logical step since it woud produce the fuel supply for an impot
option in the geeration expanion sequence.
Economic Internal Rate of Return for Conmonnts In TANESCO's  vsent Progam
6.5 The basis of the economic analysis for the proposed project is TANESCO's Investment Program
for 1992-1998, which the project appraisal mission reviewed. Since the proposed project is an integral
part of the 1992-1998 power system investment program, the analysis does not separate its costs and
benefits from the total costs and benefits of the investment program. The analysis calculates the
Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) for the base case and does sensitivity analysis for five
alternative cases 12/. For the base case, the estimated EIRR is 15 percent. Since the basis of the
EIRR is the whole investment program, the economic return of 1S percent does not accwrately reflect the
economic return of the main investment under the project, i.e. Lower Kihansi. For the Lower Kihansi
scheme, including related transmission and distribution, the EIRR is about 20 percent.
Economic Cost of the Investment Proram
6.6   The economic costs comprise: (i) investment and re-investment costs, including physical
contingencies, required to meet incremental demand; and (ii) incremental operation and maintenae of
generation plants, and transmission and distnbution networks. However the economic costs do not include
investments in institutional development, training, studies, or investments to accommodate a firther 120
MW at Lower Kihansi in the future. Economic costs are expressed in mid 1992 values and in erm  of
local currency by converting foreign components and for domestic currency by convertng foreign
components of investments at the shadow exchange rate, equivalent to Tsh 400=US$1. Annex 6.1
provides further details of the economic costs used and the resulting cash flows.
Project Economic Benefits
6.7    The measurable economic benefits of the proposed project consist of increased energy sales made
possible by the proposed investments and increased supply reliability as a result of the distribution
network rehabilitation. The energy benefits, in the form of increased sales, increase through the 1990s as
the demand increases, and reach a plateau in 2002 when the combined icmental generating capability
of new plants has been reached. The analysis holds the energy benefits constant from 2002 to the end of
the investments' economic lifetime in the year 2031. The value of the energy benefits derives from the
evaluation of revenue benefits to TANESCO of the incremenal electrcity sales and an estimation of the
consumer surplus. The basis of the consumer surplus is a demand analysis which takes into account: (i)
the willingness of consumers to pay for electricity, relative to alternative energy sources such as kerosene
for lighting and captive diesel genemting units; and (ii) the observed cost of using the electricity
TANESCO suppliers, based on the company's 1992 marginal tariff for these consumers. Based on this
analysis, the willingness-to-pay for inremental electricity consists of: (i) Tsh 45, equivalent to US$0.113
JW/   The base case assumes the base case demand forecast and investment cost as detailed in
paras. 6.12-6.13. Four of the sensitivity tests are presented in Table 6.1 and the fifth in para.
6.17.



-67 -
for residentia consnmers; (ii) Tsh 55, equivalent to US$0. 138, for small commercial and iust
consumers; and (iii) Tsh 40, equialent to US$0.10 for large iustial and comercial consumers.
Annex 6.2 provides the details of the methodology used and the estmated value of benefits.
6.8   The proposed investmet in distibution network rehabilitation will result in benefits to the
economy in the form of improved supply reliability. Generally, these benefits to the economy are high
but their quanification is not easy. However, it is possible to estimate benefits from the esthnated
reductions in outages. According to the ESMAP Power Loss and Distribution Expansion Study, these
benefits would affect about 0.5 percent of the total sales between 1995 and 1997, and 1 percent of total
sales from 1998, the year of distribution rehabilitation completion. The following estimates for the
economic cost of outages provide an approximaon of the value of reliability improvemens: (i) US$1
per kWh for industrial and commercial consumers and US$0.5 per kWh for residental onumers of
unanticipated outages according to a TANESCO study in 1985; (ii) US$1.1 per kWh of unanticipated
outags  to all consume  according to Acres International in 1989; (iii) US$0.3-0.75 per kWh of
anticipated outages to all consm   by Acres International in 1992; and (iv) US$0.4-2.3 per kWh for
industria consumers of unanticipated outages according to an ESMAP survey in 1990, part of the Loss
Reduction and Distribution Expansion Study. These estimates illusrrate that the costs of outages vary
depending on whether the consumer expect it or not, and any suspension of economic activity that would
reslt. For the pmpose of this study, the estmated value of the economic benefits of reliability
Improvements is US$0.75 per kWh used.
6.9   In addition, the proposed p-oject will result in some benefits which are difficutt to quan*, some
of which the economic analysis consequently does not include. These benefits accrue from the
rehabilitation of the Kidatu hydro station. The proposed invesunent would make it possible to rehabilitate
the three S1 MW units in a planned manner in order to avoid the negative impacts that would be a result
of an abrupt breakdown of a unit, or in the worst case, the concurrent breakdown of all the three units.
Xsomitii  Agnavis
6.10  The sensitivity of the economic internal rate of return was tested for the following four altemative
cases: (i) 20 percent increase in the capital cost of the investments and reinvestments (above the physical
contingency already included); (ii) low case demand forecast; (iii) one-year delay in the commissioning
of the Lower Kihansi scheme; and (iv) one-year delay in the commissioning of Lower Kihansi coupled
with 20 percent increase in capital cost of the investment program. The following table illustrates the
results.



- 68-
Tabb 6.1  FAstated Economic Internal Rate of Rethu
Base Case                                                     15.0%
20% Icease in investnet cost                                  12.8%
Low case demand forecast                                      12.9%
One year delay of Lower Kihansi                               14.5%
One year delay of Lower Kihansi and 20% mcrease in investment costs  12.5%
6.11 The analysis indicates that the results are not very sensitive to moderate changes in the
asmpions, resulting in an EIRR of about 12 percent with a 20 percent increase in the total capital cost
of investments and reinvestments. A one year delay in the commissioning of the Lower Kiansi scheme
has an insignificant impact on the EIRR (increased fuel costs are partly offset by the postponement in
investment costs). Pinally, using the low demand forecast as a basis for benefits results in an EIRR of
about 12.9 percent.
Averzenremental Economic Cost of Electricity
6.12   An indication of an appropriate tariff level based on economic principles, is the average
ncremental economic cost (AIC) of electricity supply. Based on the costs developed above (para 6.12)
and the base case demand forecast, the AIC is estimated to be between US$0.09 and US$0.10 per kWh
(at 12 % discount rate) of which US$ 0.062 are attributable to the investment program and the balance to
the incremental operation, maintenance and fuel costs. TANESCO's average tariff in 1992 was about
US$ 0.06 per kWh but will increase to US$ 0.09 per kWh in 1993 as a result of the implementation of
the agreed tariff increases (para. 5.24). The tariff study, which the proposed project will provide will
recommend further improvements of the level and structure of the tariffs, including the possible use of a
fuel surcharge (para. 5.24).
Justification of Mnazi Bay Development
The main reasons for the Mnazi Bay development are: (i) to replace the use of imported diesel
fuel, which must be transported several hundred kilometers from Dar Es Salaam, with indigenous gas;
(ii) to improve the availability and capacity of supply to serve local industry and commerce; and (iii) to
demonstrate an approach to involving the private sector in power generation using gas, found in
conjunction with petroleum exploration, that would otherwise have no commercial use. Annex 6.3 shows
an analysis of the component based on replacing and supplementing the existing generation with gas
turbine generation using the gas. The equalizing discount rate for the scheme is about 30%. Chapter 4
discusses the way in which the private sector will be involved both in financing and subsequent
management of the scbeme (para 4.34).



VII. AGREEdENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.1   The Government aareed during nefotiations to:
(i)    make the necessary arrangements to separate TANESCO's in-house business for
the construction of transmission and distribution lines from the rest of the
company and offer this business for sale to private investors by December 31,
1993 (para. 2.35);
(ii)   engage consultants, by January 1, 1994, to study privaization options, review
IDA's comments on the study, agree with IDA on a plan of action and implement
the resulting plan (para. 2.39);
(iii)  provide full financing and reimburse TANESCO for any rural electrificaton
project or other investment which it requires TANESCO to make, that the
Govemment considers socially inportant, but which is not financially viable
(para. 4.8);
(iv)   relend to TANESCO, US$180 million at an interest rate of at least 7.43 % over a
repayment period of 20 years, including a grace period of five years, with
TANESCO bearing the foreign exchange risk (para. 4.40);
(v)   relend to ZSFPC, US$ 2 million at an annual interest rate of at least 7.43% for a
repayment period of 20 years, including a grace period of five years, with ZSFPC
bearing the foreign exchange risk (para. 4.40);
(vi)  hold a mid-term review of the proposed project jointly with IDA and TANESCO
no later than June 30, 1996 (para. 4.67);
(vii) hold an interim review of the proposed project, no later than June 30, 1994, with the joint
participation of the Government, TANESCO, VDA and the cofinanciers, to examine the
progress made in meeting the key conditions designed to improve TANESCO's
performance and implemening a partil divestiture of its operations (para 4.68);
(viii) make direct payments to TANESCO on a quarterly basis, beginning September
30, 1993, for the electricity consumption of those consumers which, for
humanitarian reasons, the Government does not want TANESCO to disconnect
(para. 5.17);
(ix) ensure compliance with the tariff agreement between TANESCO and ZSFPC and
cover any shortfall to TANESCO due to non-payment by ZSFPC (para. 5.18);
and
(x)   have qualified, independent auditors acceptable to IDA audit the records and
accounts related to the proposed project, including the Project Account, the
Special Account and Statements of Expenditure, each fiscal year, and furnish IDA



- 70 -
witi a certified copy of the audit report no  ter h  six months after the end of
the fisal year (pam. 5. 10).
7.2   TANESCO ageed durg neoIations to:
(i)    have qualified, independent auditors acceptable to IDA ait records and accounts
related to the proposed project, including the Project Account, the Special
Account and the Statem  of Expenditures, each fiscal year, and furnih IDA
with a certified copy of te audit report within ten months of the 1992 fic  year
and within six months after the end of each successive fiscal year (para. 5.10);
(ii)   until the imple on of the agreed rm     dons of the tariff stdy adjust
its average tariff by 3.5% annually in US$ terms to offset the estmated
international inflation (para. 5.24);
(iii) not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of its revenues and expenditures
shows that the projected interal cash generation is at least 1.3 times the estimated
debt service requirem  on all debt (pam 5.26);
(iv) review its investment program with IDA anmually, incorporate changes acceptable
to IDA and, before making any investment in excess of US$5 million not included
in its investment program, provide IDA with satisfactory evidence of the
investment's economic and technical viability (para 4.8);
(v) not change the agreed Statement of Policy without IDA's approval (para. 2.6);
(vi)  generate, on a fiscal year basis, funds from internal sources equivalent to not less
than 15% for 1993, 25% for 1994, 20% for 1995 and 30% for 1996, 1997 and
1998, of the average amnnal capital expenditures incwred or expected to be
incurred for that year and the next three fiscal years. Also, before the end of
September in each of its fiscal years, TANESCO will, on the basis of forecasts
acceptable to IDA, review the etent to which it has met the above rquimnents
and if the review shows that TANESCO would not meet the he mreuim ,
TANESCO and the Govermnent would prompty take all necessay measures in
order to meet such requirments (para. 5.25); and
(vii)  execute the Implemention Program outlined in Schedule 1.
7.3    Conditons of Effctiveness
(i)    The Government and TANESCO will execute a subsidiary loan      (pan 4.40)
(ii)   The Goverimnent will make satisfactory progress in finalizing co-financing arrangements
for the project (para 4.40).



- 71 -
(iii) TANESCO will engage an externally recruited project manage for the lower Kihansi
hydropower scheme, whose qualifications and terms and conditions of employment will be
acceptable to IDA (para. 4.42).
(iv)   TANESCO will establish a project mnagement unit and appoint a Project Manager with
qualifications and experience accptable to the IDA (para. 4.41)
(v)   TANESCO will have completed the certification of bills for outstanding debts of
Government Agencies and the Government will have converted promissary notes, related
to these debts, into cash (para 5.15).
(vi)   There will be an increase in TANESCO's average tariff to the equivalent of US$
0.09 per kWh (para 5.24).
7.4    2ondition of Disbursement for the ZSFPC Portion
(i)    ZSFPC shall have concluded a satsifactory subsidiary loan agreement and adjustd its
tariffs in line with those on the mainland (5.18).
7.5   R.ecommendto
With the above agreements, the Project is suitable for an IDA credit of SDR144.2 million
(US$200 million equivalent) to the Governmeat of Tanzania at standard terms, with maturity of 40 years
luding 10 years grace.



Schedule I
TANZANIA
POWE1R  PROJECI
Imp1emeXtation Progrm
1.    TANESCO will, by December 31. 1993, prepare a demand side management program acceptable
to IDA.
2.    TANESCO, will continue to fill the positions of the Managing Director and the Deputy Managing
Directors with qualified and experienced staff satisfactory to IDA.
3.    TANESCO will carry out a survey of salaries paid by other conmercial organizations in Tanzania
and based on the survey establish a competitive compensation structure by January 1, 1994 for all levels
of its employees.
4.    Beginning on July 1, 1994 and thereafter on each anniversary date, TANESCO will prepare an
Anmual Corporate Plan, acceptable to IDA, for the next financial year, establishing medium-term S year
business objectives and fncial projections as well as an annual budget.
-.    By January 1, 1994, TANESCO will appoint the following staff with qualifications and
experience and on terms and conitions of employment acceptable to IDA; Planning Manager, Systems
Manager, Management Training and Personnel Expert, Director and Head Instructor of the Morogoro
Training institute, Training Expert for Kidatu Technical Training Institute, Training Expert in
Distribution Planning and a PIP Expert.
6.    TANESCO will (a) ewne an exernally recruited manpower expert for about 6 months to carry
out a study of its manpower requirements; (b) review the results of the study with IDA by December 31,
1993; and (c) by June 30, 1994, implement recommendation of the study, taking IDA's comments into
account. Until it has started to implement the recommendations of the study, TANESCO will maintain a
ureeze on employment, except to fill key vacant management and technical positions, and to fulfill special
needs.
7.    TANESCO will establish a project management unit and appoint a Project Manager who will have
the following responsibilities: (a) coordinatng the execution of the Project; (b) liaising with IDA and
other financiers on the various components of the Project; (c) dealing with all correspondence,
procurement activities, progress reports and other project related matters; and (d) liaising with consultants
employed to supervise Lower Kiliansi hydroelectric plant, Distribution Works and rehabilitation of the
Kidatu Hydroelectric station.
8.    TANESCO will by June 30, 1994, implement an Environmental Mitigation Plan for Lower
Kihansi Scheme and the transmission line from Lower Kihansi to Iringa and from Lower Kihansi to
Kidatu.
9.    TANESCO will: (a) by June 30, 1994 carry out an Asset Revaluation Study under the terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association; (b) furnish the draft recommendations of the study to IDA for its
review and comments; (c) finalize the recommendations taking IDA's comments into account; (d)
implement the recommendations of the study within 6 months of the study's completion; and (e) anuaily
thereafter revalue its assets according to the methodology recommended in the study.



-74-
10.   TANESCO will: (a) diligently enforce a detailed plan of action acceptable to IDA for recovery of
overdue accounts from Government agencies and parastatls, as well as its policy of disconnecting
delinquent private consumers; (b) continue to prepare every quarter for IDA's review, a report
summarizing its outstanding consumer accounts; and (c) by December 31, 1994, reduce its accounts
receivable to no more than sixty days of sales and maintain it at no higher than that level thereafter.
11.   TANESCO will: (a) by June 30, 1994, carry out a Tariff Study under terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA; (b) funish the study to IDA for its review and comments; (c) finalize the
recommendations of the study taking IDA's comments into account; (d) within six months of its
completion implement the recommendations of the study; and (e) update thereafter the tariffs regularly
based on the methodology proposei in the study.
12.   To ensure the continued safety of the dam and strictures, no later than one year before the
expected completion of the dam and structures, TANESCO would provide IDA with details of its
arrangements for inspecting and mantining the dam and associated structures.



- 75 -
Annex 1.1
TANZANIA
Power VI Project
Hydrolectric Potntial of Tanzania
Potential           Installed
Basin                                   MW                   MW
Great Ruaha
Kidatu                                      204                 204
Mtera                                        80                  80
Kihansi                                     207
Rumakali                                    204
Masigira                                     80
Mpanga                                      160
Ruhudil                                     S60
Iringa                                       7
stiegler's Gorge                          1,400
Other                                       725
Other Basins
Pangani Falls                                80                  18
Hale                                         21                  21
Nyumba Ya Mungo                               8                   8
Other                                         4                   3
(Inc. Kikuletwa, Tosamaganga, Mbalizi)



.Jd/    1.00/    Toldcro                                         TOWd       Told      (hid
Uikwd Ga0   Cod    t*o0    *uft 08  FUel 08   MlOM   OmdeG  5etom          OVin  ft!%!!1a flhculdv    Vial Wod  ftego       awcod  Ttoidmd   -Circld           add
bdgumeea Padzbn                 ~~ ~~~~           ~~9 386  0  0      0        0        0        0        0          0    10.223      1,014        0      1MM2          395     11.633
ldpmt                                      32               623        0      265       21      141       17    1.067          0         0         0         0                  109        1.099
fupat                           ~~~~~~~~~ ~~ ~~0 (110)               0        0        0        0     (ISO)         0         0         0         0          0        (110)      (110)
(14)              (14)
okesins  ow                        0      41    385        623      (slot    26        -21      127       17      943          0    1I0L2;      1.01         0      1 I'm       1.314     12.62
-03~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
0*ad~M   no"*1                             0               (623)     210      139      102       62        5      (46)         a         0         0         0          0         (46)       (46)
ecodf agUm                             0                  a        0        0        0        0        0        0          a    (1.116)        0       238        (aM)          0       (on)
Faus cuwwdmo N*uG                          0    (386)                                                              0         133         0                                       2531      t253%
POuW0aeerdim the,u   mmS                   0                 0        0       (24)       0       0        0       (24)         7                                                 -0 00  1
POW' -, 1  Autogmawlm                                                         (we)                                (16)         5
Iinu                        0                ~~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 (a)  (7)  (5)  (4)  (1)    (25)      (28)       0         0          0          0        (53)       (53)
tim                                                 ~~       ~~       ~~       ~~~~~~                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~0  0  0  0  0  0  0
V.,  0uk                                  41       0         (a      153      355      119      184       21     pal         117     9,107      1.014      238      10.360      -A15      11376
41                        104       *         4        5        5      216         52       415         0         a         485        309        76
T    it                                    0                          0       190      108      14        0      311           0         001                                                311
Arkt.dIw                                                              490      35        3        I        3      92           5       3001      20'3        0         0          97        401
WemAIdd00                                                                                0      162       6       ISO         36     8.352       312       184       9.347       204       9.551
Cam e l.9 M&O"ws                                    0                 0        00        3        2       a        44         24         0         0        55 05                 as         122
TOW CS2mumm                        0      41       0          0      153      35       119       8        21      832        II?     9.10?      1.14       238       0=            0       Iw
3 o Told Ea'.                    0.03    0.43    0.01      0.O1     1.13     3.1      1.01     1.61     0.23     7.33       1.03     80.2       8.93      2.12       91.33      8.7      1l0.0
of  uud mr                       0.O1    4.21    0.8       0.01    15.4     359X    12.O1    18.6       2.13    84.01      1.01                                                10.01
lema:IGby of Vo.&.fwWadr- IB -d aid mIsio .sIhuMe
3   X  31M
TiOq0 t                           20     31.53
Il8.e~~~~~              64.13~"I    20.63
P    e_WtE.rS         CO          O.13    6.83
b_ (t6) (t6) 50



- 77 -         Annex l.1
ii.
I_I
I~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Fil
If~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 78 -
TANZANIA
POWER VI PROJECT
TANESCO Se      Piened 1bfonnanee Indicakaos
1990     t*1   1992   1993   1994   199S   1996   1997   1998
Gzeratdon (GWh)                1,629     1,739  1,937  2,066  2,191  2,316  2,441  2,570  2,686
Sales (GWh)                    1,304     1,42S  1,SS3  1,663  1,777  1,901  2,041  2,186  2,337
Svde "m Ls  (GSyb)
Staion                        14.6
Tran_mision                  139.1
Disbuoc                     IlLi
Tota                      32S.3      344    384    403    415    417    403    386    349
(X of 5gmMaggn
Staion                        0.9
Tansmission                   8.S
Dianbution                   IDA
Tota                       19.9      19.8   19.8   19.5   19.0   18.0   16.S   1S.0   13.0
Fuel Oil fkg/kWh)           0.292     o.277  0.264  0.250  0.238  0.226  0.220  0.220  0.220
Lube Oil (lite/kWh)         0.004     0.003  0.002  0.002  0.002  0.001   0.001  0.001  0.001
Trucbs knmliter)              2.0       2.2    2.3    2.3    2.3    2.3    2.3    2.3    2.3
4WD   m (mlitae, diese)       5.0       5.2    S.3    S.3    5.3    5.4    5.4    5.4    S.S
4WD (km/fite, diese)         5.0       S.5    S.6    S.6    5.7    5.7    5.7    S.8    5.8
No. of ConnectiwCs('000)         17S      181    187    193    199    205    211    217    223
No. of Employees ('000)          6.7       6.4    7.5    7.0    6.0    5.5    5.0    S.0    S.5
Connsctions/Emplonyee            26        28      25     27     33      37     42      43     41
AcctL Receivable (dassales)     213       133    144    108      60      60     60      60     90
Opeafitng Raio(%)                7S        75      68     68     68      73     70      72     72
Deft Serice Coverage            1.0       0.2    1.2    1.5    1.7    1.4    1.5    1.6    1.8
Idet/Equity Radio              55:45     40.60  46:54  47:53  S0:S0  S1:49  S2:48  53:47  52:48
InhaxalsCah Geuhmlst (%)         4S        46    Nag      21     28      33     36      45     46



- 79 _
TAWAMZAtI                                                              3.1
Powt VI POJECT                                                  Pae I   1
$AI ES WEATION.LOSS   AND PEAKUMA1D 1985-I12
viS       10120':  lO, ?        t1980  s'  16911';    IQl
SAL ES KrtRCONNUCT  SYSTEM a"Wh 1             
Residental          8W8TlFIGaWh                                                  2 208  '  268 /       395
Annual Increase (2) 0M                                                          20          .     ... 27X
Comerinal                                                   70n)                 100        11,        127
Annul Inc e (X)                                            29 "'                 3         47 .       12X
Light Industrial                                                                  38                    53
Annual Increase (%)                 ;-6%:                              41        141       23         13X
LV Industrial & Commercil.                                  167 .                131                   136
Annual Increase (2)                                       -5%           2       23x                    52
Agrculture                                         U                              557
Annual Increase (2)                                                            135X;       -          10%
HV Industial and Commercil                       00 ..03 .1                      143        .74        180
Annual ncreose (X)                                       44062,  ..      .      -6k' Z      52
Energy Intense Coumers.                       .               0,                 144 6'                184
Annual Increas (2)                                .                                        11         152
Publc Lighting                                                                     4 .4'  3  '.$.   4     t   5
Annual Increas (2.M                                                                 6:
NUWA Wother Authority .0                                                          4 .7 54  63
Annual Increase (2)                                                            -15%  .,.              162
ic SoWs to Zana,r                                           42     '     ,        54          4         52
.nual Inrease (2)                                         6         17*        122      ,15        -19
TOTALSALES-ITERCONCMtUSKM  I94                                822        0o1 1005             1110       1254
Annual Increase (X)                      :83 u'82                                152:.:.              13%
TOTAL SALES-ISOLATED CNtS OWht)                 N              87         80         61 ':. 47             50
Annual Increas (X)                       r                                     1066  ' ;            1304
TOTAL SALES (G 'I                                                                                        1304
AnnualIncrease(2) M16%                                              ''          122        S     >n 132
GOATi0N (GWhI
Interconnected System                      . 1            1041       110        1303       146        1565
bsoled centers                                   102        105 .<:    t4         78    .   ;           64
TOTAL ONERATION                                   117z  1146            17         1381  .     09     1629
Annual Increase ()                                         13%2 .     11         9x 8%
EERY LOSSES 9 of g_e. pwa Is.                                               s
hterconnected System                        :              21.0%     25. 4      22.92      221? 19.821
olobted centers                                            17.4X   -;              21.52  ;  355*     22.82
ALLOCATION Of ENEitY LOSS                                               '
Interconnected System                       .
Station Use (2 of gross generateon)                                 .4     . 0.52  f:  0.5%  :,72     0.6%
Tranmission and Dbtrbution (X of net gnr)    '   %1S       22X .                 24Z    ; 42           21X
lsoatd System-
Sttion Use (2 of grow  gene-aion)                                                          t 4.6F .,  M  7.9%  5f",   6.1%
Dibution (2 of net generation)                   t4    .   22%>'                 292 . . 2             31X
PEAK DEAAND MWW)
Inteconnected System                    s ,    .            183                  219        .    ,53   264
Annual Increas (2)                                                                          52         4X2
NUMDEROF CONSUMERS                           s. 
Intrcorunected                               1e30,4   133.419   tTlti9k    128,773   .44*:R  155.284
Isolated Cente"u                          f ': $^        28,803    26t9W,   19.671   .18.4t         19.720
TOTAL                                         s I          162.222    131       148.444    102)4      175,004
- SOVRESWTIALCOt4SWJERS
Intemonnected                              '103.423 -61512s.f    99.249   100*92    118.147
Isolated Centers                          s   ;3         21.182     1          14,779   i   0i      14,156
TOTAL                                          Il0         124.605   1-5.        114.028             132.303
POPULATfONO Witdlo)                     .       y             21.8        .        22.5         .        23.8
NOTE: Consumer cssMication has been changed ond custoner accounts have been adud several tbmes.
making comparisons beben years diffulL
erwgy  wsses ae colculted based on genration and sals. Due to inaccuracies
in soas data, annual vhons in enr  lse ar Irrgl.



inunuimr            cn
TAMESC-N - t           .  ITBIDhO
VASE CA
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _                                                                                                     se
Gsh Pat"
01Wr0   CAIEQ=V\1A                              1889   19n0   19s1 11192   tos    1914   19|6   1911    1?   INBS   199t    200    2001   2002                      199l-2002
Raldenltal (C1h)                                  311     395     441     484    S18    561       589    631      676     722      770    821       75     931
Annud iease (1)                                        26.9X   11.7X    9.6X    7.01    6.4%    6.81    7.2X    7.01    6.8X    6.7%    6.6%    6.S    6.4X            7.0X
Sm9 acatinwnrla (tfh)                             113    127      141     1S3     164    t15       187    200    214    228        24      260     276    294
bnual Incas (%)                                        12.2X   11.21    8.51    7.0X    6.42    681    7.2X    7.01    6.8X    6.7X    6.X    6.4X    6.32             6.92
Lght Industry ((ph)                                47      53      59      63      69      74      80       86      93    101      109     117     126     135
AuWol inrease (X)                                      12.8X   11.0X    7.9S    8.1X    7.51    8.02    8.4X    8.2X    7.9X    7.9X    7.72    7.SX    7.4             7.9X
Lr9e hsIsy/coornntial ')                          463    500      558     596    639    681       729      784    842    90-z    966    1034    1106    1181
Annual ICr  (%)                                         8.0X   11.6X    6.9X    7.11    6.6X    7.1    7.5%    7.4%    7.2%    7.1X    7.02    7.0X    6.8X             7.1X
fte (GOh)                                      51      57      63      67      71      75      gO      8s       90      95     100     106     1tt    117
Auulw inre   (X)                                        1.81X  1O.OX    6.5S    6.3X    6.z2    6.1     6.0X    5.82    5.7X    Sfr    5.51    5.4    5.3%            5.9X
mappUy((Wh)                                   54      63      70      77      85      93     102     III    120      129     138     147      156     165
Annual bincse (S)                                      16.7X   I1.IX   10.6%   10.1X    9.6%    9.%    8.6X    81tX    7.6%    7.12    6.6%    6.IX    5.6X            &.1
Pubfc 6ghng (0h)                                    5       7       8       8       8       9       9       10     t0      11       tt      12      12      13
Armlnal bmease ()                                      40.02   10.02    4.6%    4.6X    4.6X    4.61    4.62    4.6X    4.6X    4.62    4.62    4.62    4.6X            4.6S
Zanhlbr(GW%)                                       64      52      55      58      61      64      67       70      74      77      8t      85      90      94
Anmual knwrea (X)                                    -18.82    5.8X    5.OX    5.0%    5.01    5.0%    5.0X    5.0S    5.01    5.01    5.01    5.02    5.01            5.0X
TOTAL FORECAST SALES (GWh)                       1109    1254    1395    1507   1614   1722   1842    1977   2118   2265   2420    2581    2752    2929
Annual incse (X)                                       13.1X   11.2X    8.0X    7.1X    6.62    7.0X    7.3%    7.11    6.92    6.8X    6.7%    6.6    6.5X            7.01
LaE (Wh)
Technical oses                                 164     156      174     t88    201      202    202      201     199     182     192    203      214    225                              Oo
(X of 9eeatIon)                               11.4%   10.01   10.OX   10.02   10.01    9.5X    9.02    8.SX    8.0%    7.01    7.0X17.          7.02    7.02                           O
Non tchnical                                   164     153      170     184    191      202     202     189     174    156      137     116      92      64
(1 of geneton)                                11.4%    9.8X    9.8X    9.81    9.51    9.5%    9.0X    8.01    7.OX    6.0X    5.0X    4.0X    3.01    2.0%
GENERAWON (GWh)                                  1436    1564    1739    1879   2006    2126    2247    2368    2492    2603    2750    2900    3057   3219
nnuc kincee (X)                                         8.92   11.22    8.0X    6.7%    6.0%    5.72    5.42    5.3X    4.5X    5.6X    5.51    5.42    5.3X           S.82
SYSTEM PEAK LOAD
LOa todr (X)                                  62.0X   67.6X   66.62   66.0%   65.0   65.GX   6S.X   65.0X   65.01   65.0   65.0    65.02   66.01   65.01
Sysehm peok (MW)                               253     264     297      325    352    373    395    416    438    457           483    509      537    565             6.0X
WOTES TO BASE CASE FORECAST:    1989 and 1990 actual sates ond enrartian data.
1991 sales estimatd fnmm generation data.
1992 acta generation 1,737 GWh. Due to drougt cfnditins outu frm  hyrf plants was ndced a  TANESCO shed loads.
The systen ha expected to be suppl constrained also in 1993 and 1994 resuting In load shedding and lower than foreted sales
te residential connectio  estimad to inrase with estimaled wban housetad  grwth In major lod cente (4% occ. to census 198).
Residential consumption/cansumer estimated to decrese by 0.51 p.a due to icred triffs nd due to nw lower incone canamer.
smal comstil nreanse esmaed to follow rsidentl icae.
tJght industril ireass acc. to estmated industl ecttcity derand/owfustriol COP elasticity (obsrved elastciies hae varied from 1.9 to 3.1 durhng 1989-1992).
GOP elasticity for light indusr, I estmted to dceine gradualty frm 1.9 in 1992 tbased an preliminary data) to 1.5 in 2002.
Large kxdustriol/convercial ncrose occ. to estimated electricity demond/(binduta+de) GOP elasticity (obseved elasc;ities hwe  ied lnnn 1.4 to 2.2 during 1989-199 ).
GOP elsctity for large industrial/comnercIal is estnated to dec6ie gradually frn 1.6 in 1992 (based on preliminary data) to 1.3 in 2002.
Agriclwe intrases occ. to etimated agrkulture electricity demoand/griculture COP eabtcity (obsewved elasticities   e voried frm  -1.6 to 2.2 durin 1989-1992).
GOP estcity tor ariculaure is estmted to doeclie grodual hfom 1.75 in 1992 (baed on preliminary data) to 1.4 in 2002.
GCP projectons according to WB Econotrc Report of June 1991.
Inese in wat supply deoand estimed to decre  from 1991 lvel by SX p.o unti it eches urban household growth rate.                                        It
PubS  6gtin estimated to nrcrea  with urban poplaton growth tn major load center (4.6X ccc. to census 198)                                                K
Zazbar supply estimated to Inreasa 5% p..                                                                                                                   W
80X of the rduction in non-technical lasses is added to sls calculated as explanined obove.
The 80  reduction in nn-techncal  es aocatd: 371 residenttial; I  sX smd conwnerclat 5X lht lnustryr 47X  er Industry nd canrwerciWd.                   tb
Electrification rote (nMer of households electrified,totalnumber of husolds) increases from abt 4.4X in 1990 to about 6.2  in 2002.41



TAMIA
lowII AWID
TAN DSC  -    MWO Mr, M-t                                                                                                                                   n
uwas~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~at ae
_             _e                   __CATUWV'Jm  _96 t    99   AM1   1s2   1t3   19MG   n                        1996  197   1S   1t9   2an    2001   In    101-2002
311      395      441       484      509       u        5        S7       616      645       674      703      732       76
_ewd Ivreta (3)                                       26.       11.73     9.6      5.3       4.M      4.6      5X       4.5S      4.5     453X    4.=         4.23     4.0%           5613
$        comwcid                                113      127       141      153      161       169      177      186       195      204      213      222      231       240
AvWd incre   (S)                                      12.2X    11.2       5x       5.3%      4.       4.5      5.1       4Blt     4.5      4.4X     4.3X      43%   4.0%              4.1S
47       53       59        63       67       71        75       so       as       91        g6      102      10t       113
_weed hc_erne (X)                                     12.5    11.03       7.85     6S       5.5       6.1X     6.X       6.3x     6.X      6.6X     5.5        73      5SX            6
_   hlab.j/car,m_cbW                       463      500      558       596      629      661       69?      739      781       825      a70      916      9W6      1016
Aveed btmcne (3)                                       5.03    11.5       6.9%     5.13     5.63      5.5X     5.5S      5.       s   5.5& 6%  S. 54           .43     5.2X           5.5
51       57       63        67       70       73        76       79       83        a8       89       93       96       100
_ewed inrease }(3)                                    11.5      MOM       6.5m     4.6X     4S%       4.43     4.3      4.2%      4.1%     4.0%     3.93      3.       3.t7           4.3X
54       63       70                 84       91        96      l0t      105       109      114      Its      123       128
_ewed increase (3)                                    11i.7%    1.%      10.t6     9.13     7.6%      6.1%     4.5      4.C6      4.0%     4.0*     4.0S     4.0%      4.0S           5.5
PAk go"                                           5        7        a         8        8        9         9       10        la       II       tt       12        12       13
how Inrea  (%)                                        40.3  t0O.          4.65     4.C4    4.6%   4.6    %AX            4.5%    4.         4.5x     4.6%     4.6%      4.6%           4.
64       52       55        59       60       62        64       67       69       72        75       78       so        83
_ icree (s)                                          -19,5      51X       5.033S 173         3.5   1 73        3.5      37%       &1       3.7      3        3.72   a 7X              3.13
TOTAL FOECAST S.E  Gh)                         1109     1254      139S     1507     1590      1866     1754     1849      1945     2042     2142     2243     2348      245W
_   bvrsas (3)                                        113.      11.2%     8.0%     5.1      469        23      543      52S       5.03     46s3     45        4.73     4.6%           53
TSbicd lme                                    164      156      1t4      1t8       197      196       193      lee      183      164       170      176      183       189
(a d g0m,na )                               11.4%    10.,       0.C=    1.       10.63     9.53      9.0S    m5.       RAS       7.0X     7.0%     7.03      7.0%     7.03
No tectwcd                                    164      153      170       184      188      196       193      177      160      141       122      tOt       78       54                          D
(Sat geeratn)                               11.4      9 9.5    9.8       9.85     9 9.5    9.53      9.0%     S.63      7.0      6.0      5.0%     4.0%      3.03     2.0%
GNR1C  too)                                    1436     l564      1739     1879     1975     2059      2140     2215     2288      2347     24;34    2521     2409      268
Aud ince   ()                                          53    11.23        &O0      5.13     4.3X      3g%      3 3SI3 C3    2.6S           373      &6%      3.S       3.4            4.1
SYSIW PEAK lAD
ttad factor (%)                              62.03    67.62    66.62    66A%    65.63    65.63    65.03    65.OS    65.0%    65MM    65            650X    65.03    65.0S
tS tm ae  1M)                                 253      264      297       325      347      362      376       389      402      412      427       443      406-   474               4,3I
OSTES TM LOW C*SE FORECAS: 1989 ffd 1990 iOae  Ods en 9WWran dato.
1991 Oda .emoed  m geaion dat
1992 ctid gewti   w  1.737 Gi Ous to emgh cantOm oeuApuA fm tVdro wats w  ried end lA1fSCO s%Wd 1o.
The  gsto, I expected to COe to be us* ceMtrt  In 1993 erd 1994 m*bA  in load et0dinV c  redacd etnbr Of aMe cstiOs
Om realdt  cev.cti    etitdt to icese with 503So the estimated incre   in th no. of htmsehd  In maow bow cet'  (43 *cc. to cnen t198)
Reeik coempt/cwounp desetomaed tdeKresby23p.a    to               e taff    d de to bcwer hicomecutomeci
9nxD cam'-cid inciwae std  to falowrsitilmceas.
GDP asswned .o nbrea  wt I pint em thm   6 1991 forecast
Uott aimt  etitd  to Ica  actc. to e_tcbdad bInUtraletrkity deromm/irdustrid GOP lasticty.
GDP asticiy for ght bdty etimated to decline gradtu frm 1.9 In 1992 (p*lbnrky dat) to 1.45 in 2002.
Lo"re b riW/cammorckat estirated to inrease acc. to estnaWtd  hty+tCD elctci    d       (     dt        COP kSc'.y.
GOP elstcity for og. ndutrl/cammercid estboted to decnW 9.rm       fiun 1.6 in 1992 (preliiwy at) to 1.25 in 200Z.
Agrcktwe  stated to hicre    acc. to estirated afciiturd elctrcity demod/agwktwe COP eascity
GOP elstcity for akgrie esti d to decline graduy fro(m  1.75 hi 1992 (premirny data) to 1.35 In 2002.
GOP elstcities cr *stimt  to decrease   2.by    ;Pm due to more dOc  teclla. Iyt
Obttved GOP asicIt  see notes to ba  case foecast. 
Inrease in atr sup*  dmf   aestiaWd to decrease from 1991  Lr by Xpa ht it reahes arvad wben houehold grwth rate 04                          JD
Pe ligting bs estimaed l io incs Wh ppLAo   oth in mor oad l eote  (4.62 ece. to ceeusv elU)                                                                           X4
Zanzba sc* is ostmated to increase by 3.763 an /,.                                                                                                                     W
BOX of the redction In n-tlechcd los  is addtd to sades celcatd as eP    atoe.                                                                                      0.
The 86  reduction I non-technied lsse  ldocated 373 rel.. 113 cotmm.; O lght d; 47X ather bid.+conimercld. 
Eletrifcaton rat (nber of howseolds elctfid/tol rm,ber of hbauohl) Ihcrase fmrn aeut 4.4X in 19g  o abwot % in 2002.               ,                                >



- 82 -                              Annex 3.2
Page 3 of 4
TANZANIA
POWER VI PROJECT
FIGURE 1.
TANESCO
SALES - HISTORICAL AND FORECASTS
Sales (MWh)
6000
4000 -------
3000   _    __    __    .   .-   . - .     /      -   .
2000 - _.-
0
80 81 828384868687888990 919293949599798'9 0  1 2
,War
-   1986-90 Trend               +  1980-90 Trend
-   Base Foreast                  Low Foreeast
1980 - 1002
The figure shows tfiat the mission's base case forecast is slightly higiher than the long-term
trend (based on 1980-1990 demand growth), while the low case forecast is somewhat lower. The
short term trnd is based on the demand growth during 1985- 1990 and, if continued, would
double the load every seven years. The current high residential demand growth has been mainly
an outcome of the increased consumption/consumer due to catching up in the demand of electrical
appliances, that have become more easily available in the aftermath of the economic recovery.
Such a rapid growth is not likely to persist in a longer-term however; anticipated increases in
tariff rates to more economic levels and the connection of lower income households as the
network expands, will probably slow down the growth. The growth in the industrial demand has
been largely in response to the GDP growth but the relatively high electricity demand to GDP
elasticities should decrease with the introduction of more efficient technology and higher capacity
utiization.



- 83 -
Page 4 of 4
TANZANIA
POWER VI PROJECr
Figure 2 compares the annual Increase in TANESCO's total generadon (ICS and isolated
cers) to the ual increae In total GDP in 1980-190. The table shows the total generation
Instead of total sales because of naccuracies In sales data that make the annual sales appear more
erratic tan what they probably are.
FIGURE 2.
TANESCO
Changes in GDP and Generation
Gowth rat (%/A.)
14
12         v 
ew. ito m *      .eIaa O gate               _
4
so    el   82    as    84   185    86    87    88    89    00
Year
G^DP       G eneration



- 84 -                                 Annex 3.3
Page~ 1 of 1
_ g                    No      ^^- E~   sa                           0  2_aE ,
I  ;33 fa   '.-^^- N            E            a      I     !~I    tIN  02 
0~~~~~~~~~ ~                                            Ne| ^'~*8@             8  
1  g  s^      02I-A*-- 3                            ia           ^ sfl  f lu g"
;~   ~a ;!   3Ig aS                                  if^^"Z  IEi ij2    !  !' 0^e 
I  ;Nff eNr6z !  !l 18|p.    . i4
Elul~~~~~'Ii 



- 8S -
hplOtS
poUl VI M-OJICT
St          Geeration Facilities at and 1990
Interconnected system                C@iei@Ui3g        Intallued       Available
Year          Capacity        Capacity
lydroelectric Geratio
pZani, River Basin
Kikuletwa                                 1935             1.16           0.00
Nyu.ba Ya Mungu                           1969             8.00           8.00
lals                                      1964            21.00          21.00
Pangani Falls                             1934            17.50           7.00
subtotal                                              47.66           34.00
3reat luaba River Ras
Mtera                                     1988            80.00          80.00
Kidatu                                    1975          204.00          153.00
Subtotal                                             284.00          233.00
other
Tos9amgana (lringa)                       1951             1.22           1.12
Nbalizi (Mbeya)                           1958             0.34           0.00
Subtotal                                               1.56            1.12
Subtotal Hydroelectric                               333.22          270.12
Total Fir Capacity ^I                                300 2
1  U r critical drought condition with reservoirs at minimm generating lwel and
all units In service.



- 86 -
Page 2 otS
l0Vf VI UJC
Izitina GoneratI s laciUties
Isolated Stations                    Coalisiuins       Inst 11aed      Aailable
Year          CApacity       Capacity
cM)
DabatL                                    1981             0.525          0.350
IkwirL                                    197411989       0.270           0.100
Mafia                                     1971             1.030          0.340
ChawLno                                   1975             0.398          0.144
KJgve                                     1974             0.076          0.000
Kondoa                                    1981             0.725          0.370
Mpwapwa                                   1987             1.000          1.000
Nj mbe                                    1981             1.130          0.200
Dukobs                                    194111984        0.80011.280    1.760
Kigoma                                    1956            2.270           2.160
KlIva Masoko                              1977            0.700           0.620
LiodL                                     1986             1.400          1.400
Liwale                                    1975             0.135          0.057
Masasi                                    1986             4.500          4.500
Nachingwea                                1954             0.690          0.400
Tukuyu                                    1975             1.700          1.200
Tunduma                                   1980             0.384          0.235
Mtwara                                    1949             4.400          2.040
Suabavnga                                 1985             1.000          1.000
Songea                                    1986             2.560          2.280
Total Isolated Statio.o                                 26.972         20.156
Total TANZSCO System                                   674.442        2L.ZI
Ptivate Ceeratig Plant                        Insta11ed CaOacity (161
Steam       Diesel    Rydro          Total
TIne of Licensee
Diamond Industry                                   12.25                  12.25
Coal Industry                                       6.00                   8.00
OLI Refinery                                        4.00                    4.00
Paper industry                         4.00   *                             4.00
Tea Industry                                        2.11                    2.11
Schools                                             1.99                    1.99
Dodama City                                         1.30                    1.30
Cotton Industry                                     1.23                    1.23
Vegetable Ol                           0.50                                 0.50
Sugar Industry                        0.44                                  0.44
Sisal Industry                                      0.35                    Q.S5
Missions                                            0.33      0.06          0.39
Other                                               5.80.                   5.80
Total Private



- 87 -                                           AMM"
Page 3 of s
VA= gi   TNOMNI=   MPA
UNI  ENGE  ENGIN    RATED  YE                          RATED   PRIw             EXPECTED            REWAS
NO.  MAKI          TMP      CAPACITY  INSTALAUD    CAPACITY   CAPACITY    CAPACTY
DODOMA - ZUZU
I  MIRELESS  LACUONE   K.SM                        2,851            0         2,500        Notyet ialed - KF
2   aM ELE  ILACKSTONE   KJM             1984        2,U51        2.200         250         Runnin condito  Overial K?
3  MRRLESS BLACKSTONE   KS M                         1,722            0         1,50        Not ye I edw - IC
M8EYA- IYUNGA
I  MRREESS ILACKSTONE   KS M             1982       2,851            0          2,500       Await spa  for ovuhaul- KF
2  MWES  BILACKrONES   K. M                          2,851            0         2,800       Not yet ntAd
3  m1RRLs  LAcKsroNE   K8Ms              1982       2,8S1          1,700        250         Running, due tar ovebau - K?
4  MIRELESS BLACKSTONE   KS IM    1982              2,851          1,700        2,SOO       Running, due for ovsbu - K?
S  WARTILA                     12V32     1984       3,200             0         2,500       SPod mi  Cad
6  WARTULA                     12V32     1984       3,200         2,500         2,500       Running order
MUSOMA
I  WARJSILA                   6241S      1979         500            0           450        Under Repa
2  WARSILA                     6241S     1979         500             0          450        UnderRepai
3  WARTSILA                    4241S     1979         350           300          300        Runniqg condition
4  BItACKONE                   BLS       190          7SO           640          675        Ru ,nn   but dialed
S  RLACKSTONB                  mu        1980         750           640          67S        Rumning, but ete
6   LACKSTONB                  ES        1980         7S0             0          67S        Awai Rehabliatin
7   LACKrONE                   SLW       1980         750             0          675        Awas ehabilita
8  BLACKSTONE                  BS        1980         750           640          675        Running, but duated
9   LACKSTON                   ESLS      1980         750             0          675        Awast RehabiWlatio
10  BLACKSTONE                  ESL8      1980         750             0          675        Await. RehabIiaton
11  LACKSTONE                  E8L8      1980         7             640          67S        Rudning, duteed
MWANZA - NYAKATO
i  M2RRLEs RELACKSlTNE        KC 12M   1978         4,S00         4,000        4,000        Runingcondiion
2  MDRILIESS BLACKSNM          ICV 12 M   1978       4,500         4,000        4,000       Running condiion
3  MURLESS RALAnCSTONE    KCV 12 M   1978            4,500            0         4,000       Mt*j breakdown - Rebab
4  BIRRLESS BLACKSXTONE        KCV 12 M   1978       4.500            0         4,000       GOuntded for overalb  - kebob
MWANZA - SOUIll
I  RUSTON                     9ATC       1967        1,500          700         1,300       Runnbi condion
4  RUSTON                      9ACr      1969        I1'00         1,000        1,300       Running condiio
5  RUSTON                      9ACr      1970        1,500          800         1,300       Running condiion
RUSTON                     9ACr       1970       1,500            0          1.300      To inlude in Rehab
TABORA
I  MMIRLESS lACuKSrONE        KV S M    1984         1,722        1,200         1,500       Running order
2  MMRLS BLACKONE    KY 8 M                          2,81             0         2,800       Not ypI nstaled - IK
3  MMRLSS BWLAC ONE    ICKY 8 M    1984              2,SS1         2,200        2,5ao       Running order
4  MRLS    ACKNE               ICV SM    190         2,851        2,851         2,800       Runing ode
UBUNGO
I  MVIRRLESS NATIONAL         KVSS 16M 1968         4,410         4,000         4,000       Runing condition
2  URERLESS NATIONAL           KVSS 16 M 1968        4,410         4,000        4,000       Running condiaon
3    IRitRLSS NATIONAL         KYSS 16 M 1968        4,410         4,000        4,000       Runming condton
5  PIlSTICK                    181C2V    1970        6,137            0          S00        asks Ci
7  P1I.STWCK                   12PCV    1973         7,500            0         6,800       Rd       n      cen  ion
8  PHELTICK                    12P3V    1972         7,500            0         6,W00       Reub nang completion
9  GAS TURBIN                  W191C    1973        I13A                                    Rdeb. under conideation
TOTAL                             116,220       39,711       100,800
list excludes Aruis Pbww Sttion whh is not in h Rhabiitao progmm.
joW: TAiNWSO



- 88 -                             MMn 3.4
Pgp 4 of S
TANZANI
POWER VI PROJCT
Main Transmission and Distribution Lines
Lines                           220 kV      132 kV      66 kV       33 kV       11 kV
(E)
Kldatu - Morogoro                 128
Morogoro - Ubungo                 172
Ridatu - Iringa                   160
Iringa - Mufindl                  130
Mufindi - Mbeya                   220
2ringa - Mtera                    100
Htera - Dodoma                    138
Dodama   Singlda                  211
Slngida - Shinyanga               210
Shinyanga - M_an                  139
Ubungo - Ilala                                  11
Chalinze - Ubungo                               97
Morogoro - Chalinze                             82
Chalinze - Sale                               175
Hale - Tanga                                    60
Bale - Klyungi                                200
KiyungI - NJ Iro (Arusha)                       75
Shinyanga - Tabora                            203
rwanza - Musoma                               250
UJbungo - Ras  iloson I                         41
R/lKlomoni - Mtoni 21                           38
Nyumba ya Mungu - KLyungl                                 53
Moshi - Arusha                                            75
Coastal Zone                                                         423          569
North East Zone                                                     1136         1245
South West Zone                                                      107          187
Lake Zone                                                             259         287
Central Zone                                                          28          352
South Zone                                                           280           78
West Zone                                                             211         156
Total 31                     1.608       1.232        128       3.044        2.874
1/ Overhead transmissIon line onf the mainland.
2/ S'bmarine cable in the ludian Ocean.
3/ Of which 340km of 33kV lines and 444km of llkV lines are located in the
isolated areas.



TM    Sub.t.U.e. Ta.mR med * ablrihbl. Llm   - 
U                    _c_                              N. gm            (WIUAL            S. US               LN               US            aw              it.
anl  10          m1 150        8010   lSO                  ISO     801D     ISI   f fiD       1508010    ISO   8010  tSO
Tr sa.loanI.d DigUb.tboe Lb.
L "  VA- -IM                    07 -             0     -        71       -        6#       -        70       -       174       -    0           1,m         0
18EV               28? - -         460     -                 -        0               20         -       0         '    0       01 m,282        0
66KV                0             12               0                 a-        -       0        -        O          -    0           IN        0
428     -    1,16       -        e        -       45      64       29        -       211       -    0   20  2,T           U44
11Kv              S4     28    1,245      -       1t1      41       01       so      too       94       21      5n            is   2 Sol    gel
44/220V              2,124      -    1,         -      420      26       230      78       120      70      1to       i1           78   4'i00    its
llo~P4F~st. oa s     aed Cnoa.Itp (Ms)
I20/"No.                   -     -        -      -        7       -         6                 2       -         2       -    -        -      17      -
Cap.                -     ,         -     -      2C0        -      ltO                t0        -       *0        ^    -       ^     U~O       -
181/SUN..                 7     -         0     -         -       -         -                2        -        2        -    -       -      20       -
CaP.              21s      -      1i      -         -       -         -                o        -        o0             -      -     410
182/66W..                  _     _        1      -        _       _         _                                                        -        1      -
eam.                -     -                                                                                                            4 -  -  -  -  _  _  _  _    -  -  a.  -
66/88..        '          -     -        *      -        -        -        -                 -       -         -       -    -       -        4
Cap.                -     -        40     -        -        -        -                 -        -        -        -    -       -      40b
88Al W..                20    a-         U      -       30       -         *       1         7       -         a       -    -       2      I12      a
Cp.               21       -       n      -       40        -       26        5       81        -       16        -    -      10     418      15
Sent b.dat Uv                       20              is              1t        ^                          t                                -             55      -
Cap.               79      -       48     -        28       -        58       -         -       -       29        -    -       -     22        -
38/0.4 N.                 4?     -      to0      -       a8        -        -        -       at       -        22       -    -      20      418     20
Cap.               11      -       46     -        14       -         -       -         4       -        a        -    -       8      S1       8
S"pIlad t 1V No.                    20     -       to      -       It        -        6       -         0       -         6       -    -        -      69      -
Cap.               23      -       2a     -        it       -        42       ^        12       -         0       ^    ^       -     17 
11/0.4 No.               on      8      u6       -      224       te      176      78       1es      54        se      85    -    122  2.61    810
Cap.              121      1      121     -        Is       2        6o      12       so        4         7       S    -      17     861      42
Total _b.                  979 0         1 21      -   35           16   136                  21R       54      12?       85    -    144   308       8 1
V.1.1 Capacity               IlUI~'~iEiflhIUT7TI5~N A _                                                                                 T              7E
-~~~~~~~~~I



- 90 -
Page l of 3
MUM
-EIAST CMS EXPANSO OP THE POWER 9RHMN SYSTI
1.           Ihe 1989 update ofthe 198 Power Sector Deveopmn Plan coluded that coal
ao oil thermal generation would not be econmic over the planning horzn and that the candidate
projects for the least co  gneraon    n progm are hydro or gas thermal, usig gas fom
the offshore Songo Songo field.
2.           In 1989, when the update of the Power Sector Deveopment Pln was prepared,
the Goverment planned to utilize 525 bfc of the 725 bfc p   g  resere at Songo Songo for
ftilizer producdon The balanceof the proven gas resee was not sufficiet for dsgnicant bse
load power geneation, and hence gas was not considerd as au opdon for base load power
,,neraODn and an aU hydro development sequence war sdected as least cost (based on
TANES%O's system planning criea of a 3 1/3 perce  risk of failure to meet system demand
and a Loss of Load Expectaton of 5 days pe year). I   seque conisted of the  ilowing
projects over the 1990-2000 peIod&:
hect                                                 k
1. RehabilIation of  sti  I          diesels          1989-90
2. New diesel (20 MW)                                 1991-92
3. Redevelopment of P ai Falls Hydro Plant (60 MW)    1991-94
4. Lower Kiba  hydro-edectric sem  (152 MW)           1991
3.       TANESCO has had difficulties in obtain ficing fr the rehabitation of exidsting
dieses as well as fr the new 20 MW diesel. In 1992 TANESCO received fiancing from the
Kuwait find to rbilitat some of the dieses unb. The delays in capacity additio  coWled
with reduced hydro capacity due to the severe dmught condition has nOW forced TANESCO to
shed load. To mitie tis problem, TANESCO's consultan have recedy proposed that new
tmal capacy of between 60 MW and 110 MW be ited as soon as possible. TANESCO
I seeing finacing for ths adon.
1 Den dmAbsowaet wasnt spedfcuNy cosl8ass an opto hI ftsesost dwt  plan
hthe 1989 ts. Specikcmeasw sto oeffwvietthecwrcpy d    ey iwtavhofew
benpWosed by TANESCO's coea    la August 1992. hI a*Utw. fihw 5 he poi  for the
hAlma of a DSM4*.te#Y so ke pevperd by EWAP.



- 91 -
Page 2 of 3
4.    Constuction of the Lower Ksi scheme bef  the Pangani Fall redevelopment was
margily lower cos. However, the longer constuction peiod for Lower Khaui meant it
ould not be avaiable to meet the forecast capacity and enegy demd. Pangani fials eforo
bad to be implemed fint. In the 1989 planing study, Lower Kihansi was, by a considerable
magin, the least cost project to foUow Pangani In the development sequence.
S.    In 1990 the Governent reduced the volume of gas reserves for feriizer production fiom
525 bcf to 395 bcf. This offered the possibility of reintroducing gas-fied base load geneato
into the generation development sequence, an oJion that was reiewed in a repot on  heo Uso
of Gas in the Power Sector, prepared by ACRES brnational of Canada in 1990. ITh repor
concluded ta the inpleaon schedule was roughly the same for th Lower Kihaosi and the
gas alternaive - bout six yems - and ihat the euries Lower  hansi or gas fired geneaion
Juld be in serice would be in 1998.
v.    Ihe preset worth 'osts (PWC) of alt ve power geneaton expsion sequences wer
calculated to deermin whether it will be economic to Incorporate gs-fired generation into the
geneilon expamsion program. Additionally, the sensitivity of the resuts to: (1) the posible
stablishment of a fertilizer p!ant (ILAMCO); and (2) the use of gas I industry were tested.
A summary of the estimated PWC's of the various alteradve sequences is shown in te attaced
Table 4.1. Compariso of the PWC of the hydroody sequences - I(a), 1(b) and 2(a) - with the
seqences Inolving the use of both as and hydro, shows that the intoduction of gas for power
economic, resling in savings of between US$92 million and US$137 Million depending on
whether part of the gas s used for KLAMCO - 2(a) compared to 2(d) - or no g  isaflocatd
for KILAMCO - l(b) compared to 3(a) or 4(c) -.
7.    Assuming that the fertlizer plat will not be iemented (it is cmntly In abeymce due
to the lack of finaning because of mcainty about its economic and financial viability) the
PWCso f the Lower  hansi firt option and the gas first opon 4(c) vs. 3(a) vs. - arealmost
identical.    is therore economicaly indifferent whetier Lower Kihasi or gs i the next
geeation prqoect after Pani Fals. The advantages of gas-fird genern  would be: (1)
relatly smali  wncent additions to capacity can be made to match system demand: and (2)
gas tubine     be used initAy to augment (firm up) the exstg hydro capacity and later move
towar  bas load generation. The deveopment of gs would ao offer the potenta to convert
fuel and dieel oil using induies in Dar es Salaam area from an Imported to an Indigenous
source of energy, which would ease a major constrant on the availbity of foreign exchag.
However, thes advages are offs since the pace of the gas dwelopment is uncain beca
the Tsuianz    do not have the needed experv nce nor the resources for exploitig natural gs,
and thus would need foreign participon Thbis has not yet bee secured. Reflecting Tanis
greater experience with hydro deveopme  ad possible delays in as development, the
Government has decided to conmisso the Lower Khansi project first In 1998 and to Inoduce
gas geneo to the power systemthereaft  as soonas itwouldbe avalable inDar es Saa
Mhe Bank has endorsed this decision.



- 92 -
Annex 4.1
Pago 3 of 3
8.     Dung peapraesu In oay 1991, tho Goveent ad TANESCO requeed IDA to
fanc  the detied desig  nd preparaton of bid documets for the Lower Kihas scheme. Ihe
draft Icepto  reort was compled In June 1992 and ho fnal Project Defintio  repot wa
ompleted In February 1993. The Pect  Defit    repo  reconfimed the co   stimates and
recommended a design capacity of 180 MW.
Tablg 4.1
Presnt   oriCost of GeneSq             s      ewu
PwC IS mrion) at 12%   nt a
Deuorij*ioa            Gan           1989           1 989   1989   1989
Dcatd          2000   200    2010   2013   2039
1. No. Ga in Dur eas sau
a  _  Hydo Sequmn                           205    338    462   558   630
Kui I and 2, Mash,
R.umah Puzuaw Hydco, OR fr
b. Aetnat Hydi Sequaae                      201    349    466   559   681
r*s 1, Mam, Rmal
Putl Hydro, Oil for Rofiny
2. GOn  rK !mooan Dear e S ham ln997
a. Ga for KHaoo and 1jsuy,    2039          208    339    460   552   667
Daw Hydro Sueqce for
Power
b. Gas: Kom o and owr,         202S         198    289    395   466    m
260 W,
on  r  1n4ry
o. GaRsKmco, Povwr nd          2015         194    283    375   450   57
bduaty, 260 MW
d. Gs.' Kianaco Poww and       2023         194    282    387   467   S75
JdUay, 160MW
3. No Kilsaco Divdopmmt,
On boabr Low K;md
aL aOnrpomwand                 204          197    285    376   451   544
ndusby, 26D MW
b. Ga for Powe d               2028         201    287    367   440   540
bdusy, 360 MW
4. Ga after Lower KiBanid in 1999
a. Ga: Kamoo Nad Poww,         2030         199    291    38    467   571
260 MW, Oil for dusty
b. Ga: Kiamco, Power and       2018         197    283    375   451   562
Idustzy, 260 MW
o. No Kilaou  Dav iebpmaa Ga    2037        199    286    377   453    544
for
Pow and IndUsy, 260 MW



- 93 -
PowTt mVI PRO=                                                                               PMg Il 
V,   fambdoWwadtf.tqs
I.-V - fl
Fore  (ust)                                             2.5       2to      us        6.0      0.0      0.0      0.0        70.4
WL' (Th)                                                 36        3.U      181       77       0        0        0         O2
LOW KUW.N
Fordgn (5)                                               0.0       10.7    2L6      23.4     51.2    682       19.4       1S.5
Lae (7Th)                                                  0       64     1.547    1.410    3.018    3.933    1.173      11.794
hCIdst RodioftsUS
FWoegn (us$)                                              .        3.1    2L0        1.3       2       4.5      0.6        23.3
Ioad (n.h)                                               251       200       84       54     216      189       27        1.022
RdwbIfllotn at Gloom
Forelg (US1)                                             59        3o       2.1      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0        11.0
Locd (Tsh)                                                63       244      139       0        0        0        0         448
NW, 0as Twunss
Frign (us#)                                              (L0      19.5      9.       9.9      9.9      9.9      0.0        59.4
Loal (lth)                                                 0       347      173      173     173      173        0         .040
ro    21 3=.9                                                       MA      1o       40.6    663       796      251        316
elsIT.l                                                   Sr71    I.M      1124    1.718    a478    4.6    1.200         1t216
220 kV Kidtu4Oo es SI'.
raeig (US$)                                              7.3       13.      62       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0        27.2
h.ncd (1th)                                              229       768      352       0        0        0        0        1.350
220 Ik SinOWhe
I Fesign (USS)                                           1.4      22.2    18.       13.5      1.4      0.0      0.0        57.0
Lcd (tsh)                                                 t       728       69      37       58        0        0        IM793
FIorign (US5)                                            2.5       1.4      0.0      0.0      0.0      ea       0.0         3.9
Loed (Tnh)                                               405       250        0       0        0        0        0         6S5
la" 220/33 kV TraufaimeS. Capacos etc.
Freign (5)                                               0.5       7.0      2.5      2.5      0.0      0.0      0.0        12.5
Locd (Tsh)                                                 5       10        20      19        0        0        0         239
rosIpSI                                                   11.6     44.2    273    la          1.4      6.0      6.0       106.7
Les Itrahi                                                700      1.41     641     StO       So        0        0        4,036
Exp sn  wrd 9W Sngthsi  In Ow es Si.,. PA*ft UN. T.wp
Forig (US8)                                              0.0       0.0      6r      14.4      1.4      1.4      0.0        24.0
Lo#d (tsh)                                                 0         0      262      560      56       56        0         934
0btAon Rohob      n md Lou RedAtIon (4 crdes)
Farign (uS)                                              0.0       0.0      0.2      64       4.9      49       ; 6        16.
Locd (Tsh)                                                 0         0        0      192     192      192       64         as
O beton Rehaitation 011W Afem
For   (US$)                                              0O        0.0      5.       9.1 t             0.0      0.0 Q      15.8
Locel (th)                                                 0         0      132      289      49        0      *0          471
9smano. kftw^  Ufd & 05w. ad SeMce, CwstI
Foreign (US$)                                            4.2       0.2      4.4      8.       1.4      0.0      0.0        1a9
Loled (Tsh)                                            3.24      3.045      153    3.272    3.211    3.200    3.200      22.336
TOTAL DI8hfO
relp8l                                                    4.2       0.2    164        8.         3      64       .a         T6
Lgl (b                                                  3.MM4       06    3.4       4.313    3a1      3448    3.4        24.379
OTHER
Nyiw FosWteV. t1  Wi OVm Swd.s Master Pion
rin (USS)                                                0.0       0.4      3.0      3.7      1.5      0.8      0.0         9.3
LoOd (7bh)                                                 0        13      109      132      53       28        0         334
MtS. MIn  W Acco-iUng
Freign (USS)                                             MO        0.0      2.9      0.5      0.2      0.0      0.0         3.5
Uoall (7.h)                                                0         0       10        2        I       0        0           13
Evert S a'*s
Fore  (US)                                               0.0       0.9      1.0 0             0.0     0.0      0.0         2.8
Locd (Th)                                                 0        25       27       25       0        0        0          78
1,reign (uS$)                                            0.0       0.2      1.3      0.7      0.7      0.0      0.0         2.9
L.CO (7th)                                                 0         9       61       34      32        0        0          137
'Spm Cortrol Camataftaf% VwcNdn. OSt oW 05w,
forai (US$)                                               O        ao      Z9       3.8      1.6      0.0      0.0          4
Lc (Th)                                                  8w        76       841      8t77    a32      Sa0      8          5.710
IDA TeehicaMid Asbdw  Cre
ForeI  (U5)                                              S.        3.0      MO       0.0      0O       0.0      0.0         8.1
Lceh (Tih)                                               91        85        0        0       0        0        0          176
0rM0T o 6UThW S
rwulp     i                                               51        4,5    11.1       6.       40       oa                  36.1
LeosIr Ihl                                                691       66     1.049    169       0168     62       am         6447
TOTALW ESIMI T30GDM
relge  8                                                 66.0I     10.4   1o08    104.       81.0    66.o    21.7         m72.2
Loyd iffit                                               U818     T        7TM      72.490    T.01    a_5w1    gml         A 10
monOlS         oe Kbuwl nctes traftnlosaft
POWER 'A kwesbnwM east as of Worch 15. 199
USS I - 7sh 350



- 94 -
Page 1 of 14
POWER nVI
Detailed Descrigon of the PrMleet
t.    The components of the project are described in Chapter 4. Tbis annex provides additional detals
on the following components:
(a)    Lower Kihansi hydroelectric scheme;
(b)    distrbuon expansion, reinforcement and loss reduction;
(c)    workshops;
(d)   studies;
(e)    development of Mnal bay generation; and
(t)    demand side management;



- 95 -                                       Amm 4 3
Pago 2 of 14
ha                                        Unt                                D"w4i"
Lhcodo                                X_Mi RUm maw idp
Nm   igh Wtr                        m                                             1,144
Noeml Low                          m                                             1.138
Nifentivo Soup           on  en m                                                 0.870
Rewvoir Am                          eq ha                                          0.21
Dam
e-s"  lews"io                    av4
LOGO                                m                                               210
m                                               25
SSvn wty                                                                    UneotiUld
DOttood                             eu. Ml                                         47C
C    Ele                            a                                             1.144
Creat lengh                         m                                               75
sia  El                                                                           1.133
Di_MAOm               I                                             wt 10.0  he8ht 6.0
Shaft
Plow Al                             fie                                            41.3
Leno                                m                                              240
Headtao Cont
Flow am                             nt'30
Lngh                                m                                             2,9Q0
Powe_buse
Ty*pe                                                                       Uodergrou.
D     _mandm                        m                          Ls95.S, W-12E, 1fu30.0
lautalled Capay                     mw                                              ISO180
Tailas Tunne
Flow Am                             at'                                            36.0
Lngh                                m                                             1,500
TY"                                                                   Vaticd Shaft Pekoe
gtEuber                                                                              3
Rated ffieti  Head                  a                                              845
Roed ct"                            MW                                              60
Speed                               VW                                             600
Tpo                                                              3^e, AC,    h
Cuquuzay                             MVA                            70.5 (PP 0Q85 knal
TYIM                                                 ibm~~~~~~~~he  -.m biow
Numiber                                                                               3
Cansiciby                           MVA                                             71
V^go                               tkV                                           W2m0
Typ                                                                   Oudoor4vedn
Tzadmniaaa Litho
Nomba of C1unk                                                                       2
Voltae                              kV                                             220
Langth                              ha                                      113 to Iag
90 toKdlto



- 96 -
Annex 4.
Page 3 of 14
EJ  Loion
2.   The projet is located in southwestern Tanzania, about 440 km fhom Dar es Salaam. Tbe
powerhouse site can be reached by road from Dar es Salaam via Mikumi and Ifakara, a road distance of
about 560 km. The TAZARA railway also passes within five kilomets of the powerhouse site 2but the
nearest station is at Chita which is some 17 km from the site.
3.   The project utlizes the flow of the Klhansi River, which has its source on the Central Plateau at
about 2100 m above sea level. T'e river drains generally southward toward the Uzungwa Scarp, falling
about 430 m in the fi 40 km, 350 m in the next 10 km, and 1000 m in the remaining five kilometers to
the foot of the scap, where it floWs into the Kilombero River. The Kilombero merges with the Great
Ruaha and drains into the Rufiji River system which flows into the sea about 140 km south of Dar es
Saam.
4.   Ihe proposed project consists of a low dam, at the head of the steepest section of the scarp,
divertng flow through a power tunnel, to an underground powehouse, and then back into the river at the
foot of the escarpment. A head of 851 m is developed over a total conduit length of 5.4 km.
5. There are three runoff gauging stations in uie Kihansi Basin, with the long- -eriod of records
tending back to 1975. EPDC, consultants for the feasibility study, extended the flow series back to
1957 by correlation with flow records for the adjacent Mpsnga River to the west of Kihansi. Since trends
for East Africa as a whole indicate long period cycles, with a relatively dry period prior to the mid
1950s, the series were further extended back to 1927 using tank model and rainfall records. A 61 year
synthetic flow series was therefore derived. This long term series confims a long period cyclic change in
1961 Ath the eatdier period relatively drier than the lat period. Preliminary checks of the EPDC
hydrology were carried out by NORPLAN, the consultas for the detailed design. They were in genera
agement with EPDC estimates, but considered them likely to be slightly high in the wet months, which
i8 of little consequence, since Kihansi will generally be spilling in those months. Hydrological studies,
including site gauging are continuing, and esdmates wil be continuously refined during project
construction.
6.   The average anmnal rainfal of the Kihansi Basin is esdmated at about 1500 mm. Average annual
flow at the damsite is estimated at about 16.3 m'Is, which repres  an anual runoff from the catchment
of some 870 mm. The tD months of highest flow are March to May, with total runoff in this period,
accounting for 50 to 60 percent of anmnu runoff. The three months of lowest flow are September to
November, with runoff in this period accounting for 10 to 15 percent of flow volume. The coefficient of
vaiation for mean monthly flows is high (30 to 40 percent) for December to June, and around 20 percent
for remaining moAths. About 4 to 5 points of this coefficient of variation are attributed to the long term
cyclic cange that occuTred in 1961.



- 97 -
Anx4.3
Page 4 of 14
7. The project Is located in a region known as the Tanzanian Shield, characterized by Precambrian
ipeous and metamorphic rocks, which have been subjected to tectonic movements, resulting in sesmic
actvity and block ftting including the formaton of the African Rif system.
8.   Ihe assement of site geology is based on geological surface mapping, about 4,075 m of seismic
profiling, and 1,400 m of diamond drilling. Bedrock over the entire site of structures and unnels,
consists of precambrian gndesses, with biotite gneiss predominating, and with quartz gneiss, amphibolite
and lamprophyre existing in 'me areas. Weathering depth is variable, but typically ranges from 15 to 20
m. In part, particularly at the bottom of the escarpment, the weathering profile is overlaid by slope
wasb and alluvium. In the bedrock, a distinct foliation can be observed dipping 20 to 45 degrees to the
WNW. Ihe main joint orientation strikes in the E-W direcion. Faults striking NE-SW and N-S also
occur.
9.   The conclusion from the seismic profiling and the drilling is that the rock conditions are expected
to be favorable for uneling with a high rock strength and a favorable orientation of main discontinuities
in relation to tuunels and the power station. f tectonic origin. In general, the rock is suitable for unlined
drill and blast tunnels, with rock bolting and shotcreting providing permanent support. Crossing of faults
may require heavy permanent support, such as thick steel fibre reinforced shotcrete combined with
prouted rock bolts, and in serious cases bar reinforced arches. Over the route of the pressure tunnel and
shaft, support requirements are conservatively assessed as follows: minimum or no support for 64 percent
of the length, systematic bolting and shotcrete for 23 percent of the lengul, and relatively heavy suppr t
for the remaining 13 percent. The tailrace tunnel is expected to require slightly more support on average.
oJect Qdig
Q=cdt SOta
10. The first serious hydro-planning studies for the Kihansi River were carried out by Norconsult in
1983-84, as part of the "Ruflji Basin Hydropower Master Plan" fimded by NORAD. The development
conceived at that time was a two-step development, with the upper step providing storage, and developing
a gross head of 240 m, and the lower run-of-river step developing the remaining 1010 m of head. In
1985, Acres as a part of the Power Sector Development Plan studies, re-evaluated the cascade
configuration and suggested moving both upper and lower dams downstream, the upper step developing
228 m and lower step 798 m. EPDC carried out a full feasibility study in 1989190, and as a part of this
study re-considored the staging question. Based on their anatyses, they basically agreed with Acres, but
detailed optmiation of dam locations and heights resudted in the upper and lower steps developing 214.5
m and 813 m respectively. The EPDC studies showed the Upper Kihansi scheme to be only marginally
economic, even when attibuting to it the fWl benefit of flrming up the energy in Lower Kihazsi. Acres
in the 1990 itudies into the use of gas in the power sector, noted that this latter benefit was probably
overestimated, since considerable firming up of Lower ICihansi will occur in any case when
complementary operation with Mtera-Kidatu and the large Mtera storage is considered. They therefore
suggested that the cascade configuration, particularly the location of the Upper Kihansi storage be
reconsidered.



- 98 -
Anex 4.3
Page S of 14
11. This re-consideration was included as part of the first stage of the detailed design studies, carried
out by NORPLAN. They evaluated the overall development options, and conc2uded that two alternative
developments of the cascade were equally attractive within the accuracy of the exercise. Both alternatives
included an upper dam at the original NORCONSULT site, and both had the lower powerhouse at the
foot of the escarpment. Ahey varied only In the location of the intermediate powerhouse and dam.
12. The first had the lower dam at the EPDC site and developed heads of 41E m and 847 m. The
second step is therefore that which had been studied by EPDC to feasibility level. The second option put
the lower dam at the originl NORCONSULT site and develnved heads of 255 m and 1,010m. The first
option was recommended by NORPLAN and chosen by TANESCO based on the following factors: lTe
two steps development is more balanced, taking into account considerations such as construction time of
first step (and associated interest during construction and earliest in-service date), investment
requirements, and the time for system absorption of first step energy.
-     hMe lower step for the first option was already at full feasiblity level, whereas for the
second option, at least six months would -e required to confirm feasibility.
-    Technical factors associated with the 1010 m development, which is approaching the level of
precedence, could Increase risk and maintenance requirements.
Power Conduit Conffiggation
13. During the various study stages, numerous power conduit configurations were examined.
NORCONSULT envisaged a right bank tunoel and underground powerhouse, with the tairace tunnel
passing under the Kihansi River to exit on the left bank at the foot of the scarp. Acres, in moving the
lower damsite downstream, moved the conduit to the left bank which appeared to be topographically more
logical for this damsite. On the basis of 1 in 50,000 mapping only, they proposed an open canal, leading
to a surface penstock and surface powerhouse. EPDC, on the basis of more detaied mapping and site
investigations reverted to an underground scheme for the power conduit. For the powerhouse, after
examining both underground and semi-underground solutions they opted for a semi-underground
anngemenL
14. NORPLAN, as part of the first stage of the detailed design studies, carried out a preliminary
examination of 16 left and right bank alternatives. This confirmed the left bank location to be better and
the four alternatives on this bank were given priority in a preliminary site investigation program,
consisting of geological mapping and seismic refraction profiling. These investigations indicated that a
primary controlling factor was the distance that the tailrace channel would have to pass through the highly
fractured zone at the foot of the escarpment, and the associated excavation depths. This factor reduced
the options to two quite close alignments which were investigated in detail before selecting the final
alignmenL The selected alignment places the tunnel further into the hillside than the EPDC alternative,
which also has the advantage that insitu stresses in the rock will be greater than internal water pressure in
the tunnel, allowing structura linings to be generally eliminated, without danger of rock failure by
hydraulic fracture.



- 99 -
&Msa 43
Page 6 of 14
lamed
IS.  lstlled capacity of Lower Kihansi was chosen based on a capacity and energy balance of the
overall system after the full commissioning of Lower Kihansi.
16.  The firm and aerage enaergies for the . tall hydro system, before and after the introduction of
Lower Kibansi were derived using the HEC S . servoir simulation program. Thbis program was used to
optiize the coleme y opion of Lower Kihansi with the existing system, primarly the large
storag of the Mtera/Kidatu cascade. Th genera system cf opeaton is tat In high flow months
Kihansi, with daily storage only, oprates on base load, keeping spill to a minirmum, while the
MteraK1datu cascade operates to meet the peak, with excess inflows stored in its large reservoir. In dry
monfts the duties are reversed wift Kihansi using its limied inflow to meet peak loads, with
Uter/Kldatn operating on base, supplementing its inflows by withdrawals from storage.
17.  These reservoir simulation studies indicated that firm energy esimates of the existing hydro system
are somewhat sensitive to assumptions concerning evaporation from the large Mtera reservoir. Site
measurements during 1992 indicate that orWinal estimates made by SWECO may have bee- eonservative,
and laterst by ACRES even more conservative. An intensive program of measuremw   has been
put in motion to refine thest esimates. Pending the completion of the program, upper and lower bound
simates of hydro energ generation for the system before and after Lower Kini were derived. The
ct of the pible later upstream addition of Upper Kihansi was also examined.
18.  Firm hydro energy in the design dry year was assumed to be supplemented by therma energy from
41 MW of new or recenty rehabilitated thermal units, together with 60 MW (the minimum that is likely
to be instaled) of gas turbine capacity sdheduled to be installed before Lower Kihansi. These thermal
units were assumed to operae at a maximum 75 percent capacity factor during the design dry year and on
standby only during an average hydrological year. The derivation of the instaled capacity required at
Kihansi to bring the system into balce, after istallation of Lower Kihansi is shown in the following
table:
Mo Upper Kihensi       1lith Upper Kilhans
Enwa Availability (UI)                        Low Evap.   1fgh Evap.    Lou Evap.   High Evap.
Hylro Includign Lower Kihansf                     2900        2600        3150           2850
Thermal Exfstfin (75X C.F.)    44 Nu               286         286         286            286
Theul Addition (75 X C.F.)    6 NU                 394         394         394            394
Total                                             3580        3280         3830          3530
u.x. Dmwd Served (65X C.F.)                        629         576          673           620
Add eServes 110 NW                                 739         686          783           730
Deduct E isting Capacfty                           459         459         459            459
Installed Capacity Kihansi                         20          227         324            271
19.  hintially usable capacty would be in the range 227 to 280 MW depending on the Mtera evaporation
assumption. If allowance is made for later finning of Lower Kihansi by Upper Kihansi, this would



- 100 -
Am i-
Page 7 of 14
increase to 271 to 324 MW. Up to about 300 MW installed, the incremena cost of capacity is quite low
at about US$200 per kW, sinca power tumels sized for construction purposes, and a dam sized for
sediment retention, can generally accommodate increased power flows. Ihe main cost of capacity
additions In this range, Is related to additional generating equipment, tansformers and switchgear. Tbis
also means that installation of some units can be delayed, while making initial low cost provisions towards
an ultimate installation.
20.  Taking the above into account, together with the maximum sized unit consistent with the size of the
TANESCO system, an initial installation of three 60 MW units was chosen, with initial provisions made
for later addition of up to two more unit. Taking into account retrement of old diesel plant, the initial
installation could be filly absorbed by the system within about four years of commissioning.
21. Even if Upper Kihansi is not constucted in the medium term, or if hopes of low evaporation at
Mtera are not realized, the additional generatng units, with their very low capacity cost are still likely to
be  stalled at some dm  in the future, in paraliel with base load hydro or thermal plant, with Lower
Ki i taking up more of a peaking role.
DESCRION OF SCHSENM ELEM4ENI
Dam and IntaLe
22. Two alternative damsites 300 m apart, both identified by EPDC, were investigated by NORPLAN
before choosing the upper site, based on both technical and economic considerations. The height of the
dam crest above river bed level is about 23m, with a 25m maximum height above foundation level.
Normal and minimum operatng levels are at Elevations 1144 m and 1138 m respectively. This provides
live storage of some 870,000 m& which is sufficient to provide for full daily regulation of flow for an
ultimate installed capaciy of 300 MW under the most adverse inflow and outflow conditions. Dead
storage provided is 280,000 e3, which is conservatively estimated to provide at least 50 years of sediment
storage. However, becuse of uncertainty of sedimentation estimates, sediment flushing facilities are
provided, and periodic flushing of sediment, during periods of very high flow, is assumed.
23. A concrete dam, incorporating spilway, stilling basin and sediment flushing facilities is provided.
Ihe design discharge of the spillway is 470 m3/s.
Pwr Intake. Shaft   Presure Tunnel
24. IThe headrace italke is located adjacent to the dam on the left side of the river. TMe weir siUl is at
Elevation 1133 m. The intake is protected by trashracks, a sliding maintenance gate and a roller mounted
closure gate.
25.   Ihe intake is connected to the headrace unnel by a verticai shaft 240 m long and 25 ni in area,
sunk or raise bored from the Intake site. The headrace tunnel is 2900 m long and 30 m2 in area, with an
inclination of I in 5.0, the maximum for wheeled transport. The tunnel is slightly oversized in
comparison with that which would have been provided from the viewpoint of head loss. This provides
regulating stability without the need for any separate surge or oscillation damping shaft. At the bottom of
the steep inclined muel is a sandtrap for bedload followed by a 100 m long steel lined section leading to
the powerhouse. The intake shaft and tunnel are generally unlined, with bolting and shotcreting providing



- 101 -
Annex 4.3
Page 8 of 14
the main permanent support. Heavier support ad probably conre fitig Is expected over short
sections totalling 13 percent of the length.
Powerbouse ad Tailrace
26.  The underground powerhouse has a cavern 95.5 m long (this includes space for future units), 12.6
m wide and 30 m high, supported by systematic bolting and shotcreting. Transformers are located in a
separate cavern.
27.  From the powerhouse, bidividual outlet unnels fom each turbine, merge int a 1500 m long 36 in2
free flow tunnel, which in turn leads into an 800 m long canal, discharging back into the Kihansi River.
'lmmia and EipeeSalE
28. The powerhouse will ultimately accommodate fif-e (initWily three) Pelton turbines, each developing
60 MW, with a power flow of 8.3 m3/s, under a rated e. of 845 m. he unts are of the veical type,
with four jets, and rotatng at a speed of 600 tpm. Vertical Qynchronous generators, rated at 70.5 MVA
at 0.85 power factor, are of convendonal design with upper guide bearing and lower combined guide and
thrur bearing, with mechanical braking and a hydralic rotor Jacking system.
29. Isophase buses and generator circuit breakers are provided between the generators and three phase
transformers located in a separate cavern. The high voltage side of the step up transformers will be
connectedto the outdoor 220 kV switchgear via 220 kV single phase oil filled or XLPE cables.
Az=es and Infisrcure
30.  Most heavy equipment will be tasported to the project site by rail to MlWuba station 24 km south
. !Kiansi. The road from Dar es Salaamn will still be used for personnel and light transport, and the
section from IfWakaa to Kihansi wil be upgraded as part of the project. A 17 km long paved two lane
road up the escarpment to the damsite will also be constucted as part of the project. The construction
camp will be located on an existing road just south of the powerhouse. The camp will house all
employees and workers, with about 70 staff houses plus worker accommodation. It will develop into a
self contained village with up to 1700 persons during constuction, and with all basic services from shops
and school to bank and police station.
Opnion of Panel of Exprt
The panel of experts for the Kihansi project met in February 1992 to review the project. The
following are the Project Overview and the Closure from the panel's repotr
Poecta Overviff
As prenty designed the Lower Kihansi Hydropower Project consists of:
- a relatively small dam of heigbt 25m (HRWL = 1144 MASL)



- 102 -
Annex 4.
Page 9 of 14
a 240 m long headrace shaft (vertical)
a 2740 m long Inclined tunnel
a 125m long steel lined penstock with two bifurcatons feeding water to
3 x 60 MV pelton turbines hcused in
a 14m span cavern located a depth of 575 m
a 1500 m long tarace tunnel
-    infrstructure and an access road
various appurtenart openings and structures, including a tailrace channel and a 1100 m
access tunnel to the power station complex.
The Panel considers that the general concept of the Ptoject represents an excellent solution,
afbrding the greatest possible advantage of the geologic, hydrologic and topographic
conditios of the area. The difficulty of access to and within the site appear to have been
well considered in the optimization of the project construction. With respect to the project's
opational characteristics, these have been adequately matched and dimensioned to fulfil the
immediate fictional requirements of the nations system, whilst providing for flexibility for
futu  adptation
Within the perspecdve of the national system, the time to commissioning is critical and a
significant consideration in the cost optimization. In this respect, the focus on the Lower
KJhansi as the project for first implementation is appropriate. With only modmrate variations
in the seasonal flow of the upper reaches of the Kihansi River, a small reservoir is possible.
The steepness of the terrain virtally eliminates the need for a long low pressure waterway,
and the high head of 850 m furtb" enhances the energy capability relative to the
constructon cost.
When considered within the spectrum of hydropower projects worldwide, the rock conditions
do present a generaly favourable combinations of circumstaces for the timely and cost
dective construction of the underground works. Individual design features requiring special
atenion are deted in the remaining sections of this review.
Although alternaive proposals for the staged development of the Kihansi river have not been
reviewed in detail, the time for additional investigation the achieve a commensurate
definition of feasibility is judged a significant cost disadvantage to the system economics.
The presendy proposed development of Lower Kihansi mainai  flexibility in tie future
development and optimization of power generation and water storage.
Ihe balance of frm energy and capacity and the decision to adopt 3 x 60 MW units are
judged appropi   to the system requir_emes. Wih its high head and consequent ability to



- 103 -
Page 10 of 14
provide extra peaking cap4city at a relatively low cost, the provision for expansion to 300
MW is justified.
The following secdons offer commentts, suggestions and recommendations with respect to
design details, which when taken Into consideration would appear to permit on improvement
In the economics of construction and operation of the scheme.
It is concluded that Norplan's contribution to the optimization of the lower Kihansi project is well
directed and in so far as it has defined the key design parameters, the Panel considers the optimization
adequate at this stage.
'Me Panel agrmj with the general approach to the investigation, design dand construction of the
project. The topography and subsurface conditions favour a limited investigation, supported by and
integrated with two key elements of project realization:
-    a properly executed strategy for decision making and detailed design of a number of
elements duinn construction.
-    a flexible and fair contual philosophy for the main civil construction.
The main thrust of the Panel's concerns relates to a realistic targeting of the construction cost and
duration and the need to define more explicWy how the outstanding design deail will be undertaken,
prior to and during construeton. Considering the level of uncerinty in subsurface conditions, the
schedule for construction is perhaps slightly optimistic. Except for those dminatios which will be
completed during construction (refinement of power house location and orientation and length of steel
penstock), the layout and dimensioning of the scheme is considered to be essentially optimal.
Throughout this review, nuerous comments and recommendations have been made with the
objecdve of pointing to possible areas in which design detail may be improved and the construction
process made more responsive to achieving a quality product. Some minor adjustments to key design
parameters have also been suggested but in all cases, no major cost increments are identified, nor is any
major procurement delay anoicipated.
It is anticipated dtat in response to this review, the Project Defition Report will be updated,
reviewed and re-issued, and included in the solicitation for tenderers for the main civil contract The
Panel expects to effect a detafled review of the technical specifications prior to their reles. Review will
also be required of the schedule for solicitation of the interated contracts, including a review of the
tecnical pecifications for the mechanical/electrical equipment.
Based on the curt procurement schedule and progamme of documentadon, it would appear most
opporue for the Panel to meet and review during August 1993.



- 104 -
Al 4.3
Page 11 of 14
B.   Ditribution MWIrk
31.  The load growth of about 10% over the last S years has resulted in a distribution system of
relatively high losses and low reliability. While the load growth is scattered geographically, some areas
may be lightly loaded, and others seriously overloaded. Carefilly planned works are required to reduce
losses and improve reliability resulting from insufficient maintenance and overloading of equipment.
During the last five years, JICA and IDA have both financed major rehabilitation projects, and
TANESCO's distribution system benefitted greatly from these projects, without which the load additions
from 1986 to date would not have been possible. However, the serving of the suppressed demand and the
addition of new loads have once again reduced many parts of the network to poor reliability and high
losses.
32. Previously, because of a shortage of foreign exchange, TANESCO made no serious effort to
prepare comprehensive development proposals, or to collect the data needed to prepare such proposals.
In 1990, ESMAP helped TANESCO establish a planning unit and provided state-of-the-art technology for
detailed distribution planning. ESMAP also helped TANESCO prepare the distribution component of the
proposed project. The component's economic benefits will be realized from three categories of work.
(i)  Loss reduction and improvement of reliability. The economic benefits of loss reduction
increase substantially in areas of high load growth because line losses increase each year in
proportion to the square of the load growth, and the reliability benefits can be computed on
the basis of an estimation of the savings in outages as a result of the ability to feed sections
of a network with more than one source.
(ii) Rehabiitaton of existing networks. The rehabilitation, as a result of insufficient
mintenance and natural ageing, is mandatory for TANESCO, which has an obligation to
continue to supply existing consumers. The economic value is in maintaining the assets of
the company and its ability to continue earning revenue.
(iii) Expansion of the networks Into new areas. The economic benefit of proposed expansions are
computed on the basis of LRMC and those that appear to be profitable in the near future, will
be constructed.
33. TANESCO, with ESMAP's help, has completed the proposed development program for Dar es
Salaam, Tanga, Moshi, and Arusha in sufficient detail that engineering design and the preparation of bid
documents can begin as soon as funds become available to hire consultants to carry out the work. The
new extensions to be financed by IDA wiMl require construction of about 128 kn of 33kV and I11WV lines,
77km of low voltage distribution lines, and the erection of about 176 distribution transformers. The
desip of the system is based on the current distrbution standards used in Tanzania. The cost per
customer connected of the proposed extensions is about US$795. It is conceivable that this could be
reduced to about US$500 to US$660 per customer if more appropriate standards are used. Because of the
urgency of the work, however, the project will be planned using the existing standards. TANESCO plans
to have a specialst review its standards as it sxpands Its distribution planning capability. If, as is likely,
new standards are adopted before all of the material is bought, the consultants naging the distribution
expansion work will be required to adopt the new standards.



- 105 -
Annex 4
Page 12 of 14
C.   Workshops
34. The need for proper workshop facilities for any power utility is evident, especially in the power
stations. Unfortuately appropriate tools and equipment were not provided in the initial construction of
the power stations. Even Pangani, which is now under construction, has no provision for workshop
facilites. TANESCO, wI - te help and advice of consulting engineers, has prepared plans to build and
equip workshops in the l fen r' nes, and at the thre"  ajor powerhouses, to facilitate equipment repairs.
Each workshop would c e;4$,,d with the machim. - hand tools necessary to carry out the type of
repair envisioned at that -4r  on.
D.   Studies
35. Power Sector Master Plan. The last time a full power sector master plan study was done is in
1985. That study was updated on several occasions, as is customary, to reflect changing circumstances.
The accuracy of the study fails off every time it is updated and it is now necessary to perform a full
study, especially to re-define the load forecast model and to introduce new candidate plants in the
expansion sequence. Ihe new candidate plants will be defined by feasibility studies described later in this
paragraph. Since an update of the forecast model is urgent, the master plan study will be done in two
parts: the first to update the forecast model and derive a sequence based on the known candidate plants;
and the second, to incorporate the new candidate plants and the potential impact of demand side
management once the associated studies are completed. Future  jectL Tanzania has an abundance of
potential hydro sites. The project includes a study to evaluate four siues on the Masigira and Rumakali
rivers, and bring the two most promising sites to feasibility level. Asset Revaluation. TANESCO has
been revaluing its assets by using indices. This is normal but afer some years it is necessary to perform
a full inventory and valuation to check the data base. ODA has agreed to finance the necessary work.
IDA will comment on the terms of reference and the final report. Moreover, the project coins
provisions for a computeried asset register that will help TANESCO keep track of its assets once the
study is completed. Tariff Study . Although the level of TANESCO's tariffs has improved the strur
need revision to ensure that it promotes efficient use of electricity. Also, with the introduction of more
thermal generation that will be used if hydrology is poor, a fuel adjustment clause may be appropriate.
Therefore ODA has agreed to finance a tariff study to correct these deficiencies.
E.   Generation at Mnazi Bay
36. The Mnazi Bay scheme is a pilot operation to demonstrate the use of gas from remote gas wells in
the local economy, and at the same time test ways of involving both the finacing capability and
mangement inputs of the private sector in the early stages of a country's development. The scheme
comprises the workover and instllation of production facilities to an existing natural gas well,
construction of a 40km pipeline (8^ diameter to allow for future expansion), and installation of three
3MW gas turbines. The entire project will be engineered and built by a private company which will
operate the facility and sell power against a sales contract to TANESCO for distribution in the adjacent
towns. The Government will finance the pipeline and gas turbines and lease them back to the private
company. The private company will be required to prepare two turnkey contracts suitable for
hnternational Competitive Bidding, one for the pipeline and the other for the gas turbine facility. These
conacs will be financed by IDA. The company will make Its own arrangements for the gas production
facility which it will finance. The private company will be required to obtain any environmental
cleaances required. The Private company will be selected, after prequalification, by bidding on a



- 106 -
Annex 4,3
Page 13 of 14
contract prepared by a Consultant employed by the Governent. The Bidder offering the lowest
electricity price against an indexed contract, that will be included as part of the bidding documents, will
be awarded the contract.
F.   Demand Side Maagm
37.  ghlnA and &CkgWeu. lie objective of the ESMAP assistance !s to help TANESCO and the
Department of Energy (DOE) of the Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals to prepare a medium-term
electricity demand-management straegy and implementation plan. Successful implementation of demand-
management measures, however, requires a supportive environment including: electricity tariffs that
reflect the real cost of supply; and a reasonably efficient and reliable supply system.
38. TANESCO and the Government have started increasing tariffs to levels that reflect the economic
cost of supply, and have recenty agreed to increase the average tariff to reflect the estimated LRMC by
mid 1993. Already, large industrW customers pay rates close to the real cost of the supply.
39.  The development of the demand-management strateg requires two phases: (a) analysis of cost and
benefits of various demand management measures and identification of the most cost-effective ones; and
(b) formulation of a comprehensive implemetation strategy.
40. Identflcion of DSM Mear. Since non-residential customers account for more than 50 percent
of TANESCO's total electricity sales and contrbute significantly to the mid-&y and evening peaks, the
project will focus on these customers. The main electricity consuming applications in the large
commercial bui)dings are lighting and air-conditioning while a significant portion of electricity consumed
by industries is acounted for by electrically powered motor drives, i.e. electrical motors that drive
compressors, pumps, fans and conveyor belts. Public lighting accounts for only less than a percent of
total electricity consumption but contributes to the evening peak. lbe National Urban Water Authority
(NUWA) accouts for about 5 percent of total electricity consumption and has an impact, especially, on
local peak loads.
41. Currently there are about 540 large commercial and industrial consumers in Tanzania, not
including public lighting and the NUWA. Of these about 30, repreenting different kinds of end-uses,
will be selected for a detailed inspection of their electricity consumption patterns based on reviews of
available load data and interviews. Energy audits to identify improvements will be undertaken at the
premises of the customers considered to have the most promising DSM potential when compared to
TANESCOs load shape objectives. Also, the results of the audits will be used to estimate the total
energy efficiency potental in a certain industria or commercial enterprise. The costs and benefits of
each mease wil be evaluated and the measures ranked accoding to electricity savings potential and
cost-effectiveness. In addition, the overall impact in Ums of monetary savings to industry, economic
benft to the country as a resut of reduction of electricity demand growth, and financial implications to
TANESCO wil be assessed. this analysis will also involve the estimation of investments required in
efflciency improving measures, to be used in the next least-cost power sector expansion plan. The
straegy will primarily target the following measures: (a) load management; () end-use efficiency; and (c)
power factor improvement.
42.  Formaon of an IMaementation Stratgy. The second phase of the strategy development is
concerned with implementg the identified efficiency improvement measures. The possible set of



_ 107 -
Annex 43
Page 14 of 14
measures include an appropriate electricity pricing policy; a complementary set of non-pricing incentives;
marketing and information campaigns; and an appropriate institutional framework to facilitate
collaborative action by all stakeholders: the customers, TANESCO, DOE, equipment manufactures and
suppliers, as well as energy service and financial intermediaries.
43.  EollowI  IuluniMatIni. Investments required to implement demonson projects are included
in the proposed project. The demonstrations would include a range of measures in industial, commercial
and public buildings. Fi        will be required for the following: (a) energy efficiency investments in
industrial and commercial enterprises for energy efficient equipment, retrofits, capacitors, etc.; (b) energy
efficiency investments in the public sector such as installation of energy efficient street lights and energy
efficiency improvements in water pump installations; (c) investments for TANESCO in dual tariff meters
for a limited number of large consumers, information campaigns, and installation of energy efficient
equipment in TANESCO's headquarters for demonstration purposes. (d) seminars and workshops; and (e)
euation of results.



IMIANIMA
Power VI
Sum2ry Accounts Cost Smry
TShiltlng                         US5                         s Totat
..............................   ...........................  X Fofelgn    Baeo
Local  foreign    Total        Local Foreign   Total    Exchange    costs
..............................   .............................................. .................................................... ..........
I. uiw4STMEN cosm
A. Civi Work
1. Pretiminruy Civit Mawks    2080.3   8771.2  10851.6          6.2    24.8    31.0          80.8      10.0
2. Restttte  nt C& oop.         614.0      0.0    614.0          1.8     0.0      1.8         0.0       0.6
3. Main Civil Wowks            3159.3  13308.6  1646T.9         9.4    37.6    47.1          80.8      15.1
S.bTrotal                         5853.6  22079.9  27933.5         17.4    62.4    79.8         79.0      25.7
S. Etectrsmeciwnicat
1. Genweatows                   198.0   6743.2   6941.3         0.6    19.2    19.8          97.1       6.4
2. Transformers                 117.6   4004.8   4122.4         0.4    11.4    11.8          97.1       3.8
3. Controls and AuxitIares      168.4   5n34.4   S902.8         0.5    16.4    16.9          97.1       5.4
4. Turbines                     296.2   5925.9   6222.1         0.9    16.9    17.8          95.2       5.7
S. station Mecitcal Eqpt.       87.2   174.8   1833.0           0.3      S.0      5.2        95.2       1.7
6. Nydraulic Steetworks         58.6   1172.3   1230.9          0.2      3.3      3.5        95.2       1.1
SUh-Total                         926.0  25326.4  26252.4          2.8    72.2    75.0          96.5      24.1
C. Transmission System
1. TranssIon Lines             1742.2   7338.9   9081.1         5.2    20.8    2S.9          80.8       8.3
2. Substations                 436.2   1837.6   2273.9           1.3     5.2      6.S        80.8       2.1
Sb-Total                         2178.4   9176.6  11355.0          6.5    26.0    32.4          80.8      10.4                                                
0. Distribution Materiats
1. Tranformers                  63.4    665.7    729.1          0.2      1.9      2.1        9.3        0.7
2. Conrawtor                    15.2    1S9.5    174.7          0.0      0.4      O.S        91.3       0.2
3. Warn.e                       96.6   1014.1   1110.7 ?                 2.9      3.2        91.3       1.0
4. Insutators                    7.2      75.6      82.8        0.0      0.2      0.2        91.3       0.1
S. Potes                        39.0    409.2    448.2          0.1      1.2      1.3        91.3       0.4
S3m-Total                         221.3   2324.1   2545.4          0.7      6.5      7.3        N.3        2.3
E. Ofatribution Rehab Camps.
1. stbutation B"ay             270.3   28M8.0   3108.3          0.9      8.0     8.9         91.3       2.9
2. *oer Transformrs             115.0   1208.0   1323.1         0.4      3.4      3.8        91.3       1.2
3. ._1snsmisson Lines           40.7    427.1    467.8          0.1      1.2      1.3        91.3       0.4
4. DIsteibution Lines           552.5   S801.5   6354.0          1.8    16.3    18.2         91.3       S.8
S. Distribution Transformwes    43.3    454.6    497.9          0.1      1.3      1.4        91.3       O.S
.............................. ............................ ....................
Sub-Total                         1021.8  10729.3  11751.2         3.4    30.2    33.6          91.3      10.8
F. Generation lehabilitation      49.7   3765.9   4255.7           1.2    10.9    12.2          88.S       3.9
6. Canoutting & Training
1. Consulting Services         1513.3  12712.9  14226.1         4.9    35.7    40.6          89.4      13.1
2. Training                     30.7    S38.1    568.9          0.1      1.5      1.6        94.6       O.S
3. Tehnical Assistance           7.S       8.7      16.2        0.0      0.0      0.0        53.8       0.0
..............    ...........................  ....................                                                     04 Z
Sub-Total                         1551.5  13259.7  14811.3         5.0    37.3    42.3          89.5      13.6                                               K
N. NIS & System Control
1. Software                      0.0    135.9    135.9          0.0      0.4     0.4        100.0      0.1                                             o
2. Proprietary Software          0.0    105.0    10S.0          0.0      0.3      0.3       100.0       0.1
3 Cfuters & Ass. Eqpt            0.0    243.2    243.2          0.0      0.7      0.7       100.0       0.2
4: Cash Rtg1stes                 0.0      70.0      70.0        0.0      0.2      0.2       100.0       0.1
S. Office Supplies               0.0      12.6      12.6        0.0      0.0      0.0       100.0       0.0



6. CaoJn1catltns Eqpt.                 0.0      455.0      45S.0          0.0       1.3       1.3         100.0        0.4
7. Prepsyuent Meter System             0.0      175.0      175.0          0.0       0.5       0.5         100.0        0.2
8. Conwentlonel Meters                 0.0      175.0      175.0          0.0       0.5       0.5         100.0         0.2
9. Service Mire * Materials            0.0      105.0      105.0          0.0       0.3       0.3         100.0        0.1
....... K..................... ........................... ....................
SUbTotal                                  0.0    1476.8    1476.8             0.0       4.2      4.2          100.0        1.4
1. Viscies                                0.0      549.5      549.5          0.0       1.6       1.6          100.0        0.5
J. Tools                                  0.0      17n.0      175.0           0.0      0.5       0.5          100.0        0.2
K. Vorkebop Equipment                    69.0    1529.5    1598.5             0.2      4.3       4.6           95.7        1.5
1. Demond Side  _Ntemet
1. DSM Equipment                     45.0      472.5       517.5          0.1       1.3       1.5          91.3        O.S
M. Songo Songa   Cas                      0.0      315.0      315.0           0.0       0.9       0.9         100.0        0.3
U.  nazi Uas Contract                     0.0    4736.7    4736.7             0.0     13.5      13.5          100.0        4.4
0. Assistance to ZSFPC
1. Management Study                   0.0       74.7        74.7          0.0       0.2       0.2         100.0        O.t
2. Prepayzent Meters                   0.0     372.2       372.2          0.0       1.1       1.1         100.0        0.3
3. cNmercial Menager                   0.0      140.0      140.0          0.0       0.4       0.4         100.0        0.1
. ..............................    ...........................   .............................. ..........
Sub-Total                                 0.0      586.8      58S.8           0.0       1.7      1.7          100.0        0.5
..... ........*.....................................    ............_. .._. ____. ._...........   ...................._
Total BSESLItE COSTS                  12356.5   96503.6  108860.1            37.4    273.7    311.0            J8.0      tO0.0
Physical Contingencies             1380.8    8494.2    9875.1             3.9      24.3      28.2          86.0        9.1
Price Contingencies                5512.8   48418.6   53931.4             1.9      42.5      44.4          95.7       14.3
_._. .   _    ..._ ; i .   ......       . .............   .......... _ . ......
Totat PROJECTS COSTS                  19250.1  153416.5  172666.6           43.2    340.4    383.7            88.7      123.4
. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. . ., .. . . .. ,_ .. _. . . . ._             .        
Values Scaled by 1000000.0        31161M993  10t39



TAIIVJIA
PoWr VI
Smry Accounts by Year
Totals Includin  Continencies
US&
................ ..............................................................
1993     1994      1995      1996      1997      1998    Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
....................
A. Civil Iorks
1. Pretiminafr Clvil Vorks        10.5      19.7       5.6       0.0       0.0       0.0      35.9
2. Resettleent & Cup.              0.2       0.2       0.2       0.3       0.3       0.9       2.2
3. Main Civil works                0.0        7.7     13.6      21.1      15.3       6.2      64.0
SubTotal                             10.8      27.7      19.4      21.4      15.6       7.2    102.1
8. Elactraemhanical
1. fenerators                      0.0       0.0       0.0       2.4      17.3       S.1      24.7
2. Transformers                    0.0       0.0       0.0       1.4      10.2       3.0      14.7
3. Controls ei And llarfer         0.0       0.0      0.0       2.0      14.7       4.4      21.0
4. Turbines                        0.0       0.0       2.0      10.6       7.7       1.1      21.6
5. Station Nechanical Eqpt.        0.0       0.0       0.6       3.1       2.3       0.3       6.4
6. Hydraulic Steetlwks             0.0       0.0       0.4       2.1       1.5       0.2       4.3
Sib-Total                             0.0       0.0       3.1      21.7      53.7      14.2      92.7
C. Tramission System
1. Trasmission Lines               0.0       0.0       3.1      14.6      11.8       3.5      33.0                                                           1
2. 6sustatlon                      0.0        0.0      0.8       3.6       3.0       0.9       8.3
SubTotal                              0.0       0.0       3.9      18.2      14.8       4.4      41.2                                                          
0. Distributien Materials
1. Transformers                    0.0       0.0       1.5       O.S       O.S       0.0       2.6
2. Conductor                       0.0        0.0       0.4      0.1       0.1       0.0       0.6
3. Bareare                          0.0      0.0        2.3       0.8      0.8       0.0       3.9
4. Insulators                       0.0       0.0      0.2       0.1       0.1       0.0       0.3
S. Poles                           0.0        0.0      0.9       0.3       0.3       0.0       1.6
Sib-Total                             0.0        0.0       5.3      1.8       1.9       0.0       9.0
E. Distributlen Rehab CaWs.
1. Su*station Bays                 0.0       4.1       6.4       0.0       0.0       0.0      10.5
2. Poeer Transformers              0.0        1.8       2.7      0.0       0.0       0.0       4.5
3. Trarission Lines                0.0        0.6       1.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       1.6
4. Distribution Lines              0.0        1.4       7.6      5.7       5.9       2.0      22.7
S. Distribution Transformers       0.0       0.0       O.S       0.5       0.6       0.2       1.8
Sub-Total                             0.0        7.9     18.3       6.2       6.5       2.2      41.1
f. eneration Rehabilitation           0.0       1.4       1.5       6.1       S.S       0.8      1S.3
S. Consulting & Training                                                                                                                                      00
1. Consulting Services             3.5      11.0      11.6      11.1       6.8       2.2      46.2                                                          0x
2. TraIning                        0.1       0.6       0.5       0.4       0.1       0.0       1.8                                                          *
3. Technical Assistance            0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.1                                                          0
mmaauumuinmmuuau=uminuam8umuuflUU3Ufl&~Wm
SubTotal                              3.6      11.7      12.1      11.6       6.9       2.2      48.0
N. MIS & System Control
1. Software                        0.0       0.5       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.5



2. Prop ietary Software           0.0      0.3      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.3
3.      en & Ass. Egpt            0.0      0.8      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.8
4. Cssh=Reofste a                 0.0      0.2      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.2
S. office Suppl1ies               0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
6. Coaufnetions Eqpt.             0.0      0.3       1.2      0.0      0.0       0.0      1.6
7. Prepayment Meter System        0.0      0.4      0.2       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.6
8. Covwentionat Meters            0.0      0.5      0.1       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.6
9. Service Wire & Materials       0.0      0.3      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.4
Sib-Total                           0.0       3.4      1.6       0.0      0.0      0.0       4.9
1. Vehicles                         0.0       0.8      1.1      0.0       0.0      0.0       1.9
J. Tools                            0.0       0.1      0.5       0.C      0.0      0.0       0.6
K. workshop Eqidpmmnt               0.0       1.8      1.8       1.9      0.0      0.0       5.S
L. Demand Side NMaonament
1. DIM Equtpment                 0.0       0.6      1.2       0.0      0.0      0.0       1.8
N. Sonao Songo Gas                  0.0       0.3      0.3       0.3      0.0      0.0       1.0
N. *mau Gas Contract                0.0       0.0      0.0       6.1      9.7      0.8      16.6
0. Asslstamne to ZSPPC
1. Manment Study                 0.0       0.1      0.1       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.3
2. Prepevuant Meters             0.0       0.1      1.2       0.0      0.0      0.0       1.3
3. Coomercial Manager            0.0       0.2      0.2       0.0      0.0      0.0       0.5
_ _ _ _    _     _       _       _   F        _~nuuuu~srn
Sib-Total                           0.0       0.5      1.5      0.0       0.0      0.0      2.0
Total PROJECT COSTS                 14.4     56.0     71.S      ff5.2    114.6    31.9    383.7
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 3/16/1993 10:40
-
6-s
c _
M



Annex 4.4
- 112-                                         Page 5 of 21
TANZNIA
Power VI
Tablo 101. Kibansl Rosttletwnt
Detaited Cost Table
1sbillitg
Totalo Including Contingenies              Sreakdomn of Totals Incl.Cont.
US.                                        US,
1993  1994  1995  1996  199?  1998 Totat        r.Exch   LocaL   Taxes   Total
, ................................................................... .. ..  .............................
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
................
A. Resettlement & Coupenstn
Resattleent& Comp.            0.2   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.9   2.2            0.0     2.2      0.0      2.2
Total IMVESTMAET COSTS                0.2   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.9   2.2            0.0      2.2      0.0     2.2
mu... ==MD     _............. _          mma Dauma.. mus" nma             *nam
Ttota                              0.2   0.2   0.2   0.3   0.3   0.9   2.2            0.0      2.2     0.0      2.2
* ValUes scated by 1000000.0  3/16/1993  10:24
TANZAIA
Power VI
Table 102. Kfhansf Cfvf t Works
Detailed Cost Table
TShfIt fng
totaels IncludIli Contingencies            Breakdown of Totals Inct.Cont.
US*                                        US,
1993  1994  19M   1996  199?  1990 Total       F.Exch   Local   Taxes   Total
...........................................................................
3. INVESTNENT COSTS
A. Preparatory Works
Rai i(y Transportation        0.1   0.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.3            0.3     0.1      0.0      0.3
General Road  oprovemuent    0.2   0.4   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.8             0.6     0.1      0.0      0.8
Access Road to Dam            5.0   9.4   2.6   O.X   0.0   0.0  17.0           13.8     3.2      0.0    17.0
Infrastructure Davlmt.        5.2   9.0   2.8   0.0   0.0   0.0  17.8           14.4     3.4      0.0    17.8
... ................................ ...... ..... ..... .....  ....... ......  .......... ......  ........... .......  ........... .......
S&-Total                      10.5  19.7   5.6   0.0   0.0   0.0  35.9           29.0     6.8      0.0    35.9
B. Civil Works
Om and intake                 0.0   1.6   2.8   4.4   3.2   1.3  13.3           10.8     2.5      0.0    13.3
Tmtls                         0.0   4.1   7.2  11.1   8.1   3.3  33.8           27.4     6.3      0.0    33.8
Powrhouse                     0.0   0.7   1.2   1.9   1.4   0.6   5.9            4.8      1.1     0.0      5.9
Swftchyrd                     0.0   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.3   0.1   1.3            1.0     0.2      0.0      1.3
Landscaping                   0.0   0.2   0.3   0.5   0.3   0.1   1.4            1.2     0.3      0.0      1.4
Pretimianry & General         0.0   1.0   1.8   2.8   2.0   0.8   8.4            6.8     1.6      0.0      8.4
... .........................................  ....... .....  ....... ......  .......... ...... ........... .......  ........... .......
Sa-Totat                       0.0   7.7  13.6  21.1  15.3   6.2  64.0           52.0    12.0      0.0    64.0
.... ..... .....   ....... .....   ....... .....  ......... ...........  ........ ._._.................. ...... ....................
Total lINESTMENT COSTS                10.5  27.5  19.2  21.1  15.3   6.2  99.9          81.0    18.8       0.0    99.9
=m  uma  " m u..   -=   Uama  *ame    m=Una*  mu..... manm"               m..
Total                             10.5  27.5  19.2  21.1  15.3   6.2  99.9           81.0    18.8      0.0    99.9
Vatlu   scaled by 1000000.0  3/16/1993  10:24



- 113 -
Annex 4.4
TANZANIA                                              Page  6  of  21
Poww VI
Table 103. Kihas  Nechafeal  Plant
Dotaled Cost Table
TMhilling
Totole Including Coentiencies            Oreakdow   of Totas Incl.Cont.
9394  1ffl  19   19    1998 Total           F.Exch   Local   T           Total
,........................................................   ................................
1. ImVSTNT COSTS
................
A. Ne  aical EquIjInt
Turbines                     0.0   2.0  10.6   7.7   1.1  21.6            20.6      1.0      0.0    21.6
Poe  Station Iemt   0.0   0.6   3.1   2.3   0.3   6.4                      6.1      0.3      0.0      6.4
Nrautie Stool u              0.0   0.4   2.1   1.3   0.2   4.3             4.1      0.2      0.0      4.3
... . ... .. ..... ..... ..... ..... .. ....     .    .     ......   ....... .......
SoaI TouT                     0.0   3.1  15.9  11.5   1.7  32.2            30.7      1.5      0.0    32.2
..... ....  ..... ..... ..... .....    ....... ....... ....... .......
touto  l"EnV  Tcor CUTS0    .151.9  11.5   1.r  32.2                               3o.r      1.5      o.o    32.2
_- _ _                                   _- 
Tolta                              0.0   3.1  15.9  11.5   1.7  32.2           30.7       1.5      0.0    32.2
Vatlu  scalie  b  1000000.0  3/16/1993  10:24
TAUAIA
- otei Vt
Table 104. Kthanu  Electrfcel Plant
Detalted Cost Table
TShiltlns
Toitals Includ1ng Contingeniess        Breakdoun of Totals Incl.Cont.
___ US
93-S  1996  1997  198 Total         f.Exch   Local   Taxes   Total
, ..............................................   ................................
t. thVISTHEUT COSTS
A. Electrfcal Ecipw*nmt
osneratots                  0.0   2.4  17.3   5.1  24.7           24.0      0.7      0.0    24.7
Trawswsor                   0.0   1.4  10.2   3.0  14.7           14.3      0.4      0.0    14.7
Controls & AuxitIaries   0.0   2.0  14.7   6.4  21.0              20.5      0.6      0.0    21.0
..... ... ....... ..... ....... .....    ........ .......... ....... ....................... ...... ...
SushTotal                    0.0   5.8  42.2  12.5  60.5           58.8      1.7      0.0    60.5
...... ..... ....... ..... ....... .. ........ .......... ....... .............. .....................
Total iNEnSTNENT COSTS               0.0   5.8  42.2  12.5  60.5           56.8      1.7      0.0    60.5
was" *mem 0=1=1  mmnm ow=               min mm. mu..anu
Totat                            0.0   5.8  42.2  12.5  60.5            58.8      1.7      0.0    60.5
Values scaled by 1000000.0  3/16/1993  10:24
TANZANIA
Pew VI
Table 105. KI  inSI Translssion and 8thstatlons
Oeta led Cost Tablo
TShilting
Totals tneluding Contingencfes           SBrokAmin of Totats Inct.Cont.
I .S                                     USS
93 94  199S  1996  1997  1998 Total          F.Exch   Local   Taxes   Total
*--w........... -.......................................... ........................ ................................ ..
t. INVISINt CSt
................
A. Trwdanefisn
Tranemssion Lines              0.0   3.1  14.6  11.8   3.5  33.0            26.8      6.2       0.0    33.0
SubstatIons(inf. tS.e Yrd)   0.0   0.8   3.6   3.0   0.9   8.3               6.7       1.6      0.0      8.3
.... ...._ ....... ..... ....... .....    ........ .. ........ .......... ....... ................................
Stu-Totat                       0.0   3.9  18.2  14.8   4.4  41.2            33.5       7.8      0.0    41.2
... . . .. . ..... ..... ...... ..... ....... ....... ....... .......
Tou t  INV CESTNT COSTS                 0.0   3.9  18.2  14.8   4.4  41.2            33.5       7.8      0.0    41.2
tout l0.0   3.9  18.2  14.8   4.4  41.2                                           33.5      7.8      0.0    41.2
Valm es scat  by 100000.0  3/16/1993  10:24



-  114 -                                      Annex 4.4
TANZANIA                                     Page 7 of 21
Po~e VI
Table 106. Kfhnsi Egineering and Overheads
Oetalled Cost Table
TShilling
Totals Including Contingenfcis            Breakdswn of Totals Inmt.Cont.
US,                                       U.S
1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998 Total       F.Exeh   Local   Taxes   Total
..........................................     ..............................................................................
1.* I\NneSTMNT Costs
,................
A. Project Manager  t1,              0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.3   1.8          1.6      0.2     0.0      1.8
I. Panet of Expets                   0.3   0.3   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   1..          1.3      0.1     0.0      1.3
C. ESianerlnr & Overheads
properatory Works              1.4   2.1   0.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   3.6           3.2     0.5      0.0     3.6
Rsesttlecnt                    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.2           0.0     0.2      0.0     0.2
Civil Werks                    0.0   o.?   1.2   1.8   1.3   0.5   5.5           4.8     0.?      0.0     5.5
Medhnmical fqp int            0.0   0.4   0.7   0.9   0.9   0.1   3.0           2.7     0.4      0.0     3.0
Slectrical Eqagipt             0.0   0.6   0.4   2.1   2.0   0.7   S.8           5.0     0.7      0.0     5.8
Tranhmfiason Linus             0.0   0.0   1.4   2.0   0.3   0.0   3.7           3.2     0.5      0.0     3.7
.... ..... .... ;..... ... ...... ... ....... ..... ......  ............. ....... .......... ....... .....................
SutbTotal                       1.4   3.7   3.9   6.8   4.5   1.5  21.8          18.8     3.0      0.0    21.8
.... ..... .... .... .... ....... ..... ...... .... ........ .......... ... ....... .............. .....................
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                  2.0   4.3   4.3   7.3   5.0   2.0  24.9         21.7      3.3     0.0    24.9
_mm  ma. gum  ams sam_    m uman    mum   mman*. mm   _  _ a..
Total                               2.0   4.3   4.3   7.3   5.0   2.0  24.9          21.7      3.3     0.0    24.9
1) This is a Project MaNagOr hired by Tanesco to repeont itU  interest.
Vatues snated by 1000000.0  3/16/1993  10:25
TA lltA
POW VI
Tble 107. Distribution Oveto mnt In Na  Aes
etal ltd Cost Table
Tihilling
Totals Including Contingencies         Oreekdoan of Totals Incl.Cont.
us$                                    U#
93-94  1995  1996  197  1998 Total       F.Exch   Local   Taxe    Total
....................................   ....................................................... ...............
. INVESTNT COSTS
................
A. Arusha Regon
Oonductor                 0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1          0.0      0.0     0.0      0.1
Transforinra              0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2          0.1      0.0     0.0      0.2
insuators                 0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0          0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0
Hardsare                  0.0   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.3          0.3      0.0     0.0      0.3
Poles                     0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2          0.2      0.0     0.0      0.2
StrbTotal                  0.0   0.4   0.2   0.2   0.0   o.7          0.7       0.1    0.0      0.7
B. Mouh1 Itegon
Condsctme                 0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1          0.1      0.0     0.0      0.1
Trmnsforcers              0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2          0.2      0.0     0.0      0.2
insultors                 0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0          0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
Iladsaur.                 0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2          0.2      0.0     0.0      0.2
Poles                     0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1           .,      0.0     0.0      0.1
..... ..... ... ..... .... ..... ... ..... ... .... . . .. ....... .... ........ ..... ....... ...... ..........
SubrTotal                  0.0   0.4   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.6          0.6      0.1     0.0      0.6
C. Tanpa Region
Condw*tor                 0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1          0.1      0.0     0.0      0.1
Transfora r               0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1          0.1      0.0     0.0      0.1
Insulators                0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1          0.1      0.0     0.0     0.1
Natdhure                  0.0   0.3   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.5          O.S      0.0     0.0      0.5
Potes                     0.0   0.3   0.1   0.1   0.0   O.S          O.S      0.0     0.0      0.5
..,... .. .. ........ .... ..._...... .....  .... ......... ...... .......... .......  .......... .......
Sub-Total                  0.0   0.8   0.3   0.3   0.0   1.4          1.3      0.1     0.0      1.4
0. bar Es Staal
Ccnductor                 0.0   0.2   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.4          0.3      0.0     0.0      0.4
Trosnfors fs              0.0   1.2   0.4   0.4   0.0   2.1          1.9      0.2     0.0      2.1
Insutators                0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1          0.1      0.0     0.0      0.1
Nardsmre                  0.0   1.7   0.6   0.6   0.0   2.9          2.7      0.2     0.0      2.9
Poles                     0.0   0.4   0.1   0.2   0.0   0.7          0.7      0.1     0.0    0.
.... ..... ..... ...... ... ....... ..... ......  ........... .,....... ,,,.......... .... .... ,.,,,...... ....--
SubrTotal                  0.0   3.6   1.2   1.3   0.0   6.2          5.6      0.5     0.0      6.2
.... .... ..... ...... ...  ...........   .......      .. ,,,. ...; ---    ,,, ---- ..    Z. ," ; .. ...... --
Total INVESTMENT COSTS            0.0   5.3   1.8   1.9   0.0   9.0           8.2     0.8      0.0     9.0
so"a -   u-ama m          ues ma mm.     -osu  Suamma  -ana   mum==
Total                          0.0   5.3   1.8   1.9   0.0   9.0          8.2      0.8      0.0     9.0
- Vlue  scaled by 1000000.0  3/16/1993  10:25



- 115 -                                   Annex 4.4
TANZANIA                                         Page 8 of 21
Psuer VI
Table 108. Distribution Strengthening and Loss Reduction
Oetafled Cost Table
TshIllitn
Totals Includins Contignencies    Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
aS                               USS
1993 1994   M5 96-98 Totat    F.Fxch  Local  Taxes  Total
...... .......... *w..............  ................................
I  INTNESNOET COSTS
A. Dar Es Salaam
Substation "ays 132 kV    0.0  0.2  0.3  0.0  O.S           0.5    0.0    0.0    0.5
TransformAers 132/3 kV    0.0  0.2  0.3  0.0  0.5           0.5    0.0    0.0    0.5
Trasmission Line 132 kV  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0            0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Substation "ays 33 kV     0.0  0.8  1.2  0.0  2.0           1.8    0.2    0.0    2.0
Transformers 33/11 kV     0.0  0.4  0.7  0.0  1.1           1.0    0.1    0.0    1.1
Distribution Line 33 kV   0.0  0.1  0.1  0.0  0.2           0.2    0.0    0.0    0.2
Substation Bays 11 kV     0.0  0.7  1.0  0.0  1.7           1.5    0.1    0.0    1.7
Dfstribution Line 11 kV   0.0  0.1  0.2  0.0  0.3           0.3    0.0    0.0    0.3
Ceble 11 kV               0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.1           0.1    0.0    0.0    0.1
,,,~~.,,,,,, .... ...... .....  ........ .... .......  .......  .......... .. ..........
Sub-Total                  0.0  2.5  3.9  0.0  6.S           5.9    O.S    0.0    6.5
B. Tanga
Sbstation Bays 132 kV    0.0  0.2  0.3  0.0  0.5            0.5    0.0    0.0    0.5
Transformers 132133 kV    0.0  0.4  0.6  0.0  0.9           0.9    0.1    0.0    0.9
Transmission Line 132kV   0.0  0.1  0.1  0.0  0.2           0.2    0.0    0.0    0.2
Substation Bays 33 kV     0.0  0.9  1.4  0.0  2.3           2.1    0.2    0.0    2.3
Transformers 33/11 kV     0.0  0.3  0.5  0.0  0.8           0.7    0.1    0.0    0.8
Distribution Line 33 kV   0.0  0.3  0.4  0.0  0.6           0.6    0.1    0.0    0.6
substatfon Bye 11 kV      0.0  0.4  0.6  0.0  0.9           0.8    0.1    0.0    0.9
OistributIon Line 11 kV   0.0  0.1  0.2  0.0  0.4           0.3    0.0    0.0    0.4
Coble 11 kV               0.0  0.0  0.1  0.0  0.1           0.1    0.0    0.0    0.1
.......... ................ ................. .............  ........... ....... ............. .... ...
ukb-Total                  0.0  2.6  6.1  0.0  6.7           6.2    0.6    0.0    6.7
C. Ioshi
Substation  ays 33 kV     0.0  0.3  0.4  0.0  0.7           0.6    0.1    0.0    0.7
Transformers 33/11 kV     0.0  0.1  0.1  0.0  0.2           0.2    0.0    0.0    0.2
Ofstribution Line 33 kV   0.0  0.1  0.2  0.0  0.3           0.2    0.0    0.0    0.3
Sibstatfon *ays 11 kV     0.0  0.1  0.2  0.0  0.3           0.2    0.0    0.0    0.3
Distribution Lfne 11 kV   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0           0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Cable 11 kV               0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0           0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
hatation Bays 66 kV       0.0  0.1  0.2  0.0  0.4           0.3    0.0    0.0    0.4
Transformers 66/33kV      0.0  0.1  0.1  0.0  0.2           0.2    0.0    0.0    0.2
Transrmssion Line 66 kV   0.0  0.5  0.8  0.0  1.4           1.2    0.1    0.0    1.4
Sub-Total                  0.0  1.3  2.1  0.0  3.4           3.1    0.3    0.0    3.4
D. Arush
Substation Says 33kV      0.0  0.3  0.4  0.0  0.7           0.6    0.1    0.0    0.7
Transformers 33/11 kV     0.0  0.3  0.4  0.0  0.7           0.6    0.1    0.0    0.7
DistrSbution Line 33 kV   0.0  0.6  0.9  0.0  1.5           1.3    0.1    0.0    1.5
Sibstation Bays 11 kV     0.0  0.3  0.4  0.0  0.6           0.6    0.1    0.0    0.6
Distribution Line 11 kV   0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.1           0.1    0.0    0.0    0.1
Cable 11 kV               0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0           0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
.... .... . ... ..... .... ..... .... ..... .....   ........ ....... ........... ....... ...... ...............
Sub-Total                  0.0  1.4  2.2  0.0  3.6          3.3    0.3    0.0    3.6
.....   ........................................... .......... ...... ........... ....... ............. .... ...
Total INVESTNENT COSTS           0.0  7.9 12.3  0.0 20.2           18.S    1.7    0.0   20.2
UUM.8 ur.  u                           su sm.    s...a..... craniu.. uu.
Total                          0.0  7.9 12.3  0.0 20.2          18.5    1.7    0.0   20.2
- Values snaled by 1000000.0 3/16/1993  10:25



-  116 -                                      Annex 4.4
TANZIA                                            Page 9 of 21
Power VI
Table 109. Distributfon Rehabftitation
Detafled Cost Table
Tihillieg
Totals Includ1ng Contingencies        orekdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
US$                                   us$
93-94  199   1996  1997  1998 Total      f.Exch  Ltocl   Taxes   Total
........ ...............  .........................................   ................................
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Arusha Region
Distribution Line 11 kV   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1          0.1      0.0     0.0     0.1
Reconductor 11 kV Line    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1          0.1     0.0      0.0     0.1
ReplacetInstall Poles      0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.2         0.2     0.0      0.0     0.2
Transformers               0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.2         0.2     0.0      0.0     0.2
Distribution Lines LV      0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.2         0.2      0.0     0.0     0.2
Reconductor LV Lines       0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.2         0.2     0.0      0.0     0.2
Addition of LV Phases      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
.......... ................ .........  ..... .....  ........ ...... .......... .....    ......._... .......  ........... .......
Sub-Total                   0.0   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.1   1.1         1.0      0.1     0.0     1.1
B. Noshi Region
Distribution Line 11 kV   0.0   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.6          0.6      0.1     0.0     0.6
Reeonductor 11 kV Line    0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.3          0.2      0.0     0.0     0.3
Replace/Instatl Poles      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1         0.1      0.0     0.0     0.1
Transformers               0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.4         0.4      0.0     0.0     0.4
Distribution Lines LV      0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.2         0.2      0.0     0.0     0.2
Reconductor LV Lines       0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
Addition of LV Phases      0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0         0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0
... ..... ... ...... ... .-..... ..- . ...    ...  ....... ........ .....  ... ........  .
Sub-Total                   0.0   O.S   0.5   0.5   0.2   1.6         1.5      0.1     0.0     1.6
C. Tanga Region
Distribution Line 11 kV   0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.4          0.4      0.0     0.0     0.4
Reconductor 11 kV Line    0.0   2.4   2.5   2.6   0.9   8.3          7.6     0.7      0.0     8.3
Replace/Install Poles      0.0   0.4   0.4   0.5   0.2   1.5         1.4     0.1      0.0     1.5
Tranmformers               0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.2         0.2     0.0      0.0     0.2
Distribution Lines LV      0.0   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.7         0.6     0.1      0.0     0.7
Reconductor LV Lines       0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.3         0.3     0.0      0.0     0.3
Addition of LV Phases      0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.3         0.2      0.0     0.0     0.3
._.W....... ...... ... ...... ... ....... ... ....... ....:.    ....... *. ......... ..........  .... .............
Sub-Total                   0.0   3.4   3.5   3.6   1.3  11.7        10.7      1.0     0.0    11.7
D. DIN Regfen
Distribution Line 11 kV   0.0   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.6          0.6      0.1     0.0     0.6
Reconductor 11 kV Line    0.0   0.6   0.6   0.6   0.2   1.9          1.8     0.2      0.0     1.9
Replace/Install Poles      0.0   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.6         0.6     0.1      0.0     0.6
Transformers               0.0   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.1   1.0         0.9     0.1      0.0     1.0
Distribution Lines LV      0.0   0.4   0.5   0.5   0.2   1.5         1.4     0.1      0.0     1.5
Reconductor LV Lines       0.0   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.1   0.6         O.S     0.0      0.0     0.6
Addition of LV Phases      0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.2         0.2     0.0      0.0     0.2
.... ..... ..... ....... ..... ....... .....    ......... ..........  ........... ....... ...... ...............
Sub-Total                   0.0   1.8   1.9   2.0   0.7   6.4         5.9     O.S      0.0     6.4
......*.......... .... _._ ..... ... ...... ... ..;... .. .._.... ...... ..........   ....... ........... .......
Total IWESTHEMT COSTS              0.0   6.0   6.2   6.5   2.2  20.9         19k.     1.8     0.0    20.9
total                           0.0   6.0   6.2   6.5   2.2  20.9        19.2      1.8     0.0    20.9
- Values mcaled by 1000000.0  3/16/1  3  10:25



- 117 -                                     Annex 4.4
117-                          ~~~~~Page  10 of 21
Powr VI
tabloe 110. Hydro Rebilitation
Detailed Cost Tabte
Tlbilling
Totals Including Contingewcies          Breakdown  of Totals Incl.Cont.
USS u-s-
1993  1994  19f5  1996  1997  199  Total     F.Exch   Local  Taxes   Total
1. INWESTMENT COSTS
................
A. Kidatu Rehabilitation
Gates                       0.0   0.3   0.3   1.2  1.1   0.2   3.0         3.0     0.0     0.0    3.0
Turbines & Generators       0.0   0.3   0.3   1.4   1.3  0.2   3.5         3.5     0.0     0.0    3.5
Trunsfot rs                 0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  0.1         0.1     0.0     0.0     0.1
Aux1tllary Equipment        0.0   0.1  0.1   0.3   0.2   0.0  0.?          0.7     0.0     0.0     0.7
Control Tolt, Fire Etc.     0.0   0.0   0.0  0.1   0.1   0.0   0.2         0.2     0.0     0.0     0.2
Switchgear                  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  0.1         0.1     0.0     0.0    0.1
FOeders                     0.0   0.0  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0  0.1          0.1     0.0     0.0    0.1
Civil Works & Services      0.0   0.7   0.7  3.1   2.8   0.4   7.8         6.1     1.7     0.0    7.8
Engineering 8 Supervis8On   0.0   0.1  0.1   0.4   0.4  0.1   1.1          1.0     0.1    0.0    1.1
Sut-Total                    0.0   1.5   1.6  6.5   5.9   0.9  16.4        14.6     1.8     0.0   16.4
............. ...... ... ...     .... .   . . . . . ........... ... ................ .. .....,,,.......................  
Total INVESTMENT COSTS              0.0   1.5   1.6  6.5   5.9   0.9  16.4        14.6     1.8     0.0   16.4
Total                            0.0   1.5   1.6  6.5   5.9  0.9  16.4         14.6     1.8    0.0    16.4
-Values scaed by 1000000.0  3/16/1M   10:25
TANZMIA
Pawel VIS
Table 111. Accounting, Ofilfng & Naterals t mnapmnt System 41)
Detalled Cost Table
TMhilfling
Totals Including Continencies       SBrekdown of Totals IncltCont.
1993  1994  1995  1996 97-98 Total     F.Exch   Local  Taxes  Total
....................................   ......................................................... ................
1. INSTMENT COSTS
................
A. Custower Svice * Stores
Softwre                     0.0  0.4   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.4         0.4     0.0     0.0      0.4
Experts                     0.0   0.2   0.2   0.2  0.0   0.6         0.6     0.0     0.0     0.6
Couters & Ass. Eqpt.        0.0  0.5   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.5         0.5     0.0     0.0     0.5
Cash ReIstors               0.0  0.2  0.0   0.0  0.0  0.2            0.2     0.0     0.0     0.2
Prepayment Netering         0.0  0.4  0.2   0.0   0.0   0.6          0.6     0.0     0.0      0.6
Neters                      0.0  0.5   0.1   0.0  0.0   0.6          0.6     0.0     0.0      0.6
Service Vfre & Mhteriald    0.0  0.3   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.4         0.4     0.0     0.0      0.4
Vehicles & Spares           0.0  0.6   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.6         0.6     0.0      0.0     0.6
, ...................................... .....  ....... ......  .......... ...... ........... .......  ........... .......
Stu-Total                    0.0  3.1   0.5   0.2   0.0   3.8         3.8     0.0     0.0      3.8
Total hNVuSTIuT COSTS               0.0  31           0           3.8.8 8            0.0      0.0     3.8
Tott l0.0  3.1   0.5   0.2   0.0  3.8                                     3.8     0.0     0.0    3.8
41) Materials & services to coqplete work started fn Technical Is8s. Credit
- Values scaled by 1000G00.0 3/16M1993 10:25



- 118 -
Annex 4.4
TANZANIA                                             Page  il of 21
Power VI
Table 112. systen Control & Caomunications Eqaipaunt
Dotalled Cost Table
TShilltin
Totals Including Contingencies    Iieakdom   of Totals Incl.Cont.
Uss                                (S1
1993  1994  1995 96-98 Total                       lmxch   Eocal  taxeS   Total
._.....  .....................................   ................................
1. INVESTMnET COSTS
................
A. System Control & Com.
CGqUter Equipment          0.0   0.2   0.0   0.0   0.2         0.2     0.0     0.0      0.2
Coinhmication Equipment   0.0   0.3   1.2   0.0   1.6          1.6     0.0     0.0      1.6
Enginering & Overheads   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1           0.0     0.0     0.0      0.1
Sub-Total                   0.0   0.6   1.2   0      1.8        1.8     0.0     0.0      1.8
.... ..... ....  ..... .. ..            ..... ..... ...... .....   ........ ... .................. b....... ...
Total INVESTMENT COSTS             0.0   0 6   1.2   0 0   1.8         1.8     0 0      0.0     1.8
wa-     u=    -     -     -mm     Smoa"  mu m usuun~    m
Total                           0.0   0.6   1.2   0.0   1.8         1.8     0.0     0.0      1.8
Values scaled by 1000000.0  3/16/193  10:25
TANZAIA
Power VI
Table 113. Distributf on Vehcles NuW Tools
Detalted Cost Tabe
TShilling
Totals Including ContIngenctes      Breakdown of Totals IncltCont.
US$                                uSS
1993  1994  1995 96-98 Total      F.Exch   Local  Tae    Total
T* IWVESTMENT COSTS
_...............
A. Oi.t. Vehictes & Tools
Distribution Vehicles    0.0   0.1   1.1   0.0   1.2          1.2     0.0     0.0      1.2
Distribution Tools        0.0   0.1   0.5   0.0   0.6         0.6     0.0     0.0      0.6
Sub-Total                  0.0   0.2   1.6   0.0   1.8         1.8     0.0     0.0      1.8
... ....................................;..; .......  .......... ......    ........... .......  ........... ......
Total INVE'AltU   COSTS           0.0   0.2   1.6   0.0   1.8         1.8     0.0      0.0     18
-  nmu. om camm camm  mmmcumm smem sme
Total                          0.0   0.2   1.6   0.0   1.8         1.8     0.0      0.0     1.8
Yaues sucaled by 1000000.0  3/16/1993  10:23
TANZANIA
Power VI
Table 114. Workshop Equipment
Detailed Cost Tablt
TShttIing
Totals Including Contingefno           reakdomn of Totals tnc  .cont.
US,                                   US,
1993  199   199S  1996 97.98 Total      F.Exch   Local  Taxes  Totl
1. INVESTMT COSTS
................
A. Vwrkshp Equipment            0.0   1.8   1.8   1.9   0.0   5.5          5.3     0.2     0.0      5.5
S. Engineering & overheods      0.0   0.1   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.2          0.1     0.0     0.0      0.2
--- *--.,- .7... ...... .... ..;7... ..... ..... ....... .......... ,,,. .............. ...
total INVESTIENT COSTS             0.0   1.8   1.9   2.0   0.0   5.7          5.4     0.3     0.0      5.7
=Mu  Samo uacm smm amoo oao   Mason ammmo smmm   ~
Totat                           0.0   1.8   1.9   2.0   0.0   5.7          5.4     0.3     0.0      5.?
- Value scaled by 1000000.0  3/161993  10:25



-  119 -                                       Annex  4.4
TANZANIA                                     Page  12 of  21
Power VI
Tabte 115. Consultin SONfISS 44)
Detailed Cost Table
Tshillirn
Totals Including Contingencies             Breakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
Us,                                        USS
- -- - - - - - - -   - - - U                    -
1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998 Total        F.Exch   Local   Taxes   Total
..........................................      ................................................................ ................
1. INVESTNENT COSTS
A. Distbn. ProJect Nengt.  1>           0.0   0.5   O.S   0.5   0.5   0.0   2.0           1.8      0.3      0.0     2.0
3. Tariff Study                         0.4   0.4   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.8           0.?      0.1      0.0     0.8
C. Assets Valuation Study               0.0   0.0   1.2   1.2   0.0   0.0   2.4           2.3      0.1      0.0     2.4
0. Hydro Feasibility Studies c2>        0.0   2.1   2.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   4.3           3.9      0.4      0.0     4.3
E. Update  aster Plan <3v               0.0   O.S   O.S   0.1   0.5   0.0   1.6            1.6     0.1      0.0     1.6
.....  -...  ....  .....; ..... ..... ....:.    ...... . ....... ....... .......
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                     0.4   3.S   4.4   1.8   1.0   0.0  11.2           10.3     0.9      0.0    11.2
Sn333  33                3 3                             Sosa 3 3s333 33 33N3
Total                                   0.4   3.5   4.4   1.8   1.0   0.0  11.2          10.3      0.9      0.0    11.2
1> Project Nanhgemant for Kihanui included as fEngineerIng3 under Kihaens
'2 Feasibility studies for sites on the Nasigira and Rumakali rivers.
c Nester plan prepared early & revised after hydro feasibiLity studies.
4S Nester Plan Study includes training for TANESCO in System planning
- Values scaled by 1000000.0  3/16/1993  10:2S
TANZAIA
Pow   VI
Table 116. Exprt Services
Detailed Cost Table
TShilling
Totals Including Contingencies       Ureakdown of Totals Incl.Cont.
USs                                 US,
1993  1994  1995 S6-98 Total       F.Exch   Local   Taxes   Total
..............................   .....................................................
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Corporate Planner               0.2   0.2   0.2   0.0   0.7           0.6      0.1      0.0     0.7
3. Systm  Reneger                  C.3   0.3   0.3   0.0   0.8           0.7      0.1     0.0      0.8
C. Nanagemmnt Consul. (PIP)        0.3   0.3   0.3   0.0   0.8           0.8      0.0     0.0      0.8
0. Ngt. Trg./Personnel Cons.       0.3   0.3   0.3   0.0   0.8           0.6      0.0     0.0      0.8
E.  Raower Plannfng Cons.          0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.1           0.1      0.0     0.0      0.1
... .................  ...... ....  ...... .... ..... .....   ........ .......  ........... ....... ........... 
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                 1.0   1.1   1.1   0.0   3.2          3.0      0.2      0.0     3.2
Total                              1.0   1.1   1.1   0.0   3.2           3.0      0.2     0.0      3.2
Values scaled by 1000000.0  3/16/1993  10:25



-  120 -                                      Annex 4.4
TANZAtA                                          Page  13 of 21
Poster VI
Table 111. TrainiQg
Ott ted Cost Table
TMi1lifng
totals Including Contingncies         Breektdown of totalt Incl.Cont.
US.                                   U#S
1993  1994  199S  1996 97-98 Total      F.Exch   Local   Taxes   Total
......................................................................   ................................
I.  ImESTEMKT cOStS
................
A. training
Short Yrm. Ngt. Trainers    0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2           0.2     0.0      0.0     0.2
overseas Management Trng.   0.0   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.0   0.6           0.6     0.0      0.0     0.6
Training Accomodation        0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1          0.0     0.1      0.0     0.1
Relay & Protection           0.1   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2          0.2     0.0      0.0     0.2
Distribution Plaming         0.0   0.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2          0.2     0.0      0.0     0.2
Dist. Plan Equipment         0.0   0.3   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.3          0.3     0.0      0.0     0.3
HNod, Norogoro Institute    0.0   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.0   0.6           0.6     0.1      0.0     0.6
Instructor, Norogoro         0.0   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.0   0.6          0.6     0.1     0.0      0.6
tnstructor, Kidstu           0.0   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.0   0.6          0.6     0.1      0.0     0.6
Sub-Total                     0.2   1.5   0.9   0.9   0.0   3.5          3.2     0.4      0.0     3.5
... .....  ... ...... .... ....... ..... ...... .....  ..... .....  ..... ...... ....... ...... ........ .... .......... ....
Total INVESTNENT COSTS               0.2   1.5   0.9   0.9   0.0   3.5          3.2      0.4     0.0     3.5
MuM-----  ---m     mm--      - nam   un"uu. h            Smm.n -omu
Tota l                            0.2   1.S   0.9   0.9   0.0   3.S          3.2     0.4      0.0     3.5
- values scaled by 1000000.0  3/16/1993  10:25
TANZANIt
Poser VI -
Table 118. Oemand Sidi wanoment
Detailed Cost Table
*Shittflq
Totals Including Contineoncies      Sreeakdwn of Totals Incl.Cont.
UJSS                               US.
1993  1994  1995 96-98 Total      F.EXCh   Local   Taxes   Total
..............................   ...................................................................
1. I NmSTMENT COSTS
................
A. DN
DIN Equipment             0.0   0.6   1.2   0.0   1.8          1.6     0.1     0.0      1.8
DSN Consulting            0.0   0.2   0.1   0.0   0.3          0.3     0.0     0.0      0.3
O8 Trafning               0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.1          0.1     0.0     0.0      0.1
018 Into. Camafiss        0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   U.1          0.0     0.0     0.0      0.1
SubTotal                   0.0   0.9   1.3   0.0   2.2          2.0     0.2     0.0      2.2
.... ..... ..... ....... ..... ........ ..........  ........... ....... ........... ... .................. ...
total ImVEStIENT COSTS            0.0   0.9   1.3   0.0   2.2          2.0     0.2      0.0     2.2
_--                               _uu  uuuuw _uuu  _t _ _au
Totat                          0.0   0.9   1.3   0.0   2.2          2.0     0.2      0.0     2.2
Values scaled by 1000000.0  3/16/1993  10:25



-  121 -                                    Annex 4.4
TANAIA                                           Page  14 of 21
Power VI
Table 119. SqoS  Sa@ Gam DGvelopmnt
eailed Cost Tade
Iskitting
Totals tneluding Conting"ctfe        Sr.skdo    of Totals Incl.Cont.
U#S                                  USt
1993  1994  1995  1996 97.98 Total    f.Exch   Locat  TOM    Total
.. .. ................ ..........................................   ................................
1. tIVESTNT COSTs
................
A. oWW  oO
Conltin Service.    0.0   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.0   1.0             1.0     0.0     0.0     1.0
Total INSTET COSTS               0.0   0.3  0.3  0.3   0.0   1.0          1.0     0.0     0.0     1.0
Total                         0.0  0.3   0.3  0.3   0.0   1.0          1.0     0.0     0.0     1.0
va lue scated by 1000000.0 3/16/199  10:25
TANZANIA
Power VI
Table 120. maz1 Ua Gas OavetepDnqt
Oa iled Coat Table
TIhitting
Totals Including Conting.ncies          ereekdosm of Totals Incl.Cont.
USt                          ~~~~~~~~US#
-------------    mninm    a  gmiai
1993  1994  1995  1994 1997  1996 Totl    F.Exch   Local  Txes  Total
..........................................   ................................................................. ................
1. INVESMENT CSTS
A.  Xui say Gas Develop  Int
Yell Vorkovef & Productn.  0.0   0.0   0.0   1.8   1.7   0.0   3.5         3.5     0.0     0.0    3.5
Plpeolwr                    0.0   0.0   0.0  2.S  4.3   0.4   7.0          7.0     0.0     0.0     7.0
Generatfng Statfon          0.0   0.0   0.0   2.0  3.7   0.4   6.2         6.2     0.0     0.0     6.2
Project N_ apuent.          0.0   0.3  0.3   0.3   0.3   0.2   1.3         1.3     0.0     0.0     1.3
.... ........ ........ .........    ...... ..... ....... .......
SutbTotal                    0.0   0.3   0.3  6.4  10.0.0 0  16.0          18.0     0.0     0.0   18.0
Total INVESTisiT COSTS              0.0   0.3   0.3  6.4  10.0  1.0  18.0         18.0     0.0     0.0    18.0
Total                            0.0   0.3   0.3   6.4  10.0   1.0  18.0       18.0     0.0     0.0    18.0
- Vlue sc aled by 1000000.0 3/16/1993 10:25



- 122 -                                         Annex 4.4
TANZANIA                                       Page  15 of 21
Powe# VI
Tablo 121. Technical Assfstw          to Ninfstry
Detailed Cost Table
Tshffr .la
Totals Including Contigenieas              SreakdAun of Totals Incl.Cont.
US.                                        uSS
1991  1994  19     1996  1997  199S Total       F.Exch   Eocal   Tax       Total
..........................................      ................................................................. .. ....   ... .............
1 llwVESTnENT C *T
..............
A. Training For Nin1stry
fUrlowNanegemw~t I Org.    0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1               0.1     0.0      0.0      0.1
Eng  ProJ. Nu           t     0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1            0.1     0.0      0.0      0.1
Ener  Plmnings   nalyss   0.0   0.0   0.2   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.2                0.2     0.0      0.0      0.2
Enrwy 1ff icien               0.0   0.0   0.1  0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1            0.1     0.0      0.0      0.1
Energy Information Colln.   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.1              0.1     0.0      0.0      0.1
En&       Ecmics             0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.1            0.1     0.0      0.0      0.1
Coupterized Pltwdng           0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1   0.0   0.1            0.1     0.0      0.0      0.1
.... ..... ..... ....... .^ ...... ..... ....... .....    ......... ..........  ........... ....... ...... ...................... .. ..
Siu-Tottl                      %.0   0.2   0.3   0.2   0.1   0.0   0.8            0.8      0.0     0.0      0.8
S. Ninistry Office Equipmmt        0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1            0.1      0.0      0.0     0.1
tae                          ~00   0.0   0:0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0             0.0     0:0      0.0      0.0
Prnt                          0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0            0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
Vehicles                      0.0   0.1   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.1            0.1     0.0      0.0      0.1
Tywriters                     0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0            0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
_uwgnt  Info Systm            0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0            0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
sayp les * Statioery          0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0            0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
.. ..... ..................................  ....... .....  ....... ......  .......... ...... ........... .......  ........... .......
SubTotal                       0.0   0.3   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0   0.3            0.3     0.0      0.0      0.3
Total INVE_MNT COSTS                  0.0   0.5   0.3  0.2   0.1   0.0   1.1              1.1     0.0      0.0     1.1
_         _       _      _       _       _      _                        _ mumam
Total                              0.0   0.5   0.3   0.2   0.1   0.0   1.1            1.1      0.0     0.0      1.1
Valtue scnted by 1000000.0 3/16/1993 10:25
TANZAIA
Power VI
Table 122. Stud  of Structure of Pwer Setor
Detailed Cost Table
Tshilling
Totls Including Continsencies           Sreakdow  of Totals Incl.Cont.
1993  1994  1995  1996 97*96 Total        F.Exh   Loal   t=s    Total
....................................   ...................................................... . ..*.. .....----------
1. INlSlM    COST
................
A. Conswting for Ninfstry
Powr sectcr Study           0.0   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.0   1.0           1.0      0.0      0.0     1.0
-    m    ammum uum  mu..~....-    .. u= ..u -..     mu.....:
Touat St AtyN         oom           0.             3 03 00 1.0                   I.;     -      -       1 0
Tott l0.0   0.3   0.3   0.3   0.0   1.0                                       1.0     0.0      0.0      1.0
-Vaues scaed by 1000000.0  316199   10:25



- 123 -
TANZAIA                                                Annex  4.4
er.a VI                                                 Page  16 of 2
Tobt  123.  Io"o          of lmibr  Utitlty
Satelted Cost Table
TMhilling
Totats Including Contigncies          Oreakdo*m of totals Incl.Cont.
1993  1994  1995 96-9S Total       F.Extch   Local   Taxos   Total
.. .  ............................... ............................ .................................................. 
S*INVESTMII  cOST
A.   _      t  St                0.0   0.1   0.1   0.0   0.3           0.3      0.0      0.0      0.3
B. csrl   Nm                     0.0   0.2   0.2   0.0   0.5           0.5      0.0      0.0     0.5
C. Pr _t  leterIng               0.0   0.1   1.2   0.0   1.3            1.3     0.0      0.0      1.3
..... ....... ..... ....... .....    ......... ..........  ........... ....... ....... ... .................. ...
Total lIN       T COSTS             0.0   O.S   1.5   0.0   2.0           2.0      0.0      0.0      2.0
Total                            0.0   0.5   1.5   0.0   2.0           2.0      0.0      0.0     2.0
- Vlu   calied by 1000000.0  3/16/1993  10:25



TANZAIA
finmisng Pla by Omebutr_ Category
Euopan                                       Private     6ovenmmt of
World lank    Iritidb  A         ANIA    tiwuetamt 0ank       mm OD           am 1         Iwtor          slel91u
Amut  X        Amut X         AU*t           AXn   X        At  X          Amut  X        Aut X          Aont    X
A. Kihwif Civit Works          81.0   81.1     0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
S. Ktibif esttltmit             0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
C. Kibwwi Turbines              0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0   20.6   95.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0
D. Klm      .  Eb uigu.t        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0    6.1   95.4      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0
E. Kihamf Il)*aulfc Steel       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    4.1   95.4         0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
F. Kthami Genrtom               0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    24.0   97.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
6. KIuM  Transformm             0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   14.3  97.2
V. Ki1hai Controls & Au1it      0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0   20.5   97.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
1. Kihtli Team. Lines           0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0   26.8   81.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
J. KihaI  Tras. Sul.            0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    6.7   81.2    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
K. Distribution (ew)            8.2   91.5    0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
L. Otst. Stren3thelg            8.S   91.6    0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
M. Dist. Rehabilitation        19.2   91.5    0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.C    0.0
N. Velets                      1.6   0.       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0
0. DistuibatiOn Tools           0.6  100.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
P. Softtare                     0.4  100.0    0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
0. Propeta  Softsre             0.3  100.0    0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
R. CApteas A Eqpmnt             0.7  100.0    0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
S. Nters & Service  ire         1.5  100.0    0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0
t. Systm Controt A Come.        0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    1.8  100.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
U. WorkslP Eipt                 0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
V. DUN Equipment                1.6   91.6    0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
W. DSN Into Caeiwt              0.0   54.J    0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0 O
X. DI training                  0.1   95.8    0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0     MID   0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0-0
V. Nyro  ehabiitation         13.6   88.7    0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Z. catlting (lk)               29.9   88.4    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0 '0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
a. CoAttinog Sy Controt         0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0   67.3    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
b. Conultting Wrps              0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0
c. ODN Consulting               0.3  100.0    0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0
d. tw1ff & Assets Studies       0.0    0.0    3.1   93.5    0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0    0.0
e. Hbdro eersibility            0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0      3.9   91.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
f. Prep. for Privetiatlon      1.0  100.0    0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0         0.0   0.0
g. Training Specialist,         1.9  100.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0   0.0
h. TANESC0 W'ea  Training       0.8  100.0    0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0
I. Local Trainin E es           0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0        0.0   0.0
J. Ninistry tech. ast.          1.1  100.0    0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0     0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0
k. Son  Soaw  e                 1.0  100.0    0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0
1. lihni Gas                   13.5   81.0     0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0     0.0   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    3.2   19.0    0.0   0.0
a. Ibali Gae Consulting         1.   100.0    0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
n. Assistan to ZSFPC            2.0  100.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
.. ..................... ............................................ -_-... ............. ................. ....................
total DisbzrOemnt              200.3   S2.2    3.1    0.8    3.9    1.0   Z4.0   6.3    S1.1   13.3   35.3   9.2    3.2    0.8   14.3    3.?
........................................ ........................................................................................ ...................
Value Sealed by 1000000.0 3/161M993 11:3 
000
.3
0 



TANZANIA
PoMWe VI
Financing Ptln by Dilaburstnt Category
flnenc(ng GOp    0w0vemt           Total                Loaxl
...----...--..-......----.---.---...---.------.--   For.   (Exci.  Duties
Anmowt    X    Ant    %    Amount    %          -EVc.  TMs)  & Tax.
A. Kihansi Civil Works           0.0    0.0    18.8   18.9    99.9   26.0    81.0    18.8         0.0
8. KIha   Rosettlement           0.0    0.0      2.2  100.0      2.2    0.6      0.0      2.2     0.0
C. Kihansf Turbinea              0.0    0.0      1.0    4.6    21.6    S.6    20.6        1.0     0.0
O. Kihanwi Nech. Efdent          0.0    0.0       0.3    4.6     6.4    1.7      6.1      0.3     0.0
E. Kihansi Hydrautic Steot       0.0    0.0      0.2    4.6      4.3    1.1      4.1     0.2      0.0
F. Kihasi 6enerators             0.0    0.0      0.7    2.8    24.7    6.4    24.0       0.7      0.0
0. Kibahs Iransfonrer            0.0    0.0      0.4    2.8    14.7    3.8    14.3        0.4     0.0
1. Kihanm  Controls & Auxil      0.0    0.0      0.6    2.8    21.0    5.S    20.5       0.6      0.0
1. Kthanl Trans. Lines           0.0    0.0      6.2   18.8    33.0    8.6    26.8       6.2      0.0
J. KIhansf Tras. Shs             0.0    0.0       1.6   18.8     8.3    2.2      6.7      1.6     0.0
K. Distributian (New)            0.0    0.0      0.8    8.5      9.0    2.3      8.2     0.8      0.0
L. 01st. Strenthening            0.0    0.0      1.7    8.4    20.2    5.3    18.5        1.7     0.0
N. ofst.  .hbftlft:tfan          0.0    0.0       t.8    8.5    20.9    S.5    19.2       1.8     0.0
N. Vehicles                      0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0      1.8    O.S      1.8     0.0      0.0
0. Distribution Tools            0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0      0.6    0.2      0.6     0.0      0.0
P. Softuare                      0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0      0.4    0.1      0.4     0.0      0.0
O. Proprietary Software          0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0      0.3    0.1      0.3     0.0      0.0                                                   -
R. Computers * Equipment         0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0      0.7    0.2      0.7     0.0      0.0
S. Nter & Service Wire           0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0      1.5    0.4      1.5     0.0      0.0
t. system Controt & Cooms.       0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0      1.8    0.5      1.8     0.0      0.0
U. Wokhopfqupmnt                 5.3   ff.8      0.2    4.2      S.5    1.4      5.3      0.2     0.0
V. OSfEqu pment                  0.0    0.0      0.1    8.4      1.8    0.5      1.6     0.1      0.0
W. *SK Info Ctaeisg               0.0    0.0     0.0   45.3      0.1    0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
X. OSN Training                  0.0    0.0      0.0    4.2      0.1    0.0      0.1     0.0      0.0
V.  o  Redhbilitation            0.0    0.0      1.7   11.3    1S.3    4.0    13.6       1.7      0.0
Z. Conultfng (ank)               0.0    0.0      3.9   11.6    33.9    8.8    29.9       3.9      0.0
a. Consultfig Sy Control         0.0    0.0      0.0   12.7      0.1    0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0
b. Coulting f orkshops           0.1   87.3      0.0   12.7      0.2    0.0      0.1     0.0      0.0
c. DSN Conulting                 0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0      0.3    0.1      0.3     0.0      0.0
d. Tariff & Aseots studies       0.0    0.0      0.2    6.5      3.3    0.9      3.1     0.2      0.0
o. Hdro Feasibitity              0.0    0.0      0.4    8.4      4.3    1,1      3.9     0.4      0.0
f. Prep. for Privwtzation        0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0      1.0    0.3      1.0     0.0      0.0
g. Training Specialists          0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0      t.9    0.5      1.7     0.2      0.0
h. TANESC Of'ss Trainrin         0.0    0.0     0.0    0.0      0.8    0.2      0.8     0.0      0.0
I. Locat Training Expnse         0.0    0.0      0.1  100.0      0.1    0.0      0.0     0.1      0.0
j. Ninistry Tech. Assist.        0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0      1.1    0.3      1.1     0.0      0.0
k. Soma Seno an                  0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0      1.0    0.3      1.0     0.0      0.0
l. "nasi oas                     0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0    16.6    4.3    16.6       0.0      0.0
M. mmIi ans Cnsutting            0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0      1.3    0.4      1.3     0.0      0.0
n. Assistnme to ZSFPC            0.0    0.0      0.0    0.0      2.0    0.5      2.0     0.0      0.0
.---- :- ..... 1.,.....     - ------............................ ..........
Total Disbrsement                  .4    1.4       .0   11.2   383.7  100.0   360.4    43.2        0.0
........ ......................................,...    o...............
Vatues Scaled by 1000000.0 3161993  11:26Ph



TAMZAMIA
fwr VI
financgn Pli by Prolect Csqxnents
European                                             Private        Govenswet of
Uottd Bank       British ODA           ANIDA      investment 8ank        KORAD              IFMW            t#Wstor           Begtium
, , ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.............................................................................................. ................... ---.......----
Amount     X      Awount     X      A"cunt     X     Aount       X     ^ount       I     Amount      X     Amont      X      A/Sie t    X
A. aesettisent                        0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
B. Civit wormk                       81.0    81.1       0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0
C.  echanfcat Plant                  0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0     30.7    9S.4       0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0
D. Electr1cat Plant                   0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0     24.0    39.8      20.5    33.8       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     14.3    23.6
E. Tranmission A Sibs                 0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     33.5    61.2       0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0
F. Engineering & overfheaf           21.7    86.9       0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0
4. Dfstrfbutfin Upgradfng            45.8    91.5       0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0
H. Generation                        14.6    88.9       0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0
N. IS & System Control               3.8    67.0        0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0       1.B    32.4       0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0
J. Vehicles nd Tools                  1.8   100.0       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0
K. Workshop Equipment                 0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0
. Consulting and Tratning             9.7    S4.3       3.1    17.1       3.9    21.9       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0
N. Oemand Sido Mianaemant             2.0    91.9       0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0
N. 6as Fiold  DOevelopment           1S.8    83.3       0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      3.2    16.7       0.0     0.0
0. ministry Tech.                     1.1   100.0       0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
P. PoW. Sec. Strueture                1.0   100.0       0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0
0. Assstance to ZSfPC                 2.0   100.0       0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
................................ .. ^**................... ................................ *...... ........ 0 ....--...  -
Total Disburmmwent                   200.3    52.2       3.1     0.6       3.9     1.0     24.0      6.3     51.1    13.3      35.3      9.2      3.2     0.8      14.3     3.?
;i ,;, ,,by" '"''0. 0''"61 M.... 1:26................................................................................................................................... 
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 3/11/19P3 11:26
o 4
r



TANUlAIA
PoWer VI
Frnancwin  PLan by Prolect Comnnts
us.
Ftncang Sap       Bmrnient          Total                tocal
----- ---- ----  ---- --------- ....-.-.--- ---.     For.   (Excc.  Duties
Amuat    X    Amount    X    AMsot    X           Exch.  Taxes)  & Tax.
A. Re8Ottlm _at                    0.0    0.0      2.2  100.0      2.2    0.6       0.0     2.2      0.0
B. Civit Works                    0.0    0.0    18.8   18.9    99.9   26.0    81.0    18.8           0.0
C. Mehanical Plant                0.0    0.0       1.5    4.6    32.2    8.4    30.7        1.5      0.0
0. EleCtrIC l Plant                0.0    0.0      1.7    2.8    60.5   15.8    58.8        1.7      0.0
E. Trnmissfon & Subs              0.0    0.0       7.8   18.8    41.2   10.7    33.5        7.8      0.0
F. Engineering & OverhadS         0.0    0.0       3.3   13.1    24.9    6.5    21.7        3.3      0.0
0. Distribution UpgradInr          0.0    0.0      4.2    8.5    50.1   13.1    45.8        4.2      0.0
u. Generation                     0.0    0.0       1.8   11.1    16.4    4.3    14.6        1.8      0.0
I. NIS & sytem Control            0.0    0.0       0.0    0.6      S.?    1.S      5.6      0.0      0.0
J. Vebfcles an Tools              0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0       1.8    O.S      1.8     0.0      0.0
K. Worso Equlpunt                 5.4   95.6       0.3    4.4      5.7    1.5       5.4     0.3      0.0
L. Consulting and TraIing         0.0    0.0       1.2    6.7    17.9    4.7    16.5        1.5      0.0
. ownad RIds Mag_     t            0.0    0.0      0.2    8.1       2.2    0.6      2.0     0.2      0.0
. Gas Fiteld Development          0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0    19.0    4.9    19.0        0.0      0.0
O. NInistry Tech.                 0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0       1.1    0.3      1.1     0.0      0.0
P. Pow. Sec. Stswture             0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0      1.0    0.3       1.0     0.0      0.0
4. AssistanC to ZSFPC             0.0    0.0       0.0    0.0      2.0    0.5       2.0     0.0      0.0
,......... ................ ......................................
Totat Of sbursement                5.4    1.4    43.0   11.2   383.7  100.0   340.4    43.2           0.0
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........................ ..................................... 
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 3116/1993  11:26
N3W



TANZAIA
Pmaet VI
Dluwmemt by Ffnmnlor by  intwr
tur_e
n
Investa                     Private  Sovere
Usrtd   Britfa               cmt                        lwesto   ent of  Finafl Go m
$W*      ODA l     AIDA SDa          mue       IW         r     8.e1u9km   me Sap    ant    lotu
,, ..................................................................................
Amunt   bwwt Af bt Aurt Amt   Awit Aount   o                                   xt Aant  mmnt  bMout
Seuster
1      5.6      0.2       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      1.4       7.2
2      5.6      0.2       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       1.4      7.2
3     22.0      0.2       1.0       0.0      0.0       0.3      0.0       0.0      0.9      3.7      28.0
4     22.0      0.2       1.0      0.0       0.0       0.3      0.0       0.0      0.9      3.7      28.0
S     25.6      0.6       1.0       0.0      1.5       2.2      0.0       0.0      0.9      4.0      35.8
6     25.6      0.6       1.0       0.0      1.5       2.2      0.0       0.0      0.9      4.0      35.8
7     22.2      0.6       0.0       1.2      8.5       7.4      0.6      0.7       0.9      5.5      47.6
8     22.2      0.6       0.0       1.2      8.5       7.4      0.6       0.7      0.9       5.S     47.6
9     19.S       0.0      0.0       8.4     12.6       6.0      0.9       5.0      0.0       4.9     5T.3
10     19.5      0.0       0.0      8.4      12.6       6.0      0.9      5.0       0.0      4.9      57.3
11      5.2      0.0       0.0      2.5       2.9       1.8      0.1       1.5      0.0      2.0      tS.9
12      5.2      0.0       0.0       2.5      2.9       L.8      0.1       1.S      0.0       2.0     15.9
,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, ..... ,__,___ .,_, ......:.....................................                                                                   c  o
TOTAL        200.3       3.1       3.                   1        3       3.2     14.3       5.4     43.0    383.7                                                      1
.......---......-...-...-...  .............................................
Vatue  Soeled by 1000000.0  3/16/1993  1s26
tl
a *



- 129  -                         ~~~~Annex 4.5
-  129 -                                      PPap,  I of  3
TANZANIA
Power VI Project
Procurement Packages
start                                 Total S
Task Name                                      Date         Notes                      (SAC)
Power VI Project                               26-Jun-92                              383.70
IMPLENJITED BY TANESCO                      26-Jun-92                              360.60
Dosign & Construct KIhansi                 26-Jun-92                              260.90
Coatensation & Resettlement              1T-Aug-92    N8F                         2.20
Panei of Uexrts                           1-Feb-93    Cons. Guideltnes            1.30
Hire Project Manager    '                 2-Apr-93    Cons. Guidelines            1.80
Hire Proj. Nan. Consultants              12-Apr-93    Cons. Guidelines           21.80
Preltminary Works Contract               16-feb-93    tCB                        35.90
Main Civil Vorks Contract                26-Jun-92    ICe                        64.00
Mechanical Equipment                     14-Jan-94    NSF                        32.20
Controls & Auxiliaries                   24-Apr-95    NSF                        21.00
Oenerators                               19-Jan-95   MNF                         24.70
Transformers                             18-Mar-93    NSF                        14.70
Transmission Lines & Subs                 S-May-94                               41.30
transmission lines                     12-Oct-94    NSF                       33.00
Substations                             5-May-94    NBf                         8.30
uwrove Distribution System                  1-Apr-93                              53.90
Mire Distribution Consultants.            1-Apr-93    Cons. Guidelines            2.00
Vehicles (Distribution)                   S-Apr-94    ICB                         1.20
Tools (Distribution)                      5-Apr-94    LIS                         0.60
Ofst Oevelopment-New Areas                9-Aug-94                                9.00
Purchase Conductor                      9-Aug-94    tCB                         0.60
Purchase Transformers                   9-Aug-94    ICS                         2.60
Purchase Insulators                     9-Aug-94    IC8                         0.30
Purchase Hardware                       9-Aug-94    ICS                         3.90
Purchase Poles                          9-Aug-94    tCO                         1.60
Distribution Strengthening                9-Aug-94    ICB                        20.20
Distribution Rehabilitatfon              30-Nov-94    ICe                        20.90
ellting Accounting & Stores                 1-Jul-93                                3.80
Software                                  1-Jul-93    Lt8                         0.40
Experts (Stores)                          1-Jut-93    Cons. Guidelines            0.60
Cowputers I Associated Eqpt.              1-Jut-93    ICS                         O.S0
Cash Registers                            1-Jul-93    IC8                         0.20



- 130 -                                     Annex 4.5
TANZANIA                                      Page 2 of 3
Power VI Project
Procurement Packages
took   &                                   "to          mn                        AC)
Prqpsit Metering sytem                 1-Jul-93   ICe                       0.60
Covntiona Meter                        1-Jult-    Ice                       0.0
Service Vita Nd Mat^eils               1-Jut-93   ICD                       0.30
Vehclets (Crcial)                      1-Jut-93   ICe                       0.60
Institutioarl Iqapvnn"                   -AWp93                               3.30
Caiptetion of Sstem Control            1-Jutl-                              1.80
Engineering                          1-Jutl-    UP                        0.10
Control Center Computer W.t          1-Jutl93   MOP                       0.20
Caummicatios (PLC)                   1-Jul-93    SF                       1.50
loqpr    Vorkshaps                    4-Jan94   NS.70
Efprt SevM                             1-Jut-93                             3.20
Corporate Ptauwew                    1-Jul-93   Cons. Guiel ines          0.70
Systems Nanser                       1-Jut-93   Cons. Guidelines          0.80
3MaMOamant Consutt. (PIP)            1-Jut-93   Cons. Guidelines          0.80
Nanagemant trg.IPf Wnnat Can.        1-Jut-93   Cons. Guidetine           0.80
MNopower Ptamfng Cam.                1-Jut-96   Cons. Guidetlnes          0.10
Studies & Project Prepwration          3-May-93                             9.10
Tariff Study                         3-May-93   OFP                       0.80
Assots Vauatfon Study                9-Jun- ff    F                       2.40
Nydro Feasibitity Studies             -Jut-ff  IMF                        4.30
Update Power Sys. Master Plan        1-Jul-93   Cons. Guidelinas          1.60
Training                               1-Apr-93                             3.50
Short Terom Manag t Trane            1 t-Apr-9    Cons. Gufdeline         0.20
Ov0ersea M g-,nt Training            6-Jul-93   Other                     0.60
Training Acomdstian                  1-Apr-"    NiP                       0.10
Relay & Protection Training          6-Jul-93   Other                     0.20
Distributfin Ptlm  ng                7-Oct-93                             0.60
ifre Tratner                       7-Oct-93   Cons. Guidetfns           0.30
Purcase Software & Equipwnt        Z-Jon-98   Direft Procuremant        0.30
Read & Instructor, Mweogo           14-Jn94   Cons. Guidelines            1.20
Instrwtor gidotv                    14-Jan-4    Cons. Gufidtine           0.60
Reailta1t KIdaou Nb*e                    1-Jan.93                            16.40
Hiro Proj. Man. Coutants               l-Jun-93   Co.  uidetlnes            1.10
Rlabitftation                           -Sep94   ICB                       13.30
Demwd Side Naragment                     4-Ja-94                              2.30
Do Equipent                            4-Jan94    ICe                       1.80
DSM Consuting                          4-Jan94    Con. Guidetfnes           0.30



TANZAND,         - 131 -                      Annex 4.5
Power VI Project                                    Tage 3Tt of3
Procurement Packages
t  o           zTete s
rask UNMSt                                               oe                      (SAC)
wM  Trai"fi                           13-Jtl-94   Other                     0.10
m Into. C _1ein                       13- 94   Othe                         0.10
IuPuN?          n- 93                                                          21.10
stud of Pnr  setor Stnrct.               1- .-9    Con. Gufde                 1.00
Equdpmt for Ntinstry                     4-Jwn-94    SC                       0.30
Training for Ministry                   4*J-94                                o.ao
nerwy NWaNemt IL org                   4-Jan94   Othw                       0.10
Eneg Projet Nawgrn_    t               4-Jan-94   Other                     0.10
Eneg Pltdr4 & Anstlsis                 3-an4      oter                      0.20
ergy Efficienwc                        3-Janw95   Other                     0.10
Er&rgy Infonmatfon Colltction          2-Jan-96   Other                     0.10
Energ Ecwoomcs                         2-Jan-96   other                     0.10
Coqauterfzed Plaming                   2-Jan-97   Otber                     0.10
inuSa  Say Gm Dw"eqmut                   1-AmJu-9                            18.00
Project N_m*nt Constants               1-Jur93   Cons. Guide                1.30
G rtion & Ppoeline Contract            7-Oct-94   Ice                      13.20
an vell Dt evatnt '-Oct-94   NBF                                            3.50
song" Sogs Gs Den eopent.                1-Apr-93   Cons. GuIde               1.00
INPWEUTN ED BY ZAIZSAR SFPC               1-JARO93                              2.00
Comrcfsl "Mn                             I-Jul-9    Cons. Guide               0.50
Study of Utitity Structure.              t-Jur-93   Cons. Guide               0.30
Prepsst metering System                 12-Jn-94  IQ                          1.20
TINE LIU Task Report



-  132 -                                      Annex 4.6
TANZNIA                                         Page 1 of 
Power VI Project
Procurement Schedule
(IDA . Finagued Packages)
Start                               totalt S
Task Name                                     Eate        lotes                     (SAC)
................jo-ct ............................. .2 -'Jun-92 .. ...................................... ,......... .e .......... 383.....................  .....
Power VI ProJ et                             26Jun-92                              383.70
IPL MENRTED BY TANESCO                     26-Jun-92                             360.60
Deign & Construct Kihanrsi               26-Jun-92                             260.90
Panel of Experts                         1-feb-93    Cons. Guidelines          1.30
Hlre Project Manager                    2-Apr-93   Cons. Guidelines            1.80
Hire Proj. Man. Consultants            12-Apr-93    Canm. Guidelines          21.80
Bank Clears LOI & TCR                 12-Apr-93
Consultant Prepares Proposat          27-Apr-93
Send Sank Initialled Contract         4-Jun-93
Invite Cons. to Sign Contract        21-Jun-93
Preliminary Works Contract              16-Feb-93   ICS                       3S.90
Send Bidding Documents to Bank       t6-Feb-93
tssue Bidding Documents               9-Apr-93
Open Bids                            28-Jun-93
Send Bank Award Recomendation        30-Aug-93
Bank Clears Award                    Z2-Sep-93
Prequal of Civil Contractors            19 Aug-92
Snd Prequal Documents to Bank         2-Mar-93
Issut  Preoqual Docuents              1-Apr-93
open Prequal Offers                   18-May-93
Send Bank Evaluation Report           18-Jun-93
Bank Clears List of Bidders           6-Jul-93
Main Civil Works Contract               26-Jun-92   iCe                       64.00
Snd  Bidding Documents to tank       28-ay-93
issu  Bidding Documents               6-Jul-93
pen Bids                               7-Oct-93
Send Sank Award Recommendetion       13-Dec-93
Sank Clears Award                     14-Jan-94
loprove Distribution System               1-Apr-93                              53.90
Hire Distribution Consultants.          1-Apr-93    Cons. Guidelines           2.00
Sed TOR & Short List to Sank          3-Jun-93
issue Letter of Invitation           18-Jun-93
open Technical Proposals             20-Aug-93
snd Sank Technical Evaluation         7-Oct-93
Open Price Proposals                 25-oct-93
snd  ank Award Recommendation         9-Nov-93
invite Cone. for Negotiations        26-Nov-93
Send Bank initialled Contract        13-Dec-93
lank Clears Contract                 29-Dec-93
VehYcles (Distribution)                 5-Apr-94   ICt                         1.20
Send Bidding Documents to Sank        S-May-94
tssue Bidding Doouments               7-jun-94
open Bids                             9-Aug-94
Send Bank Awqrd Recomwendetfon        9-Sep-94
Bank Ctears Award                    26-Sep-94
Tools (Distribution)                    5-Apr-94   L1S                         0.60
Send Bidding Documents to Bank        5-May-94
issue Bidding Docxaents               7-Jun-94
Open Bids                             9-Aug-94
Send Bank Award Recommendation        9-Sep-94
Bank Clears Award                    26-Sep-94
Dist Development-New Areas              9-Aug-94                               9.00
Purchase Conductor                    9-Aug-94   ICB                         0.60
Send Bfdding Documents to Bank      9-Sep-94
Issue Bidding Documents            12-Oct-94
Open Bids                           15-Dec-94
Send Bank Award Recommendation      19-Jan-95
Bank Clears Award                   3-Feb-95
Purcabse Transformers                 9-Aug-94    ICS                        2.60
Send Bidding Documents to Bank      9 Sep-94
Issue Bidding Documents            12-Oct-94
Open Bids                           15-Dec-94
Send Bank Award Recommendation      19-Jan-95
Bank Clears Award                   3-fob-95
Purchase Ins lators                   9-Aug-94   ICB                         0.30



TAN~ZANIA             -  133 -Annex46
Power VI Project
Procurement Schedule                                     Page 2 o.  4
(IDA 'ftnancet Packages)
Start                               Togtl S
Task  awe                                    Date        Notes                     (SAC)
._.. ..._ ._..... ........................... *........................ ......... ............. ..  ........... ........................... . ..........
Send Bidding Dcumets to Bank        9-Sep94
Issue Bidding DOcuMents            12-Oct-94
Ope sids                           15-Dece94
Send  ank Awd Recommendation       19-Jan-95
Bank Clears Award                   3-fpeb-
Purdhase Narduare                     9-AUg-94   ICS                        3.90
Send Bidding Docuents to Bank       9Sp-94
issue sidding Otmeuts              12-Oct-94
Open BIds                          1509ee-94
Send Bank Award Recandat1on        19-Jan-"9
ank Cles Award                      3-Feb-95
Purchae Potes,                        9-AUg-94   ICS                        1.t0
Seod Bfdding Documents to Bank      9-Sep-94
Issue Bidding Documents            12-0et-94
Open Sids                          15-Dec-94
Send Bank Award Recomnerdation     19-Jan-ff
Bank Clears Award                   3-Feb-95
Distribution Strengthening              9-Aug-94    ICB                      20.20
Plan Work & Prep. Contracts           9-Aug-94
Oistribution Rehablftation            30-Nov-94   ICe                       20.90
Ptan Work & Prep. Contracts          30-Nov-94
Billing Accounting & StoreS               t-Jul-93                              3.80
softare                                 1-Jul-93    LIS                       0.40
Send Bidding Documents to Bank        2-Sep-93
issue Bidding Documents               5-Oct-93
Open Bids                             9-Deo-93
Send Bank Award Recommendation       14-Feb-94
Bank Clears Award                     2-Mar-94
BEperts (Stores)                        1-Jut-93   Cans. Guidelines           0.40
Send TOR & Short List to Bank         5-Oct-93
Issue Letter of Invitation            5-Nov-93
open Techncal Proposals             12-Jan-94
Sand Bank Technfiat Evaluation       14-Feb-94
Bank Clears openfng of Pries          2-Mar-94
Send Bank Award Recommendation       17-Mar-94
Bank Clears Neotiatfons               1-Apr-94
Send Bank Initialled Cor-tract        3-May-94
Bank Clears Contract                 18-May-94
Conguters & Associated Eqpt.            1-Jul-93   ICS                        0.50
Send gadding Documents to Bank        2-Se93
Issue Bidding Documents               5-Oct-93
open Bids                            23-Nov-93
Sand sank Award Recommendation       24-Dec-93
Bank Clears Award                    12-Jan-94
Cash Reisters                           1-Jul-93   ICe                        0.20
Send Bidding DocUMents to Bank        2-Sep-93
Issue Bfdding Documnts                5-Oct-93
Open Bids                            23-Nov-93
Send ank Award Ret_ndatSon           24-Dec-93
Sank Clears Award                    12-Jan-94
Prepayent Metering system               1-Jul-93    ICB                       0.60
Send BSdding Documents to BAnk        5-Oct-93
Iswe Bidding Dacuments                5-Nov-93
Open Bids                            12-Jan-94
Send Bank Award Recoameation         17-Mar-94
Bank Clears Award                     1-Apr-94
Conventional Meters                     1-Jul-93   ICB                        0.60
Send Bfddfn Documents to Bank         5-Oct-93
Issue BSdding Doamnts                 5-bov-93
Oen Bids                             24-Oe4-93
Send Bank Award Romendation         28-Ja94
Bank Clears Award                    14-Feb94
Service Vire and Materials              1-Jul-93   ICe                        0.30
Send Bidding Documets to Sank        5-Oct-93
Issue Bidding Documnt                 5-Nov-93
Oe Bids                              12-Jan-94
Send Bank Award Recommendation       17-Mar-94
ank Clears Award                      1-Apr-94
Vehcltes (Commercial)                   1-Jul-93   IC8                        0.60
Send Bidding Dcuents to Dank         18-Aug-93
Isws  Bidding Documnts               20-Sp93
Open Bids                             5-Nov-ff
Send Ban Awrd Recommendation         24-Dec-93



TANA1EA                                      Annex 4.6
Power VI Project            - 134 -                      3 of 4
Procurement Schedule                                  ag
(IDA Tinaned Packages)
start                             Tetalt
Task  aMa                                  Oate         otes                   (EAC)
.wt.................................................................. ......... ............. .. ........... ........................... . ..........
ank Clears Award                   12-Jan-94
Instftutional taprovaaents              1-Apr.93                           5.30
EXpert services                       1-Jul-93                             3.20
Corporate Plasw,r                   1-Jul-93   Cons. Guidelines          0.70
SysteTs Manaer                      1-Jul-93   Cons. Ouidelidne          0.60
Management Consult. (PIP)            1-JuL-93   Cons. Guidelrns          0.80
Nanagement Trq./Persornel Con.       1-Jul-93   Cans. Guidmltnes         0.60
Manpower Planing Cans.               1-Jul-94   Conm. Guidelines         0.10
Studies & Project Preparation         3-May-93                             9.10
Update Power Sys-. Nster Plan        1-Jul-93   Cans. Guidltnes          1.60
Send Toa and ihorttist to ank      1-Jul-93
Issue Letters of Invitation       3-Aug-93
TAJESCO Reeives Prqposals         5-Oct-93
Send 8ank Technical Evatuation     9-Dec-93
lank Ctears Openng of Prices      24-0ec-9
Send Sank Award Reconmnndatian    12-Jan-94
lank Ctearance for Negotiation    28-Jan-94
Send lank In1tlalled Contract     22-reb-94
lank Clears Contract Award        22-Feb-94
Training                              1-Apr-93                             3.50
Short Term Manwgement Trainers       1-Apr-93   Cons. Guldetines         0.20
Overseas Management Training        6-Jul-93   Othr                      0@40
Relay & Protection Training         6-Jut-93   Other                     0.20
Ofstribution Planing                 7-Oct-93                            0.60
Hirs Trainer                       7-Oct-93   Cans. Guideifnes         0.30
Purchase Software a  Eq1ipment    12-Jan-98   Direct Procurment        0.30
Reed & Instructor Morogoro          14-Jan-94   Cans. Gudelines          1.20
select Head & Instructor          14-Ja-94
Inatructor Kidatu                  14-Jan-94   Cans. Guidalinas          0.40
select Instructor                 14-Jan-94
Rehbilitate Kfdatu Iydro                l-Jun 93                            16.40
Hire Proj. Man. Cansuttants           l-Jur-93   Can. Guideines            1.10
Sed TOR & Short List to lank         1-Jut-93
Issuae Letter of Invitation        19-Jul-93
Open Technicat Propestso            20-Sepr0
Send lank Technical Evaluatfon      21-Oct-93
Open Price Propagate                 S1-N1-93
Send Bank Award Recom_8dtion        23-Nov-93
Invite Cans. to Negotiate           9-Dec-93
nd Sak Initiatted Contract          12-Jur94
lank Clears Contrat                 12-Jen-94
Rehabilitation                        9-Se94   ICS                        15.30
Send lid Does. to laik              24-M-95
Issu  Sidding Documnts             26-J4un-f
Open lids                           28-Aug-5
Send lank Award Rec.               31-Oct-95
lank Clears Award                   16-Nov-95
DOmnd Side Management                   4-Jan-94                             2.30
COI Lpipment                          4-Jan-94    IC                       1.80
CON ConsuLting                        4-Jan-94   Cons. Guidetfne           0.30
DM  Training                          13-Jul-94   Other                    0.10
DM  tnfo. Copegn                      13-Jul-94   Other                    0.10
IPLMTED IB   N                            1-Apr-93                            21.10
Study of Power Sector Struct.           1-Apr-93   Cons. Guide               1.00
Send TOR & Short List to lank         3-May-93
Issu Letter ot Invitation            18-May93
pn Technical Prpsals                 21-Jul-93
Send Blnk TedmicaL Evaluation        20-Aug-93
open Price Proposaels                 7-Sc-93
Send sank Awrd Recoinnbtion           22-Se93
Invite Cams.. to Neotiate             7-Oct-93
Send lank Initalted Contract          9-Nov-93
Sign Contract and Open LC            26-5ov-9
Eqkip.snt for Ministry                  4J* -94    ICI                       0.30
Training for Ministry                   4-Jan-94                             0.80
energy Managemet & Org.               4-Jan-94   Other                     0.10
neg Project Mnemet                    4-Jan-94   Other                     0.10
nergy Planing & Analysis              3-Ja-95   Other                      0.20
Enegy E1fffeenty                      3-Jan-95   Other                     0.10
Energy Informtion Collectfon          2-Jan96   Other                      0.10
Ene    Economics                       2-Jan-96   Other                    0.10
Coputerized Ptaning                   2-Jan97   Othe                       0.10
Mnazi Say Gas Oe lopt                    1-16.00



TANZANIA
Power VI Project              - 135 -                Annex 4.6
Procurement Schedule                                    Page 4 of 4
(IDA -FInanced Packages)
stat                                Total $
Task Name                                     ate         notes                     (SAC)
....................................................... ............................. ...
Project Nnagenet Coslta                 1-Ju-93    Con. auide                  1.30
Sand TOR  Short List to Sa*          1-Jul-93
visue Letter of tinvtaton            19-Jut-93
open Technical Proposls              20-Sp-93
Send Snk Technical EIvauation        21-oct-93
Open Price Prpsals                    9-Nov-93
Send Sa  Award Reconstien            23-Nov-93
Invite Cars. to Negotiate             9-e0c0-
Send Sank Initaltltd Contract        12-Ja-94
sign Contrat and te LC              2-Ja94
Geratfon & Pipetine Contract            7-Ott-94    AIl                       13.20
Send Bid Cocs. to lank               22-Jun-f
Im55  Bidding Docurents              2-Jul-f
Open Did.                            2-Sep- 95
Send 8ank Award Bec.                 30-Nov-U
ank Clears Award                     15-Dec-IS
Songo Smigo eas Devel"^pmnt.              1-Apr-93   Cons. Cude                  1.00
Send TOR & Short Llat to Bank           3-Ny-93
tssue Letter of nvitation              18-May-9
Open Technical Proposals               21-Jult-f
send 8snk Technicat Evalustion         20-Aug-U
Open Price Proposls a-Step-Uf
Send ank Award Rcommendation           22-Sep.93
Invite Canm. to Negott                  ?-Oct-"
Send Sank Initfatled Contract           9-Nov-Uf
Sign Contract end Open LC              26-Nov-93
IMPLENIJTID BY ZAB ZStAR SnPC                -Jim-Uf                               2.00
Caomercial n     r                         1-Jul-93    Cns. Guide                0.50
Study of Utility Structure.               1-Jutr93    Cone. Guide                0.30
Send TOR & Short List to lank           1-Jul-93
ssue Letter of tInitation              19-Jult-9
Open Technical Proposals                20-Sep-U
Send Sank Technical Evaluation         21-Oct-93
Open Priee Proposals                    5-Nov-93
Send Sank Award Reocmndation           23-wov-U
Invite Con. to Begotiate                9-ac -93
Send Bank Inititalted Contract         12-Jarr94
sign Contract and Open LC              28-Jan-94
Prepa mnt Metering System                12-Jan-94   ICB                         1.20
Send id Docs. to Sank                  18-Apr-94
Issue Bidding DounwAwt                 18-Nay-94
pen Sid$                               21-Jul-94
Send lank A"ard Rec.                   22-Sep-94
Sank Cletr Award                           ct-94
TINE LINE Task Report



TANZA
PoWerVIPMB
pw ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~-d
Snm 8ah bFarPsuCatnpanw
~~~~~7                       1F_                   _   _   _-        .-....    _     .. 5   ,  
..  ..,1.                                                                      X
ass_____________________________
21.
IJU a
4Ju^   ,         
_ .   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~s
..dmS  I  u  ________                                        _____I__     ____   ___.__-     1,Iq                                    W
f _SM~7~                                               4Jm _________ hI.k
whos                                     4~~~~~ ~ ~~~~su-                                                                 00, 
I. tt4 b-
_ .. .Mu~u,__ ____ _  .........   .-_ _ _



- 137 -                         Annex 4.7
Page 2 of 9
Iii             ' '                 I                                 Sl iI  !    i i   i0



- 138 -           ~~~~Annex 4.7
-138-             ~~~~~Page 3 of9
"  ................. ...___
gF~I i  I'



- 139 -
Annex 4.7
Page 4 of 9
T_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
fti:l          <ls    :I       ^l      l     l     i    i
E                                                            I-   ,,         



TANZWA
14434SA
~~vdSVimO~~~~~~~,~~~d ~to
12~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~99
~~~~- - l.M 44
TW  a*N                                           isW  It                1"t1W11                                                      tr M5
24
, 6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
_                            1~ 4    _                    I       I      I      _;    .1I,       I,                                             .   I
UnTuwumTw _-4                                                                                    .t4
OVer.. .    -   ..                                          24
RWfMnTft4 Am  1 20Fb
e      s   tPt                                                   I  1   1 l  _____ ________ 
_VbA3n1                                                 ?.O     64
: ~ m I~ u               ___ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 0
F _    T  1Jp41 ,     E  |    |                  s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'4-



TANZANIA
PowerVI Project
0tawaY BceiieL FMi )ldMu RWetubdon
TaskName                                          1994                           19|6                1166          1667
Kk_eu,Ho ttu^B.,I 1 2
dR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .. -Apr-94 "  
__                                                                                                .~~~~~~~~~~~a
_______________                                                  1SBApr-04              _              2PAI
HiePo.  .ii                        ..stnis1
CMy Out Reha. Wm_                                                                                      12                 ,
a0
00
o _
S-_
a.



- 142 -          Annex 4.7
Pane 7 Qf 9
Iii'
I
0                           I
05*0
a  a  2        a
I I I
m - -
E
E
0
I
II Lw ii I
I!



143 -             ~~~~Annex 4.7
I~ ~   ~               143  I
_               -                 _      ,I
# WAM:~
11 __  ~~~~~~ _~
I                   a 



- 144                 Annex 4.7
Page 9 of 9'
iiSi7
o6: 
10:ll 5   } a



- 145 -
AMR 4J
?ANZA VIA
POWE VI PROJECT
Monitoring Guidelines
Sanesco's operating performance has been monitored for some time
against selected indicators prepared by Tsanesco for all its seven sons,.
its two major power plants (Kidatu and Mtera) and headquarters as
consolidated and updated in Annex 2.2.  These performance  indicators would
contlnue to be monitored during the implementation of tte proposed project.
In addition, a number of target dates have been established to ensure
smooth  implementation of the proposed project               Summarized
below are some of the areas which in particular would be closely monitored
by IDA during the izplemmetation of the proposed project:
(a) preparation of TOR, Invitation to bid and contract award
for consultants;
(b) issue of bid documents, bid closing, and contract award;
(c) progress of construction and installation of equipment;
(d) project cost estimates and financing;
(e)  electricity sales and number of connections by categories;
(f) electricity generat4in (hydro and thermal);
(g) system losses as Z of generation (technical and non-
technical);
(h) firm capacity and generation capability:
(i)  planned and unplanned outages and their 4uration for power
plants, transmission and distribution systems (in hours);
(j) fuel consumption at power station' (kWh/kg) and for
vehicles (kml/liter);
(I) number of employees, absenteeism (days) and safari claims
(days/staff)
(1) revenues from electricity sales by category and operating
costs per kWh sold;
(m) number of days of accounts receivable;
(n) debt service coverage and debt-equity ratio;
(o) internally generated funds as 2 of capital investments; and
(p) audited accounts (including special account) and periodic
activity reports.



-146 -
Annex 4.9
TANZANIA
POWER VI PROJECT
katimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ mllion)
Expeced Project                   Standard
IDA Semester                Disbursement                 Disbursement
Ending         By Semester      Cumulative  Cumulative %   Cumulative %
Jan. 1994             0.8             0.8         0.4              0.0
Jun. 1994             4.9             5.6         2.8             10.0
Jan. 1995             5.4            11.0         5.5             14.0
Jun. 1995            22.0            33.0        16.5             22.0
Jan. 1996            22.0            55.0        27.5             34.0
Jun. 1998            25.6            80.6        40.3             46.0
Jan. 1997            25.6           106.2        53.1             58.0
Jun. 1997            22.2           128.4        64.2             70.0
Jan. 1998            22.2           150.6        75.3             78.0
Jun. 1998            19.5           170.1        85.1             86.0
Jan. 1999            10.0           180.1        90.1             90.0
Jun. 1999             9.5           189.6        94.8             94.0
Jan. 2000             5.2           194.8        97.4             98.0
Jun. 2000             5.2           200.0       100.0            100.0
Obbufont comparloon
100
S  20
0
1  2  3  4  5  e  7  8  9  10 11 12 13 14
msewr
Projet    ----- - Sadad



- 147 -
Anmh4AJ
Page I of 9
TANWZAMA
POWR VI PROJECT
Lover Kihansi Environmental Assessment
Summary
Introduction
4.01        The bulk of Tanzania's energy is derived from woodfuels and
hydropower sources. Woodfuels account for 92S of the energy consumed
with petroleum (72) and electricity (1) accounting for the remainder.
While consumption of modern fuels is relatively low, they play an
important role in Tanzania's economic development.
4.02        Unexploited potential energy sources are substantial and
diverse. In addition to large forest resources, Tanzania has proven coal
deposits estimated at 300 million tons and a significant gas field has
been located offshore near Songo Songo Island, 200 km south of Dar es
Salaam. oil exploration is on-going without significant results. There
is also unexplored geothermal potential. Hydropower potential is
estimated at approximately 4,500 MW of which 330 have been developed.
4.03        Electricity is produced, transmitted and distributed by the
Tanzania Electric Supply Company (TANESCO). Demand for electricity has
been growing at 10X per annum and is expected to continue to grow at 62
per annum until the year 2000 which will require further expansion of
generation, transmission and distribution. The Lower Kihansi
Hydroelectric Project is critical in TANESCO's long-term, least cost
power development plan. TANESCO would be responsible for constructing
and operating the Lower Kihansi power station.
Project Description
4.04        The Kihansi Project area is in a remote and sparsely settled
area of the Uzungwa Highlands roughly 85 km southeast of the city of
Iringa (see Map). The dam and reservoir are located at the top of the
escarpment over 1,000 meters above sea level (masl) while the powerhouse
will be located at the foot of the escarpment at slightly above 300
maal.
4.05        The project     ists of constructing a 3 x 51 MW run-of-
river hydropower facility on the tihansi River, a tributary of the
Rufigi River drainage basin with a catchment area above the proposed dam
site of 590 km2. A 35 m high concrete gravity dam with a crest of 177 m
will create a 30 ha reservoir with a total storage capacity of 1.4
million cubic meters. Effective storage capacity of the reservoir is
nearly 500,000 m3. High water level of the reservoir will be at 1,140
masl with an available drawdown of 3 m.
4.06        An intake, located on the left bank, will have sediment
traps and trashracks and it will direct water into an embedded headrace



- 148 -
Mm 4.10
Page 2 of 9
tunnel of about 1,260 m in length. The steel-lined concrete penstock
will drop the water over 800 a in elevation over a distance of
approximately 3.5 km. After passing through the three turbines, the
water vill be discharged back into the Rihansi River via a 1,240 m
concrete tailrace tunnel.
4.07        While current sediment loads In the Kihansi River would not
exhaust the dead storage in 50 years, a 4 x 4 meter flushing gate is
designed Into the dam in case sediment loads Increase In the catcbment
due to erosion from Intensified agriculture. The combined actions of the
flushing gate, turbines and spiliway will permit a maximum discharge of
400 m3/s, eight times greater than the historic maximum river discharge
of 50 m3l3.
4.08        The powerhouse will be located on the left bank of the river
at the foot of the escarpment which is also the beginning of the
Kilombero Plain at an elevation of 300 masl. The powerhouse vill be
excavated into the base of the escarpment so that only a small part of
the structure will be above ground level. The 0.8 ha switchyard will be
located immediately ad3acent to the powerhouse.
4.09        A 30 km access road will need to be cut up the escarpment
following contours for safety and erosion control to cover the
approximate 4.5 km between the powerhouse and the dam site. It is
assumed that two construction camps will be constructed; one near the
powerhouse on the plain and the second up near the dam and reservoir.
The proposed dimensions of the camps are unknown at the present time.
Proiect Area
4.10        The project site is located at the Uzungwa Escarpment
between the interior highlands above 1,000 masl and a wet lowland
coastal plain of less than 400 masl extending inland from the Indian
Ocean. The Xihansi River rises in gently undulatisg highlands over 2,000
mssl approximately 50 km south of the city of Iringa. The river is part
of a gently flowing dendritic network of tributaries. At the project
site, the gradient increases sharply while passing over the scarp.
4.11        The basin is structured by numerous faults oriented NE-SW
and NNE-SSW. The scarp was formed by these fault groups in an uplifting
in the late Paleozoic to early Mesozoic. No faults can be found within
the limits of site reconnaissance anm boring investigations. Additional
geological surveys and borings are being conducted.
4.12        Geologic investigations and borings at the project site
indicate no serious problems with constructing a 35 m high concrete
gravity dam. Borings for the intake, penstock and tailrace do not
indicate problems for those structures. Investigations at the powerhouse
site indicate a possible fault and if this is verified by the
consultants preparing the detailed design, the powerhouse site can be
shifted to avoid the fault without compromising the project.



Annea 4.1
-                    - 149 -                       Page3 o09
4.13        Owing to the proximity of the Rift Valleys, there is a
history of seismic activity near the project site. The epicenters of 349
earthquakes which occurred in Tanzania between 1910 and 1987 are within
a 1,000 km radius of the project site. As a result of the concern for
dam safety in this seismically active area, the design horizontal
seismic coefficient for the dam is double than what is concidered to be
safe.
4.14        The project area has a tropical savanna climate divided into
a wet and a dry season. Rains generally begin in November and continue
sporadically through May. The weather patterns are strongly influenced
by movements of the intertropical Convergence Zone. The basin has
relatively high rainfall with an annual average of 1,500 mm ranging from
1,00 mm in the western part of the basin to 1,800 mm in the eastern
area. Average annual potential evaporation is 1,919 m. Temperature is
greatly influenced by elevation with maximum temperatures in the
highlands of 26.2 degrees C. and over 30 degrees C. in the lowland
plains. The minimum temperatures show a similar spread when upland
temperatures are compared to ones in the lowland.
4.15        Hydrological data from six gauging stations were used to
calculate river discharge at the project site. These stations have
variable lengths of operation. The most important station has been
operating since 1974 with observations three times per day. Two other
upstream stations have been operating since 1982 and 1984. The oldest of
the six stations has been collecting hydrological data since 1955. The
average annual discharge is 15.87 m3/s with a maximum average of 29.77
in 1969 and a minimum average of 9.42 in 1954. The maximum historic
flood was 50 m3!s and the maximum probable flood is 380 m3is. The flood
discharge applied to dam design is 400 m3/s, eight times the highest
recorded flood discharge.
4.16        Limited suspended solid data were collected during the EA
and these were used to make calculations Qf suspended loads based on
more extensive data collected by PAo on nearby rivers in the Rufigi
drainage. Although trap efficiency of the Lower Mlhansi Dam is nearly
zero, the suspended load calculations assigned a very conservative trap
efficiency of 15. The estimated accumulation of sediments after 50
years derived from the calculations would be 125,000 m3 with a sediment
level at 1,125 masl which is the same level as the sand flushing gate.
4 17        Limited water quality sampling was conducted during the EA
(seven samples between June and September). These data indicate that the
waters are quite acidic and nutrient deficient (oligotrophic). The Ph of
the water is 4.9 and electrical conductivity is low at an average of
17.3 pS/cm. Dissolved oxygen is relatively high ranging between 6.2 and
9.9 mg/l which would be expected from the rapidly moving flow.
4.18        The amount of total suspended solids and the amount of total
residues are relatively high at 120 mg/l and ISC 1/1 respectively.
However, transparency tests show that the water is highly transparent.
The sediments are large grained, mostly mica which would not affect
turbidity or transparency of the water. Very low readings of nitrogen,



- 150 -                     AMm 4.1l2
Psge4 0t9
phosphate and sulfate Indicate that the river does not have high
biological productivity. The water quality of the river is likened to
that of rain water.
4.19        The water quality results are not surprising. The catcbment
area is not highly developed agriculturally and mach of the catchment is
protected by forest reserve. There are very few upstream sources of
pollution and human population densities are low throughout the
catchment.
4.20        As a run-of-river power station, the Lower Kihansi Dam with
nearly zero trap efficiency will not have any severe or long-lasting
downstream effects. During construction, the suspended load will
increase from erosion caused by construction.
This effect will be temporary and it can be reduced In severity by
employing effective erosion control techniques during construction. The
project will not have any effects on the upstream or downstream
groundwater levels. The 4.5 km stretch of the river between the dam
site and the powerhouse will receive reduced flow and perhaps zero flow
during the dry season. The Kihansi Falls will be less spectacular during
the wet season and are likely to dry completely during the dry season.
The falls are attractive, but have not had tourism value because of
their remote and nearly inaccessible location. Tourism in the area is
currently focused on the Selous Game Reserve and this focus is likely to
continue into the future.
4.21        The Kihansi River separates Uzungwa Scarp Forest Reserve and
land used for shifting agriculture. The reserve is a part of the larger
20,500 ha Forest Reserve. On the south bank, land is cultivated using
primLtive slash and burn techniques with hand tools. There is evidence
that better agricultural practices, such as contour planting and
terracing, are being introduced into the area. Due to distance and
difficult roads to markets, farming is mostly for subsistence rather
than cash crops.
4.22        The forest on the north bank is a rich second-growth forest
which has been partially protected for approximately 50 years. During
the EA, 107 species of 38 families of trees were identified. Timber
volume, estimated at 100 tonslha is not high when compared to the 300
tonsIha     found in the average moist tropical forest.  The forest is
considered to have high conservation value because of high species
diversity and for watershed protection.
4.23        Although the forest is legally protected, it is being
lightly exploited for saw timber and fuelwood. During the EA. piles of
pit sawn lumber were noted in various locations, some of which may have
been extracted under government license. Residents of two nearby
villages extract fuelwood from the forests, but certainly well below the
rate of regeneration.
4.24        Wildlife has diminished from earlier times, especially the
larger species, such as elephant and African buffalo. There have not
been any recent sightings of these two species in the project area. The



- 151 -                      Annux 4A10
Pag 5 ofg
highly protected Selous Game Reserve is quite close to the lower part of
the project area and this reserve provides an enormous mount of
protected habitat for wildlife. The Lower Kihansi project will not have
any effects on the reserve.
4.25        The forest provides excellent habitat for many vertebrate
and invertebrate species, many of which are endeamc to the escarpment
forest. During the EA, 124 species of birds belonging to 37 families
were recorded. While the forest is known to contain three rare and
endangered bird species, none were observed during the EA. There are 16
endemic bird species known to occur In the forest reserve. Since less
than 15 ha of forest will be cleared for the reservoir, it is not likely
that the project will have serious adverse effects on wildlife as the
animals would move to a different part of the forest.
4.26        Since the river waters are so deficient In nutrients, there
is not a large, nor varied fish population. Fish caught during the EA
vere small and only a few species were present in the samples. Residents
claim that they do not use the river for fishing. The falls below the
dam site are already an effective barrier to fish migration and the dam
will not constitute any threat to fish migration.-
4.27        During the EA meetings were held at Ukami and Uhafiwa, two
villages within a 10 km radius of the project site. These villages
contain 2,200 and 1,200 residents respectively. Approximately 402 of the
population is less than 12 years old; 502 between 13 and 50 years and
the remaining 101 is over 50 years old. There are three elementary
schools in the two villages. There is a dispensary with a permanent
medical assistant and nurse In Uhafiwa which covers the three villages
of Uhafiwa, Ukami and Ihimbo. There is a mission hospital equipped for
In-patient care and minor surgery at Usokami village, 40 km on the route
to Iringa.
4.28        In the villages, people were told the basic facts about the
project. Many were aware of the project and enthusiastically supported
the concept. Access is very difficult to and from the villages,
consisting of one very rough road/track to Iringa, 80 km distant. It
takes more than three hours by car or truck to make the trip between the
villages and Iringa. Bus service is available for the first 40 km from
Iringa. The only other means of access is a foot path down the
escarpment to the road connecting the villages of Ifakara and Chita. It
takes nearly one day to make the trip down the steep and treacherous
path and the return trip is much more difficult. Therefore. the project
area residents see the project as a means to improve access to markets
as well as offering possible employment directly or indirectly related
to the project.
4.29        Tanzania has developed the ten cell system for communicating
between government and the rural populations. Ten households send one
representative to the basic cell to discuss the everyday issues relating
to rural living. The elected leader of this cell reports the discussions
and consensus to the village chairperson who in turn raises the issues
with the village council. The results of the village council meetings



Annexc 4.12
- 152 -                  Page 6 of 9
are reported to the District Commissioner who is responsible for
coordinating with the national government. Actions taken at the
na.ional level are reported to rural populations in the reverse order,
from District Commissioner to village council to cell leader. The
residents of Ukami and Uhafiwa expressed satisfaction with the system
and agreed to use this system of communication to continue their
participation in the Lower Kihansi project.
4.30        Only two dwellings which are only temporarily occupied will
need to be removed for the project construction. These houses are
totally without services of electricity, water supply and sanitation.
The households had been previously relocated to Uhafiva and Ukami In
1974 under a government project to strengthen rural communities. For
unknown reasons, the families decided to return to their homes near the
Lower Kihansi dam site.
4.31        The most common diseases reported by the dispensary at
Uhafiwa are respiratory diseases including pneumonia, malaria, diarrheal
diseases and helminthiasis (unspecified). The river does not provide
conducive habitat for mosquitos or the snail hosts of bilhar:ia. There
were two cases of bilharzia reported in Uhafiwa in 1986, but the source
of the infection is unknown. It is likely that residents of the villages
are exposed to malaria and bilharzia when they visit the lowland plains
which are covered by wetlands that are excellent habitat for mosquitos
and snails. The reservoir, being so small and with very short retention
time, will not be suitable habitat for either snails or mosquitos. The
reservoir will not be used by people for recreation, bathing or washing,
thus there will be no increased human exposure to water-borne or water-
related diseases as a result of the project.
4.32        There have been no reported cases of AIDS from the
dispensary and it is possible that the disease has not yet spread to the
project area. AIDS in rural areas is more commonly associated with
transport routes, possibly being spread by truck drivers. Since the
project area is so remote, the probability of the introduction of AIDS
into the population is less than it would be for many other rural areas.
Construction of the dam and powerhouse will create an influx of labor
and associated commercial activities into the project area. This influx
of people, many from urban areas, definitely Increases the possibility
of AIDS transmission. Labor camps at large construction projects
attract young and sexually active people who seek to take advantage of
the steady Income earned by the project labor force. These are ideal
conditions for the spread of AIDS.
4.33        During the discussions with residents, the EA team was
informed of the existence of a pre-colonial iron smelter located
upstream of the proposed dam site. The team did not visit the site, but
residents claimed that it was distant from the site and that it would
not be affected by the project.
4.34        There are no national parks in the vicinity of the project
site. Part of the Uzungwa Mountains are plauned to be designated as a
national park in the future but the proposed area is more than 100 km



- 153 -
Anw&AQ
Pgge 7 of 9
from the project area. The Selous Game Reserve is close to the proposed
powerhouse, but will not be affected by the construction or operation of
the plant. Kibasira Game Controlled Area is between the powerhouse site
and Selous Game Reserve. The project effects oan the game area would be
temporary disturbances due to noise.
Probable Proiect Imoacts
4.35        Approximately 30 ha of land will be lost for the reservoir
and another 15 to 50 ha will be used for access road construction and
the construction camps. Only 15 ha of the land lost is in natural
forest. Two temporarily occupied dwellings will be removed as a result
of project implementation.
4.36        The project will not increase the incidence of water-related
diseases because the reservoir will not provide conducive habitat for
mosquitos or snail hosts of bilharzia. The major health threat of the
project is the possible introduction of AIDS into the area by the labor
force which will include urban workers.
4.37        Wildlife habitat will be reduced by 15-20 ha. It is expected
that wildlife will move to adjacent areas of similar habitat. Wildlife
could be reduced through harassment and illegal hunting by the labor
force if the contractor does not enforce strict regulations to protect
wildlife. Major fish movements will not be altered as a result of the
project because fish movements have been historically blocked by the
Kihansi Falls. Fishing in the downstream wetlands will not be affected
by th. run-of-river project.
4.38         Water quality will not be directly altered by the project
except some increase in downstream sediment loads resulting from
construction activities. This would be a temporary condition and will
not create significant damage to the downstream wetlands. The project
may cause indirect deterioration of water quality by encouraging human
inmigration to the area through the improved access. This inmigration
would intensify land use, mostly for agriculture. This increased use
would increase erosion and sediment loads in the river. The intensified
agriculture may stimulate widespread use of agricultural chemicals which
would run-off into the river. Waterweeds are not expected to alter water
quality or jeopardize plant operation since the reservoir will not be
conducive to waterweed proliferation.
4.39        The project will create a large amount of excavated material
and environmentally sound disposal techniques will be required. It is
possible that the material could be used in road rehabilitation or
improvement. The material may also be used to help In stabilizing the
access road.
Analysis of Alternatives
4.40        Several power generating alternatives have been evaluated in
two national power studies. Each plan considers hydropower to be the
least cost option of expansion of the Tanzania power grid, since the



- 154 -
MuAi 4.10
Page a of 9
country has not exploited reserves of fossil fuels. Ezploitation of the
Songo Songo Island gas field for power generation was studied but was
not found feasible.
4.41        Bydropower is usually a non-polluting power source and under
most conditions it is considered to be environmentally preferable to
fossil-fueled power generation. With the current low per capita energy
consumption In Tanzania, energy conservation is not a viable option for
meeting Tanzania's developmeat needs in the medium- to long-term.
TANESCO ls making efforts to reduce system losses and is vigorously
pursuing a program to have a fully metered system.
4.42        Alternate hydropower sites were evaluated, including another
site on the Ribansi River. The Lower Kihansi site was selected for the
next generating station for Tanzania on the basis of economic and
engineering studies. The Lower Ktihansi site is also the most
environmentally preferable site because of the remote nature of the site
and the small size of the reservoir. While other hydropower sites in
Tanzania may also pose as few environmental risks as the Lower Kihansi
project, the EA demonstrates that Lower Kihansi is an acceptable site
and that it does not pose serious environmental problems.
Recosmended Mitiaation Measures
4.43        TANESCO should establish an in-house environmental unit to
be based at Kibansi during construction. This unit would be responsible
for environmental supervision and monitoring at the site during
construction. The unit would also provide liaison between the
construction contractor and the local populations. The unit would also
be responsible for implementation of mitigation measures for the
project.
4.44        TANESCO should prepare strict environmental protection
clauses for bidding documents for the contractors. These clauses should
require that the contractor enforce regulations to protect wildlife
through strict sanctions regarding illegal hunting and harassment of
wildlife. These clauses should also insist on strict erosion control
practices and require that the contractor respond quickly to any erosion
detected by the environmental supervision unit rather than having the
contractor wait until the end of construction to carry out restoration.
The contracts should also require the contractor to maintain access
roads so that they do not contribute to excessive erosion. If erosion
does occur, the contractor must control it quickly or face financial
penalties. The contract should also specify that the contractor will
develop methods to control all wastes including sanitary and
construction wastes.
4.45        TANESCO should make sure that the area to be inundated will
be completely cleared of all woody vegetation. This vegetation should be
removed from.the reservoir area.
4.46        The contractor should be required to protec   the health of
all employees with medical screening as a pre-requisite to employment



- 155 -                   ABDSa410
Page 9 of 9
including EIV screening. The contractor should be required to maintain
adequate health services for all employees and their families Including
the unskilled laborers. The contractor should be required to engage a
local NGO or private company to conduct a health education program
including materials on the transmissioA of the AIDS virus. This program
should cover workers, famillies and the residents of the local villages.
4.47        At the completion of construction, the contractor should be
required to restore all borrow areas, quarries, abandoned camp
facilities and other landscape disruptions to an acceptable stabilized
condition that will revert to natural conditions if no further
construction or disruption takes place.
4.48        TANESCO must Insure that the two households are equitably
relocated and compensated for all losses. The company should also
devise a system to quickly compensate other land holders who will lose
cropland or economic trees as a result of the ih4ansi project. It !s
preferable that the compensation be made directly between the power
company and the affected land holders rather than pursue a eompensation
mechanism which involves various levels of government agencies.
4.49        TANESCO should continue to use the Ten Cell system for
communication with the local populations.
Monitoring
4.50        The in-house unit would be responsible for designing and
implementing a realistic monitoring plan. If this unit is based at the
project site during construction, it will insure effective monitoring
and environmental supervision.



-156 -                          AgnzA4I
Page1 of 2
LOR RKIWESI HYDROELECTIC SCHEME
Terms of Reference for p!anel of Exoerts
1.          A Panel of Experts (POE) will be appointed by TANESCO, to
undertake periodic, comprehensive and independent review of the design and
construction of the dam and appurtenentmstructures. The objectives of the
review are safe, economic, state of the art designs and efficient and
expeditious construction.
Organlzation and Membershig
2.          The Panel shall contain four permanent members with wide,
specialised experience in the following fields:
- Engineering Geology
- Rock Mechanics and the Design of Underground Works
- Planning and Design of Dams and Hydropower Facilities
(Generalist)
- Construction of Dams, Tunnels and Hydropower Facilities
3.          At appropriate times during the design and construction of the
Project, the Panel will be enlarged as necessary by the addition of
specialists in other fields, such as hydrology, sedimentology, hydraulics,
high head turbines and in any other area, where the Chairman of the Panel, in
consultation with TANESCO, considers it advisable.
4.          A Chairman will be appointed by TABESCO to coordinate
communications of the POE, to call and chair its meetings, to ensure the
membershIp's activity and to provide balance to its reviews and
recommendations.
S.          The composition of the Panel, and the areas of expertise which it
covers may be varied during the course of the Project as considered
appropriate by TANESCO in consultation with the Chairman.
eetsincs and Schedules
6.          The Panel will convene at regular intervals to review the status
of work in progress. The frequency of meetings and their timing will be
adjusted to conform with the schedule of works in progress, but the time
between meetings shall not normally exceed six months. At each meeting the
scheduled dates for the next mreting and tentative timing for the subsequent
meeting will normally be fixed, to enable Panel member to arrange their
individual schedules. Extraordinary meetings of the Panel may be called in
critical situations, and the services of individual members may be solicited
between meetings as considered necessary or desirable by TANESCO with copies
of their input being sent to other Panel members.
7.          The Panel will pr pare and submit written proceedings of the
meetings (regular or extraordinary), including recommendations, within three
weeks of the meetings, and in case of emergency will prepare technical
memoranda or aide memoires during the meetings. A preliminary report will be
prepareed before the adjournment of each meeting. All reports will be
submitted to TANESCO and through them to the World Bank.
Seope of Reviewg
S.   The subjects on which the Panel are expected to comment are listed
below. The Panel should also comment on any other matter which it perceives
to be important to the successful completion and operation of the project.



&nnAM
- 157 -                               Page 2 of 2
(a)   Hvdrclgavt The extent and sufficiency of data, the methodology for
derlvation of extreme and design floods, the methodology for
developing long torm flow aerLes for energy production estimates;
(c)   Nnoineerina geoloavs The quality and sufficiency of the geological
investigations and the lnterpretation thereof; the correctness of
the geological and hydrogeologLcal models of the region, reservoir
area and dameitel the engineering implications with respect to
foundation design, stability of natural and excavated slopes; and
support of surface and underground excavations.
(d)   Rogk  gghanics/Uneggoound Ixcavationat The design of surfawe and
underground excavations, including s.iection of stable slopes;
appropriate shapes and orientations for underground excavations;
and the design of temporary and permanent support systems and
linings.
(e)   Sedimentol :avs Estimates of sediment load that will enter the
reservoir, pass through the reservoir and through the turbines;
the efficacy of sediment trapping and flushing facilities.
(f)   Concrete Dam Design: The adequacy of field and laboratory
investigations in relation to materials for construction of the
dam and cofferdams, the appropriateness of materials selected, the
design of the dam and construction diversion arrangements.
(g)   Hydraulic DegiLn: The hydraulic design and specifications for the
spillway, sediment flushing facilities, construction diversion,
power conduit (static and dynamic).
(h) Planning and Desogn of Dams and Hydropower Facilitiess The overall
layout of the project; the design of hydraulic structures; the
diversion scheme and the sizing of its various components; the
capacity of the spillway and flushing facilities; the procedures
for routine inspectior of the dam and checking safety of
structures, including the organization and staffing of the
inspection agency.
(i) Construction of Dams and Hvdr2Rower Facilities: The construction
planning studies, temporary facilities, access to the site, access
at the site, the master schedule for implementation, conditions of
contract; contractors proposals in relation to plant, construction
procedures, schedule, river diversion; the organizatior., staffing
and procedures for managing the construction of the project.
(m)   Mechanical and Electrical Desian of Hydroelectric Works*
Specifications and manufacturers proposals for turbines,
generators and mechanical and electrical equipment in the
powerhouse and switchyard.



- 158 -                           AmJiUJl
Page 1 Of 2
I!OVVER Mn PRaOMg
&ep _                                    Cnehr ap h        Capa80          SoMe. Char_ e
I                            I Ca        I
Q .     E      L: Appabl to pmis used exclusivelu f dometi and privat nsidential papose.
0-100              0-100                 Shs.3.O0per kWh       Nil                 ShS.100permonth
101-7500              O ,1000               Shs. 5.OperkWh        Nil                 SbS.l00permonth
1001 . 2500             Sb,. 12.50 per kWh     NU                  Shb. SW per month
2501 - 7500             Sh. 25.00 per kWh      Nl                  ShS. 500 per month
Over 7SOO            0 - 1000              Shb. 10.00 per kWh     Nil                Sb.. SO0 per mouth
1001 - 7500             ShS. 25.00 per kWh     NU                  Sb.. SO per month
Ovr - 7500              Shb. 50.00 per kWh     NU                  Shs. 500 per mouth
Triff No. 2 LIGT COMMERCAL: Apble to shops.  staunts, theats hote clubs, habour., schos hospitals, airpot,
lodging houses, goup of raeidntal mi   with one met and on pemises wher  imia business or trade b condutd and where
co     ion is less than 7,0 kiowat hours per mcutr reading peiod.
0-200              0-200                 So. 5.00pertckWh      Nu                  Shs. 250permonth
201 - 1000         201 - 1000              Shs. 17.S0 per kWh     Nil                Sbs. 1000 per mouth
1001- 2500            0 - 1000              Shs. 17.50 per kWh     Nil               Sbs. 1000 per month
1001- 2500              Sb.. 37.50 per kWh     Nil                Sbs. 1000 per month
2501- 7500            0- 1000               Shs. 17.S0 per kWh     Nil                Shs. 1000 per month
1001 - 20               Sb.. 37.50 per kWh     Nil               Sb.. 1000 per month
2501 - 7500             Shs. 60.00 per kWh     Nil                Shs. 1000 per month
Over 7500            0 - 1000              Sbs. 17.50 per kWh     Nil               Shb. 1000 per month
1001 - 2500             Shs. 37.50 per kWh     Nil                Shb. 1000 per month
2501- 7500              Shb. 60.00 per kWh     Nil                Shb. 1000 per month
Taiff No. 3 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL: Applcable to premis  enaged in production of any adollomnmodity or in industrial prcess
here the main use of electricity is for moive power, or sa electochmica or eectrhrmal pcess and whe the consumption is less
ta 7,500 kiowatt hours per meter weading period.
0- 1000            0 - 1000               Shs. 5.00 per kWh     Nil                Shs. 1000 per month
1001 - 2500           0 - 1000              Shs. 15.OO per kWh     Nil                Sh. 1000 per month
1001 - 2500             Shs. 35.00 per kWh     Nil                Shs. 1000 per month
2501 -7500            0-1000                Sh. 15.00perkWh        Nil                Shs. l000permonth
1001- 2500              Shb. 35.00 per kWh     Nil                Sbs. 1000 per month
2501- 7500              Shs. 50.00 per kWh     Nil                Shs. 1000 per month
Over - 7500             Shb. 70.00 per kWh     Nil                Sbs. 1000 per month
Tariff No. 4 LOW VOLTAGE SUPPLY: Applicable for gal use whero the consumption is more than 7,500 kiowatt hours per metr
seadin eiodp.
fist 150 times     b.d. (Va) units            Shs. 23.00 per kWh      Shs. 1500 per    Sb.. 20,000 per mouth
Next lS0 times     b.d. (Va) unib             Shs. 18.50 per kWh      kVa of billng
Re_aider units                                 Sb.. 15.00 per kWh      dmd (bd..)
per month
Tadff No. 4a ARICULTURAL CONSUMERS: Applicable to agricultl consumces whose consumption is more than 5,000 units per
mater ding period enged in dirct raw fanm produce production andlor ptocesing.
Unk Charge              Shs. 12.00 per kWh     Sbs. 800 per     Sbs. 20,000 per month
kVa of billing
daeand (.d.)
per month



159 -                     AniwzLl
Page 2 of 2
1--,_1I            -I                                                 I , 1,, ,, jc
Tsiff No. 5 HIGH VOLTAGE SMPY: Applicabe br gat use whe  power is metaed at 11 kV nd above.
fst ISo times      b.d. (Va) units              Shs. 20.50 per kWh     Shb. 1300 pe      Sba. 30,000 pe mouth
Nea 150 mes        b.d. (kVa) unit              Sha. 17.50 per kWh      kV of biling
Next 150 times     b.d. (kVa) uis               Shs. 14.00 per kWh      demand (b.d.)
Remaide uni                                     Sas. 12.00 per kWh      per month
TaMiff No. So HIGH VLTAGE! SUPPLY ENE1tOY INTNSlVE C          )MES: Applcable to high unsion conmer whose dmand
is above 5,000 kVa or consumptioa above 800,000 kWh per mer rading peiod.
First 150 dmes     b.d. (kVa) unbs             Sbs. 18.50 per kWh      Shs. 1200 pet    81. 50,000 per month
Next 150 dmes      b.d. (kVa) unis              Sin. 16.50 per kWh     kVa of bMing
Nedl 150 tmes      b.d. (kVa) units            Shs. 14.00 per kWh      demand (b.d.j
Remainder unt                                   Shs. 12.00 per kWh      per month
Taiff No. 6 PUBLIC LIGHTING: Appicable to public lighting and places of wonhip.
All units              Shs. 4.SOparkWh        Nil
Taiff No. 8 WATER SUPPLY ACCOUNTS: Applcble to all Public Water Supply pumping instalto  with cosumpto abov
10,000 uni pe met rading peiod.
Unit charge             Shs. 11.75 per kWh      Shs. 900 per      Sbs. 20,000 per month
kVa of bMing
demand (b.d.)
per mnt*h
Tariff No,9 ZANZIBAR SUPPLY:
Tbe interim avege taiff of about TSh 0.58 per kWh for Zanzibar supply was rvised during an agreement btwaeen TANESCO and
ZSPPC in January 22, 1991. The average pr  to ZSFPC was adjusted to TSh 3.90 per kWh for th year 1990 (to be paid  ractivdy)
and to be adjusted for each subsequen ye. using an agreed upon formula based on economi cost of supply and takng into accout th
capl investeots incured by Zanzbar. Based on preicted sales in 1992, the effctive averap taiff for Zanzibar bulk supply as of
Janay 1992 was equivalent to about TSh 18.14 per kWh.



ANNEX52
- 160 -
TANESOO
b0combsteomods
For fe Yoe  ending Dember1, 1002-1006
wS milons)
1992    t~      1994      m    i  199 ose    T    101
Sa-nl. (h                              15121                                              2837
WeGht AeA. Tariff NScenttkIWh)            0                0       1       1        1       1
1063    *-3    1740    19*    2131 _   4           26_04
CommercIal                             61 0 I          26.50     .2    3.3               3 8043
UgTALndusa                            642B   *4       1064951* 1347. 22   16.20
LV Industia & Oonmrercil              18.25    AR     30.01    0*I     37.37   412      46.3
HV Indstral & Coimroalc               2D.65       8339    6A           4126* ~50.50
AQgicltkure                            3.80      8     6 .12    7.? 5                      m6.66
Eergy Inrteiv                         16.57   04      27.16 ..W6~3.27 8.               40.72
Publi Uhtng                           0.13   '       ,'0.20             0.24.             029
SpeciaTadff NVWA                      3.70  ..4~       6.43      8* .21  ~$. 10.19
Bulk Sale - ZanzIar                   3.69             s .6      4      6.65 .           8*  ~  .05
TOTAL SALES                         90.87  13*.85 1962        ::  20E.48        .4  255.46
Opeatn Rmvenues 11
SWWale Rveu                          09.67 ..,IZ      169.62   1 9 206.46               235.46
OtherPRvenmes                         0.80  '0O9 .8             0.      M039     0       0.39
TOTAL OPERANNG REVENUE           -1M.0             7   01  jfl      206.6            255.65
Operating Bp.4nss                            .43%.                                       8
Salarie                              5.10    7.02     7.6 nhEA62       9.52 a           13.22
Fuel                                14.20            42761.44.77                       68.61
Purchased Enegy 
Repaira &mawn                        2.94.            3~... ~4.04    48                 4.73
Admkn                                 7.97    84 .70 .  9.             9.50 .           10.36
ProvIson                             0.06      .O     0.06.0O          0.07    0.6       0.06
Cioporate Taxes                       3.08    0       4.42    R.7      14.13.*l4        29.41
DeprecaIo                            35.27    4*     436      44      46.51     346     56682
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES           6860-A  --5 11 5.35   f1Z 147.22                  I!M16.26
NET OPERATING INCOME               61.65            54.65 '          61 .65'          72.59
Interesthre                           9A                0Wi            33.04    0.4     37.72
NET INCOME aftwr hintees            Un     1          Lg             mm:L~     "*IaZ
Dividends                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~11.52   112 115  1.2    15
RtErAINED INCOME                    jnm 
Iatete t rtur                         3.74%.  46    5.43%.4             5.73%    53%     5.6%
1 Sdale figume in 1990 Wme firom TANESCO' frinacia records.



-161 -              ANNEXS3
TANEOO
8m and AppUcainz XFwun  S_oo
For  Yo  Endn 01ZoSnw 1. 11|02-1W8
#)SmRn
SOURMI~ ~  ~ OF FUDS             M1
_IsSnWtoperls*:                         184  Mo,71
_|__sn km"D  S    1.   725
-_row                              4X6  8.1SA



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V V-i  !
q                              -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~04
M  1  E-
'V., ,1 a! ! 0sillx  ] | 0ffi;x10 g  i X t1M:llttl 1.
I! ~'   ;'czz:':~.'~':::: Wj ~;883~ ~  r~  8~8-V-  W.
v-



- 163- A-MIS
Page 1 of 3
TANZANIA
TANZAN BUiCI RI2MPt CORPORATION LTD.
SIXT9 POWER PEL113
ErANCIAL PRQJWIIONS
Notes and AssumDdons
Projections for electricity opedons are based on the following assumtos
Income Stemn
1.    Sala of          - Total sales of enegy was derived based on annual sales growth of
7% in 1993, 12% in 1994, 7% in 1995, 7% in 1996, 6% in 1997 and 7% in 1998. Sales were
calculated with the assumption that the average tariff (UScents/kWh) will be increased 30% in
1993 and 3.4% during the projectin period 1994-1998.
5.    Oda Rpenues - Since the value of this category is relatively isgnificant, it was held
at a constant level throughout the projection period.
6.    Saaries - Staff salaries are projected to increase 37% in 1993, 9.3% in 1994, 11% in
1995 and 1996, 18% in 1997 and 1998.
7.    E1  - The costs of fuel are proiected to increase according to the thermal fuel
requirem_ts of disewl plants in the isolated and grid system. Fuel cost frcast was projected
based on the following assumptions:
1922   1993  I,       19    lI26    1997   1298
Thermal Generato Req. (GWh)          146    315    SOO    709    652    764    676
Fuel Oil COnsumption (kg/kWh)       0.264   0.250  0.238   0.226   0.220   0.220   0.220
Projected Fuel Cnsmwptiongkg milion)  38.6   78.8  118.9  160.1  143.4  168.0  148.7
Fuel Oil Price (US$Ikg)              0.33   0.35   0.36    0.38   0.39   0.40   0.42
The average fuel oil pric to TANESCO of about UScents 32 per kldogram was used for 1991
and adjuswted for inational price escaton for 1992 thrugh 1998. The cost of lubricants was
estimated to be 10% of the cost of fuel.
8.    Roi andn              - This operagt  expense have been calclated at an average of
about 2.5% of preceding years' gross rvalued fixed assets.
9.    Provisns - Provision for doubtful accounts was projected at 2% of accounts receivable.



- 164 -
Page 2 of 3
10.   CzZ"  Mm  -T    were poected rughly to be equivatent to 35% of the toa
Operatg Income and Deprecation less 30% of capital investnents during the year.
11.                           dwp- Deprecaton chre was calculated on a saight line basis at 3.0% of
gross fixed assets in opertion each year.
12.   Int     - Interest expense was projected on the basis of acal interest charged for
exsting and execxd loas for the major capital    di .
13.  Dividends - Annual dividends of about 10% of total equity was assumed during the
period 1993 to 1998.
13.   Fid At  - Fixed Asset values durng the project  period were detrmied according
to the existing and agreed investm    progam and the placing of completed construction into
servce.
14.  Acouts             - Accounts receivable were valued at about 30% and 17% of sales
of elctdity in 1993 and 1994 to 1998 respectively with the introduction of more sophisticated
and state-of-the art computerized accounting and billing systems.
15.  bmwantar - Stores were proected to reflect the expected increase in stocks for the
matas for both the plant and civil works project during the project under review. It is
esmated at about 4% of net revalued plant in operan.
16.   Ptaymmt and A4da=  - Ppayment and advances were projected to increase at the
rate of about 5% annually.
17.        C- Other current assets were projected to inc aseat the rate of about
5% annually.
18. Grants - ITis amount includes exising grants obtaned from various donors to finance
generaion, tornision and distribution works aready under consruction.
19.   Rese-yes - This amount represets the currenc exchange flucwation and realuation
reserve balance as of December 31, 1991. It shuld be noted, however that the revaluaion
reserve may be overvalued becase old assets which are no  nger in sece ae included in the
balance sheet. An inventory and valuation of TANESCO's asse  will be underaken under the
proposed proect
20.  LNg - This amount includes all long term loans for the pwposed Power VI Project and
other investment projects. Ite proceeds of futur credits, including the proposed IDA credit,
are aumed to be onlent to TANESCO at 8% annu  inest, the ongoing IBRD lending rate,
and are asumed to be repayable in 20 years, incluing 3 to 5 years grace, dqending on the
constrcdon period of the work financed.



- 165 -
Page 3 of 3
21.   Creditors - Accounts payable was proected at about 20% of cash oprang epes.
22. Advc on Worksorde - Advances were projected to incrase at 10% annually.



TANZANIA
POWEt IPROJECT
ESTI.AATED ECONOPC 91TERULAL RATE OF RETURN 11 
uenmenti    bementi          Relabity    hwesbuent hwomentid O       nd   bereme sta       TotW           Not
Yew            Enrgy Sdeit.b er  Beth         Sefw           Cotds      Cener Costs    FuedCobts            Costb        enaift
IGWh)   fTabT ookfTel h.lBenM         W16MMIe)         (T$kMV1onI      (rSbMUlont    (r..mon)  (Te 1MEonI
1992                     0              0             0        26617                  0              0         26617       (26,617)
1993                    89           3778             0        48209               2317           3529         54055       (50.277
1994                   245          10532             0        44388               3903           7159         55450       (44,918
1995                   448          19363          2764        43891               5415          11465         60771       (38,643
1996                   583          25169          2967        36301               6149          11830         54280       (26.144
1997                   725          31286          3179        41675               6774          14687         63137       (28,671
1998                   872          37607          6799        13426               7121          12201         32748        11.658
1999                  1026          44230          7261            0               5055           1761          6816        44.676
2000                  1187          51165           7744           0               5894           3782          9676        49.232
2001                  1358          58521          8257            0               6598           6361         12958        53.820
2002-2012             1534          66124          8787            0               7101           9812         16913        57.997
2013                  1534          66124          8787         8267               7101           9812         25180        49,731
2014                  1534          66124          8787         4133               7101           9812         21047        53,864
2015                  1534          66124          8787         4133               7101           9812         21047        53.864
2016                  1534          66124          8787         4133               7101           9812         21047        53.864
2017                  1534          66124          8787         8773               7101           9812         25686        49.224
2018                  1534          66124          8787         2919               7101           9812         19832        55.078
2019                  1534          66124          8787         9747               7101           9812         26660        48,250
2020                  1534          66124          8787        19180               7101           9812         36093        38,817
2021                  1534          66124          8787         6949               7101           9812         23862        51,048
2022                  1534          66124          8787         5693               7101           9812         22606        52,304
2023                  1534          66124          8787         3682               7101           9812         20595        54.315
2024-2030             1534          66124          8787            0               7101           9812         16913        57,997
2031                  1534          66124          8787       -34142               7101           9812        -17229        92,140
EIRR=                  15.0%
(1)            Assumptions used to calculate the EORR are given in Annex 6.1. page 2.
Note:          Investment costs during 2013-2023 are reinvestments in gas turbines ond distribution network.
Negative investment cost (-34142) in 2031 corresponds to the estimated residuat value of investments.
00
0.
*1b



TANZANA
POWER  l PROJECT
ASSJMTlONS USED 31 lE ECONOMkC ANALYSIS
SCENoA    OESCRPIW                               Investment Cost:             Base Cost
On-line date for Lower (ihansi: Mid 1998
Load Forecast:               Base Case Load Forecast
ASSUMTDS
Energy benefits valued at:                                  45 Tsh/kWh (UScents 11.2/kWh) for residenUal consumers
55 Tsh/kWh (UScents 13.7/kWh) for small commercial consumers
55 Tsh/kWh (UScents 13.7/kWh) for small industrial consumers
40 Tsh/kWh (UScents 10.0/kWh) for large industrial and commercial consumers
Annual Hydro Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Cost:          1.5 X of Investment Cost (Kihansi, Pangani and Kidatu)
Fixed Diesel O&M Cost:                                      20 US*/kW/Year
Variable Diesel OdM Cost:                                  0.02 USS/kWh
New Gas Turbine Fixed OWl Cost:                             11 US$/kW/Year
Variable Gas Turbine OM  Cost:                             0.01 USt/kWh
Annual Tronsmission O&M Cost:                               1.5 % of Transmission Investment Cost
Annual Distribution 0dM Cost:                               1.5 X of Distribution Investment Cost
Consumer Administration Cost:                                 I Tsh/lncremental kWh sold
Fuel consumption by gas turbines:                          260 gr/kWh
Fuel consumption by diesels:                               240 gr/kWh
Crude oil prices according to WS forecast of August 3. 1992.
Fuel used by gas turbines and most of the diesels is distillate fuel No. 2, the price of which is estimated at about 1.3 times crude oil price.
Fuel used by three Ubungo diesels Is 1X residual fuel. the price of which Is estimated at about 80% of the crude oil price.
Fuel prices Include transportation and handling costs.
0.



- 168 -
Annex 6.2
Page I of S
TABZ&NI
EVALATION OF ECONOMIC BENEFITS
1.           TANESCO's 1992 tariffs do not fully represent the economic benefits
of the additional electricity to be provided through the investment program since they
appear to be below consumers' willingness-to-pay for electricity supply, particularly
for the residential consumers. The value of the benefits associated with the additional
electricity consumption has been estimated based on the evaluation of revenue benefits
to TANESCO of the incremental electricity sales and an esfimation of the consumer
surplus enjoyed by electricity consumers.
2.           Consumers valuation of electricity is calculated according to an
approximated demand function for each of the four major consumer categories:
residential, small commercial, small industrial and energy intensive commercial and
Industrial. The demand fimctions have been estimated using two observations: (1) the
observed willingness-pay for alternative energy sources such as keosene for
lighting and electricity from captive diesel units; and (2) the observed cost of using
electricity, based on TANESCO's 1992 marginal unit energy rates.
3.           Benefits from increased comfort (such as improved lighting) and
increased productivity accruing from the provision of grid electricity are not taken
into account.
4.           The following tables summarize the benefit calculations.



- 169 -
MMue 6.2
Page 2 of 5
Table 1. ESTIMATED WIELLINGNESS-TO-PAY
RESIDENTIAL CONSUMR (about 250 kWb/month)'"
Ts    US$
Kerosee usefor lighting
Equivalent to 12 kWh/month
Monthly cost of kerosene for lighting.                     1040          2.6
Two kerosene lamps, 4 liters/lamp,
cost of kerosene 130 TshWliter a_ _
Cost per kWh of the above, equivalent to two 40 Watt        85.5        0.21
electdc light bulbs for 5 hours per day Electricity use (238
kWhbmouth
1992 margind unit rate TshlkWh for residential              5.0         0.01
cons_mpion of less than 1000 kWh/month             __
Weighted average wilinss-to-pay per kWh                   47.25         0.12
(0.05 85.5 +0.95*((85.S +5.0)12)
Average economic benefit per kWh used in analysis            45         0.11
!)     noThe aveagp forecast monthly consuption per residential conmer is 250
kWh.
i3     MlMothly keroen  use per lamp is based on: Robert van der Plas and A.B. de
Oraaff, A Comparison of Lamps for Domestc Lighting tn Demeloping
Corias, World Bank, Industry and Energy Department Workig Paper,
No.6 (Washington, D.C.: World Bank, June 1988) and on information
obtained in Tanzania dunng appn  misson. Cost of kerosene in June
1992 was about 130 Tsh/liter when purchased in small quantities.
)     TANESCO's unit energya  for the residential consmers inreaso with
increased consuption. Te mnal unit rate ued in the analysis is the
marginal rate according to tariff No. 1 (Annex S.1), residential consumrs
who consm  less than 1000 kWh per month, which is the case for about 90
percent of the residential consumei, as shown by the bill frequency analysis
illustrated in Figures 1 and 2 below.



- 170 -
An2
Page 3 of 5
Table 2. ESIMATED WILLINGNESS-TO-PAY
SMAL COMMERCIAL CONSUMR (about 250 kWhbmonth) 0)
TIb         US$
Kereseiwa uefor ighting
Eqlvalew to 12 kWh/month  ____
Monthly cost of kerosene for lighting.                     1040          2.6
Two kerosene lamps, 4 liters/lamp,
cost of kerosene 130 Tsb/liter a
Cost per kWh of the above, equivalent to two 40 Watt        85.5        0.21
electric ligt bulbs for 5 hours of day
Electidity wea (238 kiWhlmonth)
1992 marginal uoit rate TshlkWh for small commercial        17.S        0.04
conampton of less than 1000 kWh/month aX
Weighted averg willingness-to-pay per kWh                 53.19         0.13
(0.0S*8S.5+0.95S*((8S.5 + 17.5)/2)                             _
Average economic benefit per kWh used in analyis             55         0.14
7)     Mm aveag forecast monthly cosumpton of small commercial cO_SUmers s
250 kWb.
Monthly kerosene us per lamp is based on: Robert van der Plas and A.B. de
Gaaff, A Comparson of Lamps for Domesti Ughting  Deelloping
Counti, World Bank, Industry and Energy Depamet Working Paper,
No.6 (Washington, D.C.: World Bank, June 1988) and on informaton
obaed in Tanzania during appraisal mission. Cost of kerosene in June
1992 was about 130 Tsb/liter when purbased in small qusnties.
0      TANESCO's unit ey  mtes for the small commnrcial conume  increase
with increased consmption. Te maginal uit rate used in the analysis is
the marginal at according to Tariff No. 2 light commercial co_nmers who
consume le  tha 1000 kWh per mth (Annex 5.1).



- 171 -
Atex6.
Page 4 of 5
Table 3. ESTIMTED WILLINGNESS-TO-PAY
LIGHT INDUSTRIAL CONSUMER
Tsh         US$
Diesel generor
48 week, 5 days/wee, 8 hours/day. 80% plamfactor
Annua capital cost of diesel generator at US$900/kWh      52857        132.14
12% interest rate and 15 years lifetime
Annual O&M cost 3 % of investment                         10800         27.00
Cost per kWh of the aboe                                   41.4          0.07
Fuel cost at 260g/kWh and Tsh 118/liter diesel ("           36.1         0.09
Total cost Tsh/kWh of using diesel generator                77.5         0.16
1992 marginal tariff rate TshkWh for light industrial       35.0         0.09
consumers t
Average willingness-to-pay per kWh                         56.27         0.14
(77.5+35)/2
Average economic benefit per kWh used in analysIs             55         0.14
Price of diesel in Dar es Salaam was 118 Tsh/liter in June 1992.
TANESCO's unit energy rates for ligt industrial coum     incmeas with
increased cosumption. The marginal unit rat used is the analysis is the
marina rate according to tariff No. 3 for light industrial conmers who
oonsume less than 7,500 kWh per moth (Annex 5.1).



- 172 -
AM L.2
Page 5 of 5
Table 4. ESTIMATE WILLINGNESS-TO-PAY
LARGE INDUSrRIAL AND COMMERCLAL CONSUMERS
Tsh         US$
Diesel geneorato
48 weeks, 6 days/we, 10 houn/day, 80% plntfactor
Annual capital cosd of diesel generator at US$900/kWh      52857        132.14
12% interest rate and 15 years lifetime
Annual O&M cost 3% of investment                           10800        27.00
Cost per kWh of the above                                   27.6         0.01
Fuel cost at 260g/kWh and Tah 118/liter diesel (I           36.1          0.09
Total cost per kWh                                          63.7         0.16
"H  S5pUled Ekefdty
1992 weighted magi  triff rate Tsh/kWh for large            12.76         0.03
indstial and commei consmers and water pumping m
1992 weighted demnd chao  expressed as Tsh/kWh }            2.79        0.007
Average willingessto-pay per kWh                            39.6         0.10
(63.7 +(12.76+2.79))/2                                         _
Avage economic benefit per kWh used in analysis                40         0.10
"'     Price of diesl in Dar es Saa   was 118 Tsb/liter in June 1992.
0      TITNESCO's uiit energy aes for large industrid and commercial consum
decrease with increased consumptioL The weighted average rate has been
estimated as the average revenue, per marginal kWh from sles to industrial
and large commercial consmers, Tariff Nos. 4a, 5, Sa and 8 (Annex S. 1).
The forecast energy demand by the different consumer groups in this
category were used as weights.
Assmed load factor of 70% was used in expressing demand charges in
Tab/kWh. The weighted demand charge was estimated uSing forecasted
energy demand as weights.
Sales to Zanbar and public lighting are valued at 40 Tah/kWh.



TANZAMA
POWER V
WMKAZBAYQASTO POWER COMPWIT
COST EFFEClD1MSS ANALYSS
TABLE 1. SUMARY TABLE
_OEML ALTWWYE             _GAS ALTERNAilVE
Moximum      Gross      investment     Fuel.        Total      Inwestment     Fuel+        Total          Net
Demand    Generation      Cost         O6M          Cost         Cost         a8M          Cost          Cosh
Year                                                                                                              Flow
MW         MWh_      Tsh millon    Tsh million    Tsh milion    Tsh miNion    Tsh million    Tsh mllion    Tsh mllon
1993         4.6      16268          2160          516         2676         2160          516         2676             0
1994         4.9      17373             0          599          599           84          599          683           -84
1995         5.2      18585             0          649          649           84          649          733           -84
1996         5.5      198S5          2160          743         2903         2274          743         3017          -114
1997         5.8      21160             0          831          831         2395          693         3089         -2258
1998         6.2      22546             0         878           878          288          143          431           447
1999         6.6      24022             0          928          928            0          143          143           785
2000         7.0      25595             0          982          982            0          143          143           838
2001         7.4      27169             0         1030         1030          720          122          842           187
2002         7.9      28839             0         1082         1082            0           51           81          1001t 
2003         8.4      30611             0         1142         1142            0           81           81          1061
2004         8.9      32493             0         1205         1205          720           81          801           405
2005         9.5      34490          1080         1273         2353            0           91           91          2261
2006        10.1      36500             0         1361         1361            0           91           91          1269
2007        10.7      38628             0         1433         1433            0           91           91          1342
2008        11.4      40879          3240         1509         4749          720           91          811          3938
2009        12.1      43262             0         1614         1614            0          102          102          1512
2010        12.7      45784             0         1700         1700            0          102          102          1598
2011        13.4      48339          2160         1787         3947            0          102          102          3845
2012        14.1      51047             0         15t9         1879         2160          102         2262          -383
2013        14.9      53907             0         1976         1976          720          102          822          1154
2014        15.7      56928             0         2103         2103            0          113          113          1990
2015        16.6      60117             0         2211         2211          720          113          633          1378
2016        17.5      63387          1080         2323         3403          720          113          533          2570
2017        18.4      66834        -3816         2464        -1352        -4463           124        -4339          2981
Present Worths (12% discount rote):                     11892                                   8435          3456
0"
Equalring Discount Rate:                                                 30.6%
0%
0 .
Details of ontofryis ore provided In tobles 2. 3 and 4.



TAZAJIA
WAZ AYGSTOPOWCOWCUN
COST EFlYESSIANALYS
TAUZI        AllOW SALES AND IIAXOM   DEMAND FORCA$T
MTWARA                                LWS                                   TOTAL QwtwaaLbd I
maxim"                                Maximum                               Maximum
Year    Generation     Sals        Demand      Generation     Sos        Demand      Generfaton     Soles      Oemond
MWh         MWh           MW          MWh          MWh          Mw          MWh          Mh           IIW
1993       10586         9540          3.0         5682        4359           1.6       16268        13899          4.6
1994       11302        10185          3.2         6071        4657           1.7       17373        14842          4.9
1995       t2088        10893          3.4         6497        4984           1.8       18585        158I7          5.2
1996        12912       11636          3.6         6943        5326           1.9       19855        16962          5.5
1997       13760        12397          38          7400        5676           2.0       21160        18073          5.8
1998       14660        13207          4.0         7886        6049           2.1       22546        19256          6.2
1999        15618       14070          4.3         8404        6446           2.3       24022       20517           6.6
2000        16639       14990           4.6        8956        6870           2.4       25595        21860          7.0 D
2001        17661       15911           4.9        9507         7293          2.6       27169        23204          7.4                          -.
2002        18746       16888          5.2        10092         7741          2.7       28839        24630          7.9
2003        19898       17926          5.5        10713        8218           2.9       30611        26144          8.4
2004       21120        19027          5.8        11373        8723           3.1       32493        27750          9.9
2005       22417        20196          6.2        12072        9260           3.3       34490        29456          9.5
2006       23725        21373          6.6        12776        9799           3.5       36500        31173         10.1
2007       25108        22620          7.0        13520        10310          3.7       38628        32990         10.7
2008       26572        23939           7.4       14307        10974          3.9       40879        34913         11.4
2009       28121        25335           7.9       15141        11614          4.2       43262        36948         12.1
2010       29761        26812          8.3        16023        12290          4.4       45784        39102         12.7
2011       31421        28316          8.8        16918        12977          4.6       48339        41293         13.4
2012       33183        29904          9.3        17864        13703          4.9       51047        43607         14.1
2013       35044        31581          9.8        18863        14469          5.1       53907        46050         14.9
2014       37010        33353          10.3       19918        15278          5.4       56928        48631         15.7
2015       39086        35224          10.9       21031        16132          5.7       60117        51356         16.6
2016        41215       37143          1t.5       22172        17007          6.0       63387        54149         17.5
2017       43460        39166          12.1       23374        17929          6.3       66834        57095         18.4
Forecasts: TANESCO ond Acres Intemational of Canada, Juty 1989
Mtwora and Lindi are interconnected with each other. Neither of them is connected to the natonal grid.                                      l X
0%
I1h W



TMAIUAN
KU64USAT A O IPOWU COLVWOI
TAE3  YWlO   F16EOCCCOST OF                         A110UAALT
OnMA130 ~I= GAS iMi iin. hIIAM AT GAS
Maxmum   Orignal    NeM    Gas        Total     Diese       oT        Diese       GT        at        Diese    Wel+Pipe   Well+Pip     70TAI.
Demand    WDiee    Diee  Turbine  Capaity  Generaton  Geneation  Investnmet Investmnt    Ohm         FWe+   Investmnt       OUJ        COST
Year              Capacity  COapactyCpacity                                   cost       cost      cost       OhM       cost        cost
MW        MW       M      MW        MW        MWh        MWh   Tsli milion Tshi milion Tsli amiion Tsh milio  Tsh million Telh millon  Tsh millon
19M        4.6       2.8                        2.8     16268                 2160                             516                             2676
1994       4.9       28       6                 8.8     17373                                                  599         84                   683
1995       5.2       2.8      6                 8.8     l858                                                   649         84                   733
1996       5.5       2.8      6                 8.8     19855                             720                  743       1554                  3017
199        5.8       2.3      6       6        14.3     17325      383       -1109       1320         22       653       2184          19      3089
1998       6.2       2.5      0       9        11.3      1645     s~3m0                   120         32        74        168          37       431
1999       6,6       2.3      0       9        11t.5     1643     22380                     0         32        74          0          37        143
2000       7.0        2.5     0       9        11.3     '1643      23953                    0         32        74          0          37        143
2001       7.4        1.6     0        9       10.6      1175      25993                  720         32        53          0          37        842 
2002       7.9        1.0     0       12       13.0         0      28839                    0         43         0          0          37         e1
2003       8.4        1.0     0       12       13.0         0      30611                    0         43         0          0          37         81                  1
2004       8.9        1.0     0       1 2      13.0         0      32493                  720         435                   0          37       801                  s..n
2005       9.5       0.0      0       1 5      15.0         0      34490                    0         54         k,0                   37         91 
2006      10.1       00       0       1 5      15.0         0      36500                    0         54         0          0          37         91
200       10.7        0.0     0       15       15.0         0      38628                    0         54         0          0          37        91
2008      11.4       0.0      0       Is       MO.          0      40879                  720         54         0          0          37       811
2009      12.1       0.0      0       18       18.0         0      43262                    0         65         0          0          37        102
2010      12.7       0.0      0       18       18.0         0      45784                    0         65         0          0          37        102
2011      134        0.0      0       18       18.0         0      4839                     0         65         0          0          37        102
2012      14.1        0.0     0       18       18.0         0      51047                 2160         e5         0          0          37       2262
2013      14.9       0.0      0       18a      18.0         0      5397                   720         65         0          0          37        822
2014      15.7        0.0     0       21       21.0         0      56928                    0         76         0          0          37        113
20115     16.         00      0      21        21.0         0      60117                  720         76         0          0          37       833
20,16     17.5        0.0     0       21       21.0         0      63387                  720         76         0          0          37       833
2017,    18.4        0.0      0      24        24.0         0      66834                -3648         86         0       -815          37     -4339
Estimated averag econic COst Of genrato0n with gas t"uiner.                                                        0.084 US$/Wh
Estimated averag ecconomic cost of genewation with gas turbines if only 60X of pipeline investment is included:    0.068 US*/kWh
Estimated anual OhM cast for gas turbines 1.5w of investment cast                                                                                                  go
EsUtomted annual OhM cost for gas wel and pipelins: tX of ivestment cost
Econommic lif, of gas turbnes estmated at 15 years
Economifc Oife of gas piperine estmated at 25 year.
Mem 6 MWNee unit sllAo  be relocated in 1998. 
The averag annual use Of gs int the proposed prject is estimate at abotA 3.5 percent of the currentl prove recoverabte reseuves.                                  0MW
The investment in gas piperine includes provision for future increase in powe genraton in case TANESCO decides to interconnect the MftwaraA.nd syste  with neiablbouring cwenters.



TAPEAIIA
WUIa ATIIAYS 10 POWt COWOET
COST EWECTEIESSANALVUS
TANt 4. EVALIA3OiCF lE ECONOSDC COST OF GVEtAON
moximum     Available    Capacity    capacity   Gross       Diesel    Variable     Fixed    Investment     TOTAL
Demand      Capacity  Retirements   AddRtions   Generation  Fuel       Oi1         O&M        Cost         COST
st. Year                                                                cost       Cost        Cost
iw         mw           MW         MW         MWh    Tsh miflion  Tsh milion  Tsh miiion  Tsh million  Tsh millon
1993          4.6        2.8         0.4                  16268        363         130         22        2160          2676
1994          4.9        8.8                      6       17373        390         139         70                       599
1995          5.2        8.8                              18585        429         149         70                       649
1996          5.5        8.8                              19855        514         159         70        2160          2903
1997          5.8       14.3         0.6          6       21160        548         169        114                       831
1996          6.2       14.3                              22546        584         180        114                       8.8
1999          6.6       14.3                              24022        622         192        114                       928
2000          7.0       14.3                              25595        663         205        114                       982
2001          7.4       13.6         0.6                  27169        703         217        109                      1030
2002          7.9       13.0         0.6                  28839        747         231        104                      1082
2003          8.4       13.0                              30611        793         245        104                      1142                               0%
2004          8.9       13.0                              32493        841         260        104                      1205
2005          9.5       12.6         0.5                  34490        896         276        100        1080          2353
2006         10.1       15.0         0.6          3       36500        949         292        120                      1361
2007         10.7       15.0                              38628       1004         309        120                      1433
2008         11.4       15.0                              40879       1062         327        120        3240          4749
2009         12.1       18.0           6          9       43262       1124         346        144                      1614
2010         12.7       18.0                              45784       1190         366        144                      1700
2011         13.4       18.0                              48339       1256         387        144        2160          3947
2012         14.1       18.0           6          6       51047       1327         408        144                      1879
2013         14.9       18.0                              53907       1401         431        144                      1976
2014         15.7       21.0                      3       56928       1480         455        168                      2103
20`15        16.6       21.0                              60117       1562         481        168                      2211
2016         17.5       21.0                              63387       1647         507        168        1080          3403
2017         18.4       24.0                      3       66834       '737         535        192      -3816         -1352
Estimated economic cost of generation wih diesel units:         0.142 US$/kWh
The cost of diesel fuel is based on crude oil prices.
Crude oil prices according to WB forecaits.                                                                                                           PC
Oleset fuel cost includes estwiated handling and transport to power station. 
Variable diesel OM estimted at:          0.02 US$/kWh                                                                                                 .
Fixed diesel 01cM estimated at:             20 USS/kW/year                                                                                          t Li
Economic rife of diesel generators estimated at 15 years. 



AnnJA
- 177-                             Page 1 of2
TAAM EL13&TR sMY COMPANY LIMr1=
s rVA    OF POCY
1.        hMe statemet as amended ftom time to time, defines the policies which shall apply
to the activities and operaions of the Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited hereinafter
referred to as the 'Company.'
2.         The ComPany is an independen institution established as a public limited Company
under the Company Ordinance to generate, transmit, distribute and supply electricity within
Tanzania and other countries in the region. It operates in accordance with the rules and
regulations provided for under the Electricity Ordinance of October 1931. In pursuance of these
objectives the Company acquires, maintains and operates its facilities, as far as practicable, a; the
lowest cost and with maximum economy and efficiency. The Company conducts its business on
commercial principles and performs its finctions in such a manner to ensure that, taking one year
with another, its income is sufficient to meet its expenditures, properly chargeable to revenue
account and its net operating income is adecuate to secure an annual return on the value of the net
fixed assets in operations as revalued from twie to time by the company, of not less than 10
percent per anmum.
3.         To finance its activities, the Company raises nec-sary funds through loans from the
government and other organizations, through normal business activities and issue of stock.
4.         It is part of the Company's objectives to increase efficiency, promote competition
and ensure the adequate supply of electricity for Tanzania. 'he Government is studying
privatzation options. This inludes the development of a sound legal and regulatory famework
to ensre proper operation of both public and private enterprises in the power sector.
S.         In carrying out its functions, the Company observes govermment's broad policies
relating to the generation and supply of electricity within Tanzania. It aims to keep the cost of
svices it provides as low as poss;5le while metng its obligations outlined in paragraph 2 above
to cover its development, operatng and financial costs, make adequate provision against bad debts
and other losses, build up reserves adequate to maintain its financial integrity and soundness as
well as earn reasonable retmun on the value of its net fixed assets.
al n of Sjgs and Cwftmer Olngaions
6.         In the intrest of improving efficiency and providing reliable service to customers,
the Company reviews its operating, finial and administrative systems, procedures and practices
to ensure proper information and data collection and analysis and timeliness of billing and
collections. Every effort is made to provide quality service in accordance with prescribed
stndards as reguated from time to time and to optize staff/customer ratio for effective and
fficient service.



- 178 -
A= 7.1
Page 2 of 2
7.         To safeguard against defts and reduce its exposure, the company requires that
customers pay in advane and maintain adequate cash security deposit. Customers are required to
meet their obligations when due. They are require to settle, in full, amount due to the Company
wi    seven days of the bill. In the event of default continuing for more than twenty one days
the sevice to the customer is discontiued without any notice and remains disconnected until all
arreas are setted in fill. Customers are required at all time to comply with Company terms and
conditions relating to the supply of electicity as specified in the agreement to supply electricity.
Non-compliance automatically results in disconnection of the service and litigation to recover all
losses suffered by the company due to non-compliance.
8.         The Company is conscious of its obligations to maintain its credibility and integrity
as an efficient and financially viable instiution. It aims at all times, to honor its obligations when
due. Its tariffs are established and adjusted from time to time by the Board of directors within the
general guidelines agreed with the government or any other regulating agency based on long Run
Margina Cost and Company objectives outlined in paragraph 2 above.
9.         Tbe company detrmin  the level of adequate provision against delinquent accounts
and other potei losses in accordance with prudent accounting polices, and builds its reserves to
a level and maintains them consistent with sound financial practices. Subject to these limitations
and other requirements of the Company and restrictions thereon applicable from time to time,
such as minimum contrbution to annual capital expenditures, annual surpluses, are invested
and/or distibuted at the discretion of the Company. The Company maias a satisfactory
relationship between the maturities of its obligations sad cash and other liquid assets available to
it.
z_tion,.M n t StaMnsc and Tndning
10.       The Company at all times endeavors to develop and maintain a well balanced power
system and related facilites, staff and management team capable of operating and maintaining its
inrtu    to provide prompt and efficient service.
11.       To Improve the quality of service it provides and to support sustained improvements
the Company will establish and mainin a training and development program necessary to ensure
strong leadership, management and staff capabilities to meet the company priorities. Such
training will include all levels of the Company staff.
12.       To aract, provide a quality working environment and retain qualified and motivated
pesomel to meet kis stfng requirements, the Company will establish and maintain a balanced
package of financial beeft for its employees comprising salary, allowances and other benefits
consistent with the prevwling practices of other commercialy oriented organizations in Tanzania.
In order to enhance staff productivity, the company has embarked on a Productivity Improvement
Program (PIP) to achieve fewer in number, smarter and a better paid work force. Successful
implementation of PIP would lead to better quality service with fewer employees per 1000
customets.



- 179 -                             Awes 7.2
Page I of 7
TANZANIA
Power VI Project
Pg,ble Taret  So   for the Dwr Socto
Ihe following pages describe various structural options for introducing private sector
involvement in the power sector in Tanzania. Each description is accompanied by a list of
perceived advantages and disadvantages.
Each of the options described is a possible target struture for the power sector and would
require special transitional arrangements to transform the sector from its present structure to the
one desired. Some of the major issues that must be dealt with in such a transition are:
3 Thne Impact of the changes on employment: Although any new entities formed would
absorb many of the present employees, special provision mst be made to retran and
fid useful employment for those not immediately required.
*    Phasing-in of tariff dcanges: Tariff changes may have to be coordinated with
imparovements in the reliability and quality of electricity supply to minimize
opposition by customers.
*    Legal framework: The legal framework governing the sector must be revised to
accommodate the proposed structure and provide a mechanism for seting disputes
between all interested parties.
*    Reguatory f*amework: A reguatory framework appropriate for supporting the
selected option must be finnly in place when the new structure is introduced. This
fiamework must address price, safety, quality of supply and environmental issues.
*    Valuation and transfer of assets and debt: The asses of any entity to be restrctured
must be valued commercily. Rational decisions must be made regarding the
transfer of the assets, and the responsibility for debt service.
*    Planning of the power sector: For the decentralized options, it is necessary to form
an organization to plan the sector. Ihe activiies of this orgarization must not
interfere with campetition in the sector. Rather, the organization should seek to
guide rational development by collecting, analyzing and providing information on
rational generation and transmission expansion strategies. An important part of this
organization's work would be identifying sites and evaluating potential hydroelectric
resources. Also, it would have to evaluate ecological, human settlement, and safety
issues.
*    Managing the transiton: Special adminis ve arrangements, by the Government
and the Utility, would be required for managing the transition and resolving
problems as they arise.



- 180 -
Annex 72
Page 2 of 7
Qqo  Vertica1lX waMe MQ1Sl
Mabi_n  TANESCO as a vertcally integrad uility but convert k into an Independent,
commercially based entei subject to flirmy agreed objdectves cented on full f hnanclal
viability and reliability criteria. The company would have to be in charge of its own development
and invesmn decisions and be capable of raising its capital requirements from a combination of
internally geate funds and the national/internatIonal markets. It would have full freedom to
set its own remmneraton, employment and incaeive programs.
Such a company should consider farming out certain functions to private contractors using
perfomance-base reumermaton contracts. Examples of functions amenable to this approach
include customer services (service connections, meter reading, billing and collections), equipment
and line mantance, engeing and supervision of regional dectrification schemes and power
plant operation. Depending upon the extent of contcting out, the company could become
increaingly a coordinator and manager of contracts, with a core of permanent start.
3 2Ability to attract and keep highly skilled staff.
*    Performance-        contracts would promote efficiency.
*     There would be no effectve competition for electricity supply becase a single
vertically ingrted company would still be in charge of operating the entire power
ystm   However, the efficiency of the publicly-owned system could be enhanced by
Wtroducing private sector, pertbrmance4bsd management contracting into most of
the functions that TANESCO now performs.
*    The Govement would find it difficult, with this strucmure, to give to the utility the
complete autonomy necessary for success of this option.
*    With minimal competition, performance improvements will not be self sustining.
*    This option represents the least change from the status quo, so performance could
easily detiorate and the sector revert to Its present state.
*    There would be a lack of transparency in the various aspecs of operating the utility,
so true costs would not be known.
*    It would be difficult to prhize, if this became desirable, because of the large value
of the assets of the utility.
*    A sWle, vertically Integrated utlity would find it relatively difficult to focus on
regional needs.



- 181 -                             Anne7.2
Page 3 of 7
*    Ihere is a risk of total failure since success of the changes depends on a swle
orgnzton.
*    It would be difficult for the Government to distance Itself fiom tariff setting.
*    The use of several perfonnance based contracts would require very complex contract
administration and coordination.
Qtn: Mulitlge Utilities
Restrucre TANESCO to form a generation and tanission company (GTC), and create
several regional distribution companies (DCs) that would purchase capacity and energy from the
GTC, but not be confined to supply from the GTC. Ultimately, the DCs could be publicly,
privately, or jointy owned. The DCs would be fully responsible for their own management and
invesment policies. Ite DCs could purchase from other gewatig companies that would be
allowed the right of access to the trmission system. Subject to appropriate licensing
arrangement coveing technical, safety, and environmenal matters, users would have the right
to self generte or co-generate.
Ad! ;hM
e    Ability to attat and keep highly skilled staff.
e It would be easy for the sector to be changedto this option from the structure
receny put in place at TANESCO.
*    Maintning geneation and transmission as an integrated corporate funedon
simplifies opeaing hydro/thermal generation and system dispatch.
*    Allowing the DCs to be supplied fom sources other than the GTC sets a ceiling on
the amount that the GTC can charge them for electricity.
*    Competition among generating companies promotes more reliable supply.
*    Having local distribution entities will promote better response to local needs.
*    It would be easy to privadze distbution companies selectively, as it becomes
advantageous to do so.
*    Allowing odt : generation companies to compete with the GTC would provide a
sog icnive for the GTC to opea  efficiently.
*    This option does not create pressure to improve performamce of the existng power
statios.



- 182 -                            Aex 7.2
Page 4 of 7
*    If the GTC remains publicly owned, it may still be subject to excessive associadon
with government, possible micro-management by the govenment, and therefore may
not have accws to private risk capital.
*    During the transition from the present arrangement to this option there may be a risk
of overinvesnent in generation.
*    Poor performance by the dominmt generating company could endanger the success
of this scheme.
Opti: MnopQly Wholesaler
Divide TANESCO's power plants into separate generating companies (GCs). Esgablish
several distribution companies(DCs), leaving the transmission company (TC) with the core
business of purchasing electricity from the GCs and reselling it to the DCs over the transmission
network t  it would continue to own, operate and expand as needed. Both the DCs and OCs
would be fidly responsible for their own management and investment policies.
'he TC would be a monopoly wholesaler of electricity: that is, the TC alone would have
the right to purchase from the generating companies and to resell to the DCs. 'Me TC could be
publicly, privately or coopeatively owned.
9    Ability to attract and retain highly skilled staff.
*    The GCs would be competing with each other in real time for access to TC's
trasmission network. (Ihe competition would be over price and availability of
service).
*    Tne TC would maintain enough control over the power system so it could optimize
hydro/thermal production and dispatch. (Under certain system conditions this may
be incompatible with full price competition).
*    This option is conducive to opening the power sector to both competition and private
participation, because it maximizes the extent of functional and regional
dlsaggregatien.
*    A transmission monopoly could be abused if there is no effective regulation.
*    The DCs would be restricted to one supplier and thus would face a higher
technical/commercial risk.
*    This option could resut in commercial inflexibility. For example, co-generation and
reatively small local generation sources that are in themselves logical may not
develop because of the complexity of doing business with the monopoly wholesaler.



- 183 -                            Aimaz272
Page 5 of 7
Restructre TANESCO into a company responsible for generation and transmission GTC,
and create several distribution companies that are restricted to obtainng their supply from the
GTC. The DCs would be fully responsible for their own management and invesuent policies.
The GTC and the DCs could be publicly, privately or jointy owned.
Advantage
*    Ability to attract and retaini highly skilled staff.
*    Maintainiug generation and rasmission as an itegated corporate futicdon
simplifies operating hydro/thrmal generation and system dispatch.
*    Having local distribution entities will promote better response to local needs.
*    It would be easy to privatize distribution companies selectively as it becomes
advantageous to do so.
*    It would be easy to create from the present structre of TANESCO.
*    'Mere is no competition to help limit the amount the GTC can charge for electicity,
and thus promote efficiency.
*    There is no competition in generation to help promote a more reliable supply of
electricity.
*    If the combined GTC remains publicly owned, it may stil be subject to ezeessive
association with governmt, possible micro-management by the goverment, and
would have no accs to private risk capital.
*    Poor performance by the OTC would endanger the success of this scheme.
Ope:MM=*ol Tlrder
Restructure TANESCO Into a transmission company CC), a number of generatig
companies (GCs), and several regional distribution companies (DCs). The TC would facilitate
conta among the various GCs and DCs. The GCs and DCs would be filly indedent and
responsible for their own management and investment policies. The DCs and GCs could be
publicly, privately, or joitly owned.
DCs wishing to invest in generation would be required to keep such investments in separate
companies to ensure transparency in pricing arrngements.
*    Ability to tact and retain higly skilled staff.



Anmex 7.
- Ib'4 -                           Page 6 of 7
*    Ihis arrangement facilitates te sale of geration asses In smaller unis.
*    Having local distribution entities will promote better response to local needs.
*    It would be easy to privatize distribution companies selectively as it becomes
advantageous to do so.
*    Easy to convert the present structure to this option.
Dbadxua|
*    The transmission company could restrict free trading among the GCs and DCs.
*    Assigning wheeling charges and accounting for energy flows would be complex and
would require much better communication fcilides than are available at present.
CONE IDFE  EMBlSI    lION AID2DE DAIlE
:)   A distribution company buys from geneatng and/or ansmission companies two products:
energy and power at prices set by those companies and sells them at higher prices. The
difference is called "distrnbution added value*.
2)   Ihe difference between energy prices is equal to distributon systm  energy losses.
3)   Tem difference between power prices is equal to distnbution system power losses plus a
term K which includes investm    and operation costs.
4)   K can be broken down in the following main items:
A:   equipment prices
B:   labour costs
C:   copper prices
D: Exchange rate and custom duties
Therefore: K-A + B +C + D
5)   Ihe values of A,B,C and D depend on several factors like:
consumer density, service quality level, return on investment, consumers activities
(domestic, industrial, commercial, etc.)
6)   The most practical way to regulate distribudon prices is to deine an Ideal distribution
company which is deemed adeuate to serve the area where the real disibtion company is
operating. The above defined pameters are then calcated. A reference rate of rtumn
should be chosen, say 10% (as in Chile), and a maximum losses level stated. (8 to 10%).
7)   The distibuin added values for this ideal company can now be calculated and taben   a
basis for the using of the regulated prices for the real distribution company.



- 185 -
Am 7.2
Page 7 of 7
8)   If the company's efficienc is better than the ideal company's the reward will be a rate of
rtu  greater than 10%. On the conuay, If the company's efficiency is below the idea
company's, the punihment will be a rate of return less than 10%.
9)   The above described method which Is being used in Chile since 1982 has two Importan
features:
a]   Competition:     the distribution company in spite of being a natural monopoly is
competing against an ideal company.
bl   Rate of    the ve of return i not pa teed but neither  it limited.
retr
10) Indexation is taken care of as follows:
A,B,C and D parameters are multiplied by the following ratios:
K= Alk + BL +CIcg +D U
Iwo     IO       Icuo     IFo
Where:
1w: Wholesale prices nex (given by the Bureau of Saistics)
!L:  Wages index (iven by the Ministy of Labour)
Icw: Price of copper (given by the London Metal Exchange)
If:  Rate of exchange and cusom duties (given by the Central Bank)
Wheneve the combined effe  of these 4 indexes caues K to increase by more than 10%,
the rates are immel y adjusted by the companies themselves, without having to obtain
the goverment's permission.



-186 -
TANZANIA                              &M Li
Page IlOf 6
Power VI Poject
Mm of Referem
and to Im ve the Plannina and Exeution of Distribution Work
Blound:,
1.   A report etidetd TANZANIA - Transmission and Distribution System Technical Loss
Reduction and Network DevelopmentW prepared by the joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Sector
Management Assistwace Program(ESMAP) in March 1992 defines several actons to reduce losses
and improve service reliabiity of the TANESCO distribution system. The study found that
development is neded In three main areas:
(a)  distribution strengthening, consisting mainly of inserting new step4own substations
in existing networks;
(b)  ditrbution rehabilitation, consisting mainly of reconductoring and attending to
deferrd maintnce needs; and
(c)  dtrbuion expansion in cities and suburbs.
2. lhe proposed project includes these components. The pres-st plan calls for items (a) and
(b) to be implemented using contracts financed through BUateral arrangemens, and item (c) using
TANESCO staff with the materials financed by IDA.
3.    he sucoss of these components of the project depends on good planning of the work,
good contac management, and in the case of item (c), the organiatdon, skills and equipment
available to TANESCO. Implemendng the third component, the work to be cairied out by
TANESCO'ts CW, prese an excellent opportity for TANESCO to upgrade the way it
organizes and executes distibution constuction nd maintenance work, and is intended to serve
as a vehicle for onthe-job trining.
4.   TANESCO is improving other aspects of its distribution operaion, the most notable being
decentraling its opations to give more autonomy to its operating zones, reviewing its
distrbution oonstruction standards, introducing a new materials management system, and
Introducing an inctive scheme for staff. The work in these terms of reference will be affected
by these activities and must be carefully planned to complement them.
S.      Dg         : TANESCO has arranged its distribution operations in seven geographical
zones that are fther subdivided administratively. Each of these zones requires the upgrading of
faciides desc&Ibed in these tms  of reference.
6.     g la: TANESCO is strengthening its distribution planning group. It
inends to consider chges to its distribution standards and guidelines to develop a flexible and
cost effective set of dbutIn stdards suited to respond to the rapid and unpredictable chas
of demnd typical of dributn  stems in developing countries. TANESCO will try t) compete



- 187 -                                 AMnMgLL
the review of its disribution standards in time to st  applying the new standards to the  Page 2 of 6
distrbution expansion Included in this project. It will be necessary to provide tools and training
to accommodatw new distribution construction types.
7.   Matiis Mannt: TANESCO expect as a part of this proje to reorganize it
materials management procedures (stores and purchasing). The organization and training aspects
of this assignment must coordinate with these activities, since the supply of material has is an
important factor in the utility's ability to improve construction crew productivity.
8.   Incentive svy : TANESCO has implemented an incentive system to promote higher
productivity. Any restructuring of the distribution department must be consistent with this
scheme.
OQEcivks:
9.   lhe two main objectives of the consulting services are:
(1)  to organize and manage implementation of the three aspects of the proposed
distribution project, strengthening, rehabiliation, and system expansion; and
(2) to improve the productivity of distribution crews and the quality of work done by
them by:
(a) improving work planning and organization;
(b)  improving the crew structure and composition of the crews;
(c) introducing modern techniques, tools, and equipment;
(e)  improving the flow of materials from stores;
(f)  improving the flow of information from construction and maintenance crews
to the distribution planning group that maintains the distribution system
database; and
(g) improving safety practices.
10. The productivity and quality improvements are to be achieved by restructczing the
distribution operations department and providing 'on-the-job' training for TANESCO's
distributon staff, as they perform the system expansion aspcs of the distribudon work included
in the project. The other aspects of the distribution work should be performed by contractors
under the management of the consultants.
&Sl of SoWe-
11. The consultants should do everything necessary to achieve the objectives of these terms of
rerence. The approach outlined below is indicative. TANESCO encourages consultn  to
suggest a altenative approach if it is expected to meet the objectives more efficiendy. Any



- 188-                                  Page 3 of 6
alteive ap     h nust be dearly defined and shall be presented in addition to the one outined
bdow.
12. To achieve the objectives the consultant should:
A. Mmna.ls  Ditributon Wok,
(a) review the list of improvements prepared by the ESMAP study to ensure that
the asumptions used to justify the work are still valid, and set priorities in
consultation with TANESCO;
(b) become familiar with the administrative and procurement arrangements of the
agencies financing the work;
(c)  prepare the necessary bidding and contact documents;
(d) plan the execution of the work with TANESCO to minimize outages;
(e) supervise the contractors performing the work and exercise quality control;
(t) monitor expenditures and physical progress of the work, and prepare regular
reports for TANESCO;
(g)  set up schedules to coordinate with the organization and tranig activities
described below.
D. iMfao ofbton Wo   gzton and M :
(a) visit TANESCO's distribution offices to establish how work is planned ano
executed at present;
(b) recommend, based on an analysis of costs and benefits, organizational
changes, the flow of informion, changes in work planning, crew stvctura ,
and the both the flow of materials form stores and accountng for the materials
taken from stores, to improve productivity;
(c)  recommend improvements in the preparation of job esmates, accounting for
materis used, and an dit system to ensure the quality of the work
peforme;
(d) prepare bidding documents for the tools and any specialized vehicles needed to
implement the recommended changes;
(e)  prepare bidding documents for the distribution materis necessary for the
distnrbution expansion work;
(f)  provide overseas taining for potent  supervsory staff in an environment
using the work methods recommended by the consultant;



- 189 -                                          6AaLLI
189 -                       ~~~~~~~~Pape 4 of 6
(j)  once the necessary materials, tools and vehides have arrved ia Tanzania,
manage implemaion of the expansion work while aining TANESCO's
crews.
(O)  prere a set of opatIns and maintenamce guidelines to reflect the improved
way of doing distrbution work;
(I)  prepae a safety manual and train selected supervisors and crews in safety
pces.
C. Dips viwmQE Izgatioin
13.  The consultant should study the present o nal structure of the distribution
department and reommend a structure that wUI accommodate the proposed decentralization of the
department, and cater to the expected construction and mannance workload. The consultant
should recommend the extent to which TANESCO should do distribution work with its own crews
and to Wl,t extent it shld contract out some aspects of the work. The proposed organization
should be detailed with the number and skldls of the required staff. The distribution organization
should ln! ude construction, maintenance, quality control, and trouble calls. The Customer
Service Department will deal with meteing, new customer connections, and disconnections.
D. Slrafm ofCrva , Tools, and i au       :
14.  The consultant should study the use of speciist crews equipped with proper equipment and
tools. Modem vehicles with power tools, winches, storage bins etc. should be considered.
However, the equipment iad tools recommended should be consistent with local conditions. For
nample, if most poles are planted some distance from roadways, it will be necessary to
aphasize techniques employing pole climbka4 rather han the use of bucket trucks.
15. TIe consultant should pay special attention to:
(a)  the use of special fittings and compression tools to make effective connecions,
especially In the case of copper to aluminum joints;
(b)  the ixtroduction of a comprehensive system (preferably permanently mounted
in special vehicles) for cable fault location; and
(c)  the possible introduction of hotline techniques at the medium voltage level.
16.  As an organizatonal matter, the consultant should recommend a system for issuing and
controUling tools to minimize pilferage and misuse.
E. Peparion ofSgef3cations:
17. The consultant should prepare bidding documents for the required tools, vehicles,
equipment, and materias required for the training and distribution expansion work. The
documents should be prepared to standards suitable for International Competitive Bidding
according to the Bank's Guidelines for Procrement. The consultant also should assist
TANESCO in evaluafting bids placing contracts and expediting deliveries.



- 190 -                                Page S of 6
18.  The consultnt shcjd pra  bidding domens for the contas required for the rs of
the distribton work. These documents must be prepaed according to the guidelines of the
agencies financing the work.
F. Trainin  gt  ewq:
19. The consultants must train crews in actual on-the-job si;tuaions. The consultants must
prwvid exper,ienced personnel to work with TANESCO's crews and demonstrate the correct use
of the new equipment, vehicles, and tools. Ihe training must include maitance of the
equipment vehicles and tools. The work done during training exercises should be supervised by
the consultan's persomel who should assume authority for directing the crew and responsibility
for safety on the work site.
G. Tuininfg of SLugisM:
20. Selected supervisory staff should be trained in a utility using methods similar to those
recommended by the consultant. This training also should be .n-the-job training with the trainees
participag fully in the work as members of work crews. Selected classroom training may be
included but the main emphasis must be on field work. The training for supervisory staff in the
consultant's home country should be of approximately six months' duration.
H. Operations and MaInlla3  Manual:
21. The consultants should prepare an operations and maintenance manual for the use of
TANESCO's staff. The manual should be in loose leaf volumes, to facilitate updating, with each
volume descr.bing a particular aspect of TANESCO's operation. The manual should be clearly
written and easily understandable by TANESCO's work crews. It should be produced in
sufficient quantities for the relevant volumes to be distributed to all work crews.
I. Safety Praces:
22. The consultants should ievise ways to promote safety on the work site, and prepare a
safety man.l for distribution to TANESCW's work crews.
Work Plan:
23. The consultant should visit Tanzania, review present organization, practices, tools and
equipment. The consultant should study alternative approaches, suggest organizational changes,
aad prepare bidding documents for the tools, vehic;s, equipment, and materials needed.
TANESCO should proceed to procure these items -th the consultant's help. During the
procurement period, TANESCO's selected supervisory staff should be trained in the consultant's
howae country. On arrival of the items in Tanzmaia, the consultant should bring in the training
teams ta do the on-the-ob training.
24. The following is the minimum list of reports to be submitted by the consultant to
TANESCO:
(a) an initial report, four weeks after the start date, summarizing the consultant's
findings and plans for proceeding with the work;



- 191 -                                 Amun6
(b)  qary reports showing tho progs of all aspect of the work. ibis report
mut Mnlude both th physical progress and a record of disbursements In a
fm acceptable to the various financing agencies involved;
(c)  suffiiet copies of te operations an mantenan  manuals and safet
mauals describ  above; and
(d)  sufficient copies of the various bidding docmen.



- 192-                                poplIof
TANZANIA
Pow VI hPrje
m       ofBe Rtft=fo     S     { lgC DldkwL  tbn il|sti
1.   TANESCO, with the help of the joint UNDPlWorld Bank Energy Sector Management
Asisn   Progam  (ESMAP), established a distibution planning group in October 1989.
ESMAP provided computers, distribution planning software, test equipment, and training for the
group which opera   in TANESCO's headquaters.
2.   lho Distriuon Planing Group swdied TANESCO's distrbution system in the rmain load
centers of Dar Es Salaam, Anrsha, Moshi, and Tanga and has recommneded measures to reduce
loss, rebabilite the system, and expand it where justfled. However, most of the
recommendatios relate to achievig design crteia usimg existig distribution stndards.
3.   TANESCO now wishes to strengthen its distribudon planning by:
(a)  expanding the distribution planning organiation so that, in addition to the
headquartrs group, there is a group in each of its operatng zones; and
(b)  extnding the planning to cover a critical eview of the dibutn standards
used, to ensure    they lead to the least cost for the quality of service
required.
4. The role of the headquarters group will be to establish and maintain standards and
guidelines for the distribuon system. The role of the groups in the zones will be to plan the
work required to meet the local demand within the guidelines set by the headquarters group, and
montr system performance in the zone.
S.   The review of the standards will focus on the use of alteratve designs to reduce cost and
improve flexibility to meet rapidly changing demand levels and ch cs while maintaining
the appropiate level of reliability.
6.   These terms of reference are for an individual with experience in distribution planning,
analyis, and operins to help TANESCO purchase additional equipment and software, form
and train the new distribution planning groups, and perform the study of alternative design
standards. The assignment is for approximately 18 montfs.
7.   The consultant should specify and assist TANESCO in purchasing the computer equipment,
software, and measuring instruments needed to equip the new groups. While the equipment is on
order the consultant should start training,at headquartes, the staff intended to form the new
groulps.



- 193 -                                 Page 2 of 2
8.   Once th equipmet his arived, the conutn shd help instl the equipme  and put it
to wor.  eo dou the start he  dy of design   d .
9.    Th consutant should hep TANESC's staff porm technical and ecoomic studies to
conpr alteenative distribution stads. lhe emphasis should be on sdopting stads ta
suit loca needs. In geea this requres the consultant to consider the use of single phase
distition (commonly known as thu Notth American system) to see If a modified fom of this
pproach will lead to luwer dbuion cost than the system used at pset Examples of
fleible low cost sym  are hose used in Sou  Korea, Venezuela, and rura Australia.
10.  Te consutant should spfically consider items such as the reative coverage of medium
volge and low voltage distiu , Investent costs, and th flexibility of altemative systems
with regard to the extent they pemi minimal ini  Investment with furter investment big
necessary only when demand grows. lhe comparison between alternave strategies offeig the
same tcnical perfoman  must be made on the basis of discounted cash flow of capital
investment, oeration and maitanc cons, and the cost of losses.
Il.  The consultant should prepae an Incepdon report wihin six wuees of stating the
assigmet, and progress repots every two months.



- 194 -
Amex 8.
Page I of 2
TANZ ANIA
POWER Vl WRO-CT
Term=  ofefe=c= for CorgMr   Planning Manaw
Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited (TANESCO) aims to establish a Corporate
Planning Division which would coordinate and assist in preparation of Corporate Plans (business plans
for the company) annually, monitor actual results and identify reasons/causes for variations between
planned targets and actual results. To reflect and report on the performance of the institution the
Corporate Planning Division will prepare periodic management reports on a regular basis. Depending
on the nature of the activities covered by the reports, the management reports will be prepared on a
monthly, quarterly, half-yearly and yearly basis. The main Stewardship Report for TANESCO's senior
management and its Board of Directors will be prepared on a moiathly basis.
The Corporate Plamning Mager will have the overall responsibility for coordinating all
planning activities within the company. The Corporate Planning Manager will be assisted by an assistant
manager and a team of planning and senior planning officers and support staff. Hetsh* turn will report
to the Finance Director.
Work Pro&ra
The Corporate Planning Manager will focus his/her attention on the following activities:
(a) review TANESCO's business objectives and activities to identify disftinct operating,
functional and work units which will be assigned the responsibility for preparing business
plans for their respective work units;
(b)   prepare an outine of the Annual Corporate Plan and review it with TANESCO's
managers at different levels to reach a consensus on the activities to be covered by the
plan and its format;
(c)   prepare detailed instructions for preparing the annual plan, design forms, schedules,
charts etc. to be completed by each planning unit, prepare a timetable for completion of
the planning activities at various levels of the organization until their consolidation into
a draft Annual Corporate Plan;
(d)   consolidate inputs of all planning work units into one Annual Corporate Plan;



0  f liN ii Xa  i
tI                ftXi    l 1 '
0]it a          1 
t itXl    it
2 $ 'jill'



- 196 -
AM .4
I&MAM ~ ~ ~ AaU
IANIAk
LP-WIE VI s
Terms of RAMenCO fDr SU=m  MM=ge
aegn
Tanzana Electdc Supply Company Limited (TANESCO) plans to inroduce up-o-date
systems and procedures which effecdvcly meet the organzaons current and fture needs. To bandle
*t  actvity systematically and in an organized manner, TANESCO has decided to establish a Systems
Unit which in conjunction with all operatng, functional and other work units would be responsible for
establishing systems, procedures and practices as required to assist employees at levels and locations of
the orgaization.
'Me Systems Manager wil be In char,-e of this unit and will have the overall
responsiiity for planing and coordiang its actv"ies and implemenig its work program.
Ihe Systems Manager will focus his/her attention on the following activities:
(a)   review the existig systems, procedures, practices and guidelines to Dssess their adequacy in
rlaion to the needs of the organization and the individual work units, woring groups and
Individual managers and other employees;
(b)   prepare a program for up-dating existng systems where required, discarding exting systems
which are no longer relevant to the needs and preparing new systems as needed to ensure that
together with the up-dted exst  systems all the requirements of the organization and its
activities are adequately covered;
(c)   in conjunction with relevant managers, supervisors and other employees implement the progrm
of action described in (b) above;
(d)   based on the work in (a), (b) and (c) prepare a "Systems Manual" and a register of 'Limits of
Authonty" for managers and supevirs  which should be consistent with their responsibilities;
review these docment with TANESCO's manaement teams and mange for their distribution;
and
(e)   prvide appropriate training to employees within the systems unit.



- 197 -
Aus nas
Page 1 of 2
TANZANIA
POWER VI PROJECT
qs9 OF REPIINE O 1                     &GEIMM           NSS
ObJeciw
The general objective of the TANESCO Personnel Policy Is to have fewer, smarter and
better paid staff so that TANESCO's business objectives can be filly met at minimum
cost and at the same time give staff a good quality working life.
PA_d 4ccennta
The cosultant wi  report to the Deput Managing Director incharge of AdmWdstration,
Finmce and Coporate Services and will have the Director of Persomnel as his/her
counterpart- His/her principal responsibilites will be to:
Wa)conduct an assesment of the TANESCO Personnel function and based on bIslher
findings advise on how to strengthen it. -his will include recommendations on the size,
location and efficiency of the personnel function;
(b)prepare, review, obtain necessary approvals for and ensure tie Implementation of a
plan to stegthen the personnel funiuon in HQ, the Zones and the Power Plants;
(C)assess management and superisorytrainingneeds and in coordinationwith appropriate
managers and exten  consultants plan and implement management and supervisory
trainig programs;
(d)fine tume the existing design of the training program, plan the act  implementaion
of it, establish a training nominadion ystem, select training consultants, design an
evaluation progm  and organize all managemen and supervisory traning,
(e)    design and plan a practical, problem oriented follow up prgram the ensures the
application of skldis and knowledge acquired to each managers job. This wil
include:
(1)    plaig  follow up application assignments (e.g.customer safction
surveys);



- 198 -
Al=S
Patge2 of
(2)   orguzig follow up workshops wheb partcipants hare the results of
their assigment and learn fom each other,
(3)   give peel, general consultancy support to Zoa and HQ Dketors
to help the orgnization to become more productive and a better place to
work witb special emphasis on suppordt  snior managers to reduc
their stafig to levels whicb are consient with Industry criteria In the
regin;
(t)   assess the impact of the management and supervisory tai  progrm by hawing
each participant report on how they have benefitted from the training through
follow up projects which would contribute towards TANESCO's corporae
objectives;
(0)   specify the stadard reports and data required for an dfecive manage_m  of the
stff within the framework of the off the shelf packages (bIlling, accountingo
st o mr         and payroll) by:
(1)   prepaIg deil specifica    for the system;
(2)   assuring hat the specifications are filly met;
(3)   assuring that staff are propedy trained and if necessary take an acive
part In this training;
(4)    deaning up thePerso   file room and build up a functional file room
both in HQ ad In the Zones;
(5)   streainIng reduda  clerical work.



- 199 -
AmexA.6
Page 1 of t
UIRMS OF RYEEN FOR zE MAQWE- CON$VLA,NT
Objecivea
The general objective of the TANESCO Personnel Policy is to have fwr, smarter and
better paid staff so that TANESCO's business objectives can be fully met and at the same time give staff
a good quallty working life.
TANESCO reduced its staff in March 1991 from 6500 to 6000 staff but has since thee
Icreased its staff to 7550 without a significant incrtse in its business. Currenly it has an average one
staff member for every 27 customers whereas generally :he stafflcustomer ratio is on order of 1/50 for
Eastern and Southern Africa and 11100 in Europe. The icma zging director of TANESCO would like the
manpower planning consultant to review the organization's workldoad/skills/staffmng levels and based on
his/her findings recommend a realistic and practical new establishment.
P*walAcow s
The consultant will report to the Managing Director but will work closely with the three
Deputy Managing Directors to agree on an establishment for eah d /zone/plant of TANESCO
and a plan to have the new establishment in place within 2 years. His/her principal responsibilities wil
include:
(1) orientIng himaself/herself with the objective and the current business of TANESCO, the
work of each deparmen, the zonal organizations, and the power plants (hydro-electric
& Oil). This wil include understanding the realistic future growth in essental business
activities and Identifying the incremental staff requirements;
(2)    quickly identifying overly large occupational groups in TANESCO on which there is
consensus (e.g. the ovedy large group of watchmen) and mesres for their downsizig,
(3)   identifyig occupational groups that will need to be down sized because of changing work
practices due to introduction of new technology in work place. For example, it is
expected that as a result cf consultants' review of accounting, biling and personnel
systems clerical and administrative staff will be sigificantdy reduced. Similarly an
accounting systems study of stores will probably lead to a reduction in staff,
(4)   visit as many zones and locations as possible to find out what each person in the office
does to identify overlaps, duplication and excess staff and based on the findings
recommend new staffing levels;



- 200 -
Anneu S.
Pge 2 ot2
(5)    based an discsiors with the diecors on how efficeces In  ops of staff can takb
place, invaegae these and devise means for their Intoduction;
(6)   identify how equipmen changes and work habits can impre and  touce new work
methods;
(7)   based on his/her finding reommend optimum siz and stffg   lovd for eah work unit
and the Institution as a whole and prepare plans and programs fbr inoduction of new
4staffg levels.



- 201 -
PW>1d2
TANZANIA
POWER VI PROJECT
TEMM OF REFERENCE FOR THE PEP CONSULTANT
Objedtive
In January 1991 TANESCO intoduced an organaon wide Productivity
Improvement Progm  with the fbllowing objectives:
(J)    provide high quality service to power consumers at reasonable cost;
(if)   aise productivity and efficiency In all major functional areas of the company so as to
mimiz output from existing facilities and delay the need for major investents;
flii)   gener  sufficient saving from improved productivity to sustain n4or Increass in
perfomnance 'elated group incetives;
(iv)   reduce power system and invntory losses and reduce the bigh level of aciounts
receivable; and
(v)    crt a sen  of belonging and spontaneous employee commitment to TANESCO's
overall objecdves.
It is also expected that achievement of the above objectives will lead to the elimination of
kiegularites which have hitherto been common throughout the company.
PulAcc
The consultant wil report to the Managing Director, md will mange the PIP
program wii the Director of Corporate Services as his/her counterpart . Helshe wil have the
following major responsibilities:
(1)   train the Director of Corporate Services and other staff associated with PIP so that the
management of the program can be effectively carried out after the end of assigmuent;
(2)    work with the managers of TANESCO to implement performance related goup allowances
based on meaningful homogeneous work group efforts as low down in the organization as
possible;



- 202 -
Pe2o` 2
(3)    fntu  and facfit        st dardization of the PIP Management Ioma   system by: (a)
design simple and meansind reporting format at different levels, (b) establish procedures for
the quartedy discussion and feedback on progress e.g. Senior Maagment meets, (c)
establish a pracical reportg format for the TANESCO Board;
(4)   ensure proper monthly assessment of work group perfmance liking the de-aggregated work
group efforts to the TANESCO wide PIP objectives, and establish a computerized format to
work out the PIP allowances;
(5)   introduce, in collaboration with the Systems Manager, a responsive computerized personnel
information system linking the pay-roll, the personnel information system and the
establishment regiser. (Coordination with the Personnel function and consultants working on
other computer systems is essential). Ibis system has to be updated on a monthly basis for
both regular and daily paid staff;
(6)   provide assistance to the managers in using the PIP allowances to reward groups and staff
who do well but also withhold the PIP bomns from groups or individual staff who do not
"deliver the goods" according to their performance indicars;
(7)   plan and implement the biring freeze, staff reduction and reassignment program, and ensure
ha no new appointmens are made without proper justification;
(8)   assist in coordination with the Director of Personnel and Management Traing and Personnel
cnsultA in preparing the ground work for the senior management to negodate case by case
the dismissa of bad peformers and on the reduction of staff groups that are to large and/or
do not add the necessary value (e.g. security, watchmen, clerks in finance, stores, accountn
and persomnel)
(9)   plan and aist, in coordinatn with the personnal function, the implementation ot a multi-
year staff reduction program;
(10)  establish a com     n program through TANESCO Newsleter or other apptopriate
means that will assure all staff timely and accurate information about performance at all levels
in the company;
(11)  design and deliver a series uf workshops on the objective, implemeon and achievements
of PIP for Zonal/HQ Directors, Regional and Divisional managers and all TANESCO
supevisors.



- 203 -                         Annme ns
Page I of 4
IANZ&AJA
Power VI Project
Twems of Refeenc
Cronsulpng Servit Stuf Option for the Insttutonal em enot
or               nd Asslst In ImoIementing the fareed O-tTon
Objectives:
1.    The objectives of the assignment are to:
(a)   list the advantages and disadvantages of various possible institutional
structures to improve efficiency and expand investment in Tanzania's
power sector;
(b)   recommend a structure including the enabling legal framework,
regulatory framework and transitional arrangements that will result in
the ptovision of an adequate supply of good quality electrical service
atleast cost; and
(b)   once the Government has agreed on the structure, help it implement
the necessary changes.
2.    The Tanzania Electric Supply Company Ltd. (TANESCO) builds and operates the
public power system in mainland Tanzania. TANESCO was incorporated ir November 1931
as a private company called the Tanganyika Electric Supply Company. The Government
bought the company in 1964 and established it as a public limited company under the
Company Ordinance Act. In 1968 the company's name was changed to the Tanzania Electric
Supply Company. Both the Company Ordinanc Act, and the Electricity Ordinance Act of
October 1931 govern its operatons.
3.    TANESCO is managed by a Board of Directors through the Managing Director. The
Govemment, the sole shareholder, nominates the Directors, including the Managing Director,
who, according to the Artidles of Association, cannot be less than two or more than ten. At
preset, the Board consists of the Chairman who is also the Chairman of the Paraststal Sector
Refom Commission, the Managing Director, and nine other Directors that represent most
interest groups in Tanzanian society including the workers.
4.    As a public limited company, TANESCO is intended to operate independenty. In
practice, however, it has to seek Government approval on major investments. The Board of
Directors has the authority to increase tariffs by up to 5% semiaually, and the Ministry of
Water, Energy, and Mieras to which TANESCO reports can raise the tariffs by a further
lO% smannmualy. Increases more an 15% require Cabinet approval.



- 204 -                         Annex 8.8
Page 2 of 4
S.    TANESCO generates and sells about 95% of the power consumed in The country In
an inrconnected system with an Installed capacity of about 474 MW and several small
isolated symems. The Zanzibar State Fuel and Power Company sells the electricity consumed
on Zanzibar and Pemba (about 8% of the total consumed). A submarine cable from the
manland supplies Zanzibar's electricity. Diesel engines generate Pemba's electricity. The
Mistry of Water, Energy and Minerals, in consultation with Tanesco, controls the
generation of electricity by private individuals through a licensing mechanism.
6.    Most of the foreip currency financing for the sector comes from concessionary
multlatral and bilateral loans or grants.
Bldoe for Chang
7.    Although TANESCO is considered one of the most efficient Government owned
companies, there Is scope for improvement in the efficiency of the operation. Also, if
TANESCO had better access to foreign curraency it would be able to respond to expansion and
maintenance needs faster. Moreover, a regulatory framework that responds to commercW
needs and is independent of the political process would permit the supply of higher quality
serce.
The main objecdves of chage are:
(a)   to promote sustained efficiency by introducing competMion, where
possible, aid incentives into the operation of the sector;
(b) to build a structure that promotes full commercial operation of the
power sector and allows the Governmeent to concentrate on policy and
operate at arm's length from tariff setting;
(c)   to attract private capital and so, reduce the burden on public finances;
and
(d)   to improve the access of the population to electricity service and
provide sufficient elecrity of the proper quality to sustain strong
economic growth.
It Is necessry to Introduce structura reforms and institonal arrangements that will be both
acceptable and practical and in which prices are controlled either by competition or where this
is not possible by fair and transparent regutation. The transition from the present stucture to
the proposed structre must be carefully planned to minze the impact on the mangent
and staff of the present organizations, and on the provision of electricity service during this
petiod.
S.    lEo cons_t should:



- 205 -                          Amex 8.8
Page 3 of 4
(a)   thoroughly investigate the efficiency of the present sector
arrangements with respect to the objectives in para. 7, including the
sector's legal and regulatory framework, management of the utility,
fiacing of the sector, labor laws, labor union roles and behavior,
regional differences of access to service etc.;
(b)   thoroughly document factors that would affect private investment in
the sector, e.g. present and forecast economic performance, supply of
foreign exchange,customs and taxation(the intention is to take this
information as given and not to recommend changes to policies
generated outside of the power sector);
(c)    suggest several alternative sets of arrangements for the sector that
would help meet the objectives of para. 7 above, including in the
discussion of each a full listing of its advantages and disadvantages
and the associated transitional arrangement;
(d)    discuss and recommend approaches to deal with different supply costs
in parts of the country, i.e. uniform versus non-uniform tariffs ( the
Consultants should take into account work being done in a separate
tariff study);
(e)    discuss and recommend approaches to deal with low income
customers; and
(f)   recommend to the Government the best arrangement for the sector
taking into account the advantages, disadvantages and any constraints.
For new options in (c) above, the Consultants should consider various combinations of.
(1)    setting up the distribution zones as companies;
(ii)   setting up a separate transmission and system control company;
(iii) setting up separate generating companies.
The Consultants should consider these combinations with various ownership and management
options, taking into account present and forecast conditions in the country.
9.    In selecting regulatory systems, the Consutants should carefully consider the poteni
usefulne  of other institutions in the country. In particular they should assess whether an
bnde t regulatory instition would be feasible, and should restrict the role of regulation
to those areas of the system for which efective competition is not likely to occur. The
Consultants should oudine and evaluate the merits, In the TanzaWnan context, of several
rgulaoy models, from international experience, for example, a quasi-legal public hearing
approach, a ontact approach and administrative approaches. lhe consultants should then
recommend an approach, explaining its particular suitability to Tanzania.



- 206 -                        Amex 8.8
Page 4 of 4
10.   If the Consultants find that privatization of a part of the sector would be
advantageous, but is not immediately possible because of perceived county risks, the
Consultants should evaluate the desirability of an interim solution using performance based
contas.
11.   lte reco     ion to the government should be in the form of a detailed plan that
shows the argemen tfor introducing competition into the sector, regulation of the sector,
planning of sector expansion and ownership and management of the utilities, expected sources
of financing, and any enabling legislation needed. Once the plan has been refined to consider
any concerns resulting from its discussion with IDA, cofinanciers and the government, the
Consultants should prepare a detailed implementation schedule, in consultation with the parties
concerned, and help the goverment implement it.
12.   Ihe Consultans should produce regular concise progress reports and a final report
tw recommends the sector stucture. The Consultants should arrange a seminar to present
and explain the study process and the recommended sector structure to the ierested parties
including the Government, IDA and cofinanciers. The study leading to a recommendation is
expected to be completed In six months to be ready for discussion during the proposed Interim
review of the project.



- 207 -                     Ann  8.9
Seleced Documen=. In ne Prmo Pie
1.    Detaed Cost Table (Costab pretout).
2.    Detailed Project Schedule (fmelle printout)
3.    Lower Kihansi Project Definition Report.
4.    Report of First Meetig of Panel of  perts for Lower haus Pl
U



IBRD 22162
j UGANDA.V            I                                 .                     .              '                                            JAA   '
\?                                                                                                        f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ENYA
RWANDA
,  T ANZANIA
ZAIRE        -
AIUS                       Vol                        Z > snRAMSTIA 
/,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ S  .--                                                          aso-
TANZANIA
TANZANIA ELECrRIC SUPPLY
\4~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~NCOMPANY LTD.
GvENERtATION AND) TRANSMISSIN
t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                                               '' meI 
TRANSl$fSI)ON LINES,
...o...4.- -a-a ''' g : 1  ,220 kV
-132Wv
132 kV SObmimOl cable
d                         p~~~~~~~~~O--   Ailwuys
43h~~ Soap G.. ~ ihd         LOETR
iThl    1. -   ho.
M AMI E                       x                 r fIt.
NOVEMSER 1992



