     THE WORLD BANK/IFC/M.I.G .A.                                          RECEIVED

                                                                   TME                     PANEL
       DATE: July 18, 1995

          TO:Mr. Ernst-Gunther Broder, Chairman, The Inspection Panel

       FROM: Gautarri S.Kaji, Acting President, EXC                               Approved by:
                                                                                        Date:GautamS.   Kaji

   EXTENSION:81384                                        /'




    SUBJECT: Tanzania Power VI Project (Credit 2489-TA)
                          -
             Management Response to Request forInspection

L             1.
             InternationalDevelopmentAssociation(IDA), by which the Chairman ofthe InspectionPanel
                    Referenceis madeto the Memorandum, dated June 16, 1995,to the President of

             intends`tocomply,with the relevantpoliciesand procedures in the implementationofthe above-
             requestedIDA Managementto providethe Panel with written evidencethat it has complied, or

             captionedProject.

             2.    Whilethe Panel requests IDA Management's statementon the meritsofthe Request, it is
             the view of IDA's Managementthat: (a)the Requestdoesnot meet all the eligibility
L            Resolution"), and (b) one of the allegationsin the Request is not admissibleunder the Resolution.
             requirementsset forth in ResolutionNo. IDA 93-6, dated September22,1993(hereinafter "the
             This responsethereforedealswith those issues.For your information,attachedhereto is an
             Annex commentingon the specificalleged violationsby the Managementof IDA'S policies and
             procedures.

             Eligibility of the Requesters:
L            3.
             an afectedparty in the territory ofthe borrowerwho is not a singleindividual (Le. a community
                    In accordancewith paragraph 12 of the Resolution,the Panel shall receive requests from


             the local representative of suchparty. Any such representativemust present written evidenceto
             of persons such as an organization, association, societyor othergroupingof individuals),or by
             the Panel that he is actingas agentofthe party on behalf of whichthe request is made. It is the
             view of IDA's Management on the basis of the reasons specifiedbelow, that the Requesters do
             not meet these requirements.

             4.     The Request is signed by Mr. Reginald JohnNolan and others specisringtheir postal
             addresses (and in one case a residentialaddress), but without any indicationof their residence
              status in theterritory of the borrower or any evidence as to their identity. In the view of IDA's
              Management,merely beingpresent in or mailing a letter fromtheterritory of the borrower
             concerned,would not meet this eligibilitycriterion; a substantialpresencewould seemto be the
             requirementrather thana "fleeting"presencein the country concerned.Thus, in our opinion,the
              Requesters must demonstratethat they have at least a substantialpresence in Tanzania.

                                           - 2 -


     5.
     Mr. ReginaldJohn Nolan as representativeof the Requesters, because no appropriatewritten
            We note that, while registeringthe Request,the Panel has not acceptedthe designationof
     evidence of representationhas been submittedto the Panel. Further,the Supplementto the
     Request was only signed by Mr. Nolan and not any of the other Requesters. We agreewith the
     Panel's decisionand expectthat the Requesterswill be requiredto provide suchwritten evidence.

     6.     With respect to the requirementthat the affectedparty shouldnot be a singleindividual,
     but a group of individualswith a commonalityof interests, the followingsubmissionsare made.
     It shouldbe noted that the "commonalityof interests"allegedby Mr. Nolan in the Supplementto
     the Request is derivedthrough Tannol Holdings Ltd., which is a Tanzania registered company
     with it own separatelegal identity,and is not aRequester. There is also a disparitybetweenthe

     TannolHoldings Ltd. as opposedto the other Requesterswho are allegedlyemployeesof Tannol
     interestsof Mr. Nolan, an owner, whose rewardsare derivedthrough dividendspaid to him by
t    HoldingsLtd. In addition, it is not clearthat all the Requesters are employeesof Tannol
     HoldingsLtd., sincethe Supplementto the Request refersto "several of the Requesters" and not
     to all the Requesters. In short,the Requestfailsto demonstrateclearlya "commonality of
     interest"amongthe Requesters.

     7.     The Resolutionprovides furtherthat the affected party must demonstrate,that its rights or
     interestshave been or are likelyto be directlv affectedby an actionor omission of IDA as a
     result ofa failureto follow its operationalpolicies and procedures. It is the view of IDA'S
L    Managementthat the Request and its Supplementreferprincipally to the effectof IDA's
     Management's allegedactionsor omissionson Tannol HoldingsLtd., the company,which is not
     a Requester, ratherthanto the Requesters. On page 1ofthe Request, it is statedthat "But for
     IDA's improper intervention,TannolHoldings Ltd. wouldhave developeda comparable
     Emergency Power Project (EPP)using private capital". On page 2 of the Request, referenceis
     madeto the factthat "the approvalof the loans [forthis project (i.e. the Emergency Power
     Projectto be financedfromthe on-goingPower Vi Project)]will have a materialeffecton
L    Tannol who have alreadyand will continueto suffergreat financial loss and injury". Furtherthe

     Request)to play a lead role in constructingand operatingthe EPP, was not madeby the alleged
     request madeby Tannol HoldingsLtd. to ElectricalTechnologiesInc. (En)(page 2 of the
     affected individualsbut by the company.On page 4 of the Request, referenceis madeto the fact
     that "TannoVETIwas .ifomally advisedby theGovernmentofTanzaniathat it would be given
     a Government mandateto goforwardwiththe EPP aboutJanuary 21, 1995."Other references
     in the Request and the Supplementleaveno doubtthat the party allegedto be directly affected is
     Tannol HoldingsLtd. and not the Requesters.

     8.     The only referenceto any adverse effecton the Requesters relates to the deprivation of the
     Requestersfrom significantemploymentopportunitiesand profits to the owners, who include
     Mr. Nolan. In the view of IDA's Management, these allegedadverse effectson the Requesters

     guaranteethat Tannol HoldingsLtd.'s offerwould have been acceptedby the Government, and
     are thereforesecondaryand not directas requiredby the Resolution. Further, there was alsono
     thus generatedthe employmentopportunitiesreferredto by the Requesters.The inability of a
     companyto obtaincontracts does not entail any claimto be exercisedby the employeesor
     shareholdersof the company concerned.
L

                                           - 3 -


     9.

     represents a "significanttoxic spill exposureto the Requesters, as well as,subjectingthem to
     (TANESCO) plan "createsa logisticsnightmare"andthat the risks of breakdownsand accidents
           With respectto the claimthatthe Tanzania ElectricSupplyCompanyLimited


     unnecessary noxious noise, dust and smokepollution",IDA's Managementconsidersthat no

     of proof that a causal link existsbetween IDA's alleged failure and thepotential material harm
     evidencehas been producedby the Requestersto substantiatetheir claim and to meet the burden
     envisionedby the Requesters.No evidenceis adducedfor instancethat the Requesters live,work
     fuel tothe Ubungo facility.As describedin paragraphs B.1through 5 of theattachedAnnex, the
     or carry out activitiesalongthe routethatthetrucks are likelyto take, inthe transportation of the

     assessmentas requiredin IDA's operationaldirectives.
     Governmentof Tanzaniahas taken all necessary action with respect to the environmental



     have not met the eligibilityrequirementsset forth in the Resolution.
     10. On the basis ofthe foregoing,it isthe view of IDA'S Managementthatthe Requesters


     Admissibilityof the Request

     11. The Sectionofthe Articlesof Agreementreferredto by the Requesters providesthat IDA
     shallnot provide fínancingif, in its opinion, such financingis availablefromprivate sourceson
     termswhich are reasonable forthe Recipient.This Sectionraises an issue asto the admissibility
     of this particularclaim, which is relatedto the decision-makingpowers of the Executive
L    appraisalandor implementationof a project financedby IDA. It relates insteadto one of the
     Directors, ratherthanto IDA's operationalpoliciesand procedures with respect tothe design,

     considerationsIDA takes into account, when it decides whetheror not to providefínancingto a
     particularproject. Decisionstaken by the ExecutiveDirectorswith respect to matters subjectto
     theirjudgment, e.g. whetherthe borrower will be in a positionto meet its obligationsunderthe

     the ambit of the Resolution,nor within the powers of the Panel. Theseare discretionarypowers
     loan antiwhetherthe project can otherwisebe financedon reasonableterms,do not fall within

L    vested in the ExecutiveDirectorsforthe exerciseof whichthey are accountableto the Board of
     Governors, not the InspectionPanel. In this casethe decisionto approvethe amendmentto the
     IDA Creditwas made by the ExecutiveDirectors, upon the President's Recommendationand
     with full knowledgeof the alternativefinancingmentionedin the Request.


     (TANESCO) and their advisers, with which IDA agreed,was that thetermsofthe proposed
     12. The assessment of the Government,the Tanzania ElectricSupplyCompanyLimited
     fínancingfrom Tannol HoldingsLtd.were unreasonable, andthat its proposalwas notjustified
     on technical, financial or economicgrounds, as explainedfurtherin SectionA.1ofthe Annex.

L                                                                                                ANNEX

                                      Comments On Alleged Violations

     A.       Articles of Agreement of IDA
     1.       Allegedviolationof ArticleV, Section1 (c) of the Articles of Agreement of IDA:
              "in that IDA funding for a government-ownedpower plantwas being provided,when
              a superiorprivate sectorpower projectcould be constructedand operatedwith
              financingfrom privates sources".

          (a)In orderto put the TannolHoldingsLtd.'sproposal fortheEmergencyPowerProjectinto
     context,the Panel shouldbe awarethat within Tanzania's Master Plan forthe energysector,the
     next least cost expansionproject forthe power sector, is to utilize indigenousgas forthe generation
     of electricity.Consequently,the Governmenthas overthe last two years been in discussionswith a
     Canadianconsortium for the developmentof the proposed SongoSongoGas DevelopmentProject.
L    IDA and other co-financiers. In orderto addressthe damageto the economycaused by power
     This project, which is part of the least cost expansionplan, is being prepared with the assistanceof
     outages (estimatedat about $170 million) in 1994andto respondto higherthanforecast demand
     growth, the Governmentdecidedto advancethe purchaseand installation of theturbines, which
     wereto be installedas part ofthe Songo SongoGas DevelopmentProject. The purchase and
     installationof theseturbines was designatedby the Governmentasthe EmergencyPower Project
     (EPP). Theseturbines will be convertedfrom more expensiveimportedfuel to indigenousgas,
     oncethe Songo SongoGas DevelopmentProject is completed.
L
     assistance of IDA'S Management(duringthe period from May to November 1994), had sought
          (b) Priorto the receipt of the Tannol HoldingsLtd.proposal, the Governmentwith the
     solutionsto the fundingof the EPP, includingseveralprivate sources. Approaches had been made
     to potential suppliersto determineimmediateavailabilityof a thermal plant, includingapproaches
     to suppliersin Norway, SouthAfrica and Scotland.Followingthese approaches,therewas an offer
     fiom ROTEK, a SouthAfrican company, which included a proposalfor commercialfinancing,
L    relied on a sell and buy back schemeof Tanzania's gold reservesto securepayments, and
     structuredby Bankers Trust Companyand involvingthe use of relatively shortterm money. It

     Governmenthaving reviewedthis offer, foundthe commercialtermsto be too onerous.

          (c) The Governmenton December 2, 1994, senta letter to IDA'SManagement requestingthat
     the Power Vi Project be restructuredto financethe necessaq generatingplant. Management
     respondedby sendinga missionto reviewthe situationwith the Governmentand TANESCO and
     to find an appropriatesolution.

          (d) The Tannol HoldingsLtd. proposaldated December 15, 1994, was to installa single 109
     megawatt (MW)turbine, which was foundto be inappropriategiventhe relatively small sizeof
     TANESCO's generation system(380MW). Thisproposal was reviewedby the Government,
     TANESCOand by their engineering,economic,financial and legal consultants(Acres International
     and Hunton andWilliams) and foundto be technicallyunsound. The main reason forthis
     conclusionwas that a failureof this turbine couldtriggerthe collapseof the entirenational

     TannolHoldingsLtd.'s inabilityto provideany informationthat it had experienceoperatingas an
     electricitygrid. ûther technical deficiencies,includedan unrealisticimplementationschedule;
L

                                                        - 2 -
I,
      independentpower producer; andthe fact that Tannol Holdings Ltd. had not securedtheir proposed

      assessment on the site. This last fàctor was important, asTannol HoldingsLtd.'s proposalwas to
      siteat the Dar es SalaamPort nor demonstratedthatthey had undertakenan environmental
      burn residual fuel, which generates largequantitiesof toxic sludgethat would requireadequate
      means for disposal.


           (e) The proposed financialterms (powerpurchaseagreementand fínancialarrangements)
      were alsojudged to be too onerousby the Government,as well as,being unreasonableand
      unrealistic.In orderto financea 109MW machineat a cost of about $50 million, TannolHoldings
      Ltd. requiredthat the Governmentmake a down payment of $5 million, open an irrevocableletter
      of credit in dollars for $14 million for a period of eight years, a letter of creditin Tanzanian
      Shillingswith a term of 15 years, havinga íùnded value of two months of payments ofthe
I-    guaranteedannualmonthly minimumchargefor electricisgenerated (approximately $8-10
      million) and a Governmentguaranteethat TannolHoldingsLtd. could externalizeits payments in

      financecommunity,no accessto internationalbank loans or capital markets on an unsecured basis,
      foreignexchange. It shouldbe noted that Tanzaniahas no creditstandingin the international
      and is off-cover with all major export creditagencies. (cf. CS First Boston Report dated October
      12, 1994). Further, Tannol HoldingsLtd. was unable or unwillingto provide any concretedetails
      of its financial status or the project's financingplan.

L          (0 Onpage 3 ofthe Request,the Requestersstatethat BankersTrust Company, whichwas
      retained by Governmentto comparethe Tannol Holdings Ltd. offer and the TANESCOEPP
      proposal, in its report concludedthat the TannoYETIproposal had a "much higher likelihoodto
      meet" the Government's "current implementationobjectives". In the viewof IDA'S Management,
      this quotation is taken out of context. First, BankersTrust had prefacedtheir report by statingthat
      the restrictedt h e framehad affectedthe degreeof due diligenceand economicanalysisthey could
      undertake. Second,Bankers Trust comparedthe TannoVETIproposal with the proposed Songo
L     SongoGas DevelopmentProject and not the EPP. The full quotation fromthe Banker's Trust
      report reads, "In view of the emergencysituationwhich obtains andthe uncertaintiessurrounding
      the WB [WorldBank] financing solution,we believe, based on the informationwe received and
      have analyzed in this shorttime frame, that the TANNOLíELECTROGENEPP has a higher
      likelihoodto meet GOT'Scurrent implementationobjectives. We would urge GOT, if it decides
      this path, to ensurethat theWB [WorldBank]neverthelesscontinuesits preparationsfor EPP
      ñnancingand equally important forthe overall Songo Songoproject." Subsequently,the
      Government,in its letterdated February 15, 1995, reiterated its requestto IDA to proceedwith the
      revisionof the Power VI Project in orderto financethe EPP.


      Internationalforthe Governmentto assessthe impact of introducinga new power generation
           (g) With regard tothe economicsoftheproposal, an analysiswas undertakenby Acres

      companyusing importedfuel, onthe continueddevelopmentof the proposed SongoSongoGas
      DevelopmentProject, which is the next least cost investmentconsistentwith Tanzania's Master
      Plan for the energysector. The results ofthe analysiswas that TANESCO's least cost power
      expansionplan overthe next decade,requiredthe utilization of indigenousgas over more expensive
L     cost power expansion option.
      importedfuel and that the Tannol HoldingsLtd. proposal, as structured,was not part of the least

                                                   - 3 -



    2.       "The announcement of the IDA financingwas made prior to a recommendation of a

            V,Section 1(d) of IDA's Articles of Agreements."
             competent committee, made after a careful study of the merits of the proposal Article


            IDA's practice is to announceatentativelendingprogram for each country, which
    identifiesproposed projects in the contextof a countryassistancestrategy.The actual financingof
    any specificproject includedin theprogram is subjectto the approval of the ExecutiveDirectors.
    The Sectionofthe Articles referredto here statesthat IDA shall "not provide financingexcept
    upon the recommendation of a competentcommittee, made after a careful studyof the merits of the
    proposal".While modificationsof existingprojects are not subjectin the Bank's practice to the

    particularcase in view of the sizeof the amount involvedand the factthat it coversa component
    review of the "competentcommittee"provided for inthe Articles, an exceptionwas made in this
    which could be seen, for purposes of the Articles' requirement, as a separateproject. Priortothe
    presentation of the proposed revision of the Power VI Project to the ExecutiveDirectors,a

    namely the expert appointedby the Governorfor Tanzania, the Regional Vice President, Africa,
    recommendationof such competentcommiW wasreviewed and signedby allthe members,
    and the Acting SeniorVice Presidentand General Counsel .(A copy is attachedas Attachment I.)

    3.       "The funding is being improperly diverted from the Power VI hydro-electric project

            influences. Article V Section 1(g), IDA Articles of Agreement".
             and this diversion of funds appears to be the result of political or non-economic
L
            Thereis no evidenceadducedby the Requestersto substantiatethe claimthat
    Management'sactionsor the decisionof the ExecutiveDirectorswere in any way influenced by
    political or noneconomicinfluences.Therevisionofthe Power VI Project to provide forthe
    financing ofthe EPP was approved by the Board on the basis of technical, financial and economic

    No. 2489-TA), Proposed Amendmenttothe DevelopmentCredit and Project Agreements,
    informationcontainedin the President's Memorandum,TANZANIA:Power VI Project (Credit
    IDA/R95-54,dated April 18, 1995.

    B.       EnvironmentalReauirements

             Environmental Aspects of Bank Work, para 9 (c) and (h) and OD 4.01,
             "IDA has failed to follow its operating policies contained in OMS No. 2.36,
             Environmental Assessment, Paras 2,14-22, becausethe funding of the OTC Project
            threatens to unduly compromisethe public health and safety by selection of an
             unsound site for the Project; and no Environmental Assessment has been performed
             in or were any consultationswith affected individuals or NGOs conducted".
    1.
    the part of IDA's Managementhas not been demonstrated(seeparagraphs 7and 8 of the
             It shouldbe notedthatthelinkbetweentheRequestersandallegedactionor inactionon


    respectto environment-relatedmatterswere followedprior to the approvalof the revisionsto the
    Response). It is the view of IDA'S Managementthatall applicablepolicies and procedures with
    Power VI Project.

                                                      - 4 -


     2.       The Requesters refer to paragraphs 9 (c) and (h)of OMS 2.36and to certainprovisions of

     projectsthat unduly compromisethe public's health and "safes" and "endeavorsto ensurethat
     OD 4.01.The paragraphs of OMS 2.36which are referredto, providethat "IDA will not finance

     projectswith unavoidable adverseconsequencesfor the environmentare sited in areaswherethe

     Governmentbok this principle into accountin the sitingof theturbines forthe EPP. The Ubungo
     environmentaldamage is minimized, even at somewhatgreater initial costs". TheTanzanian
     facility,which TANESCOhas selectedasthe siteof the new thermalgeneral units,is an already
     two gas turbines and six dieselengines operatingon the site. Thetwo additionalturbinesto be
     existingpower generation sitewhich has been in operation for over 25 years. There are presently


     GasDevelopment Project, which are being advancedto addressthe emergencysituationreferredto
     installed at Ublungo aspart of the EPP, arepart of the above-mentionedproposed SongoSongo
     in paragraphA. 1 (b) above.

i    3.       As part of the preparationof the Songo SongoGas DevelopmentProject, an
     EnvironmentaliAssessmentconsistentwith O.D. 4.01 was undertakenfor the Governmentand
     completed in December 1994.A summary was circulated to the ExecutiveDirectorson January
     25, 1995 (SEC M95-91) (hereinafter, `%e EA), as requiredby OD 4.01 and a copy ofthe
     deliveryof natural gas up to the Ubungo facilityfrom Kinyeresi,which had originallybeenthe
      summaryis attached as Attachment2. The environmentalassessmentreviewed, inter alia, the
     proposed sitefor the constructionof the power plant (includingthe installationof theturbines). A

     existingboundiariesof the Ubungo facility,ratherthanthe new siteproposed i.e. Kinyeresi,as it
     decisionwas tlhen taken by Governmentand TANESCOto installthe new turbines withinthe
L    would have taken too longto developthe Kinyeresi site.Furthermore, in designingthe EPP the
     same environnientalstandardsnormally applied in the USA and Canadawere applied, in terms of
     noise and emissionstandards.The air emissionsat the Ubungofacilityare presently being and will
     continueto be monitoredby theNational EnvironmentManagement Council. It should be noted,
     that in carrying outthe environmentalassessment,key affectedpersons were consulted, including
     interviewswitlh knowledgeablepersons in Government,parastatalsorganizations,NGOs and local
     authorities(seepages 126-128of the environmentalassessment).
I,   4.       In preparingthe EPP, in additionto the environmentalassessment referredto above, the
     followingenvironmentrelated actionsweretaken by the Governmentand TANESCO.To mitigate
     any preexisting conditionsat the Ubungo facility,the Governmentcommissioneda Regulatory
     Reviewand ComplianceAudit, which was completed in April 1995.In addition,the Government
     commissionedan environmentalsite audit, the draftfield summaryof which was completedby the
     consultantsin June, 1995.

      5 .     With respect to the transportationof fuel, the Requesters stateon page 2 of the
      Supplementto the Request, that two largetankertrucks an hour will be requiredto carry fuel
     through Dar es Salaam, 24 hours a day andthat this creates a logisticsnightmare, and furtherthat
     "the risk of brlmkdownsand accidents represents a significanttoxic spill exposureto the
     Requesters . . .". The first clarificationto be made is that thetankertrucks do not gothrough Dar

     highway leadingout of the city, with only a 2-3 kilometer stretchof urban developmentfromthe
     es Salaam. Instead,the routetaken involves atrip from the Dar es Salaamport on a dual carriage


I,   highwayto the übungo facility. The trucks do not travel throughthe centerof Dar es Salaam
     which may be the impressiongiven by the Requesters.

6.
analysiswas carried out for TANESCOconcerningthe number of trucks andtrips that would be
         In addition to the activitiesmentionedin paragraph 4 above, in preparingthe EPP,an
requiredto meet the fuel demandof the existinp;and planned generationplant atthe Ubungo

maximum number of seventrucks, with a capacitytohold 40 cubic meters of fuel, would make
facility.The analysis indicatesthat, even based on avery high plant capacity factor of 95%, a
threetrips per day, six days a week.Thisamountsto 21trucksa day not 48, as allegedby the
Requesters. Further, the truckspresentlybeing used, and thoseplanned to be used, are specifically
designed for thetransportation of fuel. Equally important, the number oftrips will be reduced to

two years.
lessthanhalf of the present trips, oncegas is brought by pipeline intothe Ubungofacilityin about



Attachments:
M:\BETTY\TAWANEL9.DOC

  . -                                                                         Attachment 1

                     W CO>I;LIESDATION OF STATCTORY COMMITTEE

L
     To:         The President. Internarional Development.i\ssociation
                          . .




                 Recommendation of the Committee under Section 1 (d) of Article V of the
                 Articles of Agreement on the proposed Amendments to the Development Credit
                 Agreement for Credit No. 7489-T.A (Sixth Power Project) to the United Republic
                 of Tanzania.


                 The undersigned Commi'ttee constituted under Section 1 (d) of Article V of the

      .kticles of Agreement of International Development Association (the Association hereby
L     hubmits its recornmenciation pursuant to said Section in respect of the proposai to amend the

..    Development Credit /Igreement. dated July 76. 1993. between the United Republic of

      Tanzania (the BorroLver) and the Association for the above-mentioned Project in order to

      include in the Project a component for the acquisition of urgently needed thermal generation
      capacity and to reallocate part of the proceeds of the Credit for such purpose.



       I .     The Committee has carefully studied the merits of this proposal and is of the opinion
      that the proposed amendments are consistent Lvith the objectives of the Project as stated in the
      Recommendation of the Statutory Committee. dated .\Dril 15. 1993. atid that the Prolect. as
L     amended. toward the financing of which the proceeds of the Credit are to be applied comes
       within the purposes of the Association as set forth in Article I of said Articles of Agreement.
       and is designed to promote the economic development of the United Republic of Tanzania

       and is of high developmental priority in the light of the needs of the United Republic of

       Tanzania.

. . * , . I
                                                                                í Sixth Power Project i
                                                                                        í Amendment




             -.
              7         Accordingly. the Committee finds that said Project. as amended. merits financial
             assistance from the Association. and hereby recommends said Project. as amended. for such

             assistance.



                                                   COMMITTEE




L                                                                   +&&
                                                                      -           ie.,
                                                       Acting Senior Vice President and General Counsel




L                                                                  Nominee selected by Governor for the
                                                                             United Republic of Tanzania



                                                                                        wg/
I,                                                                                       President. Ainca




              'Jt-
               Dated at Wasliington D.C.
               A p r i l 18, 1 9 9 5

. I
' ,
          . %            _ _                                                        Attachment 2
                        ..i-.... .
                                 ....        .. ..




   i,


                                   I    .                                                         SWM95-91


                FROM: Vice ;Presidentand Secretary                                                January 24, 1995




                                              U " E D REPUBLICOF TANZANIA
   L                    -
                        SONGO SONGO GASDEVELOPMENT AND POWER GENERATION PROJECT
    ..                                         EnvironmentalAssessment Summarv


                         Attached is a summary of the Environmental Assessment Study @AS) for the proposed Songo

                prepared by the Borrower. Circuiation of the EM does not si@
                Songo Gas Development and Power Generation Project. The EASits the full report filed, have been
                 1.
                                                                                and


   \i           Bank. The EnvironmentalAssessment is subject to possiblechange during the appraisal process.
                                                                                   evaluation or endorsement by the


                 2.
                 34168. The draft report is available upon request from the office of the Director, Eastern Africa
                         Quest~onsmay be referred to the Task Manager, Ms. Karen Rasmussen (AF2EI), extension
                Department.



   L
                 Distribution:

                 Executive Directorsand Alternates
                 Office of the President
                 SeniorManagement,Bank, iFC and MIGA




   L

      Environmentai Irnoact Assessmenr
      of the Proposed Songo Songo
      Gas Developmerir Project                                                          December 1994
                                                                                                Page (i)


                                         EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

     INTRODUCTION

     The Governmerit of Tanzania, specifically the Ministry of Water. Energy and Minerais (MWEIM)
     has funded an Environmentai Impact Assessment (EIA) of the proposed Songo Songo Gas

     south of Dar e:; Salaam. The project involves production, processing and transportation of
     Development Project. The gas field is located on Songo Songo Island approximately 220 km

     natural gas from Songo Songo Island to a thermal electric power generation facility in Dar es
     Salaam, connection to the existing electrical grid, and the local distribution of gas to industrial
     customers (Figure 1.l 1.   The construction of facilities is expected to take approximately 18
     months.

     The purpose of this study is to provide an environmental impact assessment and a mitigation
     management plan. Since Tanzania does not have environmental assessment guidelines or
'L   environmental cischarge crtteria, this environmental assessment follows internationel
     environmental protection guidelines from the World Bank and Canada.

     POLICY, LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE FRAMEWORK

     The Songo Solngo Gas Development Project is responsible to two distinct levels of legal
     structure. The project should comply with Tanzania's National Environmental Management
I/   policy and legislation.
     Development Association) and musr also comply with their Operational Directives and Policy
                                The project is in part funded by the World Bank (International

     for natural resource management and environmental protection.

     Based on this study, management of environmental matters at the legislative levei is not well
     defined. At present, the Ministry of Tourism, Natural Resources and Environment is
L    responsible for developing and implementing an environmental impact assessmentprocess and
     ensuring that enforcement is also in place. However, they have no legislative instrument to
     support or facilitate this initiative. The development of a new National Environmental
     Management Policy is a positive action. The National Conservation Strategy for Sustainable
     Development (NCSSD)is being coordinated through the National Environmental Management
     Council (NEMC). This policy is intended to provide the framework fnr national environmental
     management iriitiatides. For this project, we have adopted internationally accepted standards
     for environmental management practices typical of similar development projects in Canada
     and abroad. The mitigation measures recommended for this project have been developed to
     also meet the standards of development as outlined in the operational directives, policies and
     updates of the World Bank.

     Mitigatjon measures as defined for wildlife and protection of land shall ensure that the
     objectives of the legislative instruments which do support the EIA requirements are met. The
     process for land acquisition is also very well defined, however, this is not always well
     understood or fully implemented by the participants.

                                               SONGO SONGO GAS DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1 HBT AGRA Limited
1-                                        Songo Songo to Dar es Salaam Gas Pipeline
  Engineering & EnvironmentalSwAces                Study Area Location Map

 .Ga-c.m                               CGi7015                               FIGURE 1.1

  I    enviconmenta impacr Assessment
       of the Proposed Songo Songo
       Gas Development Project                                                         December 1994
                                                                                                Page (iii)


      The Ministry responsible for environment is the Ministry of Tourism, Natural Resources, and
       Environment, specificallythe Department of Environment. The current system is very new and
      the staff have limited experience in this field. There is a requirement for greater coordination
      and collaboration t o encourage a multidisciplinary approach to the Environmental Assessment.
      This would facilitatethe development and enforcementof practical and realisticenvironmental
      objectives such as air emission and effluent discharge standards and an effective
      communication system within and between departments. There is a requirement for a
      dedicated group that can be held responsible for the implementation and enforcement of an
      environmental assessment process. For this project, it is recommended that the responsibility
      to coordinate and implement the recommendations presented in this IA report will be the
      Ministry responsible for energy. This ministry should also be responsible for the dissemination
      of this material to the other Ministries, the World Bank and the general public.

      PROJECT DESCRIPTION

L     The proposed development will produce approximately 35 to 100 MMcf/d over a 20 year
      period from wells located on and near Songo Songo Island (Novatech, 1994). Natural gas is
      a mixture of saturated hydrocarbons and small amounts of water, hydrogen, nitrogen and
      carbon dioxide. The ga&,will be processed at a plant on Songo Songo Island to remove
      produced water and condensates.        The gas has sufficient reservoir pressure such that
      compression is not required.      The gas will be transported via a 30 cm (12 in) diameter
      pipeline, 25 km (16 mi) to the mainland. The mainland buried pipeline, 192 krn (120 mi) long,

li    way will be reduced to. 20 m (66 ft) during operations.
      will occupy a 30 m (1O0 ft) wide right-of-way during construction. The maintained right-of-
                                                                       Much of the mainiine will be
      constructed through already disturbed, agricultural land. However, some of the right-of-way
      -may  traverse coastal forest stands. The mainline pipeline will involve one major river crossing
       the Rufiji River.

      The proposed power plant will be located on agricultural land west of the City of Dar e s
L     Salaam and will consist of three 20 MW turbine generators. The power will be delivered
      initially by 132 kV overhead lines (with provision for 220 kV lines in the future) 12 km (7.5
      mi) north to the existing Tanesco (Tanzania Electric Supply Company Ltd.) grid. Natural gas

      the new power plant. Additional small diameter natural gas pipelines will be used to distribute
      will be delivered to the existing Ubungo power plant by a 15 cm (6in) diameter pipeline from

      gas to the Tanzania Portland Cement Company and in the future to smaller industries in Dar
      es Salaam.

      ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT

      The potential impacts were identified by superimposing project elements of the pipeline and
      power plant on existing natural conditions and applying standard (internationally accepted)
      mitigative measures. An underlying assumption of this method is that the project will be
      designed, constructed and operated, with due care forsafetyand environmental matters using
      current and practical engineering practices. Wherever possible, major upsets and deviations

  i
       Environmental Impact Assessment
       of the Proposed Songo Songo
       Gas Development Project                                                           December 1994
                                                                                               Page iiv)



L      from normal operational conditions have been taken into account in the assessment of
       potential environmental impacts.

       impacts on the Biophysical Environment

       The baseline biophysical information w a s collected from a variety of sourcI-s including a
       literature review, maps, air photos and an earlier feasibility report. This was supplemented by
      a route reconnaissance using helicopter, fixed wing and truck transportation. As well,
      knowledgeable personnel in government agencies and private organizations were interviewed.

      Impacts and Mitigative Measures

      The impact of the air emissions from the plant site are expected to be neutral because the gas
      is sweet, ¡.e. it does not contain any sulphur hence there will not be any sulphur di&de
t     emitted. The exhaust stacks on the gas turbines will be sized such that ground level
      concentrations of nitrogen dioxide do not exceed ambient air quality guidelines.             The
      concentrations of carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide and unburned hydrocarbons are generally
      small and rapidly dispersed-in the atmosphere.

      The marine pipeline route from Songo Songo Island to the mainland traverses shallow (1O to
      40 m) water and will pass beside some coral reefs and eel grass beds. There is a large variety
L     of fish species in the vicinity of the reefs. Pipeline construction (June to October) will cause
      some minor and temporary siltation in the vicinity of the reefs. The tidal and near shore
      currents will rapidly disperse and dilute the suspended sediment thus minimizing any impact
      to the marine organisms and coral reefs.       *




     The soils along the majority of the route are well drained sandy loams developed on undulating
      to rolling topography.     Imperfectly drained clay textured soils occur in the Rufiji River
L   . floodplain and south to Ndundu. Right-of-way clearing and pipeline construction may cause
      low soil erosion impacts, but these will be minimized by rapid implementation of drainage and
      erosion control measures.

     The major river crossing will be the Rufiji which is the largest in Tanzania draining 20% of the

     much smaller and often have limited flow during the dry season.
      country. The other.rivers including Mohoro, Ruhoi, Luhute, Mbezi,Mringa and Msimbazi are
                                                                                   Local surface water
     resources will be protected by undertaking rnainiine pipeline construction during the dry
     season, and by timely implementation of drainage and erosion control measures. Produced
     water from the gas wells on Songo Songo Island will be treated to remove liquid hydrocarbons
     before release into the sea. Sewage from the gas plant will also be treated before release into
     the sea. All hydrocarbons and other chemicals will be handled in a safe and secure manner,
     and employees in both the gas and power plant will be trained in spill prevention and control.
     Emergency shutdown valves will be located throughout the pipeline system.

L-

       Environmental Impact Assessment
       of the Proposed Songo Songo
      Gas Development Project                                                           December 1994
                                                                                              Page  (VI




i-    The major part of the pipeline route is located on land already used for agriculture. During the
      final route selection process measures will be taken to avoid or minimize clearing of native
      coastal forest. In areas where forest removal is unavoidable, a biological inventory of species
      composition will be made prior to clearing.

      The large diversity of wildlife in the eastern coastal area has been affected by human presence
      over severa4 centuries. Elephants, hippopotamus, wild pigs, baboons, monkeys, crocodiles
      and large numbers of bird species still occur. The Rufiji River has a large number of fresh
      water fish with up to 27 species recorded. Potential impacts to wildlife and fish will be
      minimized by confining clearing to project areas, land pipeline and river crossing construction
      during the dry season and preventing project personnel and contractor employees from
      hunting or fishing.


t-    season. Arrangements for compensation will be part of the right-of-way acquisition
      Disruption of agricultural activities will also be minimized by construction during the dry

      programme. 'Where necessary, temporary crossing of open pipeiine ditches will be provided,
      and temporary fencing will be used to prevent people and animals from falling into the open
      ditch.

      Conclusions


I,    Methane, the major component of natural gas is odourless, volatile and has a low solubility
      in water. Methane has been shown t o be relatively harmless to living organisms and readily
      broken down by bacteria in the soil. In the event of a pipeline leak the release of natural gas
      into soil would have little consequence as it would rapidly dissipate in the air. Therefore, it
      is concluded that the construction and operation of the proposed project is expected to have
      low negative to neutral impacts on the biophysical environment. The final route selection will

L     allow for the identification of the exact areas of native coastal forest and their associated
      biodiversity.


      These photos should be interpreted to identify any areas of coastal forest along the route.
      It is recommended that low-level air photos be obtained during the final route selection stage.

      The route should then be refined to avoid these foreststands as much as possible. For those

      qualified personnel prior to clearing.
      stands that cannot be avoided, a complete biological field inventory should be conducted by


      An overview of the proposed development activities, mitigative measures and residual impact
      of the rating for parameters of the biophysical environment is presented in Table 1.

      Environmental Impact Assessment
      of the Proposed Songo Songo                                                                    December 1994
      Gas Developmen1 Project                                                                                Page (vi)



                                                       TABLE 1

                                impacts and Mitigative Measures of the Proposed
                                   Gas Development on Biophysical Environment


          BiûphpicaI       -                                       Mitigative
                       0,      Development
          Parameter                Activity                         Measures

        Air Qualiry       Nitrogen oxide              Emissione less than ambiant ground        Neutral
                          emissions from power        Iewl air qualicy guidalinas
                          plant                       iCO.05 pprnlannurn)
                                                      Buffer zona around plant such that        Neutral
                          Noisa from power pla-nt     noise levels at boundary fence do not
                                                      excead 45 dB

                                                      Pipeline routing to avoid coral reefs
L-      Marine            Erosion and                                                           Lowlnegauva, shwt
        Environment       sedimentsoon during         Careful construcuon to minimize           term

--                        pipeline construction       siltation

        Geology and       Erosion of s3il following   Drainege and erosion control measures     Lowlnegauve. short
        Soils             COnStNCUO6                  Reciametion plans                         t e m
                                                      Mitigation management plans

        Water Resources   Siltation end pollution     Rufiji River crossing during low flow     term
                                                                                                LowlnegaPva, short
                          during pipeline           , (Sept Oct)
                                                             -
                          ConttNCtIon
L                                                     Drainage and erosion control
                                                      Mitiganon management plan
                                                      Fuel storage rod spill contingency plan.

        Vegetation        Clearing of natural         Pipeline rouung to ovoid or minimize      Low/negative, long
                          vegetation during           area of coastal forest                    tem
                          COnStNCdOn                  Confine clearing to project area
                                                      Reclamet~onplan

L      Wildlife           Hebitar loss and            Pipeline rouung to avoid or minimiza      Low/negaove, long
                          disturbance dunng           wildlife habitat                          term
                          construction and            Confine cleennc to protect afee
                          operation                   No hunting. or trapping by project
                                                      personnel

       Fish               SiltaUon end pollution      Rufiji River crossing in Sept-Oct to      &w/negative, shon
                          dunng pipeline              avoid fish migration                      temi
                          co'nstnicuon                Drainege end erosion control
                                                      Mitipanon management plan
                                                      No fishing by project personnel
                                                      Fuel storaoe and soill conunaancv dan

       Land Use           DiSNPbOn Of OgflCUltUral    Power plant site location to avoid        Low/nepetive. long
                          activities during           concentrated agncultural use              t e m
                          construction and            Pipeline construcuon otter harvest
                          operation                   where possible
                                                      Compensaoon plans
                                                      Mitipetion maneaement plan

      of the Proposed Songo Songo
      Environmental impact Assessment

      Gas Development Project                                                           December 1994
                                                                                               Page Ivii)



      Impacts on the Human Environment
L    The quantitative baseline socio-economic information w a s compiled from a literature review
      of existing, published administrative repons. This quantitative information was supplemented
      by a key stakeholder consultation process to interview knowledgeable persons in selected
     government ministries, parastatals and NGOs to verify key issues and add qualitative
     perceptioris .and impressions. As well, the baseline w a s supplemented by route and facility
     site reconnaissance using helicopter, fixed wing aircraft and truck transportation.

     Impacts aiid Mitigation Measures

     The most important socio-economic issue which the project will face is related to acquiring
     the rights to the land for the pipeline and power transmission line rights-of-way and plant
     sites. The existing legislation and the land rights acquisition process provides for a fait and
     well-established means of settling the issue. However, there is a lack of understanding on the
     part of the general public a s to their rights, and the current rate schedule of compensation
     entitlements appears    OUT,of date in terms of reflecting the value of land (and its productivity)
     a s real property. It is recommended that a comprehensive land rights investigation followed
     by early arid full consultation with identified icterested parties be conducted t o facilitate fair
     negotiations for land rights and compensation. These steps should be carried out as oart of
     the final mute selection orocesg so that potential problem areas (especially homes and long
     gestation agricultural crops such as coconut, cashew nut, and mango trees, etc.) can be
L    avoided. In practical terms, rights negotiations will need to take place very quickly after the
     land rights investigation so a s to limit exposure to speculation and abuse.

     The consultation task should be incorporated in a n on-going public information and
     consultation programme. This will be the most important mitigation strategy. It should
     consist of i3 two-way flow of timely and accurate information about the project between the
L    proponents and the potentially affected publics. This will enable cooperation toward common
     impact management objectives. It is recommended that a comprehensive project information
     and consultation programme be developed and implemented to provide this critical
     communication link on all project issues.

     This process shoyld be undertaken by the project operator so that it can take advantage of
     the existing experience that both the Tanzanian and external investors can contribute.
     Tanesco arid TPDC understand the local context and legal requirements. The investors are
     familiar with a consultative approach to land rights negotiations and the positive effectthis
     can have on detailed pipeline route and site selection. To ensure actual and perceived fairness
     in the proc,ess, an independent process 'monitor' should be appointed to advise the panies
     and publicly repon results. Given mitigation of this nature, the residual impact Of the project
     on human resettlement should be low.

     Environmental impact Assessment
     of the Proposed Songo Songo                                                        December 1994
     Gas Deveiopment Project                                                                   Page íviii)



L    The project will result in benefits on a local and national scale. The enhanced electrical
     infrastructure and access to gas energy by industry will generate indirect public service and
     economic spiri-off benefits. These will be most pronounced in Dar es Salaam.

     A significant local economic benefit of the project will be opportunities for training and
     employment. Due to the type of skills and experience necessary for the pmject, the spatial
     distribution of the Tanzanian labour force and the fact that a significant ponion of the project
     activity will be locat'ed in the Dar e s Salaam Region, most of these benefits will tend t o accrue
     to residents of Dar es Salaam. Most of these employment opportunities will occur during the
     construction phase and will only be temporary in nature. The operations phase of the project
     will also generate employment and training opportunities which will be smaller in number bct
     of a longer term nature.

     Songo Songo Island will also realize a significant local benefit. This will result from the
L    availability of excess potable water and electricity at the gas plant. Additionally, it would not
     be unreasonable for residen& in the vicinity of the pipeline, power plant and transmission lines
     to also expect that the project may result in enhanced access to energy for themselves, either
     in the form of gas or powe;: There may be good economic and engineering reasons why this
     mav be impractical but they will be unconvincing and will seem illogical to many. Mitigation
     for this natural increased level of expectation is open and honest communication about the
     limits to local energy distribution combined with a vigorous programme of delivery of other
li   project-related economic benefits at the local level. This programme should also include an
     ongoing awareness component to highlight the extreme and potentially deadly danger of
    attempts to acquire use of the high pressure natural gas on a "self-serve" basis.

    As mitigation, a local benefit programme could be developed and implemented.                 Further
    community consultation is required to determine the programme's feasibility, particularly

L   regarding the involvement of the communities along the pipeline route in the long-term
    maintenance and security of the right-of-way. This could result in an on-going, mutually
    beneficial relationship between the project proponent, local communities and individual land
    ownershsers. As an integral part of the land acquisition negotiations, farmers and other local
    interests could be monetarily compensated for any unavoidable immediate and long-term

    for pipeline construction. In addition, they could also be allowed to re-crop the right-of-way
    damage to cropping ability, and for full and unrestricted access to and use of rhe right-of-way

    (with cenain restrictions against large trees and deep root crops) on a condition of long-term
    free access by the project proponent for security and maintenance. The cropping. or locally
    managed alternate revegetation, would provide long-term soil, slope and pipe stability and
    would limit access by outsiders to mitigate both environmental degradation and security
    concerns.     If this agreement were to incorporate some annual fee for maintenance and
    security (perhaps regular foot patrols by local residents), it would also provide a needed
    service to the project proponent and engender a sense of local 'ownership' in the project and
    its well-being.

       of the Proposed Songo Songo
       Environmental Impact Assessment

       Gas Development Project                                                          December 1Y94
                                                                                                Page (ix)


       National economic benefit of the project accrue from the expenditures on supply and service
`L     contracts within the local business community, particularly during construction. The challenge
       is to deliver the maximum amount of business to local suppliers (in all regions, not just Dar
       es Salaam) which is consistent with the project's requirements for competitive pice and
       quality, with two provisos. The first is that the project should endeavour not to encourage
       speculative investment in new capacity that can not be sustained beyond the short-term
       construction phase. The second is that, through its local purchases, it should not cause
       shortages, and 'related possible disruption and price inflation. particularly in critical sectors
      such a s food supply and transportation.

      Two mitigation strategies are available to optimize local business content. First, include
      specific provisions in the primecontracts to facilitate delivery of local sub-contracts. Second,
      the project proponent could split-off certain specificallyidentified components from the main
      contract and procure these directly. This may be more difficult in some respects but it Would
L     enable a more flexible response to the time and capacity constraints that some local suppliers
      may face, ¡.e., componénts such as the pipeline right-of-way and facility site clearing and
      preparation could be started sooner and spread out over a longer period.           It would also
      facilitate the encouragement of specific joint ventures or capability expansions that wouid
      enhance the objective & technology transfer.

      The extent to which construction camps will be used to house the temporary workforce is an
      important element of the construction plan. If a secure, self-sufficient worker accommodation
L     facility is provided, then local communities will be somewhat insulated from potentially
      harmful     interaction  with    outsiders  (construction   workers and       their  recreational
      activ¡ties/spending are often associated wlth social impact). If workers are accommodated
      in local communities or live-in camps which are serviced and supplied by local communities,
      then this may increase the risk of such interactive impact, but it will be accompanied by a
      higher potential economic spin-off benefit. It is presumed there will be a camp facility on
L     Songo Songo Island, as well as two or three mainline pipeline construction camps. However,
      it is anticipated that there will be no need for a camp at the Kinyerezi power plant site due to
      its proximity to Dar es Salaam. It is assumed that the construction contractors would provide
      workers with appropriate daily transportation to and from the Kinyerezi site (¡.e.. buses).

      This assessmentdid not identify any significant known historical resources/sites in the vicinity
      of the project facility sites or the pipeline corridor. However, the areas between Dar es
      Salaam and Songo Songo Island are very rich in terms of cultural resources. A continuous
      archaeological surface survey should be undertaken as the pipeline route is finalised.        Any
      promising areas could then be the subject of test pit digs to determine archaeological
      potential. In addition, an important component of the project information and consultation
      programme will include interviews with local informed sources such a s village elders and
      leaders t o discover if there are any cultural resources sites in the vicinity of the route.
      Continuous archaeological monitoring of trenching for the gas pipeline should be undertaken
                                       c


      to salvage any archaeological materials that have not been anticipated by the surface survey
      and which might be encountered.

'  C    tnvironmencai impacr ASSeSSment
        of the Proposed Songo Songo                                                        December 1994
        Gas Development Project                                                                   Page (XI



       Conclusions

       The construction and some operation of the proposed project is expected to have low negative
       to neutral impacts on the human environment with issues such as land rights and
       resettlement.    However, there will also be positive, moderate impacts on the human
       environment as a result of this project, specifically in the issues of employment and
       entrepreneurial opportunities.
                     ~.
       It is recommended that a pre-acquisition land rights investigation be completed along the

       the ownership of the land and identify all interested parties to be involved in any
       entire length of the pipeline route and in the vicinitv of all project facility sites to determine
       compensation negotiations. It is also recommended that a historical resources survey be
       conducted prior to final alignment selectionto identify any currently unknown significant areas
       to be avoided.

L      An overview of the proposed development activities, mitigative measuresand residual impact
       of the rating for each parameter of the human environment is presented in Table 2.

'  \    of the Proposed Songo Songo
        Environmental Impact Assessment

        Gas Development Project                                                                         December 19.
                                                                                                               Page(




L                                                        TABLE 2

                                                   Human Environment


                                 Dadopnrnt A&*




                          Oparioonr employment and          Right-of-way, Maimrnincr and     Modarm/~or~t~va.
L                         training                          sacumy rgraammtr                 long tam
                                                            Racmnmantof naff during
                                                            conmctmn
                          bniuuction empioymont and         toninurnon phaea training
                          training                          parmana
                                                            Rural ncNirWnt      .CCO*i
                                                            riming to avoid bcai agneuhral
                                                            labow demand p.&.      WhaN
                          Local pmcunmem                    porribk
                                                            A8ama8 bC.1 cipibilha and

L                                                           mmeh to proj.ci n o d a
                                                            Early nama to businosa
                                                            communw
                                                            incemirrr to prime comraaor
                                                            for Local content =r derignatad
                                                            dimct subcontranon from bsal
                                                           fim

                         Timing and bcaoon of ell pmjact   Continuou8 muRi-paW               Neutral
                         eCtlblClû8                        infomatton and ConauRatton

 lc                      Uncartainry and n~imancoto        pmgremwu ae propet planning
                         change                             and impl.momnion tool

                         Enwnmnnunraldsmaga due to         Envimnmancatorian~atmnand         Nemal
                         crralaarnass or poor conmctmn     training prooramma
                         PrKtKe and roaal imoKt

                                                           Local purchasing ndW t r
                                                           wmout chona~es/inflatton
                                                           Gowmment planningto meet
                                                           reauiremmntr

                                                         -
                         Damaga to hirroncilamfacts        Final pipolina alionmont 8UN.y    Lowlnegatiw. ihon
                         form ditching and81x0             to avod significant area-         t o m
                         dawbomont                         tonnnicwn phasamonnoring
                                                           and .elv.g.

     Environmental Impact Assessment
     of *>eProposed Songo Songo
     Gas Development Project                                                           Decemoer 1096.
                                                                                             Page (xi¡)




L    MITIGATIONMANAGEMENT PLAN

     The mitigatian management plan describes the basic or generic environmental protection
     procedures for the construction and operation of all aspects Of the project. The plan focuses

     document for use by field personnel and the procedures outlined in the plan should be
     on specific protection measures that must be applied in the field. The pian is a stand alone

     implemented tQ minimize potential adverse environmental impacts.

     The World Bank has identified a list of porrntial key issues that should be addressed during
     the environmental assessmem and mitigation. Our assessment focussed on the following key
     issues for the purposes of this study:

     1)     Biological Diversity:
     2)     Coastal and Marine Resources:
L    3)     Wetlands;
     4)     Involuntary Resettlement: and
     5)     Cultural Properties.

     In general, the construction.and operation of the proposed project is feasible, and impacts are
    expected to be negative but manageable and of shon duration or neutral. There are also some
     positive impacts related to. socio-economic issues that are likely to be realized for the
L   operational life of the project. However, in order for the mitigation management plan to be
    effective, we recommend that the following be completed a s part of the final route Selection
    process:

     1)     aerial photography prior to finalize pipeline alignment and facility site selection;
    2)      a comprehensive land rights investigation, and .a negotiation and compensation
            programme; and
L   3 )     a detailed and focussed archaeological survey.

    The mitigation management plan is organized according to site specific facilities (¡.e., gas
    plant, power plant, pipelines, access roads) and specific activity (¡.e., general procedures,
    construction, operation, preventative procedures, clean-up procedures, emergency spill
    contingency, and reponing). The document is written using suitable terminology for it to be
    directly incorporated into contract documents.

    An environmental monitoring Plan has also been prepared to provide feedback on the
    environmental protection measures and the problems encountered, and to provide a
    mechanism to adjust and alter the mitigation management plan to achieve the desired results.
    The monitoring programme details requirements and procedures for necessary personnel and
    their education and the specific environmental parameters that require monitoring. Additional
    information regarding the training requirements and costs has been included. This .includes
    the approach and rationale behind institutional strengthening programmes that have been

     Environmental impact Assessment
     of the Proposed Songo Songo                                                 December 1994
     Gas Development Project                                                           Page (xi$




L    recommended to provide a formal avenue for a transfer of technology to Tanzania in the
     environmental assessment and management process.

     Acknowledaements

     This repon on the environmental impact assessment of the Songo Songo Gas Development

     of people. in Tanzania and Canada.
     project has been:prepared by AGRA EarthAssistance
                                               & Environmental with assistance of a wide variety
                                                          from the following organizations and
     individuals for advise, assistance and report preparation is acknowledged:


       O    Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals;
       e    Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation;
       e    Tanzanian Electrical Supply Company Limited;
       O
L           Ocelot Tanzania Inc.;
       e    Trans-Canada Pipelines Limited;
       e
            Or. R. ûesha, University of Dar es Salaam Socio-economic Baseline;
            Mr. B. Benno, University of Dar es Salaam - Marine Environment;
       O                                               -
       e    Mr. K. Kulindwa, bniversity of Dar es Salaam Economic Baseline;
                                                           -
       e


       e    Mr. R. Tarnatamah, University of Dar es Salaam Fisheries; and
            DI. K. Howell, University of Dar es Salaam Wildlife;
                                                        -    -
            Mr. C. Saanane, University of Dar es Salaam Historical and Cultural.
                                                          -

