                                                                          ORIGINA1,
                                                                          RECEfk' O
      To:           THE INSPECTION PANEL
                    International Development Association         A*- 7s r    r --LC*P;CN
                    700 18th Street, N.W.                          1 iitiftifLl;

                    Washington, D.C. 20433



                                   REOUEST FOR INSPECTION



             This is. a Request for Inspection (Request) of IDA loans to the

      Government of Tanzania which violate IDA's Articles of Agreement. The

      Request is submitted by a group of affected individuals in Tanzania who

      include the owner and employees of Tannol Holdings Ltd. The affected

      individuals are referred to as "Tannol." The violations have been brought to

      the attention of Management. Management has not cured its violations.



      Summary

             This Request is directed at the financing by the International
L-
      Development Association (IDA) of an Emergency Power Project (EPP) in Dar

      es Salaam, Tanzania. The IDA loans for this project, if made, will constitute

      a failure of IDA to follow the operational policies in Article V Section 1(c), (d)

      and (9) of the IDA's Articles of Agreement which is a violation of the Bank's

      policies and procedures of a serious character.



              But for IDA's improper intervention, Tannol would have developed a
L     comparable EPP using private capital. In addition, the location of the EPP

                                             2
     raises serious environmental issues related to the delivery of diesel fuel

     which have not been address by the Government of Tanzania or reviewed by

     IDA. The approval of the loans for this project will have a material adverse

     effect on Tannol who have already and will continue to suffer great financial

     loss and injury.



     Facts

L           Tanzania has historically met its power needs with hydro-electric

     generators. Because of severe drought, Tanzania has been suffering from

     frequent blackouts in various areas. In the fall of 1994, Tannol, recognizing

     the critical need for emergency power which was not being met, requested
L    Electrical Technologies, Inc. ("ETI"), a U.S. company based in Houston,

     Texas, which specializes in fast track power projects, to play a lead role in

     constructing and operating an emergency power plant in Dar es Salaam,

L    Tanzania.



            On December 15, 1994, the TannoVETI proposal was submitted to the

     Government of Tanzania. The total project cost is estimated to be $50

     million. The Tannol/ETI project could be up and running within 6 months of

     contract and would be entirely funded by private investment capital.

.

                                           3
           Since 1992, a consortium composed of two Canadian companies,

    Ocelot Energy and Transcanada Pipelines ("OTC"), and TANESCO (the

    government-owned monopoly power company) have been considering a gas

    field and pipeline project, known as the Songo Songo Project. Under the

    terms of the Songo Songo Project, OTC will be given a 50% interest in the

    gas field which is being developed primarily with IDA money. This project

    includes an electricity generation plant (gas to electricity) to be built in 1997

    Unlike the TannoVETI proposal, the OTC/TANESCO power project is to be

    funded in substantial part by IDA loans.    The privately-funded Tannol/ETI

    plant would make this element of the Songo Songo project unnecessary.


I,         After the TannoVETI proposal was made to the Government of

    Tanzania, OTC, for the first time, proposed to accelerate its generator

    project. However, it had no specific proposal. What was proposed in

    outline was a project that would burn more costly (diesel) fuel, sell power at

    a significantly higher price than the TannoVETI plant, and offer considerably

    less power.



           The Government of Tanzania retained Bankers Trust to do an

    independent review of both proposals. In early January 1995, Bankers Trust

    issued its report which concluded that the TannoVETI proposal had a "much

L                                            4
     higher likelihood to meet" the government's "current implementation

     objectives."



            TannoVETI was informally advised by the Government of Tanzania that

     it would be given a government mandate to go forward with the EPP on or

     about January 21, 1995. With the mandate, TannoVETI would be in a

     position to assemble the privately sourced financing.



            It is noteworthy that the OTC proposal was originally based on private

     financing. The Government of Tanzania has acknowledged since 1992 that

     private sector financing is available for the power plant and the gas field
L    development. Tannol's financial projections confirm that the Tannol project

     is financable from private sources.



            On the day of the inter-ministerial committee to approve the issuance

     of a mandate to Tannol, Motoo Konishi, the World Bank's permanent

     representative in Tanzania, delivered a "private and confidential" note to the

     Ministry of Water, Energy and Minerals the purport of which was to threaten

     to cut off World Bank aid to Tanzania unless the Canadian OTC project with

     IDA funding was selected. See Attachment A. Mr. Konishi later is quoted

     as saying that the Canadians had pressured him to write the letter. The

     management of the World Bank has not repudiated Mr. Konishi's letter. To

                                             5
L    the contrary, Vice President Jaycox is quoted as saying, "Mr. Konishi Motoo

     did what he was supposed to do, caution the government on the matter."

     See Attachment B.



           The Konishi letter was promptly brought to the attention of World

     Bank Management in Washington, D.C. Tannol's Washington counsel was

     directed to Lowell Doud in the General Counsel's office who led Tannol to

L    believe that the matter would be thoroughly investigated, and that the

     Konishi letter would either be justified or countermanded. Tannol's counsel

     was assured that the World Bank's senior staff for East Africa would meet in

     Washington with the officers of TannoVETI before any further action was
L    taken by the World Bank in connection with the Emergency Power Project.

     Tannol was particularly concerned because of reports that prior to that

     meeting, World Bank Vice-president for Africa, Edward Jaycox, was going to
L    Tanzania in February 1995 to discuss the Emergency Power Plant project

     with Tanzanian government officials. The World Bank through Mr. Doud

     assured Tannol/ETI that Mr. Jaycox would not be involved in Dar es Salaam

     with Tanzanian officials regarding the Emergency Power Plant.



           Contrary to these express representations, on February 15, 1995, the

     Tanzanian Ministry of Water and Energy announced that the Canadian

     proposal has been selected and Mr. Jaycox not only endorsed publicly the

                                            6
L    views of Mr. Konishi but also apparently committed, on behalf of the World

     Bank, to improperly divert to the OTC project $40 million of credits

     committed to an IDA-funded hydro-electric power project (Power Vi). See
     Attachment B. Immediately thereafter, before any approval by the Executive
     Directors, a bid solicitation was issued. See Attachment C.



            On February 27, 1995, Tannol's Washington counsel met with Lowell

L    Doud and Deputy Generals Counsel, Andres Rig0 and David Khairallah. They

     said that they had no information in response to Tannol's questions. They

     suggested that Tannol submit to them its requests and questions in writing.

     On March 3, 1995, our counsel sent such a letter to Mr. Doud. See
L    Attachment D. Mr. Doud has not satisfactorily addressed the issues raised
     in that letter. See Attachment E and F.



L           On March 27, 1995 representatives of ET1 and Tannol's counsel met

     with Mr. Colaco, Director, Eastern Africa Department, Deputy General

     Counsel Rig0 and Ms. Karen Rasmussen, an analyst in the Africa division.

     We were told at this meeting that the Konishi letter was unauthorized. We

     were told that under the Bank's procedures no committee report was

     required to divert funds from Power VI, but that the Board had not yet voted

     to approve the decision.

                                            7
L          We were also advised that IDA funding for the EPP had no direct

     linkage to the Songo Songo Project, which has not even been appraised.

     Thus the Konishi letter was not only unauthorized but apparently false.



           Finally, we learned that the Bank's staff did no independent appraisal

     of Tannol's proposal before approving funding for a competitor, but based its

     position upon false and incomplete information supplied by consultants

L    originally employed to work with OTC on the Songo Songo Project. It was

     apparent from the meeting that there has never been a careful study of the

     merits of the two proposals performed by a competent committee aided by

     an independent consultant specializing in turbine power generation.



           Moreover, our representatives pointed out that the location of the EPP

     station raised serious environmental, health and safety concerns.

L    Specifically, they showed that supplying fuel to the OTC plant will require

     two large tanker trucks an hour travelling from the dock through Dar es

     Salaam carrying flammable diesel fuel to the site 24 hours a day. Of course,

     the empty trucks will be going back through the city. Forty-eight trucks a

     day in both directions will seriously damage the roads, create excessive

     noise and dust, and loaded with a hazardous substance, enhance the

     potential for serious accidents. Mr. Colaco and his associates were

     uninterested in the environmental issue. However, we have seen no

                                           8
L    evidence of any Environmental Assessment being performed by the

     Government of Tanzania or the World Bank or, any evidence that the

     Government of Tanzania consulted with any NGOs from Dar es Salaam to

     review this important issue.



            Mr. Colaco rejected Tannol's proposal to permit TannoVETI to supply

     the Bank with a proper technical and economic comparison of the competing

L    plans. He suggested any such presentations should be made to the

     Government of Tanzania. However, Mr. Colaco rejected the request to delay

     any Board action until such a presentation could be made to the Government

     of Tanzania.



            Mr. Colaco made clear that the Bank`s management had no intent to

     review or interest in reviewing or reevaluating the Bank's conduct in

L    connection with and conclusions about the EPP based upon the information

     that Tannol has provided to date or is prepared to provide now.



            On March 29, 1995, our Washington representative wrote Mr. Colaco

     a letter summarizing our understanding of the meeting. See Attachment G.

     Mr. Colaco responded on March 31, 1995. Mr. Colaco did not directly

     contradict the summary set forth in the March 29th letter. See Attachment

     H.

                                              9
L            For these reasons Tannol was unable to resolve its dispute with the

     Bank's management.



     Violations

                   A.      IDA has failed to follow its operational policies as set

     forth in its Articles of Agreement by:



L            1.    Agreeing to provide IDA funding for a government-owned power

     plant when a superior private sector power project could be constructed and

     operated with financing from private sources. Art. V Section 1(c), IDA

     Articles of Agreement.



             2.    The announcement of the IDA financing was made prior to a

     recommendation of a competent committee, made after a careful study of

L    the merits of the proposal. Art. V Section l(d), IDA Articles of Agreement.



             3.    The funding is being improperly diverted from the Power VI

     hydro-electric project and this diversion of funds appears to be the result of

     political or other non-economic influences. Art. V Section 1(g), IDA Articles

     of Agreement.

                    B.     IDA has failed to follow its operating policies contained in

     OMS NO. 2.36, Environmental Aspects of Bank Work f 9(c) and (h) and OD

  , .




                                              10
L       4.01 Environmental Assessment 1[1[ 2, 14-22 because: the funding of the

        OTC project threatens to unduly compromise the public health and safety by

        selection of an unsound site for the project; and no Environmental

        Assessment has been performed in or were any consultations with affected

        individuals or NGOs conducted.



        Conclusion

L              The completion by the Government of Tanzania of a contract with

        Tannol for the privately-funded construction of the EPP was thwarted by the

        World Bank's improper intervention in support of the IDA-funded OTC

        project. The World Bank's actions will not only cause enormous financial
L       injury to Tannol, its owners, employees and suppliers but also will

        substantially slow the development of a viable private industrial sector in

        Tanzania.



               Tannol respectfully submits that the above actions are contrary to the

        World Bank's policies. They have seriously and adversely affected Tannol's

        interests. Tannol requests the Inspection Panel to recommend to the Bank's

        Executive Directors that an investigation of these matters be carried out in

        order to resolve the problem.

   I .




                                                11
L               As advised in your Operating Procedures, this Request for Inspection

       is brief. Tannol can provide you with more particulars. Please copy all

       communications to our duly appointed representative, Robert M. Beckman,

        Beckman & Kirstein, 2300 N Street, N.W., Suite 725, Washington, D.C.

        20037, (Phone 202-835-3200; Fax 202-835-3219).The urgency of this

        matter, coupled with the lack of an in-country representative with the

        background to deal with the World Bank on this matter, required Tannol to

L       retain counsel in Washington, D.C.



                DATE:


L               SIGNATURES:          See Page Attached


        CONTACT ADDRESS:             Tannol Holdings Ltd.
                                     N.I.C. Investment House
                                     14th Floor
                                     P.O. Box 181
L                                    Dar Es Salaam
                                     Tanzania



        Attachments:             Yes


        We authorize you to make this request public: Yes




        I:\tannol\request.ltr\mpc

