A
CREDIT NUMBER 2489 TA
Project Agreement
(Sixth Power Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
TANZANIA ELECTRIC SUPPLY COMPANY LIMITED
Dated                       , 1993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2489 TA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated         t        2(       , 1993, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIAT ON , he Association) and TANZANIA
ELECTRIC SUPPLY COMPANY LIMITED (TANESCO).
WHEREAS: (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between United Republic of Tanzania (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred
and forty-four million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 144,200,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that TANESCO
agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
(B)   by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and TANESCO (the TANESCO Subsidiary Loan
Agreement), the proceeds of the credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be relent to TANESCO on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Tanesco Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
and
WHEREAS TANESCO, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) TANESCO declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Parts
A through H of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in


﻿-2-
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering
and power supply practices, and in accordance with the Statement of
Policy and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required
for Parts A through H of the Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and TANESCO shall
otherwise agree, TANESCO shall carry out Parts A through H of the
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for Parts A through H of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. TANESCO shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03 through 9.08 of the General Conditions
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and
schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of this Project Agreement and Parts A
through H of the Project.
Section 2.04. TANESCO shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Tanesco Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, TANESCO shall not take or concur
in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Tanesco Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) TANESCO shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Parts A through H of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   TANESCO shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of Parts A through H of the Project, the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by TANESCO of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.


﻿-3-
Section 2.06. TANESCO shall, prior to making any changes to
its Statement of Policy, seek the approval of the Borrower and the
Association.
Section 2.07. TANESCO shall, no later than December 31, 1993,
have offered its in-house construction of transmission and
distribution lines for sale.
Section 2.08. TANESCO shall: (a) annually review its
investment program for the power sub-sector with the Association,
and incorporate changes acceptable to the Association; and (b) only
undertake investments in excess of $5,000,000 equivalent, not
included in the said investment program, after it has furnished to
the Association, satisfactory evidence that such investment is
economically and technically justified.
Section 2.09. TANESCO shall, until the agreed recommendations
of the tariff study under Part H of the Project are implemented,
annually adjust its average tariff by 3.5% in United States dollar
terms to offset the estimated international inflation.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of TANESCO
Section 3.01. TANESCO shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial and power supply practices under the stpervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. TANESCO shall at all times operate and maintain
its plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
power supply practices.
Section 3.03. TANESCO shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association for insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) TANESCO shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
(b)   TANESCO shall:
(i)    have  its  records,   accounts  and  financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal  year   audited,   in  accordance  with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association;
(ii)    furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than ten months after
the end of the 1992 financial year and six
months after the end of each such year
thereafter (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited, and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)    furnish   to  the   Association   such   other
information concerning said records, accounts
and financial statements as well as the audit
thereof, as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, TANESCO shall produce, for each of the following of its
fiscal years funds from internal sources equivalent to not less than
15% for Fiscal Year 1993, 25% for Fiscal Year 1994, 20% for Fiscal
Year 1995, and 30% for Fiscal Years 1996, 1997 and 1998, of the
annual average of TANESCO's capital expenditures incurred, or
expected to be incurred, for that year and the three next following
fiscal years.


﻿(b)   Before the end of September in each of its fiscal years,
TANESCO shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by TANESCO and
satisfactory to the Association, review whether it would meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and
the next following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Association
a copy of such review upon its completion.
(c)   If any such review shows that TANESCO would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for TANESCO's fiscal years
covered by such review, TANESCO shall promptly take all necessary
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the
structure or levels of its rates) in order to meet such
requirements.
(d)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)    the term "funds from internal sources" means the
difference between
(A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
related to operations, consumer deposits
and consumer contributions in aid of
construction, net non-operating income and
any reduction in working capital other
than cash, and
(B)   the  sum  of  all   expenses  related  to
operations,   including   administration,
adequate   maintenance  and   taxes   and
payments in lieu of taxes (excluding
provision for depreciation and other non-
cash operating charges), debt service
requirements, all cash dividends and other
cash distributions of surplus, increase in
working capital other than cash and other
cash   outflows    other   than   capital
expenditures;
(ii)   the term "net non-operating income" means the
difference between
(A)   revenues from all sources other than those
related to operations, and


﻿-6-
(B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
of revenues in (A) above;
(iii)    the term "working capital other than cash" means
the difference between current assets excluding
cash and current liabilities at the end of each
fiscal year;
(iv)    the term "current assets excluding cash" means
all assets other than cash which could in the
ordinary course of business be converted into
cash within twelve months, including accounts
receivable, marketable securities, inventories
and pre-paid expenses properly chargeable to
operating expenses within the next fiscal year;
(v)    the  term  "current  liabilities"   means  all
liabilities which will become due and payable or
could under circumstances then existing be
called  for  payment   within  twelve  months,
including accounts payable, customer advances,
debt service requirements, taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes, and dividends;
(vi)    the term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate  amount   of  repayments   (including
sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest
and other charges on, debt; and
(vii)    the  term  "capital  expenditures" means   all
expenditures  on  account   of  fixed   assets,
including interest charged to construction,
related to operations.
(e)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt
payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the
basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on
the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.


﻿-7-
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, TANESCO shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast
of the revenues and expenditures of TANESCO shows that the estimated
net revenues of TANESCO for each fiscal year during the term of the
debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.3 times the estimated debt
service requirements of TANESCO in such year on all debt of TANESCO
including the debt to be incurred.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)    the term   "debt" means any   indebtedness of
TANESCO maturing by its terms more than one year
after the date on which it is originally
incurred;
(ii)   debt shall be deemed to be incurred (A) under a
loan contract or agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification
of its terms of payment on the date of such
contract, agreement or instrument, and (B) under
a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered
into;
(iii)   the term "net revenues" means the difference
between
(A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
related  to   operations  and  net   non-
operating income, and
(B)   the  sum  of  all  expenses  related  to
operations   including    administration,
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments
in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision
for depreciation, other non-cash operating
charges and interest and other charges on
debt;
(iv)   the term "net non-operating income" means the
difference between
(A)   revenues from all sources other than those
related to operations, and


﻿-8-
(B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
of revenues in (A) above;
(v)    the term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate  amount   of  repayments   (including
sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest
and other charges on, debt; and
(vi)    the term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
prepared by TANESCO not earlier than twelve
months prior to the incurrence of the debt in
question, which both the Association and TANESCO
accept as reasonable and as to which the
Association   has  notified   TANESCO  of   its
acceptability, provided that no event has
occurred since such notification which has, or
may reasonably be expected in the future to
have, a material adverse effect on the financial
condition or future operating results of
TANESCO.
(c)   Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be
necessary to value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt
payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the
basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on
the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.


﻿-9-
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of TANESCO thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i)    the  date  on  which  the  Development  Credit
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms; or
(ii)    the date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify TANESCO
of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 10 -
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                  248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For TANESCO:
Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited
P.O. Box 9024
Dar es Salaam
Tanzania
Cable address:           Telex:
TANESCO             41318
Dar es Salaam
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of TANESCO, or by TANESCO on behalf of the
Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or
executed by the Managing Director or such other person or persons as
the Managing Director shall designate in writing, and TANESCO shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /UFaQx                 K
Regional ice President
Africa
TANZANIA ELECTRIC SUPPLY COMPANY LIMITED
By  /
Athorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I: Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with "those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines). For fixed price
contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 of
the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed
beyond the original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid
price will be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed
correction factors acceptable to the Association, one to be applied
to all foreign currency components and the other to the local
currency component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be
taken into account in the bid evaluation.
2.    Bidders for civil works (other than preliminary works included
in Part A of the Project) shall be prequalified as provided in
paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
3.    To the extent practicable, contracts for civil works shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$500,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Tanzania may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, TANESCO may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.


﻿- 13 -
Parv D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items for specialized tools and software up
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,000,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded through limited international bidding
procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of bids
obtained from at least three qualified suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines and in accordance with procedures set forth in Sections
I and II of the Guidelines (excluding paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55,
2.56 thereof).
2.    Software  and  special   computer  hardware  for  TANESCO's
distribution analysis mapping system obtainable only from one source
(up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent) may be
purchased by direct contracting from original suppliers or sources
in accordance with paragraph 3.5 (b) and (c) of the Guidelines.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of prequalification:
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided in
Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph I of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to paragraph 2 (d) of said Appendix shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be


﻿- 14 -
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
3.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Part F:     Pre-shipment Inspection
For the purposes of the pre-shipment inspection of goods
imported under the Project, no price verification shall be conducted
in respect of those goods to which Part A of this Section applies.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist TANESCO in carrying out Parts A through H
of   the  Project,   TANESCO   shall  employ   consultants  whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory
to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultants Guidelines).
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provision of the Consultants Guidelines requiring prior review
or approval by the Association of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than
$100,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to such prior
review or approval requirements shall not apply to the terms of
reference for such contracts nor to the employment of individuals,
to single-source hiring of firms, to assignments of a critical
nature as reasonably determined by the Association and to amendments
of contracts raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or
above.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.    TANESCO shall establish a Project Management Unit (PMU) and
appoint a Project Managers, who shall have the following respon-
sibilities: (a) coordinating the execution of the Project;
(b) liaising with the Association and other financiers on the
various components of the Project; (c) dealing with all corres-
pondence, procurement activities and progress reports; and (d)
liaising with the consultants employed to supervise Parts A, B and
C of the Project.
2.    TANESCO shall continue to fill the positions of Managing
Director and Deputy Managing Directors with qualified and
experienced staff.
3.    TANESCO shall: (a) carry out a survey of salaries paid by
other commercial organizations in Tanzania; and (b) by January 1,
1994, establish a competitive compensation structure for all levels
of employees, based on such survey.
4.    TANESCO shall by December 31, 1993, prepare and furnish to the
Association, a demand side management program satisfactory to the
Association.
5.    TANESCO shall by January 1, 1994, appoint the following staff
with qualifications and experience, and on terms and conditions of
employment, acceptable to the Association: (i) a Planning Manager;
(ii) a Systems Manager, (iii) a Management Training and Personnel
Expert, (iv) a Director and Head Instructor for the Morogoro
Training Institute, (v) a Training Expert for Kidatu Technical
Training Institute, (vi) a Training Expert in Distribution Planning;
and (vii) a PIP Expert.
6.    TANESCO shall: (i) carry out a study of its manpower
requirements with the assistance of an externally recruited manpower
expert; (ii) by December 31, 1994, review the results of the study
with the Association; and (iii) by June 30, 1995, implement
recommendations of said study, taking the Association's comments
into account. TANESCO shall maintain a freeze on employment, except
to fill key vacant management and technical positions, and to
fulfill special needs, until it has started to implement the above-
mentioned recommendations.


﻿- 16 -
7.    TANESCO  shall, commencing   July  1, 1994, and    annually
thereafter, prepare an Annual Corporate Plan, acceptable to the
Association for the next fiscal year, establishing medium-term five
year business objectives and financial projections, as well as, an
annual budget.
8.    TANESCO shall: (a) by June 30, 1994, carry out the Asset
Revaluation Study under Part H of the Project, under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association; (b) furnish the draft
recommendations of said study to the Association for its review and
comments; (c) finalize said recommendations taking the Association's
comments into account; (d) implement the recommendations of the
study within six months of the study's completion; and (e) annually
thereafter revalue its assets according to the methodology
recommended in the study.
9.    TANESCO shall: (a) by June 30, 1994, carry out the Tariff
Study referred to in Part H of the Project, under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association; (b) furnish the study to the
Association for its review and comments; (c) finalize the
recommendations of the study taking the Association's comments into
account; (d) within six months of completion implement the
recommendations of the study; and (e) update tariffs regularly based
on the methodology proposed in the study.
10.   TANESCO shall by June 30, 1994, implement an Environmental
Mitigation Plan for the Lower Kihansi Scheme and the transmission
lines from Lower Kihansi to Iringa and from Lower Kihansi to Kidatu,
satisfactory to the Association.
11.   TANESCO  shall: (a) enforce    a detailed plan of action
acceptable to the Association for recovery of overdue accounts from
the Borrower's agencies and parastatals, as well as its policy of
disconnecting delinquent private consumers; (b) continue to prepare
every three months for the Association's review, a report
summarizing  its  outstanding   consumer  accounts;  and  (c)  by
December 31, 1994, reduce its accounts receivable to no more than 75
days of sales and maintain it at less than that level thereafter.
12.   TANESCO shall, to ensure the continued safety of the Lower
Kihansi Dam and associated structures, no later than one year before
the expected date of completion of the Dam and structures, provide
the Association with details of its arrangements for the inspection
of the Dam and structures.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
1 hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


