Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7605-CN 
 
Loan Agreement II 
 
(Eco-Farming Project -
 Hunan
)
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated February 27, 2009  
 
Page  2
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated February 27, 2009, between 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC  
OF CHINA (“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”).  The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Loan 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
–
LOAN 
 
2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to twenty four million Dollars 
($24,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement
 (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement (“Project”). 
 
2.02. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one 
percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount.   
 
2.04. 
The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate 
equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Variable Spread; provided, that 
upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the 
interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount 
shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment 
continues for a period of thirty (30) days, then the interest payable by the 
Borrower shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02(d) of the 
General Conditions. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
Page  3
2
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the 
amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
(a) 
The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable 
Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap 
or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined 
in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion 
Guidelines.  
 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar for which the Borrower has requested that the 
premium be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance 
with Section 4.05(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for the purpose in the table in Section IV of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
–
PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Borrower shall cause the Project to be carried out by Hunan Province in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV –
 
EFFECTIVENESS 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that 
all conditions precedent to the Effectiveness of Loan Agreement I shall have 
been fulfilled, other than those related to the effectiveness of this Agreement. 
Page  4
3
4.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE V 
–
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
5.01. The 
B
orrower’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
 
5.02. 
The Borrower’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Sanlihe 
 
Beijing 100820 
 
People’s Republic of China 
Facsimile:  
(86-10) 68 55 11 25 
 
5.03. 
The Bank’s Address is: 
 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145(MCI) 
 
AGREED at Beijing, People’s Republic of China, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 
 
By 
/s/ Zheng Xiaosong 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Page  5
4
By 
/s/ David Dollar 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to deliver direct environmental and 
economic benefits from the integration of biogas in farming and cooking for the 
Beneficiary Households in selected rural areas in China; and (b) to reduce greenhouse gas 
emissions through methane combustion and reduced burning of coal and firewood in the 
selected areas.
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A: 
Integrated Eco-Farming Systems 
 
1. 
Carrying out a program to assist Beneficiary Households in integrating biogas 
infrastructure into their farm production systems in order to improve the 
environmental impact, quality and efficiency of farm production, and improving 
their living conditions and consisting of: 
 
(a) 
construction and installation of biogas systems, and construction or 
rehabilitation of biogas-related household facilities, including animal 
sheds, toilets and kitchens in Beneficiary Households; and 
 
(b) 
 
carrying out improvements to 
Beneficiary Households’ farm 
infrastructure and farm production systems related to use of biogas 
residues.  
 
 
Part B: 
Local Technical Extension and Biogas Service System 
 
1. 
Strengthening and expanding the existing rural energy and related agricultural 
extension services in the Project Area in order to improve the technical support 
systems for sustainable operation and maintenance of biogas systems through, 
inter alia: (i) upgrading of extension and training facilities; (ii) refurbishment of 
biogas service system facilities, including provision of equipment and materials; 
(iii) training of provincial, prefecture, and county Rural Energy and Agricultural 
Extension Office staff; (iv) training of county, township, and farmer technicians, 
and farmer beneficiaries; (v) providing support to biogas and related farmer 
associations; and (vi) carrying out applied research to address issues in biogas 
development. 
 
Page  7
6
Part C: 
Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation  
 
1. 
Carrying out of a program to strengthen the capacity of the Project Implementing 
Entities in the implementation and monitoring of the progress of the Project and 
the impact of the various activities under the Project. 
 
Page  8
7
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Financing and Institutional 
A.
 
Financing Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall make available to Hunan Province the proceeds of the Loan  
on the following principal terms: 
 
(i) 
The principal amount shall be made available in Dollars.  
 
(ii) 
The following shall be recovered over a period of twenty (20) years 
inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years: (A) the principal amount so 
made available; and (B) an amount equal to the fee paid pursuant to 
Section 2.03 of this Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
Interest shall be charged on such principal amount withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate of interest 
applicable from time to time to the Loan pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
2.  
The Borrower shall, under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, ensure that an 
Implementation Agreement entered into by Hunan Province with a Beneficiary 
Household providing for a Sub-financing contain provisions providing for an 
additional lump-sum grant by the Borrower through Hunan Province to said 
Beneficiary Household to be utilized for carrying out activities under Part A.1(a) 
of the Project included in a Household Package. The amount of said additional 
lump-sum grant 
shall be equivalent to an amount provided under the Borrower’s 
treasury-bond funded bio-gas program for such Beneficiary Household. The 
Borrower shall take all actions as necessary to provide such grant in a timely 
manner in order to ensure the financial viability of said Household Package and 
facilitate the prompt signing of the Implementation Agreement. The Borrower 
shall ensure that Beneficiary Households receive financing in an equitable 
manner for carrying out their Household Packages and in an amount that shall be 
adequate for such purposes. 
 
B. Institutional 
Arrangements 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain throughout the period of implementation of the 
Project: 
 
(a) 
the Central Project Leading Group within its Ministry of Agriculture, for 
purposes of providing overall policy support and guidance on Project 
Page  9
8
implementation at the central level, coordinating as needed with other 
line ministries and agencies of the Borrower at the central level, and 
disseminating in an organized and structured manner the lessons learned 
through the implementation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
the Central Project Management Office within its Ministry of Agriculture 
with such powers, funds, staffing and other resources as shall be required 
to enable the CPMO to coordinate at the central level the decisions taken 
by the Central Project Leading Group and carry out coordination of the 
overall Project planning, implementation, and reporting. 
 
C. Anti-Corruption 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
A. Project 
Reports 
 
1. 
The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth in Annex 1 to the Schedule 
to the Project Agreement.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of one (1) 
calendar semester, and shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 
 
forty-five (45) days after the end of the period covered by such report. 
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 5.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Bank not later than December 30, 2014. 
 
B.
 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits  
 
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
2. 
Without limitation on the provision of Part A of this Section, the Borrower shall 
prepare and furnish to the Bank as part of the Progress Report not later than 
forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited 
financial reports for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 5.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Page  10
9
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Borrower. 
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1. 
Goods and Works
.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with the 
requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, 
and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services
.
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
Definitions
.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular 
contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement 
Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) 
National Competitive Bidding in accordance with procedures 
set out in paragraph 3 below 
(b)  
Shopping 
(c)  
Community Participation
 
3. 
Procedures for National Competitive Bidding
.
The procedures to be followed 
for procuring goods and works under contracts awarded on the basis of National 
Page  11
10
Competitive Bidding shall be those set forth in the Law on Tendering and 
Bidding of the People
’s Republic of China promulgated by Order No.21 of the 
President of the People’s Republic of China on August 30, 1999, with the 
following clarifications required for compliance with the Procurement 
Guidelines. 
 
(i) 
All invitations to prequalify or to bid shall be advertised in a newspaper 
of national circulation in the Borrower’s country, except contracts for 
works estimated to cost less than $2,000,000 equivalent each or goods 
contracts that are estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent each, 
which may be advertised in a provincial daily newspaper. Such 
advertisement shall be made in sufficient time for prospective bidders to 
obtain prequalification or bidding documents and prepare and submit 
their responses.  In any event, a minimum of thirty (30) days shall be 
given to bidders between the date of advertisement in such newspaper 
and the deadline for submission of bids, and the advertisement and 
bidding documents shall specify the deadline for such submission. 
 
(ii) 
Qualification requirements of bidders and the method of evaluating the 
qualification of each bidder shall be specified in detail in the bidding 
documents. 
 
(iii) 
All bidders that meet the qualification criteria set out in the pre-
qualification document shall be allowed to bid and there shall be no limit 
on the number of pre-qualified bidders. 
 
(iv) 
All bidders shall be required to provide security in an amount sufficient 
to protect Hunan Province in case of breach of contract by the contractor, 
and the bidding documents shall specify the required form and amount of 
such security. 
 
(v) 
Bidders will be allowed to submit bids by mail or by hand. The time for 
opening of all bids shall be the same as the deadline for receipt of such 
bids. 
 
(vi) 
All bids shall be opened in public; all bidders shall be afforded an 
opportunity to be present (either in person or through their 
representatives) at the time of bid opening, but bidders shall not be 
required to be present at the bid opening. 
 
(vii) 
All bid evaluation criteria shall be disclosed in the bidding documents 
and quantified in monetary terms or expressed in the form of pass/fail 
requirements. 
 
Page  12
11
(viii) 
No bid may be rejected solely on the basis that the bid price falls outside 
any standard contract estimate, or margin or bracket of average bids 
established by Hunan Province. 
 
(ix) 
Each contract shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive 
bidder, that is, the bidder who meets the appropriate standards of 
capability and resources and whose bid has been determined: (A) to be 
substantially responsive to the bidding documents; and (B) to offer the 
lowest evaluated cost. The winning bidder shall not be required, as a 
condition of award, to undertake responsibilities for work not stipulated 
in the bidding documents or otherwise to modify the bid as originally 
submitted. 
 
(x) 
Each contract financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall provide that 
the suppliers and contractors shall permit the Bank, at its request, to 
inspect their accounts and records relating to the performance of the 
contract and to have said accounts and records audited by auditors 
appointed by the Bank. 
 
(xi) 
Government owned enterprises in the Borrower’s country may be 
permitted to bid or submit a proposal for goods if they can establish that 
they: (A) are legally and financially autonomous; (B) operate under 
commercial law; and (C) are not a dependent agency of the agency 
conducting the procurement. 
 
(xii) 
Re-bidding should not be allowed solely because the number of bids is 
less than three (3). 
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based 
Selection, which may be used f
or
consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan 
shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)  
Quality-Based Selection
 
(b)  
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
 
(c)  
Individual Consultants
 
(d)  
Single Source Selection
 
Page  13
12
D.
 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, the 
following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Bank: (a) each 
contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more; (b) each 
contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more; (c) each contract for consultants’ services 
provided by an individual estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more; 
and  (d) each contract for consultants’ services to be selected on a Single Source 
basis.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds
A. General 
 
1. 
The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the 
provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower to finance Eligible Expenditures inclusive of 
taxes, as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan (“Category”), the allocation of the 
amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category. 
 
Category
Amount of the Loan 
Allocated (Expressed 
in Dollars)
%
of Expenditures to  
be Financed
1. Hunan 
 
(a) Sub-financing for 
Household package 
20,681,600 
100% of Eligible 
Household Package 
Expenditures 
(b) Goods  
941,300 
100% 
(c)  Training and study tours  
2,317,100 
100% 
 
2. Front-end 
Fee 
60,000 Amount 
payable 
pursuant to Section 2.03 
of this Agreement in 
accordance with  
Section 2.07(b) of the 
General Conditions 
TOTAL  
24,000,000 
 
Page  14
13
3. 
For purposes of this Section IV, the term “Eligible Household Package 
Expenditures” means an amount equivalent to the output unit cost for a 
Household Package as set forth in the Annex to this Schedule, and to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account in accordance with the procedures referred to 
in paragraph B.2 of this Section IV. 
 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions, Procedures and Withdrawal Period  
 
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement except that 
withdrawals up to an amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent may be made for 
payments made prior to this date but on or after October 16, 2008 for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals for Eligible Household Package Expenditures shall be made: (a) in 
respect of established output unit costs for  Beneficiary Households that have 
been selected in accordance with eligibility criteria set forth in Section A.1 of 
Annex 2 to the Schedule to the Project Agreement; (b) for financing Household 
Packages to be carried out by Beneficiary Households in accordance with the 
provisions of Implementation Agreements between Hunan Province and 
Beneficiary Households referred to in Section I, paragraph 7 of the Schedule to 
the Project Agreement; and (c) in accordance with the procedures and 
arrangements set forth in the Annex to this Schedule.  
 
3. 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2014. 
 
Page  15
14
ANNEX 
 
Sub-financing for Household Package
 
The procedures and arrangements for providing Sub-financing to Beneficiary Households 
for carrying out Household Packages and for withdrawing the proceeds of the Loan for 
financing said Sub-financing are set out below: 
 
1. 
A Sub-financing shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan 
provided it is made by Hunan Province to a Beneficiary Household for carrying 
out activities under Part A.1 of the Project included in a Household Package in 
accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement and the Project 
Agreement. 
 
2. 
A Sub-financing to a Beneficiary Household shall be equivalent to the Eligible 
Household Package Expenditure for carrying out activities under Part A.1(a) of 
the Project included in a Household Package calculated on the basis of the 
following established output unit cost for said activities, or such other output unit 
cost as may be established by the Bank after consultation with, and notification 
to, the Borrower and Hunan.  
 
Project Implementing 
Entity 
 
Unit Cost 
Hunan 
US$230 to a Beneficiary Household for activities 
under Part A.1 of the Project included in a 
Household Package 
3. 
A Household Package shall consist of activities under Part A.1 of the Project 
approved for financing through a Sub-financing and other funds by the Borrower 
and Hunan Province in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement 
and the Project Agreement. 
 
4. 
Each Sub-financing shall be made available to a Beneficiary Household in the 
form of cash. 
 
5. 
An initial payment from the Sub-financing to a Beneficiary Household may be 
made in an amount not exceeding 30% of the unit cost for a Household Package 
set out in the table in paragraph 2 upon the signing of the Implementation 
Agreement with said Beneficiary Household. The initial payment shall be 
refunded if the Household Package has not been completed in accordance with 
the provisions of the Implementation Agreement.   
 
6. 
Withdrawals under a Sub-financing, other than for the initial payment referred to 
in paragraph 5 above, shall be made only after: (a) Hunan has carried out an 
inspection of the Household Package financed by said Sub-financing after its 
Page  16
15
completion and has approved the outputs achieved under said Household 
Package to be in conformity with the quality, technical standards and 
specifications set out in the Implementation Agreement; and (b) the Borrower, 
through Hunan, has provided to the Bank an inspection certificate evidencing the 
satisfactory achievement of said outputs under the Household Package, all in a 
manner and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Page  17
16
SCHEDULE 3
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal 
Payment Date (“Installment Share”).  If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully 
withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the 
Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the 
first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
Principal Payment Date 
 
Installment Share 
(Expressed as a Percentage) 
March 15, 2014 
3.33% 
September 15, 2014 
3.33% 
March 15, 2015 
3.33% 
September 15, 2015 
3.33% 
March 15, 2016 
3.33% 
September 15, 2016 
3.33% 
March 15, 2017 
3.33% 
September 15, 2017 
3.33% 
March 15, 2018 
3.33% 
September 15, 2018 
3.33% 
March 15, 2019 
3.33% 
September 15, 2019 
3.33% 
March 15, 2020 
3.33% 
September 15, 2020 
3.33% 
March 15, 2021 
3.33% 
September 15, 2021 
3.33% 
March 15, 2022 
3.33% 
September 15, 2022 
3.33% 
March 15, 2023  
 
3.33% 
September 15, 2023 
3.33% 
March 15, 2024 
3.33% 
September 15, 2024 
3.33% 
March 15, 2025 
3.33% 
September 15, 2025 
3.33% 
March 15, 2026  
 
3.33% 
September 15, 2026 
3.33% 
Page  18
17
March 15, 2027 
3.33% 
September 15, 2027 
3.33% 
March 15, 2028 
3.33% 
September 15, 2028 
3.43% 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the 
Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 
of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such 
withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the 
amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is 
the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
S
chedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”) 
and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original 
Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such 
date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency 
Conversion applies. 
 
3. 
(a) 
Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two (2) calendar months prior to 
any Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating 
the principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated 
as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment 
Date following the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if 
at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which 
invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the 
provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any 
withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an 
Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its 
Page  19
18
currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (i) the 
exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency 
payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion 
Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
 
Page  20
19
APPENDIX 
 
Section I.  Definitions 
 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
 
2. 
“Anhui” means the Borrower’s Province of Anhui, and any successor thereto. 
 
3. 
“Beneficiary Household” means a household residing in the Project Area in 
Hunan selected in accordance with eligibility criteria referred to in Section A.1 of 
Annex 2 to the Schedule to the Project Agreement for receiving a Sub-financing 
and additional funds to carry out a Household Package pursuant to an 
Implementation Agreement. 
 
4. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
5. 
“Central Project Management Office” and the acronym “CPMO” mean the office 
established within the Agricultural Project Management Division of the Foreign 
Economic and Cooperation Center of the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) on 
March 1, 2005, and to be maintained according to the provisions of 
 
paragraph B.1(b) of Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
6. 
“Central Project Leading Group” and the acronym “CPLG” mean the group 
established within MOA on March 1, 2005, and to be maintained according to 
the provisions of paragraph B.1(a), Section I of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
7. 
“Chongqing” means the Borrower’s Municipality of Chongqing, and any 
successor thereto. 
 
8. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
 
9. 
“Displaced Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, has experienced or would experience direct economic and social impacts 
caused by: (i) the involuntary taking of land, resulting in: (A) relocation or loss 
of shelter; (B) loss of assets or access to assets; or (C) loss of income sources or 
means of livelihood, whether or not such person must move to another location; 
or (ii) the involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and 
protected areas, resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihood of such person; 
and “Displaced Persons” means, collectively, all such Displaced Persons. 
 
Page  21
20
10. 
“Environmental Assessment” and the acronym “EA” mean the document dated 
April 2007 adopted by the Project Implementing Entities, setting forth, inter alia, 
the assessment of environmental impacts of the Project, recommendations for 
mitigation of adverse impacts and enhancement of positive impacts based on 
such assessment, and the guidelines for environmental screening and monitoring 
of Project implementation; as said EA may be amended from time to time with 
the prior agreement of the Bank.  
 
11. 
“Ethnic Minorities Development Plan” means the development plan dated April 
2007 adopted by the Project Implementing Entities with the objective of avoiding 
cultural, social and economic adverse effects on Ethnic Minorities caused or 
likely to be caused by the Project, and through a process of informed consultation 
and participation, involving concerned Ethnic Minorities in the design and 
implementation of relevant Project activities so as to ensure that the benefits 
received by the Ethnic Minorities under the Project are in harmony with their 
economic, social and cultural preferences and protect their customary user rights. 
 
12. 
“Financial Bureau” means collectively the Department of Finance of Anhui 
Province, Chongqing Finance Bureau of Chongqing Municipality, the 
Department of Finance of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, the Department 
of Finance of Hunan Province and the Finance Bureau of Hubei Province. 
 
13. 
“Financial Management Manual” means collectively the Financial Management 
Manuals each dated March 2007 adopted by Anhui, Chongqing, Guangxi, Hunan 
and Hubei and which sets out the policies and procedures for establishing and 
maintaining a financial management system to be implemented by Anhui, 
Chongqing, Guangxi, Hunan and Hubei, respectively, in the carrying out of the 
Project. 
 
14. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through February 12, 2008).  
 
15. 
“Good Practice Environmental Guidelines” means the Guidelines adopted by the 
Project Implementing Entities dated April 2007 for purposes of implementing the 
Project pursuant to the finding and recommendations of the Environmental 
Assessment. 
 
16. 
“Guangxi” means the Borrower’s Zhuang Autonomous Region of Guangxi, and 
any successor thereto. 
 
17. 
“Household Package” means the package of activities to be carried out by a 
Beneficiary Household under Part A.1 of the Project utilizing the proceeds of a 
Sub-financing and other funds made available pursuant to an Implementation 
Agreement.  
Page  22
21
18. 
“Hunan” means the Borrower’s Province of Hunan, and any successor thereto. 
 
19. 
“Hubei” means the Borrower’s Province of Hubei, and any successor thereto. 
 
20. 
“Implementation Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into between 
Hunan and a Beneficiary Household for the purpose of providing a Sub-financing 
and other funds to said Beneficiary Household for carrying out a Household 
Package. 
 
21. 
“Loan Agreement I” means the loan agreement of even date herewith, between 
the Bank and the Borrower, providing for a loan in an amount equal to ninety six 
million Dollars ($96,000,000), to assist in the financing of the Project in Anhui, 
Chongqing, Guangxi and Hubei. 
 
22. 
“MOA” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture or any successor thereto. 
 
23. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
 
24. 
“Procurement Plan” means collectively the Procurement Plans for the Project, 
adopted by   Anhui, Chongqing, Guangxi and Hunan dated April 8, 2008 and by 
Hubei dated June 5, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.    
 
25. 
“Project Area” means the area comprising the counties in the rural areas of the 
Project Implementing Entities selected for participation in the Project as set out 
in Section IV of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.  
 
26. 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and Anhui, 
Chongqing, Guangxi, Hunan and Hubei, and any successor thereto, of even date 
herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and such term includes 
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement. 
 
27. 
“Project Implementing Entities” means Anhui Province, Chongqing 
Municipality, Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, Hunan Province and Hubei 
Province. 
 
28. 
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual dated February 2008 
adopted by the Borrower and the Project Implementing Entities which includes 
the: (i) Project implementation arrangements; (ii) criteria and procedures for the 
eligibility of and financing to Beneficiary Households under the Project; (iii) 
criteria and procedures to appraise, select, finance and monitor the various 
activities under the Project; (iv) supervision and acceptance procedures for 
Page  23
22
reimbursement purposes; (v) procurement procedures set forth in Section III 
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement and standard procurement documentation; (vi) 
reporting requirements, financial management procedures and audit procedures; 
(vii) the Environmental Assessment; (viii) the Financial Management Manuals; 
(ix) the Project Performance Indicators as set forth in the Annex 1 to the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement; (x) the monitoring and evaluation 
framework; (xi) the Policy Framework for Resettlement and Land Acquisition; 
(xii) the Good Practice Environmental Guidelines; and (xiii) the Ethnic 
Minorities Development Plan; as said Project Implementation Manual may be 
amended from time to time with the prior agreement by the Bank.  
 
29. 
“Provincial Project Leading Groups” and the acronym “PPLGs” means the 
groups established and maintained according to the provisions of paragraph 1(a) 
of Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.   
 
30. 
“Provincial Project Management Offices” and the acronym “PPMOs” mean the 
offices established and maintained according to the provisions of paragraph 1(b), 
Section I of the Schedule to the Project Agreement. 
 
31. 
“Policy Framework for Resettlement and Land Acquisition” means the policy 
framework, dated February 2007, adopted by the Project Implementing Entities, 
which sets out the policies and procedures for land acquisition, resettlement, 
compensation and rehabilitation of Displaced Persons, and for the preparation of 
resettlement action plans whenever required during the implementation of the 
Project, as said policy framework may be revised from time to time with the prior 
agreement of the Bank.  
 
32. 
“Sub-financing” means a Sub-financing to be made by Hunan out of the proceeds 
of the Loan to a Beneficiary Household under an Implementation Agreement for 
carrying out activities under Part A.1(a) of the Project included in a Household 
Package together with other funds. 
 
