 IEG
                                                                                                Report Number: ICRR14713

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 06/08/2015

               Country: China
             Project ID: P096556                                                    Appraisal              Actual
          Project Name: Eco-farming Project          Project Costs (US$M):                      439.8               439.8

  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                       120.0               120.0
      Sector Board:        Agriculture and Rural      Cofinancing (US$M):                       319.8               319.8
                           Development
           Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                            12/02/2008
                                                               Closing Date:           06/30/2014       06/30/2014
          Sector(s):       Other Renewable Energy (70%); Crops (20%); Agricultural extension and research (10%)
          Theme(s):        Land administration and management (29%); Climate change (29%); Rural services and
                           infrastructure (28%); Other environment and natural resources management (14%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Kendra Dianne White        John R. Heath           Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 “The objectives of the project are: (a) to deliver direct environmental and economic benefits from the integration of
biogas in farming and cooking for the Beneficiary Households in selected rural areas in China; and (b) to reduce
greenhouse gas emissions through methane combustion and reduced burning of coal and firewood in the selected
areas.” (Loan Agreement, p. 5)

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:
There are three components:

Component 1: Integrated Eco-Farming Systems (Planned: IBRD: US$107.7 million – Actual: IBRD: US$107.7
million). This component will assist farm households integrate biogas into their production systems to improve the
environmental impact, quality and efficiency of farm production, and improve their living conditions. It will comprise
approximately 90 percent of the total project investment in two subcomponents:
(a) Integrated Household Systems:
- “One biogas system + three improvements (“1+3”).” This includes biogas digesters and related system components;
and improvements to biogas-related household facilities, such as animal sheds, toilets, kitchens (= “three
improvements”).
- Farm Production Improvements. The project will support farm production improvements related to use of biogas
residues, improved production methods (e.g. new varieties, orchard rehabilitation), and farm infrastructure that would
contribute to improved environmental impact, quality and efficiency of production. Activities will include on-farm
investments for grain crops and cash crops (vegetables, new and rehabilitated citrus/longan/lychee/pomelo, tea,
medicinal herbs, grapes/banana, and mulberry). The farm production improvement related investments will comprise
about of 12 percent of the total project investment.
- Biogas Clean Development Mechanism Program. The program would explore and test technical and innovative
methodology approaches on the household-based biogas digester development initiatives which will benefit the global
and local environment and enhance household livelihoods. The program will pilot the establishment of 30,000 biogas
digesters to reduce methane emission by changing traditional manure management methods and recovering methane
for the households’ thermal energy needs, as well as by replacing fossil fuel (coal) to reduce carbon dioxide.
(b) Community Development: To achieve maximum benefit from the integration of biogas with farm production and
community development, the project will support limited investments in water supply and village roads.

Component 2: Local Technical Extension and Biogas Service System (Planned: IBRD US$7.9 million – Actual: IBRD
US$7.9 million). This component will strengthen and expand the existing rural energy and agricultural extension
services to improve the technical support systems for operation and maintenance of the biogas systems, and facilitate
integration of the existing rural energy and agriculture support services. The two sub-components, (a) Service System
Improvement and (b) Training, will assist with: (i) refurbishing local extension and training facilities; (ii) provision of
equipment and materials for biogas service systems and agricultural extension; (iii) training of county/township/farmer
technicians and farmers; (iv) support to farmer biogas and related associations; and (v) applied research on improving
biogas technology and management.

Component 3: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (Planned: IBRD US$4.0 million – Actual: IBRD
US$4.0 million). This component, comprising three sub-components relating to project management, institutional
capacity building, and monitoring and evaluation, would respond to the need for establishment of an efficient and
effective project management structure and systems, with well trained and appropriately resourced staff to implement
and monitor the progress of the project and the impact of the various activities under the project.

A total of US$300,000 of front-end fee was payable in accordance with Loan Agreements (I, Schedule 2, p.13 and II,
Schedule 2, p.11).

The project components were not revised (ICR, p.4).

At a level 2 restructuring, approved in April, 2013: (i) the number of “1+3” system households adopting the package
was reduced due to increased unit costs, depreciation of the US Dollar, and unchanged total amount of World
Bank loan. The total number of beneficiary households were reduced by 94,692 (17.6%) from an original total of
538,650 to 443,958. This was still within the overall 400,000- 500,000 households range specified in the Results
Framework; and (ii) the list of Intermediate Outcome Indicators was modified as follows:
(a) Number of new households connected to village water supply systems: Revised up from 150,000 to 154,800;
(b) Length of new village roads connecting households to village roads: Revised up from 500 kms to 1,400 kms;
(c) Percentage of households expressing reduction in travel/transportation time: Dropped;
(d) Number of farmers trained in biogas operation and management, and in new farm production practices (person
days): Revised from 300,000 to 1.5 million;
(e) Percentage of farmers using new practices: Dropped;
(f) Clients who have adopted an improved agriculture technology promoted by the project; New: 330,000 (of which
280,000 women) or 75% of the revised 440,000 households;
(g) Number of technician visits to farmers: Dropped;
(h) Number of farmers attended demonstration sites: Dropped;
(i) Percentage of farmers satisfied with technical and biogas extension services: Dropped;
(j) Targeted clients with satisfied agriculture services (%): New: 75% (or 396,000);
(k) Targeted clients satisfied with agriculture services (number): New: 119,000 males and 277,000 females (totaling to
396,000); and
(l) Targeted clients: New: 158,400 males and 369,600 females (totaling to 528,000).

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project Cost
At appraisal the total project cost was estimated at US$439.7 million. Actual cost was US$486.7. Increased
counterpart funding was required to fill the funding gap caused by depreciation of the US$ and the large cost increase
during project implementation. The World Bank loan amount did not change.

Financing
At appraisal: two IBRD loans for a total amount of US$120 million (IBRD-76040 in the amount of US$24 million to
finance activities in the Hunan Province; and IBRD-76050 in the amount of US$96 million to finance activities in the
Anhui Province, Chongqing Municipality, Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region and Hubei Province). At project
completion: two IBRD loans for a total amount of US$120 million.

Borrower Contribution
At appraisal, the Borrower was expected to contribute US$319.7 million. At closing Government’s actual contribution
was US$163.5 million and Farmer Households’ contribution was US$203.3 million (see Project Cost above).
Dates
Approval: 12/02/2008
Effectiveness: 05/27/2009
Restructuring: 04/22/2013
Mid-term Review: (original) 05/16/2011, (revised/actual) 05/27/2011
Closing: 06/30/2014


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
Rating: High
Project objectives are relevant to the World Bank Group's Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for China for the Fiscal
Years 2013-2016 and 2007-2012, which specifically cite the need for greener growth and inclusive development,
particularly in rural areas.

The project’s objectives are highly aligned with national priorities, regulatory frameworks and policy instruments for
biogas development and livestock pollution control which aim to address pollution and natural resource depletion;
increase energy efficiency; and increase rural incomes: the “Renewable Energy Law of the People’s Republic of
China” (Chinese People’s Congress 2005), the “Decree of Control and Management of Pollution by Livestock
Production” (SEPA May 2001), National Rural Biogas Program (MOA 2001), Construction of New Socialist
Countryside Development Program, the Eleventh and Twelfth Five-Year Plans on National Economy and Social
Development, the Agricultural Bio-energy Industry Development Plan and the National Rural Biogas Development
Plan - all have specific items on biogas development. The project development objectives remain relevant in terms of
addressing issues in China relating to intensive agriculture (e.g. fertilizer substitution), productive use of waste, and
increased income in rural areas (e.g. through energy cost savings). China had made large investments in biogas
campaigns but the sustainability of these investments largely depends on adequate support systems and systematic
and quantifiable monitoring and evaluation – both of which were components of this project.

 b. Relevance of Design:
 Rating: Substantial
There are three separate project development objectives:
(a)      To deliver direct environmental benefits from the integration of biogas in farming and cooking for the
Beneficiary Households in selected rural areas in China;
(b)      To deliver direct economic benefits from the integration of biogas in farming and cooking for the Beneficiary
Households in selected rural areas in China; and
(c)      To reduce greenhouse gas emissions through methane combustion and reduced burning of coal and
firewood in the selected areas.”

The above three project development objectives are linked to three plausible outcomes:
I.      Improved quality of life in the targeted households;
II.     Increased disposable income for targeted households; and
III.    Reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.

Project components are clear and causally linked to intermediate and final outcomes. The PAD’s results framework
(pp. 19-23) logically connects the project’s activities to plausible outcomes, and a matrix of ten potential critical risks
and corresponding mitigation measures were also included in the design document (PAD, pp. 9-10). No controversial
aspects are discussed in the design documents.

Project design benefited from the Bank’s extensive experience and lessons learned from other operations in China
and elsewhere (i.e. integrated watershed management, rural development, poverty alleviation, etc. PAD Annex 2,
p.18), China’s national policies and industrial development programs, as well as other international agency experience
in the country. (PAD pp. 5-7 and 18, ICR p.5) The project was integrated with the government’s National Rural Biogas
Program in project provinces and was meant to be largely implemented building on existing institutional systems.

Project design and preparation were carried out in a full participatory process. The ICR reports that surveys and
various awareness raising campaigns were organized in all project provinces. Project activities were decided based
on results of such surveys and campaigns, and community development activities were selected through a
participatory planning process to ensure that household and community priorities were reflected in activity selection.
The process involved households, community leaders, women’s representatives, minorities, PMOs, and technical
experts to ensure that technical quality requirements were met.
The project assessed ten major potential risks and suggested appropriate mitigation measures at project appraisal.
The ICR states that these were indeed the rightly identified major risks the project encountered during project
implementation except for the risks of reduced coal price and reduced fertilizer/pesticide costs. In fact, market prices
for coal, fertilizer/pesticide went up steadily. According to the ICR, there is one other risk that was not well identified in
the design document which is the risk of a reduction in pig farming and consequent shortage of manure which in turn
poses a risk to the development outcome, if not handled properly. In many project locations the number of pigs raised
in small-scale household-based operations declined significantly over the period of the project. This was partly due to
increased urban migration (hence a lack of labor in villages). To a large extent it was also due to the introduction of
central government policies encouraging commercial pig raising in large scale operations, which resulted from
concerns about food safety, an action which was unforeseen at the project design stage. The ICR states that in line
with the risks, the project took various serious and solid actions throughout the project implementation to tackle these
risks. As a result, the project was able to maintain the overall risk rating to a moderate at the time for preparation of
the ICR.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
  There are three development objectives:

Development Objective 1: “To deliver direct environmental benefits from the integration of biogas in farming and
cooking in rural households” – is rated high.

Main Outputs
        Construction and installation of the biogas package (“1+3”) in at least 444,000 beneficiary households.
        Construction of at least 154,808 water supply facilities and 1,798 km of rural roads (in Anhui, Chongqing and
Guangxi project areas).
        Pioneer the Clean Development Mechanism Pilot Program.
Key Outcomes
        Improved quality of life in the targeted households was achieved. Ninety-six percent of project households
expressed improved quality of life due to biogas. Smoke in kitchens while cooking was reduced. About 470,000
households deployed biogas package, indicating the extent of the spread of the clean environment actions.
Comparing the situations between project closing and baseline, project households with indoor air quality at the
national standard increased by 21.6 percent and household members with respiratory problems all decreased, without
exception, ranging from 1.6 to 6.5 percent for households among participating provinces.
        The project constructed 155,560 new water connections and 1,771 km of rural roads.
        The Clean Development Mechanism Pilot Program is one of the best delivery performances in the Bank’s
carbon finance portfolio with a stable delivery of about 53,500 tCO2e Certified Emission Reductions annually.

Development Objective 2: “To deliver direct economic benefits from the integration of biogas in farming and cooking
in rural households” – is rated substantial.
(The renminbi (RMB) – is the official currency of China)

Main Outputs
        Construction and installation of the biogas package (“1+3”) in 444,000 beneficiary households.
        Adoption of improved agricultural technology.
        At least 18,500 days of training of Rural Energy and Agricultural Extension Office staff, farmer technicians
and farmer beneficiaries.
Key Outcomes
        Increased disposable income for targeted households was achieved. Against the baseline, the annual
disposable household income increased by an average of RMB8,212 which was a combined result of reduced fuel
expenses (by 10%), saved labor time value (by 8%), reduced farm production costs (by 3%) and the higher value of
the improved quality and efficiency of farm production (by 51%) and livestock production (by 28%).
        344,346 clients adopted an improved agricultural technology promoted by the project – About 81% (280,092)
are women.
        18,825 project staff trained (person days).

Development Objective 3: “To reduce greenhouse gas emissions” – is rated substantial.

Main Outputs
        Improvements made to beneficiary households’ farm infrastructure and farm production systems related to
the use of biogas residues. Appraisal target value range was 800,000-1,000,000 tCO2e per/year.
Key Outcome
         Decreased greenhouse gas emissions in the project area was achieved at 785,000 tCO2e per year, though
slightly below the appraisal target value range.



5. Efficiency:
 Efficiency is rated substantial .

Economic and financial analysis were undertaken at both project appraisal and completion stages. All fundamental
data for the economic and financial analysis were from farm models provided by the five project provinces. The same
model adopted in the PAD was used at ICR.

At the time of appraisal: (PAD, p.11)
Average Financial Net Present Value for project households was RMB1,060;
The Economic Net Present Value of the project was estimated to RMB1.4 billion; and
The Economic Rate of Return estimated at 27 percent.

At project completion: (ICR, pp.13-14)
Average Financial Net Present Value for project households was RMB5,802 – well above the estimate at appraisal;
The Economic Net Present Value of the project was RMB0.89 billion – below the estimate at appraisal; and
The Economic Rate of Return was 21.6 percent – below the estimate at appraisal.

The Economic Rate of Return was in excess of the opportunity cost of capital though somewhat lower than appraisal
expectations. According to the ICR, the less robust economic net present value and the economic rate of return were
due mainly to the decline of economic value of the CO2 emission reductions, which is a factor outside of the control of
the project. Moreover, the project economic rate of return was still far above the standard discount rate of 12 percent.

Despite delays at the beginning, project investment and loan disbursement challenges were addressed at mid-term
review (May 2011) and through project restructuring (April 2013), and were completed by project closing (June 30,
2014).

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        Yes                                      27%                                     0.75%

    ICR estimate                     Yes                                     21.6%                                    0.75%
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   The project objectives are highly relevant to World Bank country strategies and Chinese Government development
objectives, and relevance of design is rated substantial. Output targets were for the most part met, and the available
evidence indicates high levels of beneficiary household adoption of the “one biogas system + three improvements”
leading to improved sanitation conditions, increased disposable income and decreased greenhouse gas emission.
Rural households have saved time on housework and their labor efforts have been reduced, which increased their
income and savings and improved their knowledge on environment protection, technical skills, and other aspects. The
project also contributed to improved water supply, increased construction of roads and the establishment of technical
extension services in a number of rural areas. Efficacy and efficiency are both rated substantial. The financial rate of
return at completion is higher than the estimate at appraisal, though the economic rates of return are lower compared
to those at appraisal. There were no significant operational inefficiencies. The design of the Clean Development
Mechanism Pilot Program was relevant and it achieved all its expected outputs. It is the first registered
household-based Clean Development Mechanism biogas digester project in China and has been extended in other
areas in China and beyond through site visits, south-south workshops and various other approaches.
  a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   While steps have been taken by project design (beneficiary ownership through financing of biogas systems;
transition arrangements in place for post-completion operations developed by project counties and provinces; etc.),
and clear linkages to China’s own national policies and industrial development planning (the 12th Five-Year Plan,
2011-2015, strives to green China’s growth process and lower its carbon intensity), there is still a potential risk to the
sustainability of the project due to: (a) feed-stock supply constraints; (b) biogas service issues; and (c) institutional
cooperation among government line agencies issues. Though still low, the risk is real and may become substantial if
these problems are not addressed.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The project intended to address the Borrower’s priority needs (address pollution and natural resource
depletion; increase energy efficiency; and increase rural incomes), in collaboration with ongoing complimentary
Government interventions (National Rural Biogas Program). Project objectives were also in line with Government
and Bank strategies for development in the country. Provisions for safeguards compliance were adequate (PAD,
Annex 11, ICR p. 8-9).

Efforts were made to incorporate lessons learned from other operations in China and elsewhere. Key lessons
(PAD, pp. 5-6) were: integrating Bank project activities with Borrowers’ own programs and establishing project
implementation units within the existing institutional system ensures a higher degree of ownership and a more
sustainable post completion operation; projects aiming at technology adoption require components with strong
technical assistance; project interventions that aim to achieve public good benefits must also yield some tangible
private benefits for key stakeholders (farmers and communities) to ensure adoption and replicability; strong project
management and leadership at the central level is required when several provinces are involved in the project;
and a well-developed M&E system is the main instrument for assessing project impact and identifying best
practices for dissemination.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Highly Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    The project benefitted from close monitoring and implementation support by the Bank team. During the
implementation of the project, the World Bank conducted 11 supervision missions, and it is reported by the
Borrower that this contributed to the successful implementation and smooth completion of the project. The ICR
states that the Bank was highly responsive to the client’s requests for advice, support and project restructuring.
The Borrower reports that sound institutional structures, proactive steering, scientific project design and mature,
standardized management practices provided by World Bank contributed to the success of this project. (ICR, p.
49). Safeguards and fiduciary compliance were adequately managed.

A formal project Mid-term Review was conducted for the project in May 2011. The Review highlighted a number of
issues – slow implementation progress, slow reimbursement, slow checking and acceptance progress, slow
availability of county counterpart funding, etc. leading to a level 2 restructuring in April 2013 that incorporated a
number of adjustments. The main item for adjustment was to increase the sub-financing reimbursement amount of
household package unit costs due to a sharp increase in project costs and the devaluation of the US dollar that
reduced the total amount of local currency available for the project financing. Some intermediate outcome
indicators were also modified accordingly. Project development objectives, project design, targets at the outcome
level, the intended demonstration effect of the project and the project’s legal agreements remained unchanged.
Project implementation has never been at risk status. The restructuring appears to have been effective in
accelerating project implementation and disbursement. However, there was a delay of approximately two years
between the Mid-term Review in May 2011 and the final approval of the restructuring in April 2013. Neither
Restructuring Paper nor the ICR give any information or reason for this delay.

During implementation, the Clean Development Mechanism Pilot Program was awarded national and
provincial/ministerial prizes including “1st Prize: China Agricultural Sci-technology Advancement”, “2nd Prize:
State Sci-technology Advancement”.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                 Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :               Satisfactory
 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    The overall commitment, contributions and support from the governments at all levels was reportedly strong,
consistent and adequate. Notable and full involvement of the Ministry of Agriculture in the project was
demonstrated by the Foreign Economic Cooperation Center in providing overall project coordination and by the
Department of Research, Education and Rural Environment in providing overall technical support through its local
technical services system, and in providing counterpart funding (over 60 percent of total government funding)
through its National Rural Biogas Program.

   Government Performance Rating                               Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The National Development and Reform Commission, Ministry of Finance, and Ministry of Agriculture all
proactively participated in project application, negotiation and signing of agreements, resolved the provision of
project counterpart funds through coordination, established a central project management office, and devised
project implementation and management arrangements. The project management structure was consistent with
other Bank financed rural projects in China which include: a Project Leading Group, Project Management Office,
Project Implementation Office, Project Implementation Group, and Project Technical Expert Group. The central
Project Leading Group was headed by the Ministry of Agriculture and was composed of representatives from the
Ministry of Finance, National Development and Reform, State Environmental Protection Agency, the Foreign
Economic Cooperation Center and the participating provinces. The ICR reports that above listed government units
were maintained with capable, dedicated and adequate staff which was the fundamental base for the successful
project implementation. The project implementing agencies working closely with the Bank were highly cooperative
and effective, and their overall performance was rated satisfactory.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   At project design, it was envisaged that M&E would be the responsibility of five provincial project management
units. The M&E system was developed based on overall project design and experience drawn from other similar
projects. A large number of systematic and quantifiable M&E indicators were carefully selected to track project
outcomes and outputs. This was the first project to introduce the results-based M&E system to the government’s
National Rural Biogas Program in China. The ICR reports that while comprehensive efforts were made by the project
management units to monitor key performance indicators, the design of the household survey questionnaires was
weak and some questions were found to be irrelevant or unnecessarily too detailed, whereas other important aspects
for the project (e.g. use of bio-slurry) should have been investigated in more detail.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   Project M&E was comprised of: (a) an implementation progress monitoring and information system, (b) an impact
monitoring system; and (c) social and environmental monitoring. The ICR states that M&E reporting was submitted to
the Bank in a timely manner.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   The ICR reports that the project’s M&E system comprised (a) a Management Information System (MIS), funded
jointly by all five project provinces, developed by the central PMO and used regularly by all PMOs at central, provincial
and county levels as an efficient tool for physical progress monitoring, contract-based procurement management and
financial management; (b) project impact monitoring was conducted through village surveys, farmer household
surveys and kitchen air quality sampling in years 1, 3 and 5 of project implementation. These surveys and sampling
were undertaken in 15 project counties by independent institutions which provided creditable monitoring results; and
(c) project social and environmental monitoring was carried out throughout the project implementation.
M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
It was decided at project appraisal that the Bank’s policies on Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) and Indigenous
Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) were triggered. The ICR reports that throughout project implementation, it was concluded that:
(i) neither land acquisition nor resettlement was required since all village roads were constructed on the basis of
existing roads; and (ii) the Ethnic Minority Development Plan was fully implemented by Hubei, Hunan and Guangxi
where the Bank OP4.10 policy was triggered.

The project was classified as Category B and triggered safeguard policies on Environmental Assessment (OP/BP
4.01). The ICR reports that measures for environmental assessment were followed in terms of construction of biogas
facilities and village infrastructure. However, proper use of bio-slurry and associated training were relatively weak in
earlier years of project implementation. Bio-slurry was mostly applied for backyard vegetable gardens and orchards
rather than for staple crops or commercial vegetables in the field due mainly to the limited amount of bio-slurry
generated by the household, transport cost, fertilizing frequency and quality enhancing effect on different
agro-produce. Therefore, benefits of bio-slurry on soil and plants under the project should not be overestimated.

 b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Procurement. The overall procurement was carried out in a satisfactory manner. This is despite the fact that the
procedures of the Community Participation in Procurement were not strictly followed by some project counties in
earlier years of project implementation. This was due mainly to lack of experience of county project management
units. Both the Bank’s Procurement and Consultant Guidelines were closely followed by all project management units.


Financial Management . The overall project financial management was undertaken in a satisfactory manner which was
assessed by the three main financial indicators i.e. counterpart fund delivery rate, investment completion rate, and
loan disbursement rate. Counterpart fund delivery has been exceptional for the project as a whole which exceeded the
committed amount. Counterpart funds were provided in a timely manner despite shortfalls remaining an issue in a few
poorer project counties throughout the project implementation period. Project investment and loan disbursement were
completed by project closing (June 30, 2014), although both investment completion rate and loan disbursement rate
were lagging behind the PAD schedule prior to project restructuring (April 2013). The audit reports were timely and
unqualified.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
None.

 d. Other:
Various innovative models for providing biogas services were developed and implemented very successfully during
project implementation. The following typical models represented by project counties were unintended during project
preparation:
(a)       Shouxian county of Anhui Province established a unique service system to integrate livestock farms, biogas
user households, and vegetable production farms through cooperation between the biogas cooperative and the
vegetable cooperative. This model ensures benefits to all parties involved including the two cooperatives and is a
sustainable operation.
(b) In Kaixian county of Chongqing Municipality, the model was developed with distinguishing features: (i) offering 55
positions for providing biogas service at township level on the government payroll; (ii) making a trusteeship
arrangement for biogas users at village level to provide overall services; and (iii) sharing information and knowledge
through a cell-phone based mass-delivery system. This system is currently servicing about 400 project households
and the county’s plan is to cover all 6,271 project households by the end of 2014 and all 63,000 biogas user
households in the county by the end of 2015.
(c) In Gongcheng county of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, the model involves a private company, whereby
the company is responsible for providing project households with feed-stock from large animal husbandry operations,
servicing and maintaining the biogas digesters, and collecting the bio-slurry for sale to orchards and large crop farms.
The system also involves installation of gas meters in every household and collecting a subsidized tariff based on the
volume of gas used. This gives the service company the incentive to ensure that gas production from the biogas
digesters is maximized and that service and maintenance is adequate. The system has been serving about 500
households and its business plan is to cover over 10,000 households with biogas systems in the county in the next
five years.
(d) In Linli county of Hunan Province, the model contains 20 biogas associations and has been providing services
under the principles of (i) government guidance, (ii) association operation, and (iii) household participation.
Government budgetary allocation was provided for setting up the associations, O&M financing, and technician
subsidies. The service has been covering all biogas user households in the county with an annual association fee of
RMB50 per household.
(e) In Enshi prefecture of Hubei Province, a “supermarket” model was developed to provide biogas services in a
sustainable manner. The model is in the form of village-based convenience stores supported by township Agricultural
Service Centers and under operation by farmer technicians. Such convenience stores were built with unified
development principles, unified exterior design, unified development standards and unified operations. They supply
biogas spare parts and stoves, seeds, pesticides, agricultural equipment, solar water heaters, and daily necessities;
and provide biogas services for technical guidance, trouble shooting, repairing and maintenance. One remarkable
result achieved is that most such convenience stores are able to provide satisfactory biogas services while making a
profit in their operation.


12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                 Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

 13. Lessons:
  - Favorable national regulatory frameworks and policy instruments are key drivers of successful project
implementation.
- Project design benefits greatly from looking at the institution’s (and other donors) previous experience and lessons
learned from other operations in the country and elsewhere.
- Stakeholders’ commitment, dedication and capabilities are critical in ensuring a project’s success, sustainability
and ownership.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The quality of the ICR is satisfactory. The ICR provides a candid narrative of the project’s preparation and
implementation. Economic and financial analysis is thorough and the outcome assessment is evidence based.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
