:.)ocument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9567
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 1883-lJNI)
MAY 17, 1991
Western Africa Department
Infrastructure Operations Division
Africa Regional Office
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADT       -         Average daily traffic
Em        -         Economic Rate of aeturn
FPD       -         Federal Highways Department
PMT       -         Federal Ministry of Transport
FMW       -         Federal Ministry of Works
(later FMWH - Federal Ministry
of Works and Housing)
milP      -         Bighway Maintenance Training Program
NRSC      -         National Road Safety Commission
PEU       -         Pavement Evaluation Unit
PTU       -         Production Training Units
VOC       -         Vehicle Operating Cost
CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES TO USS
(Name of Currency: Naira)
1981      -
1982      -          0.67
1983      -          0.72
1984      -          0.77
1985      -          0.89
1986      -          1.75
1987      -          4.02
1988      -          4.54
1989      -          7.34



FOR OFFCUAL USZ OLY
THE WORLD SANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
01im of DlucttvQGmwal
Opiwnes EvatieB
May 17, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    NIGERIA:  Sixth Highway Project (Loan 1883-UNI)
Project Completion ReRort
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Nigeria (Loan 1883-UNI)" prepared by the Africa Regional
Office. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performsace
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 1883-UNT)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface           .................................................
Basic Data Sheets  ........ ....................... ..........                      ii
Highlights  ........................................................                ir
I.  INTRODUCTION  ............................................                            1
II.   PxOJrCT IDENTIFICATION,  PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL  .......                           3
III.   PROJ'IT IMPLEMENTATION AND COST  .........................                            7
IV.   ECONOMIC REEVALUATION   .................  .            .......... . ......         11
V.   PERFORMANCE OF CONSULTANTS  .. ............... ..   ...........  .                  12
VI.   INSTITUTIONAL  PERFORMANCE AND OUTLOOK   ...................                         13
VII.  ROLE OF THE BANK  .............. . .. . .. .  ..............................          14
VIII.   CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED  .........................                           16
ANNEXES
1.       Cost of Road Strengthening Works                 ........................           18
2.       Compliance with Loan Covenants                 ..........................           19
3.       Economic  Reevaluation  ..... ...........                ........ ........          21
IsRD 14842R .....................................hr t tu     r       ..........ecpint.ol...  22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance 



PROJEC: COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 18e3-um
PREFACE
1.        This Project Completion Report was prepared for the Sixth
Highway Project in Nigeria, for which a Loan of US$108 million was
approved by the Board in June 1980. On July 5, 1986, US$30 million of the
Loan was cancelled. The Loan closing date was extended three times from
March 31, 1985 to March 31, 1988. The remaining funds in the Loan account
of USS 5,945,264.32 were cancelled as of January 23, 1989.
2.        The Government has not yet submitted a completion report.
3.        The PCR was prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division,
Western Africa Department, Africa Regional Office. It is based on
information in the SAR and in Bank files, and interviews with Bank staff
assigned to the project.



- LL -
RJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 1883-UNI)
MUi; ,T  SHEETS
KEY PROJECT DATA
Original       Actual or
Item                                              Expectation   Current Estimate
Total Project Cost (USS million) a/                         170.9                109.2
Cost Underrun (C)
Financing (USS million)
Government
IBRD Loan Amount                                                                 108.0
Disbursement (end 1/89)                                                 72.1
Cancelled                                                               35.9 b/
Repaid                                                                  15.6
Outstanding                                                             55.S
Completion of PhysLcal Components (date)                    9/84                6/88
Proportion Actually Completed by above date (C)             70                    99
Economic Rate of Return (C)                                 30                    23
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATEP AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
CUS$ million)
FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87   FY88   FY89 b/
Appraisal Estimate         1.2   42.5   78.8  105.6   108.0
Actual                     0.3   24.1   40.5   49.7    57.0    61.8    66.7   70.5   72.1
Actual as S of Estimate   25      57      51     47      53       57      62     65      66
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Actual or
Item                    Origlnal            Amended            Current Estimate
First Mention ln Files         06/15/72
Negotiations                                                                 04/80
Board Approval of the Credit                                              06/24/80
Loan Agreement Date                                                       08/25/80
EffectLveness Date                                                        12/11/80
Closing Date                   03/31/85       03/31/86, 03/31/87          03/31/88
Borrower                       Federal Republic of Nigeria
Executing Agency               Federal Ministry of Works
Fiscal Year of the Borrower   April 1 - March 31 (untLi December 31, 1988)
January 1 - December 31 (From January 1, 1989)
Follow-on Project: HLghway Sector Loan (Ln. 2963-UNI)
a/ Excludes US$7.1 million ln taxes.
b/ US$30.0 million was cancelled on July 5, 1984 and US$5,945,264.32 was cancelled
as of January 23, 1989.
I,



- Liii 
MISSION DATA
No. of MiseLon
Item             Mo/Year     Persons Composl-
tion C/       Man Weeks  Date of Report
Preparation d/    06/72        2      H,T                3          07/21/72
Appraisal          11/72       3      H,T,Z e/           6          12/28/22 f/
Post-Appraisal    03/73        3      H.T,Z e/           6          04/13/73
Completion of
AppraLal      12/73       4          T, Z FC */     7 1/2      12/21/73
Identification    02/78        1      a                  1.5        03/14/78
IdentificatLon    05/78        2      H.1                4          07/21/78
PreparatLon        07/17       2      HIS                2          08/24/78
Preparation        12/78       2      HIS                2.5        12/27/78
Preparation        03179       1      3                  1          04/12/79
PreappraLseal      07/79       2      H.Z                4          08/07/79
Appraisal          11/79       2      HIS                6          12/07/79 f/
Suporvlslon 1      06/60       1      z                  1          07/18/80
SupervLiLon 2      09/80       1      t                  3          10/28/80
SupervLsion 3      06/81       2      1.t                4          07/31/81
SupervLsLon 4      09/81       2      H.S                2          11/12/81
Supervlsion 5      01/82       1      H                  1          02/18/82
SuporvLiLon 6      11/82       2       .S1               3.5        01/13/83
SupervisLon 7      11/82       1      T                  2          01/18183
Supervlslon 8      10183       2      a'1                4          12/06/83
Supervision 9      02/84       2      HI1                4          03/30/83
SupervLsLon 10    06/84        2      5,z                4          07/27/84
SupervLsLon 11    11/84        3      5,1ZF              4          12/28184
SupervLslon 12    04/85        1      H                  1.5        05/13/85
SupervLLon 13    10/85        I      H                  1.5        11/06/85
SupervLiLon 14    03/86        1      T                  0.5        03/21/86
SupervLison 15 */  04/86        2       ISS              2          09/14/86
SupervLiLon 16    11/86        1      1                  1          12/22/86
Supervision 17    03/86        2      HIS                3          04/14/86
Supervision 18    11/80        2      H,F                3          02/02/87
Supervision 19    02/87        4      25.2!              6          03/29/88
SuporvLiLon 20    07/88        1      H                  5          08/22/88
Supervision 21    03189        1      H                   1
C * Consultant: 1 a EconomLst: F - Finencial Analyst:
N - Highway Engineer: T - Transport Specialist.
d/       Project was identlfled and prepared under previous projects.
e/       Included Transport Specialist from the Bank's Resident MLssLon in NigerLa.
f/       Issues Paper.



- iv -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 1883-UNI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
1.       The Sixth Highway Project has a long history of preparation.  It
was first appraised in 1972 but because of strong differences of opinion
between the Government and the Bank over design standards and phasing of
works on a major component, preparation was discontinued until 1977 (para
1.03).
2.       The zNW was the executing agency for the project.  A key loan
condition was the appointment of a project coordinator (para 1.09).
OBJECTIVES
3.       The project was predicated on the primary objective to assist the
FMW in augmenting its capacity for road planning, design, construction and
maintenance. It provided assistance in introducing systematic highway
planning at the federal level, in building up the stock of road maintenance
technicians, and in relieving the heavy toll of road accidents. The road
works component included for the strengthening of six sections of the
federal trunk road system; the planning of this work provided the
opportunity to introduce into Nigeria improved techniques of assessing road
strengthening requirements.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
4.       The ERR of the road strengthening works at 23 Z, is lower than the
appraisal estimate of 302, but is still respectable. The trunk road study
and the work of the Pavement Evaluation Unit (PEU) provided a sound basis
for the follow-on project which has been approved (paras 4.01-4.04).
5.       Overall, the performance of the various foreign consulting firms
on the project was excellent. A number of local consultants benefitted
from their participation in the project through participation with foreign
firms (paras 5.01-5.02).
6.       While the bulk of the project was completed on schedule, the
completion of remaining works, mostly studies, were about four years late.
However, the remaining two years to complete the project could be
considered a bridging operation for the preparation of the follow-on
project. Substantial cost savings were achieved (para 6.01).
7.       The borrower's performance was mixed.  Execution was good on the
road strengthening works component, but was much less so on institutional
strengthening. In fact, a key component to strengthen the Federal Ministry
of Works (FMW) by providing specialist professional staff to fill important
posts in the Department had to be cancelled because of lack of interest in
proceeding with this work. Also, the housing component for the technical
.    .                 .    .  .    .   .~I 



- V -
8.       The project was thoroughly prepared and carefully supervised by
the Bank. The Bank was constructive in proposing a number of changes that
benefitted the project (para 7.01-7.03). On the other hand. the previous
break in relations between the Bank and FMW and an apparent policy of
avoiding a repetition posed a constraint on the Bank in its dealing on
supervision matters. The Bank condoned * degree uf non-performance on the
part of FMW that it normally would not tolerate (para 7.06).
9.       The Bank should reconsider its policy of only extending the
closing date on a year to year basis. This arbitrary period created a
number of problems in extending consultants contracts (para 7.09).
10.      The establishment of a revolving fund as proposed by the Bank,
would have been of considerable help to the Borrower. Despite frequent
urging, the FMW never made the appropriate arrangements. They are provided
for in the follow-on project (Highway Sector Loan), and are being complied
with.
SUSTAINABILITY
Il.      Institutional reform and strengthening is a long drawn out
process. The project made some progress in this respect by supporting and
completing studies of the federal trunk road system and government
evaluation techniques. Despite this progress, the FHW did not follow up on
measures for strengthening its management (para 8.08).
FINDINGS AND LESSONS
12.      A number of lessons have emerged from the project.  They include:
(i) international competitive bidding, as compared to the usual award
procedures in Nigeria, resulted in lowering road construction costs;
(ii) future contracts for consulting services should include provision for
procurement of equipment and services which are vital to the conduct of the
consultants work; (iii) the pavement evaluation work has provided a sound
basis for designing the thickness of overlays, rather than using the rule-
of-thumb experience of the past; and (iv) the benefits of training
personnel in maintenance procedures and operations have greatly assisted
both the PM and the states in achiev3ag a higher level of road maintenance
and monitoring than in the past (para 8.09.)



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
NIGERIA
SIXTH HIGIHWAY PROJECT
(LOAN 1883-UNI)
I.   INTRODUCTION
1.01      Nigeria was one of the first African countries to seek Bank
assistance in developing its transport infrastructure. Following a
railway project in 1958 and a ports project in 1963, Bank assistance was
concentrated in the highway sub-sector. Between 1965 and the outbreak of
civil war in 1967, three highway projects were initiated totalling about
US$47.5 million. Following the war, a road rehabilitation project for
US$10.6 million was approved in 1968, and the rehabilitation of trunk
roads was the main component in a transportation rehabilitation loan of
US$25 million (Loan 694-UNI) in 1970. Rehabilitation was continued under
the Fifth Highway Project (Loan 838-UNI, US$26.3 million, June 1972).
1.02      Audit reports of the first four highway projects noted a number
of lessons to be learned: () that considerable skill and judgement are
required in predicting traffic growth in Nigeria; (ii) that there is little
purpose in providing equipment for road maintenance unless there are
adequate resources of trained staff to put the equipment to good use;
Ciii) the lack of success of institution building components, and (iv) that
particular care is needed to reconcile Bank procurement guidelines and the
use of consultants with Nigerian practice.
1.03      The Sixth Highway Project has a long history of preparation.
it was first appraised in November 1972. Strong differences of opinion
developed between the Government and the Bank over the design standards and
phasing of works on the Lagos-Ibadan expressway, one of the main project
components. Despite the Bank's concern over the justification of the
proposed four-lane divided highway, and the receipt of substantially higher
bids over the consultants cost estimates, the Government decided to proceed
with construction of the expressway. The Bank tried to find a solution to
the impasse, but finally in December 1974, the Government decided to
discontinue preparation of further Bank projects in the highway sub-sector.
This situation continued until 1977 when contact was reestablished to
continue preparation of the planning of a Sixth Highway Project.
1.04      In the meantime, road building had developed as a significant
component ir Bank assisted tree-crop and agricultural development projects
in Nigeria. Four sU..- projects have been initiated, and all four contained
substantial programs for feeder road construction. By 1980, these projects
were well advanced, and ten additional Bank assisted agricultural and
forestry projects were underway.
1.05      The SAR stated that 'the Third Development plan came into
operation in 1975 with the intention to move quickly in building up an
adequate main road network. Detailed planning of investment priorities in
the transport sector and careful cost control were subordinated to this
objective and the results were impressive. In the first years of the plan,
some 60Z of the 13,000 km of Trunk Road A had been reconstructed or



improved at a cost of N1860 m.llion. At the same time, road traffic had
been increasing at the phenomenal rate of 301 per year and there can be no
doubt that thli road building woo timely.' However, the SM gave no
indication as to the timeliness of the completed Lagos-Ibadan expressway,
and whether it turned out to be viable as the Government had maintained, or
whether it was ,ineconomic ks the Bank had said.
1.06      The SAR further noted that by late 1977, 'revenues were not
sufficient to continue the plan as orilinally conceived.., road building
prices had spiralled..., pavements were often weak, and road maintenance
was not icing effectively done. The resources provided by the Federal
Government to state Ministries of Works for the maintenance of federal
trunk roads had fallen short of the need. The effective constraint in most
of the 19 states is that the state ministries lack the trained and
experienced staff necessary to undertake effective maintenance on the road
in their care. The shortage of staff is acute at Federal, State and Local
Government levels and It constitutes the main handicap to the effective
ezecution of road planning, construction and maintenance at all levels.
When invostment funds are available, the natural trend has been to
concentrate the available effort on construction to the neglect of planning
and maintenance.0
1.07      The SAR goes on to state that 'Lt was in this atmosphere that
contact was renewed between the Bank and the Federal Ministry of Works
(P1WM in Docember, 1977, to plan the sixth highway project... FMW had a
lingering distrust of the Bank's procedures and methods, particularly the
use of economic criteria in project evaluation, but project preparation
proceeded, building on F.V's manifest desire to improve its road planning
and maintenance operations. The renewed dialogue between the Bank and F1W
has parallelled a number of important developments: a serious interest on
the part of 1MW to reduce the cost of hlghway constructiont preparation of
a nationwide traffic census; a renewal of the training program for road
maintenance personnel; a start in controlling vehicle axle loads; and a
gradual understanding and acceptance of Bank procedures in general. A
better grasp of economic crit-i;a in project evaluation has emerged,
particularly in its use in selecting optimal engineering designs but FMW
remained concerned that detailed investment planning in their context of
constrained personnel resources consumas an inordinate amount of time and
delays program in achieving concrete results.'
1.08      The above developments, although limited in scope, were
considered an auspicious beginning in tackling the major problems
constraining the orderly development of the highway sector. The primary
motive of the proposed project was to assist PMW in maximizing the economic
benefits from its investments in highway infrastructure. This concept
provided the basis of the project as prepared and appraised.
1.09      The FMW was the executing agency for the project.  The
appointment of a Project Coordinator to facilitate execution of the project
was a condition of the Loan. His responsibilities included overseeing the
arrangements for the reimbursements of accounts payable and application8
for disbursements, which on past projects had been 'somewhat tardy.'



-  3  a
1.10      This report is based on information in the SAR and in Bank
files, and on interviews with Bank staff assigned to the project.
1I. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION, AND APPRAISAL
Identification
2.01      Following the renewal of contact with Nigeria in the highway
sub-sector, Sank staff met in September, 1977, to consider possible areas
of assistance based on their already intimate knowledge of the sub-sector
and its probles. It was decided that the Bank should avoid entanglement
in ongoing projects. In view of the past conflicts with Nigerian
authorities over economic criteria and highway design standards, it was
stressed that this issue should be cleared, in principle, between the two
parties, before entering into negotiations on particular roads. It was
agreed that a comumitment to assist in financing the improvement of major
roads should only be considered if the Government pressed for it as an
essential component of the loan agreement. Other areas for possible
assistance were highway.maintenance, transport planning, development of the
domostic construction industry and training. The meeting concluded that
*the past history of Bank highway projects Jn Nigeria demonstrates the
special need for care, and possibly protracted negotiations, to make sure
that projects are well conceived and that they proceed to useful conclusion
without costly and awkward delays." Undoubtedly, the earlier aborted
effort to prepare a sixth highway project had not been forgotten.
2.02      An identification mission to explore the situation further was
sent to Nigeria in February 1978. The mission was joined by a Senior
Hanager which indicates the importance the Bank attached to the mission.
The mission suggested a number of components for inclusion in a possible
project including road maintenance, assistance to the domestic construction
industry and road construction.
2.03      A follow-up identification mlission in May 1978 continued to
examine possible components for the project. The mission found that the
Government had cut road appropriations in half for 1978-79, the fourth year
of the current five-year development program. FMW was meeting this
situation by slowing down progress on individual schemes, by delaying
payments, and by offering contractcrs the opportunity to continue work if
they would provide financing. No new contracts were to be started in the
current year unless they were contractor financed. The mission concluded
that 'to gain credence with the Government, any further highway loan must
offer help in the difficult situation'. A follow-up mission was proposed
to consider with FMW the selection of possible federal roads for
reconstruction and strengthening.
2.04      The mission noted that FMW still had no rational method of
planning its program of strengthening main roads. The FMW placed high
priority on building up an effective unit which could measure the strength
of existing pavements, and determine when and by how much the pavements
needed to be strengthened. The mission also noted that since the previous
mission, there had been a reversal of policy in financing and executing the



- 4 -
maintenance of federal roads. In 1974, the FMW had assumed responsibility
for both; it was now proposing to hand back to the states the
responsibility for maintaining federal roads. This would call for
assistance in strengthening the road maintenance organizations in selected
states. The mission thus recommended a project consisting of construction,
maintenance, and technical assistance.
Preparation
2.05      The above outline of a project was accepted in the Bank.  Three
missions were sent in July 1978, December 1978, and March 1979. to firm up
the project cemponents and prepare the project for appraisal. Up-to-date
traffic data was requested as well as detailed information on the proposed
works, including cost estimates. FM indicated a willingness to follow the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement as regards the selection of contractors.
The FM also agreed to appoint a senior engineer as Project Coordinator.
The Bank engaged an individual short-term consultant to assist the FMW in
project preparation. At the same time, the Bank was making a strenuous
effort to interest various governments in providing technical assistance to
FMW, despite the low salary level it was willing to authorize for
expatriate personnel. A further difficulty in recruiting expatriates was
the lack of suitable housing and offices in Lagos.
Appraisal
2.06      The project was appraised in November 1979.  The project scope
remained substantially as described earlier. The Issues Paper dated
December 7, 1979 noted that 'the outstanding issues all derive from a
coon theme, the prevailing determination in Nigeria to proceed as rapidly
as possible with the 'indigenization of institutions in both the public
and private sectors. It is clearly an aim which the Bank should support,
but in the short term, it is producing pressures which can mitigate against
efficiency in both planning and execution of Bank financed projects. 'The
following were the issues raised:
(a) FMW maintained its aversion to careful economic analysis but
during the preparation mission, it had been possible to develop
the interest of its FMW planning staff in the Bank's techniques
of economic assessment. Bank staff undertook most of the
economic studies, thus a confrontation with FMW had been
avoided. However, 1MW management was likely to continue its
antipathy to the use of economic criteria and the Paper
recommended that economic evaluation be introduced on specific
projects, thus avoiding bringing the subject up as a general
issue.
(b) The Government had agreed that any international contractors not
incorporated in Nigeria would be prequalified to bid on civil
works on the project, but contractors would have to undertake to
train Nigerian staff in the course of the works. Trainees would
be incorporated as working members of the line management or.
other operational staff of the contractors.



-  5  -
(c)  FliW proposed to supervise the civil works itself, and would hire
individual engineers from consultants to work as members of the
supervisory teams. The problem is that there was no certainty
that the hired engineer would come from the consultants who
undertook the detailed engineering. The Paper recommended that
the Bank accept the FMW's proposal for supervision although it
acknowledged some risk was involved.
(d)  FHW was short handed and unable to provide the extra staff
needed to establish a permanent training unit in FHW. The Paper
proposed to raise the issue at negotiations, and if necessary
make it a condition of the loan that the Government be re.1uired
to provide sufficient staff for the training unit and
counterpart staff to be trained in its management and
operations.
(e)  There is a disparity between the objectives of the Bank and the
expressed needs of FMW in institution building. The mission
foresaw greater need of expatriate assistance than the FMW. But
it was unlikely that there would be much response given the
meager salaries offered by the FMW, especially in the light of
the poor living and working conditions in Lagos.
(f)  In the past, road design standards had been a source of friction
between the FMW and the Bank, but the Paper noted that a more
realistic attitude now prevailed. FMW and the Bank were in
complete accord regarding the standards for the project roads.'
The Decision Memorandum of January 21, 1980 accepted the recommendations of
the Issues Paper with minor comments and clarifications.
2.07      Negotiations were held at the Bank from April 21-25, 1980.  The
Agreed Minutes indicate that the negotiations went smoothly. Agreements
'fere reached on a number of matters including: elimination of a proposed
condition of effectiveness regarding the employment of training
consultants; the recruitment of experts to strengthen FMW; the provision of
office accommodation and housing for the experts; the inclusion of studies
of a data base for planning the further restoration of the federal trunk
road system, the engagement of consulting firms or experts to supervise
execution of civil works; the involvement of the National Road Safety
Commission (NRSC) in apportioning road safety equipment to various
agencies; and the guidelines for the Fourth National Development Plan. In
regards to the last issue, the Bank welcomed the Plan's emphasis on the
consolidation of existing assets, but expressed its anxiety about the
inadequacy of the current organization of the Federal Highway Department
(FHD) in PM1. In view of *the enormous work load on FHD, bank staff
welcomed the proposal that the Government should review its highway
organization, and examine the feasibility of establishing an organization
and management structure... which would be commensurate with the Highway
Divisions heavy responsibilities".
2.08      The loan was approved by the Board on June 24, 1980; it was
signed on August 25, and became effective on December 11, 1980.



-6-
Proiect Obiectives and Description
2.09      The project was predicated on the primary objective to assist
the PMW in augmenting its capacity for road planning, design, construction
and maintenance. It provided assistance in introducing systematic highway
planning at the federal level, in building up the stock of road maintenance
technicians, and in relieving the heavy toll of road accidents. The road
works component included for the strengthening of six sections of the
federal trunk road system; the planning of this work provided the
opportunity to introduce into Nigeria improved techniques of assessing road
strengthening requirements.
2.10      The project components were as follows:
A.   Road Works
Strengthening of about 520 km of federal trunk roads;
B.   Studies
Ci)  Economic and engineering studies for the improvement of
Trunk Road A4-2 between Calabar and Ikom;
(ii) Economic and technical studies to establish improvement
priorities for the further restoration of the Federal trunk
road system.
C.   Technical Assistance
(i)  The continuation and extension of a training program for
road maintenance technicians; and
(il) The provision of specialist professional staff to fill
important posts in FMW concerned with planning, design,
construction and maintenance of roads and to establish a
pavement evaluation unit, together with assistance in
providing housing for such staff in Lagos.
D.   Equipment
(i)  Highway safety equipment (including patrol cars, recovery
vehicles and ambulances) for the National Road Safety
Comission (NRSC); and
(ii) Pavement evaluation equipment.
2.12      The total cost of the project was estimated at US$178 million.
The foreign exchange cost amounted to US$108 million or 612 of the total
cost. The project was expected to be completed by September 30, 1984.



III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COST
Im lementation
3.01      The 1980 supervision reports indicate that the project got off
to a satisfactory start, in line with the detailed action plan in the SAR.
With regard to the maintenance training program, contrary to the
understanding reached at loan negotiations, the FMW decided to invite
proposals rather than extend the contract of the consultant already doing
this work, who was financed under the Fifth Highway Project. The Bank
indicated no objection to the above change, but urged the FMW to maintain
the momentum that had already been built up. However, in late 1980 FMW
awarded a contract for maintenance training to the consultant who held the
previous contract. Bids had been received for the road strengthening
works, and a consultant was selected to study the Calabar-Ikom road.
3.02      By mid 1981, FHW had prepared a short list of consultants for
the federal trunk road study. At that time, a start had been made on
most of the components of the project. The project was noted as being
4-5 months behind the appraised implementation schedule. The Bank informed
7HW that it was generally satisfied with progress but that slow progress in
procurement had delayed the start of road construction, the construction of
housing and the acquisition of road safety equipment. Delays were
attributed to the Government's slow and involved procedures.
3.03      By late 1981, construction had started on the road strengthening
works but supervisory consultants had not yet been appointed by FHW. The
recruitment of the experts to provide institutional support and training to
7MW staff was held up by the lack of progress in building housing because
of political pressures. The road maintenance program was making
satisfactory progress with 50 inspectors already trained and another
50 candidates about to start training.
3.04      Early in 1982, the Bank informed FHW that either it should award
the housing contract to the lowest bidder, or finance the work itself.
Apparently the Government wanted to award the contract to a bidder close to
the engineers estimate, which was said to be a means of awarding the
contract on the basis of patronage. By mid 1982, contracts for housing and
setting up of a Pavement Evaluation Unit (PEU) had been awarded, but not
signed. Bank staff was still concerned over delays ins (i) appointing
consultants to supervise road strengthening contacts; (ii) the contract for
the trunk road studyt and (iii) the recruitment of technical assistance
staff for PM.
3.05      Towards the end of 1982 the project was noted as "running
reasonably well.' Five of the strengthening contracts had been
substantially completed and two were about to begin. There were "no major
technical problems in the completed works and no cost overrun so far-"
Although routine maintenance by contract was not part of the project as
appraised, the consultants carrying out the Highway Maintenance Training
Program (HMTP) had been asked by PMW to carry out a review of contract
administration in the various states. They found that on average less than
302 of the work paid for by local contractors had been done, and that there



- 8 -
were serious deficiencies in the structure of the contracts which lead to
inexperienced contractors being qualified. The FHW decided to make more
use of the Nigerian affiliates of large international contractors. The
supervision report noted that patronage had 'reached the point of
absurdity, and a strong stand has to be taken on the registration (of
contractors) issue.'
3.06      The road safety equipment was not "being well handled."
Procurement had been "allowed to drag on, and no detailed planning or
budget had been done for the operation or use oi the equipment once it
arrived.'
3.07      The PEU had finally begun its work.  A list of equipment needed
had been prepared and office space had been obtained. As this work was
being done by a non-profit foundation which lacked working capital, the
slow payment procedures of the Government had created difficulties for the
mobilization and start up of the PEU. The housing contracts were finally
signed and the contractors were mobilizing, although the fixed-unit prices
were now out of date. The positions for technical assistance to FMW had
not been filled. It was decided rather than bring in eight individuals, it
would be better to recruit a team whose efforts would be coordinated in
assisting FMW.
3.08      The feasibility study for the Calabar-Ikom Road had been
accepted by the FMW and the Bank, and the trunk road study was off to a
good start. The priority network had been agreed and traffic estimates had
been reduced. Loan disbursements continued to be slow. Government
payments of the local currency costs had 'slowed to a trickle because of
the fall in oil revenues." On the basis of present estimates, the
supervision team concluded that 'some $23 million of the loan will be
available for an extension of the scope of selected components, about which
a decision could be made on the next mission.'
3.09      A supervision mission by a training specialist at about the same
time as the regular mission found that the HMTP was well established. The
training facilities were well equipped, run, and organized. The main
issues reported weres (i) the need to integrate the training capacity in
the FHW establishment, including all staff and replacement of expatriate
staff; and (ii) the appropriate utilization of the training facilities
including the reorganization of the KHTP at state and local government
levels.
3.10      During 1983, a supervision mission reported that 'in general,
the project is going well." C.)nstruction of the last two roads in the road
strengthening component was underway. The IMTP was highly regarded
although it was pointed out the capacity of its training facilities was
greatly underutilized because of the decision to switch to contract
maintenance which required a revision in the original concept. In addition
to the shops, training facilities and staffing originally envisaged, the
Bank had approved the establishment of a bridge repair unit which was just
getting underway. The unit was noted as essential as it was considered not
feasible to do repair work by contract. The Bank approved a one year
extension of the HMTP consultant's contract and offered to earmark loan
funds for bridge repair materials.



-9-
3.11      Nevertheless, progress on the few components that were already
lagging seemed to worsen. The proposal to recruit a team to assist FMW
(para 3.07) was dropped as was the more recent idea of a twinning
arrangement, mainly because FMW would not pay the costs these arrangements
would entail. The Bank finally suggested that the FMW proceed to recruit
individuals through consulting firms, as the housing for them was now being
built. As regards the PEU, its work needed to be carefully coordinated
with the Trunk Road Study. The PEU was experiencing difficulty in getting
pro-forma invoices for the purchase of testing equipment promptly approved
which had been assured for under its contract because of its inadequate
capital base (para 3.07).
3.12      Because of the delays in getting PEU fully underway, the
contract with the consultant was extended by one year. The implementation
of the road safety component was every disappointing* according to a Bank
letter of December 1983. The equipment was sitting for a year in Lagos
because arrangements had not been made for its use. The Bank expressed
concern over the excessive axle loads on pavements, and that weigh bridges
which had been recently installed, had been closed by instructions outside
1MW.
3.13      Early in 1984, the Government changed and the Ministries of
Works, and Housing and Environment were combined into the Federal Ministry
of Works and Housing (FMWH). The Bank took the opportunity to brief the
new Minister on the status of the project, and the availability of savings
for additional works, now estimated at US$35 million under the loan. It
noted that these funds could be applied to further road strengthening
works, and that a seventh highway project had been identified which would
consist of further road strengthening, plus a significant institution
building component. The Minister was urged to review the Bank's highway
Sector Study which had been submitted to the Government in mid 1981.
3.14      By early 1984, the project was well advanced and most components
were expected to be completed by the end of the year. One exception was
the housing contracts which had suffered further delays because of the need
to renegotiate bid prices to cover inflation. Following its earlier offer
to FMW regarding the use of savings in the loan account, the Bank concluded
that the objectives of the project having been achieved, it was Bank policy
to cancel remaining funds. It now suggested that while US$10 million could
be used for extension of ongoing contracts with consultants, the remaining
funds should be cancelled.
3.15      In mid 1984, US$30 million was cancelled, the remaining funds
being held back for contingencies. The HMTP contract had been extended to
September 1984 but a contract for Phase II of the Federal Truck Road study
still had not been signed. These administrative delays in finalizing the
latter contract had pushed likely completion to mid 1986. The Bank wrote
to the FMW in July 1984, that it was now clear the 11 specialists in
planning, design and construction who were intended to strengthen FMW, as
envisaged in the loan agreement, would not be recruited during the present
project. FMW was thus freed of a key obligation which was designed to.
bring about a much needed improvement in its management.



- 10 -
3.16      In the same letter, the Bank noted that although most road
strengthening contracts were completed, it did not appear to have received
copies of contracts for the supervision, and had not disbursed any funds
for this work except for one contract. The Bank inquired if it should
continue to make provision for eventual disbursement against the other five
supervision contracts.
3.17      In a letter to the new Minister of PMW on October 19, 1984, in
response for lank assistance on road safety, the Bank stated that it shared
the Government's concern over the high accident rate on Nigerian highways.
Regarding further assistance, the Bank pointed out that it had financed a
considerable number of patrol cars which had been delivered over 18 months
ago but nothing had come from discussions between FMW and the Nigerian
Police for its use. The Bank pointed out that before it could consider a
request for follow-up assistance it would need an assurance that any new
component would be more effectively implemented.  'This would require
greater comitment, primarily from senior officials in 1MW, than had been
evident in connection with the safety component of Highways VI.'
3.18      By late 1984, progress on the delayed components seemed to have
improved somewhat. Construction of the housing was underway although the
contractor had encountered problems because of significant inflation. The
PfU was preparing a final report and it was urged to complete certain data
required for the preparation of the next project. The ambulances had been
handed over to the Federal Highway Patrol, and recovery vehicles were to be
turned over shortly; the NRSC had been restructured and a traffic accident
unit had been set up in the  MW.  Patrol cars had already been delivered.
The main problem seemed to be a shortage of local currency which resulted
in payment delays to consultants.
3.19      Progress in 1985 in completing the project continued 'at a
rather slow rate because of bureaucratic delays and inaction.' The housing
contracts were stalled pending contract revisions. The recovery vehicles
were handed over to the Highway Patrol.
3.20      By late 1988 the project as originally envisioned, had been
completed except for the assistance to FMW, which as noted in para 3.15 had
been dropped. During 1986-88, surplus funds in the loan account were used
as a bridging operation to continue vital road studies for the follow-on
project, and to finance courses and seminars to upgrade the skills of the
senior staff of PMW. All this laid the framework for the Highway Sector
Loan which was appraised in May 1986 but because of protracted
negotiations, was not signed until September 1989.
Disbursements
3.21      The Closing Date was extended on an annual basis three times to
March 31, 1988. Disbursements were always behind the appraisal estimate in
part because of the strength of the dollar in relation to other foreign
currencies, and in part because of slow procurement. As noted in para
3.15, the former had resulted in a cancellation of US$30 million in mid.
1984. Thereafter, disbursements proceeded at a lower rate because (i) the
strengthening works were substantially completed; and (ii) the slow pace of
the rmaining works, mainly studies and other consultancies.



- 11 -
Procurement
3.22      The slow pace of the Nigerian bureaucracy and interference in
the procurement process were mainly responsible for delayed procurement
throughout the implementation of the project. However, it is evident that
components In which the Government was particularly interested, such as
strengthening works and maintenance, moved faster than other components
such as the appointment of consultants and the award of housing contracts.
Costs
3.23      The actual total cost of the project and the foreign exchange
cost was about 352 less than the appraisal estimate. Even greater savings
were achieved on the road strengthening works as shown in Annex 3.1. This
is attributed to the strength of the US dollar during the execution period,
and to the collapse of the construction boom in Nigeria. Construction
costs were held down by the Bank's requirements of international
competitive bidding, while consulting costs were minimized by the ceiling
placed on the man-month rates by FPW. On the other hand, some of the
consultant contracts, particularly for maintenance and the PEU were
repeatedly extended so as to lengthen the period of training, to cover a
wider scope of services than originally envisaged, and to prepare the
follow-on project.
IV. ECONOMIC REEVALUATION
4.01      The period 1974-79 saw a high growth in vehicular traffic in the
project area (ranging from 12 to 15 percent in most cases and 20-30 percent
in some cases) as a consequence of the rapid expansion of economic
activities accompanying the oil boom. During appraisal (1979), the
projected growth in traffic was estimated to range from 5 to 13 percent in
1979-84 and 5 to 10 percent in 1984-1990. In the 1980s as the oil market
progressively weakened, the anticipated economic growth did not
materialize, and recent (1987) volume counts on the project roads show only
a moderate growth in traffic in some cases (2 to 6 percent p.a.) and a
decline in others (0.4 to 3.7 percent p.a.) during the period 1979-87.
However, according to recent studies, 1987 is seen as the turn around year
where traffic would start to increase again as the Nigerian economy
improves. Conservative estimates of future growth in traffic (1987
onwarde) range from 3 to 5 percent per annum.
4.02      At appraisal, the total construction costs for the road works
component of the project were estimated as US $111.4 million including
supervision, taxes and contingencies. As mentioned earlier, largely due to
the strength of the US dollar, actual costs were less, amounting to US
$92.4 million (or about 83? of estimate).
4.03      The combined effect of the reduction in costs and less than
anticipated growth in traffic has been to reduce the overall economic rAte
of return on investments in road works from 30? to 23?. Annex 3 shows a
summary of the economic re-eir&luation of the individual road sections
strengthened under the project using the most conservative estimate of



- 12 -
benefits comprising only of the reduction in vehicle operating costs (i.e.
not including beneflts of reduced maintenance costs after project
completion). On five of the seven road sections (accounting for 6S2 of
total lnvestment), the ERR ranges from 19 to 542 and the B/C ratio from 1.3
to 2.6. On the remaining two road sections (accounting for 35Z of the
total investment), having also the lowest traffic levels, the ERR ranges
from 2 to 9Z, with the B/C ratio (at 101 discount rate) ranging from 0.8 to
1.0; this low rate is due to traffic growth being much lower than expected
on these roads. The combined overall EU for the total investment is 23Z.
4.04      The tachnical assistance components were particularly useful to
1MW, especially the trunk road study and the work of th PEU, in preparing
a sound basis for planning federal road investments. This is assisting
Nigeria in better road planning and in reducing unit costs. Benefits from
the technical assistance and training have not been quantified.
V. PERORHMANCE OF CONSULTANTS
5.01      Overall, the performance of the various expatriate consultants
on the project was excellent. Bank supervision reports mention the
maintenance consultants repeatedly for their performance in establishing
and managing the training school and the road production units, and
training local staff to eventually take over the training program. The PEU
was also well managed and provided a sound technical basis for designing
pavement, rather than using the rule-of-thumb criteria of the past. The PEU
contributed substantially to acquiring the data that was essential to the
success of the trunk road and regional studies. These studies provided a
basis for institution building.
5.02      A number of local consultants were used on the regional road
studies. As their work was coordinated by the foreign firm carrying out
the trunk road study and they were assisted by the PEU, the domestic firms
acquired valuable experience. This should be useful in similar
undertakings in future, both in Nigeria and elsewhere.
5.03      FHW's treatment of its consultants was mixed.  In some cases,
contract signatures were delayed for months after awards had been made, and
after the consultants had started work, payments were frequently delayed to
the point that they had to appeal to the Bank for help. This sort of
performance could not but help raise the costs of consultants who can
afford to wait for payments, but would discourage smaller firms who are
competent but do not have strong financial backing. This was particularly
the case for the PEU consultant who was highly skilled but was not strongly
capitalized.
5.04 OMW was also very slow to award a contract for the borings
required after the alignment had been selected for the Calabar-Ikom Road.
Thus the consultant who carried out the feasibility study had to wait for
years to get the information needed to carry out thc final design work..



- 13 -
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND OUTLOOK
6.01      The project was completed about four years after the originally
agreed completion date of September 30, 1984. The last two years could be
considered a bridging operation until the follow-on project is approved.
The project was completed at substantial cost savings as noted in para
3.23. While the savings mainly resulted from the strength of the U.S.
dollar, the FMW deserves credit for stringent cost control.
6.02      The performance of the Borrower was mixed.  Progress was
commendable on the components in which the MHW was interested, it was much
less so on components to which it did not attach high priority. The latter
included strengthening of the 1MW, providing housing for the technical
assistance experts which the Bank had inststed on at the time the project
was prepared, and improvements to road safety. The first item had to be
dropped, the second remains incomplete and only cursory progress was made
on the third. However, in planning, design and implementation, FMD has
made overall progress in improving quality over the project period.
6.03      The files indicate delays on the part of the Borrower in
clearing urgently needed equipment through Nigerian customs. Payments to
consultants, contractors and suppliers were frequently long delayed. The
Bank often had to call on FMW to act on urgent matters which seemed to have
been lost in the bureaucracy or set aside for one reason or another. It
seemed obvious that the appointment of a project coordlnator, which the
Bank believed would avoid some of the problems of the past (paras 1.09 and
2.05), while undoubtedly helpful, was not the entire solution to FMW's
management problems.
6.04      The Government's compliances with the loan covenants as of
March, 1984, is shown in Annex 6.1. Eventually by the end of the project,
the borrower had complied with all the covenants except to engage a
technical assistance team to assist the PMW. This should be a high
priority component in any follow-on project, but it is recognized that it
is unlikely to be acceptable to the FMW.
6.05      Communications with Nigeria seemed to pose more than the usual
problems. Disbursement *:pplications to the Bank were frequently lost,
letters from FMW which should have been airmailed were sent surface mail,
copies of consultant's reports to be reviewed by the Bank were either
delayed, or not forarded at all, and telex communications were
occasionally interrupted. Fortunately, however, documents could be sent
through the resident mission pouch or hand carried by Bank staff going to
or from Lagos.
6.06      The closing of new weigh bridges shortly after they were opened
(para 3.12) was a violation of loan covenants. Government took this step
just before the election of the last civilian regime. These were later
reopened under the present Government.



-  14  -
VII. ROLE OF THE BANK
7.01      Bank staff involved with the identification, preparation, and
appraisal of the project following the resumption of relations with FMW in
1977, should be commended for their painstaking efforts in regaining the
confidence of the FMW, following past problems. The thoroughness of their
work is confirmed by the fact that the original tight project processing
schedule set forth in the Issues Paper was generally either maintained or
bettered, and the negotiations proceeded smoothly. Their reports including
the SAR, were also a model of clarity. The project introduced methods of
economic evaluation, a major survey of federal roads and obtained
Government commitments to follow ICB.
7.02      Shortly after project execution began, the Bank's project team
was changed, one staff member left the Bank's service, the other was
transferred. The second project team carried on until 1987 when the West
Africa Ttansport Divisions were reorganized, and a third team took over.
Despite the Bank reorganization in 1987, one member of the third team
remained assigned to Nigeria, thus fortunately continuity of supervision
was maintained on this difficult project. All the staff assigned to the
project were experienced and capable, so that project execution did not
suffer from the changes, with the possible exception of the supervision of
road works (para 3.16). Bank supervision was frequent and thorough, and
the history of the project was vell documented. The Bank's resident
mission in Lagos contributed substantially to the supervision effort by
pursuing enquiries from Headquarters and pressing FMW for decisions.
7.03      The Bank was constructive in authorizing changes that furthered
the project and helped the borrower. It approved the inclusion of bridge
repair works in the project and the use of technical assistance to set up a
bridge repair unit (para 3.10). The Bank made a number of exceptions to
its usual disbursement procedures to expedite procurement, particularly for
the PEU consultant, who was underfinanced. The Bank, in allowing the PEU
consultant to procure its equipment directly rather than wait for FMW,
expedited the start of PEU's important studies and pavement research. The
Bank agreed to finance, at an American university, courses in highway
safety design which were most useful, as Nigeria at the time had the
highest traffic fatality rate in the world. The Bank also authorized three
persons to attend a seminar abroad for heads of highway training divisions,
and a study tour of the United States. All these steps contributed to
furthering the objectives of the project.
7.04      In 1985, the Bank offered to establish a revolving fund in
Nigeria, which would have been useful in expediting purchases and payments.
Revolving funds had been successfully established on Bank projects in other
sectors in Nigeria. Unfortunately, a fund was never set up by lack of
response of the Borrower. Revolving funds have been provided for in the
documents for the proposed follow-on project, as a condition of
effectiveness.
7.05       The PMW was frequently informed by the Bank that "in general,
the project was progressing well.' While this was true in the quantitative
sense, as the road strengthening and HHTP components, which amounted to



-  15  -
over 902 of the project, did proceed well. However, the Government
considered these cosuponents as high priority as the trunk road system w&s
showing signs of failure and maintenance had to be improved if the road
network was not to co3lapse. FHW's performance particularity as regards
engaging technical assistance to strengthen management of FHD which was a
key component of the project fell far short of expectations. In fact,
this component was eventually dropped from the project, without even an
amendment to the loan agreement, because housing for the experts to be
engaged was still not completed eight years after project execution had
started.
7.06      Yet none of the supervision letters, other than expressing
concern, proposed stronger measures to pressure the Governmeit to meet its
obligations. In so doing, the Bank seems to have condoned a degree of non-
performance that it normally would not tolerate. An exception to this
policy *was the Bank's strong response to the Government regdrding possible
assistance for road safety (para 3.17).
7.07      The supervision arrangements for the road strengthening works
(para 2.06(c)) were less than normally required on Bank financed works. In
this light, the situation noted in para 3.16 regarding supervision is
puzzling as it would seem to indicate that the Bank did not know who was
supervising the road strengthening works. Normally, the Bank disburses on
the basis of contractors billings that are certified by consultants or
individual experts whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment had to be satisfactory to the Bank as called for
under Section 3.02 of the Loan Agreement. In the case of this project, the
Principal Resident Engineer was an FMW man, advised by (in some cases) a
local consultant. The consultant was not the 'Engineers Representative* in
the FIDIC sense. This practice appears to have been accepted by the Bank
at negotiations although it was not the usual practice on Bank financed
civil works. It is understood that there was no viable alternative to this
practice as the Government's indigenization laws prevented hiring of
foreign consultants.
7.08      Perhaps the most difficult issue to assess is the merits of the
hiatus in the relations between the Bank and FHW from 1973 to 1978. The
impasse was undoubtedly costly to the Bank in staff time and other
resources, but it must have been much more costly to the Government because
of the long delay in tackling the serious problems confronting the highway
subsector. Rapid traffic growth during the 1975-79 period (para 1.05) is
primarily attributed to the oil boom. It would appear the FHW's estimates
of traffic growth were more accurate than those of the Bank, and that the
latter was overly conservative. Average daily traffic counts were in the
order of 20,000 vpd at the peak of the oil boom on the Lagos-Ibadan
Expressway, although following the oil boom, traffic dropped roughly by 302
to 14,000 vpd in 1988. It would be difficult to argue that any smaller
capacity than that provided by a four-lane divided highway would have been
appropriate. With the benefit of hindsight, it now is evident that the
expressway would have been economically justified, with or without the oil
boom. It would appear that the lesson cited in the earlier audit repor.ts
'that considerable skill and judgement are required in predicting traffic
growth in Nigeria' (para 1.02) was an appropriate conclusion. FMW deserves
credit for better traffic estimates in this case.



- 16 -
7.09      The Bank's policy of extending the closing date on a year to
year basis created a problem in completing the project. Cons 'tant
contracts could not be negotiated to run beyond the existing closing date,
thus some contracts had to be repeatedly extended. It would have
facilitated project administration if the closing date could have been
extended to the time warranted by the work schedule, rather than by an
arbitrary period, which only created unnecessary work for FMW and Bank
supervisory staff.
7.10      The Bank followed its usual policy of cancelling surplus loan
funds; however, by the mid 1980s, there was an urgent need for additional
rehabilitation which it could have financed with the surplus. The
cancellation gave the Bank an opportunity to negotiate a new loan in
February 1987 1/ with the Government, which could be tailored to existing
needs of FMW. The use of loan funds as a bridging operation (para 3.23)
supported essential studies, particularly as they related to the
preparation of the follow-on project. By doing this, the Bank kept its
contact with FHW on highway matters until a nev project could be agreed on,
and provided the funding for its preparation.
VIII.  CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
8.01      Overall the project was a success in the physical completion of
the project works which produced overall good economic returns. The
technical assistance and training also proved highly beneficial. But there
has been significant short falls in achieving goals of institutional
reforms in the FMW.
8.02      The project was thoroughly prepared and carefully supervised by
Bank staff. The Bank was constructlve in proposing a number of changes
that benefitted the project. On the other hand, the Borrower missed the
opportunity offered by the project to strengthen the management of FMW,
which was essential to the complete success of the project. The FMW's
procurement procedures, especially for consultants, often resulted in
interminable delays. Even after consultants were appointed, they were
further delayed by slow procurement of essential equipment (FEU) or borings
(Calabar-Ikom roads). In future projects, the consultants' contracts
should provide for them to procure the equipment, tests, borings etc, they
need to proceed with their work, rather than being dependent on the FMW.
8.03      Considerable skill and judgement was needed in predicting
traffic growth in Nigeria according to audit reports for earlier projects
(paras 1.02 and 7.08). Unfortunately, this finding had not yet emerged
during preparation of the proposed sixth highway project in 1972-73. This
project as originally conceived, was eventually aborted because of the
break in relations between the Bank and FMW.
1/ The Loan Agreement approved by the Bank's Board in May 1988, was signed
by the Government in September 1989.



- 17 .
8.04      There is some doubt as to whether the execution of the road
strengthening works was properly supervised by consultants or experts, in
accordance with normal Bank practice. The supervising engineers were
usually appointed from FMW staff, who oversaw the work from regional
offices along with their other duties, rather than on site. This is not a
satisfactory arrangement but fortunately, as the contractors were well-
established international firms, the quality of their work remained
generally satisfactory.
8.05      The Bank appears to have been lenient with the Borrower on some
matters. As a consequence, an important component of the project, the
strengthening of FM1 management, was never carried out. It is
understandable why the Bank was reluctant to take a strong position with
KVW, given that it was highly desirable to avoid a second break in
relations.
8.06      The Bank should reconsider its pjlicy of only extending closing
dates on a year to year basis (para 7.09), as it would allow Borrowers more
flexibility in awarding longer contracts, and avoid costly delays in
processing contract extensions. This is particularly relevant to Nigeria,
where contract extensions often take months if not a year or more to be
approved and signed.
8.07      The establishment of a revolving fund as proposed by the Bank
would have been of considerable help to the Borrower, but despite frequent
urging, the FHW never made the appropriate arrangements. However, they are
provided for in the documents for the follow-on project (Highway Sector
Loan) and are being complied with.
8.08      Institutional reform and strengthening is a long drawn out
process. The project made some progress in this respect by supporting:
Mi) the federal trunk roads study which provided the first comprehensive
assessments of road conditions and maintenance needs in Nigeria; (ii) the
introduction of rational techniques for pavement rehabilitation and
strengthening. Despite problems with the road safety component, the
project raised safety conscientiousness. However, the FMW did not follow
up measures to make it more accountable for its operations and to bring in
outside specialists to help in strengthening its management. Nevertheless,
the Bank would seem to have little alternative but to continue its efforts
under future projects to strengthen FMW management, and insist on a
reasonable degree of performance on this key institution building aspect.
8.09      A number of lessons have emerged from the project.  They
includes (i) international competitive bidding, as compared to the usual
award procedures in Nigeria, resulted in lowering road construction costs;
(ii) future contracts for consulting services should include provision for
procurement of equipment or services which are vital to the conduct of the
consultants' work; (iii) the pavement evaluation work has provided a sound
basis for designing the thickness of overlays, rather than using the rule-
of-thumb experience of the past; and (iv) the benefits of training
personnel in maintenance procedures and operations have greatly assisted
both the 1MW and the states in achieving a higher level of road maintenance
than in the past.



- 18 -
ANNEX 1
NIGERIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT - LOAN 1883-UNI
Cost of Road Strengthening Works
Total Cost
(US million)
Appraisal */   Actual
(a)  Maiduguri-Gambaru (137 km)                  23.63         17.96
Cb)  Maiduguri-Bama (73 km)                      20.45         10.70
(c)  Gombe-Biu (127 km)                          34.80         27.86
(d)  Ilorin-Omu Aran (80 km)                     14.03         14.26
(e)  Ore-Ondo (43 km)                            18.43         21.59
(f)  Ondo-Ife (61 km)
TOTAL                                     111.34          92.37
Sources SAR and Supervision ReCorts
March 1989
*/   Page 38 of SAR; including taxes and supervision
b'



- 19 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
NIGERIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT - LOAN 1883-UNI
Compliance with Loan Conditions
(As at March 1984)
CONDITION                                                      STATUS
Section 3.03(a) - Borrower shall employ         The PEU team is now established in not
later than December 31, 1981 experts           Kaduna; six experts in supervision of
in planning, design, construction and          contract maintenance have been
maintenance of roads, and to establish          appointed (soon to be increased to
a pavement evaluation unit (PEU).              nine); planning assistance will be
provided under Phase II of Trunk Road
Study, for which contract is imminent;
recruitment of the other experts has
been delayed.
Section 3.03(b) - Borrower shall employ         Complied with.
not later than September 30, 1980
consultants to undertake training of
road maintenance technicians.
Section 3.03(c) - Borrower shall allocate       No action needed until housing
housing constructed under the project           constructed.
for the exclusive use of experts and
consultants.
Section 3.04(a) - Borrower shall designate    Complied with.
a chief engineer within FMW to be respon-
sible for planning and organizing training
of road maintenance technicians.
Section 3.04(b) - Borrower shall no later       Consultants' proposals were sub-
than March 31, 1982 prepare a plan for         mitt'd on time, and are being
transfer of maintenance training responsi-    implemented by FMW.
bilities from consultants to FMW.
Section 3.05 - Borrower shall not later         Complied with.
than September 30, 1980 designate
within FHW a project coordinator.
Section 3.06 - Borrower shall designate         Complied with.
within FMW a road safety liaison officer
to assist in procurement and allocation
of road safety equipment under the project.
Section 3.07 - Borrower shall establish         Complied with.
a pavement evaluation unit no later than
December 31, 1981.



- 20 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
Section 3.11 - Borrower shall furnish           Complied with.
to the Bank plans, specifications,
contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules.
Section 3.11(b) - Borrower shall                Generally being complied with,
maintain records to monitor progress            though Borrower has not been sub-
of the project and shall submit                 mitting regular quarterly reports
quarterly progress reports                      on all aspects of project.  Compliance
has improved recently.
Section 3.11(c) - Project completion            No action required yet.
report.
Section 4.00 - Borrower shall prepare           Regulations were gazetted March 24,
vehicle and axle load regulations               1983.  Three weighbridges were opened
by December 31, 1982.                           in mid-1983 but ordered close down
just prior to elections. FMW
currently seeking to re-open these
weighbridges. Contracts for
installing another 11 have been
awarded. Tenders for a further 9 are
being processed.
February 1989



NIGERIA
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT - LOAN 1883-lJNI
Economnic ReevaLuation
Estimath d Actual Construct.        traffic (ADT)       Effective   fYR  (X)       ERR  (X)   b/C Ratlo at lox
Road Section        Lenth   Cost       Cost Completion ----------------            Growth Rat    (c)             (c)            (c)
(a)      (b)     Yer       1919    191      1967   (1979-87)  ----------   -----------  ----------------
(bi)    (Jm)      (8t)                    Projected  Actual      (X)    3SCR  51CR   SXCR  65CR   3XCR    61CR
- -- -   - -   -   -- -  - -  -   - - -- -  --===
(1) Usidugurl - 0ombaru  157.0   28.05    17.96    163         1647    1761      126        1.7      26    26       8      9     R.9      1.0
(2) Maiduguri - U w        09.0   29.46    16.70    1900       100     2865      2665       6.4      41    41      29     3      1.0      1.7
(5) Combe - BSu           128.0   84.64    27.60
(I)   obeb  - Wuyo     05.0             18.49    1960      2606    400       1926     -3.7       3a    35     19     22      1.3     1.4
(1i) Wuyo - Sim        610.             14.57    1905      1174    2165      163a      6.1       19    19      2      3      0.8     0.6            -
(4) Ilorin - Omu Aron      79.6   14.65    14.26    1967       3298    7970      3197     -0.4       62    03     61      64     2.4     2.6
(5) Or- - Ondo - Ife      102.0   13.45    21.69
(i)  Ore - Ondo        48.5              9.69    1904     4373    660       4139      -6.7      67    61      43     43      2.1     2.1
(I1) Ondo  -           5f0 6.7          12.06   1918      6116   6e35       5126      -6.6 (d)  63    63      as     36      1.8     1.3
OVERALL (a)           511.4  111.36    92.57                                                                  23     23      1.0     1.6
Notes: (a) Costs includ  taxos, supervision and contingenclos (from SAR).
(b) Actucl costs shown are financial. To obtain economic costs, a factor of 6.97 Is used to o*clude taxes (31).
(c) The economic indicatore are becd on (i) actual growth rate from 1979 to 1967, and OX (3SCR) or 5X (65GR) thereafter;                    D
(It) linearly declining unit savings In VOC over * 1d yoer period efter constructlon discounted to the year of completion.             s  m
(III) weighted average unit VOC reduction of 410.S0/voh-km In 1988 prices; and                                                         m   x
(iv) constant dollors of the year of construction complotlon.
(d) The high declino in traffic on Ondo-If- rd. Is partly due to the diversion to the Shmgaeu-Benin expressway.
(-) Overall economic indicators computed on the basis of 1983 prices and constant dollars.



IBRD 14842R
. \ | - * jS s av )> b,\ ~~~~~~N    I G  E  R12 gmCHA 
NIGER                                                                                                    NIGER                                         -o            f
t ~/                             ,-  A-     -)                           6e                                                                                                               - ~>j*17t   N3r   _Soo
zf ~ ~  ~   (aT                       /x                    C9Koa  77/'t3              h 5'    2        -9_                                         s  S a qX
')KOTn ~  ~     KOinNvio(n6
BURKINA                                                                                                                                                                              G.
FASO                                                                                                                    4 /
I,  / G        g                F                    ro      0+g; \ AL
ffi S W0, -8_    "\y                                i/s  itDS /E =,.g;)//                                                                                                        f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MIOtORIs 
<'rS'v^       I                                ,      5ogoivvo'r  3   /                *i
fT ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~       -
.                                         -  "'006'01'?  '                                     (>                                                         FEEA    TRN KLMTROA    NETWORK0
Onion.sJaes.we. Nvo rfr JaZS LAGOS                                                                                                                                                    Rend  costuce  or improved
UK      -                                                                       10-                                / 7-                                4'CAM  ER  00  N  State Boondaries
I L I te  ...    w,/  ...  ,>%7v.w.t-.-                           .......................   sSS   ....  ,-.,_ ......... Irnk  ,     I.rAtol  o9ri
B   E   N   I N                                                                                                                                                                                        CHAD~~~ rvN~iYK0,N   
f                                                                                                                                                       LA~~~~~~~~~~IA010  0              0
Canon0 PORT  'r'  v/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~  '/<5r                                        KILOMETEaS~~~~~~~~~~B'
i..or.oo,.n...ror.in.niovonrrnouu-  ~   ;A;a(Irp  <                                                                       0           50           00          tIC          20
v.nn.n.iv.O.ibn,("~                                                                                                                       iLE
j0i.o.o~,.ov$v000ruN.0oi00*O    Rn
00  o                                                                                    Z oo- o o orn. n n..in   v,o--  .0              T                                   A
I  Or  vi v.in0.0'                                                                                                                                                          APRIL 1989~~~~~~~MAURD



