Document of
The World Bank                     FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo. P-2841-UNI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
FOR A
SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
June 5, 1980
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Naira (N)
US$1 - NO.55
Nl = US$1.82
MEASURES
1 kilometer (km) = 0.62 mile (mi)
ABBREVIATIONS
FMW         -  Federal Ministry of Works
LGC         -  Local Government Council
NPA         -  Nigerian Ports Authority
NRC         -  Nigerian Railway Corporation
Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31 (until January 1, 1981)
January - December 31 (from January 1, 1981)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NIGERIA - SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Federal Republic of Nigeria
Amount:                US$108 million
Terms:                 Payable over 20 years, including 5 years of grace,
at an interest rate of 8.25 percent per annum.
Project
Description:       The project would assist in alleviating some critical
weaknesses in road planning, design, construction, and
maintenance activities of the federal highway authori-
ties. It would consist of strengthening about 520 km of
federal roads, and carrying out economic and engineering
studies of a major North-South road and a survey to
establish improvement priorities for the federal trunk
road network. Consultants would be engaged to continue
and expand a program for the training of road mainte-
nance technicians, and experts recruited to fill
critical positions in the Federal Ministry of Works.
The project would also assist in constructing 14 staff
housing units, and in providing road safety and pavement
testing equipment. There are no unusual risks for this
type of project.
This document has  resr,ctd diUibution and may be wed by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents nmy not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:*
Local         Foreign         Total
------------US$ Millions ---------
Road Strengthening                         39.3            61.9          101.2
Studies
Economic/Engineering Studies                0.6             1.3            1.9
Federal Trunk Road Study                    0.7             1.7            2.4
Subtotal                              1.3              3.0            4.3
Institution Building
and Technical Assistance
Consultants for Training                    2.8             6.5            9.3
Experts for FMW                             0.9             2.2            3.1
Housing for Experts                         1.3             1.9            3.2
Subtotal                              5.0            10.6            15.6
Equipment
Road Safety                                 0.6             3.0            3.6
Pavement Testing                            0.1             0.4            0.5
Subtotal                              0.7              3.4            4.2
Total Base Costs                     46.3             79.0          125.3
Physical Contingencies                      4.1             6.4           10.4
Price Contingencies                        19.5            22.7           42.2
Total Project Cost (including
taxes and duties of US$7.1 million)        69.9           108.1          178.0
Financing Plan:                            Local            Foreign        Total
------------US$ Millions-----------
IBRD                                         -             108.0         108.0
Federal Government                          69.9             0.1          70.0
Total                            69.9           108.1         178.0
* Cost figures are rounded



- iii -
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year                   1981   1982   1983   1984  1985
----------US$ Millions---------
Annual                             1.2    41.3   36.4   27.7   2.4
Cumulative                         1.2    42.5   78.9  105.6 108.0
Rate of Return:                    30 percent on road strengthening
component (77 percent of total
project cost).
Staff Appraisal Report:            2833-UNI, dated June 2, 1980






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO NIGERIA
FOR A SIXTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Federal Republic of Nigeria for the equivalent of US$108 million
to help finance a project for road strengthening and maintenance in Nigeria.
The loan would have a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with
interest at 8.25 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum on Nigeria (Report 2428-UNI), dated
June 19, 1979, has been distributed to the Executive Directors. The follow-
ing paragraphs summarize the major conclusions of that report, and update
them on the basis of more recent developments. Country data are attached
as Annex I.
Political Background
3.        Following 13 years of military rule, a civilian government assumed
office in Nigeria on October 1, 1979. The government is headed by Mr. Shehu
Shagari, leader of the National Party of Nigeria, which emerged from the
elections as the party with the greatest and widest support. The economic
policies of the new administration have yet to be formulated in detail.
Nevertheless, Mr. Shagari has indicated that his policies with respect
to domestic and foreign affairs will follow the same broad principles as
those espoused by the outgoing administration. Rural development, increased
food production, education and low-cost housing are focal points of the new
administration's program. A greater role of the private sector in development
is envisaged.
Economic Developments 1974-78
4.        Nigeria has an estimated population of about 81 million (1978),
with a per capita income of around US$560. Per capita income alone, how-
ever, is not a satisfactory indicator of the average living standard in
Nigeria. In terms of such criteria as child mortality, life expectancy,
and number of people per physician, Nigeria ranks amongst the poorest coun-
tries in the world. Oil has been a major resource for Nigeria for over a
decade, but acquired a dominating influence in the economy only after the
sharp escalation of oil prices in 1973/74. Within a year, oil revenues
tripled, rising to over US$6.5 billion (roughly US$100 per capita) in 1974/75
1/  This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report
for an Oyo-North Agricultural Development Project in Oyo State, approved
by the Board on April 29, 1980.



and foreign exchange earnings rose commensurately . This occurred at a time
when Nigeria depended primarily on agriculture for income and employment. It
had only a small industrial base and the existing infrastructure was deficient
and in a very poor state.
5.        The nation's first concern at that time was to use the oil wealth
to improve greatly - indeed revolutionize - the state of the country's social
and physical infrastructure, and establish heavy industry. The Government
simultaneously set out to achieve satisfactory growth of agriculture and
light manufacturing to ensure broadly-based economic progress. All these
concerns were underscored in the Third National Development Plan (1975-80).
The plan was prepared in the midst of the oil boom and reflected the optimism
and confidence of that time. It contemplated a total investment program of
about US$50 billion (representing a three-fold increase over the previous
plan period), with the public sector accounting for about US$35 billion
(subsequently raised close to US$45 billion due to cost increases). The
public sector program contained large allocations for transport (28 percent)
and industry (19 percent), and an ambitious goal for free and compulsory
universal primary education (UPE) by 1980 was set. The economy was expected
to grow at 9.5 percent a year, with agriculture growing at 5 percent and
manufacturing at 18 percent.
6.        The actual course of events, however, turned out to be quite
different. In the post-oil boom period, the Nigerian economy grew at an
average rate of 6 percent a year. There was little increase in the agricul-
tural output and the growth of manufacturing, at 12 percent a year, remained
below the Third Plan target. Although construction, power, transport, and
public services expanded at around 20 percent a year, serious physical
bottlenecks emerged. Acute power shortages and congested ports and roads
undermined the productivity of existing industrial plants, upset the normal
distribution channels and caused consumer frustration. These factors contri-
buted to a rapid increase in production costs, which in turn made it general-
ly difficult for domestic production in both agriculture and manufacturing to
compete with foreign produced goods. Because the fastest growing tertiary
sectors are concentrated in the urban areas, economic growth had a strong
urban bias which tended to accentuate urban-rural income inequalities and
encourage emigration of young labor from rural areas. Also, private invest-
ment, at least in the early years, remained sluggish for a variety of reasons,
such as the indigenization measures and the uncertain domestic and interna-
tional economic environment.
7.        The oil revenues, which were critical for the implementation of
the proposed public sector program, fell substantially short of expectations,
while the actual costs of the programs and projects turned out to be much
higher. Large deficits in the government budget and balance of payments
appeared quite early in the period, and the resource constraint came to
reassert itself much sooner than expected. Although the additional oil
revenues were used largely to augment the nation's capital stock (the



- 3 -
federal budget current surplus amounted to 60 percent of current revenues),
capital expenditures rose so quickly -- seven-fold between 1973/74 and
1977/78 -- that the budget was in substantial deficit already by 1975/76.
8.        As provided in the Third Plan, government investment concentrated
on transport, heavy industry and education, which yielded some impressive
results, particularly in roads and ports. Not surprisingly, the much enlarged
public sector investments, together with the growing financial difficulties,
considerably strained the existing administrative capacity. Thus, costs
and project design could not always be closely controlled, and investments
tended to be capital intensive with a large import content.
Financial Difficulties and Government Stabilization Measures
9.       Nigeria's financial difficulties were further aggravated in 1977
when Nigerian oil, at the official price set in April 1977, faced keen
competition in European and US markets from other, cheaper sources. Conse-
quently, Nigerian sales, which began to decline in the latter half of 1977,
plummeted in the early months of 1978.
10.       Federal budget deficits and the drawdown of foreign exchange
reserves had been increasing over time, but the country's financial situation
became critical in 1977/78. The fiscal year closed with a Federal Government
overall budget deficit of about US$3 billion, representing about 10 percent
of GDP. Foreign exchange reserves declined sharply and by the end of 1978
stood at US$2.2 billion, a level equivalent to only seven weeks of imports.
The annual rate of inflation averaged 15 percent during these two years,
rendering domestic production of tradeables progressively less competitive
with foreign produced goods.
11.       To overcome these problems, the Government took a number of steps
designed to increase public resources, to curtail public expenditure and to
curb imports. The Nigerian oil price was brought in line with the prices of
its competitors in order to reverse the trend of declining oil exports.
Non-oil revenues in 1978/79 were augmented through higher rates for income
tax, excises, and import duties as well as through better enforcement of tax
laws and procedures, while cutting Federal Government capital expenditures by
25 percent in nominal terms.
12.       In order to strengthen the balance of payments position, import
licensing and other restrictions were introduced to reduce particularly
the nonessential consumer imports. The Government also succeeded in raising
two large syndicated loans (amounting to US$1.75 billion) in the Euro-currency
market. In addition, the Government during this period shifted the emphasis
in its expenditures towards agriculture and introduced policies and programs
to stimulate agricultural production.



- 4 -
13.       On the whole, the above measures succeeded in bringing about a
measure of domestic economic stability and stopping the drain on foreign
exchange reserves. The oil output, following the price reduction, revived
quickly and reached well over 2 mbd in the latter half of 1978 compared to an
average of 1.5 mbd at the start of the year. The overall budget deficit
for 1978/79 turned out to be only 60 percent of the previous year's level
or about 5 percent of GDP. The import restrictions also appear to have
been very effective in achieving their objective.
Recent Oil Market Developments and Short-term Outlook
14.       Nigeria's financial position has improved dramatically during
1979 following succesive increases in the world oil price. In line with
other OPEC countries, Nigeria raised the price of its crude oil to $34 per
barrel on February 1, 1980, up from $14.10 in December 1978. The high price
coincided with a record output of 2.3 mbpd during 1979. Together, these two
factors have changed the fiscal situation and added considerably to foreign
exchange reserves. Export earnings in 1979 are estimated to have exceeded
$18 billion, an increase of 65 percent over the previous year, and federal
revenue for 1979/ 80, budgeted at N8.8 billion is likely to exceed Nll
billion. Indications are that most of the additional revenue was used
to increase capital expenditure, which may have risen by as much as 20
percent in real terms. This expansion is dictated primarily by the large
number of unfinished investments.
Economic Prospects and Policies
15.       Unless there are major new oil discoveries--the chances of which
are not held to be very good--Nigeria's future oil output will not rise
above current levels and, because of rapidly rising domestic consumption,
the volume of oil exports is likely to decline over time. On the other
hand, it is expected that the economy's demand for imports will continue to
rise at a rapid pace in view of the size of the economy, the level of economic
development, the pipeline of unfinished investments, and numerous newly
identified investment projects. Over the next few years, Nigeria can expect
to be in a comfortable financial position, and should be able to build up its
foreign exchange reserves. Nevertheless, the underlying divergence in growth
rates of imports and exports has serious implications for longer term econo-
mic prospects. Because of the economy's heavy reliance on oil-financed
imports and investment, the outlook for the post-oil era depends on the
success with which imports are replaced by domestic production, and non-oil
exports are stimulated. Growth in the non-oil sector must become self-
generating as oil resources are depleted.
16.       The Government is at present preparing the Fourth National Develop-
ment Plan, which is expected to come into effect in January 1981. Indica-
tions are that the next five years will be used to consolidate the nation's
economic base and to lay the foundations for balanced long-term economic
development. The new administration intends to put particular emphasis on
improving the performance of agriculture in order to halt the steep rise in
food imports and the decline in agricultural exports. It is also likely that
the private sector will be encouraged to play a growing role and that foreign
participation will also be encouraged.



- 5 -
17.       Given the great improvement in Nigeria's financial prospects,
and assuming an active private sector, domestic investment is expected to
be maintained at a high level of around 28 percent of gross domestic income
during 1980-85. Provided investments are well conceived and productive,
this rate should permit the economy to grow at about 5 percent a year--more
than 7 percent for non-oil GDP--with fair potential for employment generation.
The economy-wide ICOR is expected to remain high owing to the weight of
the large capital intensive projects in the ongoing public sector investment
program. Imports are likely to grow faster than GDP, at least initially,
if restrictions on imports of consumer goods are eased somewhat in view
of the stronger foreign exchange position.
18.       Now that financial constraints have been relaxed, there will no
doubt be pressures on the government to reverse the policy of prudent budget
and balance of payments management, instituted by its predecessor. These will
be a major test and challenge for it to proceed cautiously in the face
of these pressures in order to avoid repeating the experience of 1974-75.
In addition to careful resource management, the performance of the economy
will depend on how successful the Government is in directing investment
priorities and policy emphasis towards directly productive sectors. A
critical factor will be the competitiveness of domestic production relative
to foreign goods. This will require that close attention be paid to the
establishment of a favorable cost and price structure.
External Borrowing and Creditworthiness
19.       Until recently, Nigeria had only limited recourse to external
borrowing. Total debt outstanding (including undisbursed) amounted to only
US$1.3 billion at the end of 1977. Since then, it increased to US$3.2 billion,
mainly as the result of two syndicated Euro-currency loans. During 1979,
project-related commercial borrowing was in the order of US$2 billion.
However, by the mid 1980s, when the debt service on currently contracted
loans will peak, it will still amount to less than 3 percent of export
earnings. The World Bank's share in total debt outstanding, though high at
around 50 percent in 1977, has now dropped to below 15 percent as a result of
the increase in commercial borrowing. Given the relatively low level of
external indebtedness, the Government's generally cautious approach to
external borrowing, and the favorable prospects for oil, the debt service is
likely to remain below 10 percent over the next decade. Provided the Govern-
ment is successful in implementing policies to enhance the productivity of
investment and maintain balance between resource availability and use,
Nigeria can be considered creditworthy for considerable Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA 1/
20.       Bank and IDA lending to Nigeria as of April 30, 1980 amounted to
US$1,268.0 million (net of cancellations). The amount of these loans and
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report
for an Oyo-North Agricultural Development Project in Oyo State,
approved by the Board on April 29, 1980.



credits disbursed as of April 30, 1980 was US$673.2 million, leaving an
undisbursed balance of US$594.8 million. Transport, power and water supply
together account for about 47 percent of total commitments; agriculture for
about 32 percent (most of which was committed in the last five fiscal years);
and education, industry, urban and the post-war rehabilitation loan for the
remaining 21 percent of total commitments. Gross disbursements in FY78 were
about US$51 million, and US$60 million in FY79, but are expected to increase
in the coming years in line with the expansion of Bank lending to Nigeria.
There have been only two IDA credits to Nigeria, for US$35.3 million; both are
fully disbursed. IFC has made four loans to borrowers totalling US$9.8
million, and five equity investments totalling US$3.1 million. Of these
amounts, US$3.7 million have been repaid, cancelled, or sold. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments,
as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
21.       The main thrust of the Bank's activities in Nigeria in recent years
has been to support agriculture and rural development, with particular em-
phasis on institution-building and transfer of technology. These objectives
are in consonance with the Federal Government's priorities under the Third
Plan, which places considerable emphasis on agriculture, and its policy to use
the proceeds of Nigeria's oil revenues to increase the productive capacity of
the economy, and thereby raise the standard of living of its population,
particularly the rural poor.
22.       In view of the interest which Nigeria has expressed in greater
Bank involvement, an expanded Bank lending program has been initiated.
In developing a broader approach to lending in Nigeria, a central objective
is to encourage the shift (already discernable in the Federal Government's
investment programming) away from the massive and diffused infrastructure
investment, which characterized the two or three years following the oil
boom of 1973/74, towards a more discriminating support for growth in the
commodity producing sectors. A second objective of Bank lending is to raise
the productivity of the lowest income groups and thereby diminish the inci-
dence of absolute poverty in Nigeria. This objective has been actively
pursued in recent agricultural projects which benefit some of the very lowest
income groups. Agricultural lending of this kind would continue to figure
prominently in the future lending program. A third objective of Bank lending
is to support the Federal Government's efforts to diversify the economy, and
reduce the excessive dependence upon petroleum as a source of foreign exchange
and fiscal revenue. Agricultural lending, in particular, would include
strengthening the potential for export crops such as cocoa.
23.       The directly productive sectors constitute an appropriate focus
for an expanded lending program. Projects in both agriculture and industry
together should account for a large share of Bank lending in the coming
two or three years. Effective support for the commodity producing sectors
will also require strategic investment in production-related infrastructure,
however. There would appear to be good opportunities for the Bank to make



- 7 -
a significant contribution in power, water supply, and highway maintenance,
including the currently proposed project. Further project identification
work is under way in these sectors. Similarly, there is a strong case for
continued lending for education. In this context, it is proposed that
vocational, technical, and teacher training be given special emphasis.
Finally, the Bank would support the Federal and state governments' efforts to
spread the benefits of growth to the social sectors. It is envisaged that
some of the pressing problems of rapid urbanization will continue to be
addressed through a number of urban development projects, along the lines of
the ongoing project in Bauchi State, focussed on the needs of the urban poor.
A sectoral distribution of lending along these lines would be in keeping with
the need to generate employment, and would also support the Federal Govern-
ment's aim of mobilizing Nigeria's petroleum revenues to alleviate poverty
and improve the overall distribution of income.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
24.       Two major events shaped the development of Nigeria's transport
system in the 1970s: the end of the civil war in 1969 and the economic
expansion following the increase in oil prices in 1973/74 (para. 4). During
the period 1970-74, transport development was focussed upon reconstruction of
roads and bridges damaged during the civil war. By 1974, Nigeria was ill-
equipped to meet the multifold growth in demand for transport services resulting
from the country's economic expansion; there were monumental traffic jams in
the country's major towns, the railway system had declined to a point that
even for bulk commodities road transport had become the preferred mode, and
port congestion had reached a level unequalled anywhere in the world. To
alleviate these serious transport problems, the Third National Development
Plan (1975-80) included a major transport development program, amounting to
about one-fourth of total public investment (para. 5); of the proposed
transport investment, roads accounted for 74 percent, railways for 10 percent,
air transport for 8 percent, ports for 6 percent, and other elements of water
transport for 2 percent. The program's heavy emphasis on roads reflected the
dramatic increase in the road subsector's absolute and relative importance.
In 1970, about 77 percent of goods was transported by road, 22 percent by
rail, and 1 percent by water. By 1978, road transport accounted for more than
90 percent of total haulage to and from the ports.
Transport System
25.       Highways.  The highway system comprises three categories of roads
classified by function and jurisdictional responsibility:
(i) federal roads linking the federal and state capitals and
other large centers and providing links with neighboring
countries;
(ii) state roads linking large towns with federal roads and
providing access from rural areas to the larger towns;
and



- 8 -
(iii) local government roads providing access to primarily rural
areas.
26.       Some 17,000 km of the federal trunk road system of 29,000 km are
paved. Most of these roads have been improved to adequate geometric stan-
dards, but the pavements are generally weak and in need of strengthening to
carry the heavy and increasing traffic. The remaining federal road network
consists of gravel or earth roads. Without regular maintenance, they have
seriously deteriorated, some to the extent that they are open only in the dry
season. Most of the 26,000 km of state roads are unpaved. Again because of
inadequate maintenance, many are in poor condition. The local government road
system totals about 43,000 km, consisting mostly of earth tracks. Construction
of federal and state roads is planned and supervised by the federal and state
ministries of works, assisted by consultants and carried out by private
contractors. Maintenance is undertaken by state ministries of works, acting
as agents for the Federal Ministry of Works (FMW) on federal roads, but is
poorly organized and executed, partly due to the critical shortage of trained
manpower at all levels. The Federal Government has therefore decided to have
the maintenance of its major roads carried out by contract. Very few of the
local government councils (LGCs) have yet the capacity to build and maintain
the roads under their jurisdiction.
27.       The road system has had to cope with increasingly heavy traffic,
both in volume and weight. The fleet is estimated to have increased at
an average annual rate of 33 percent (39 percent for passenger cars and 26
percent for trucks) over the period 1973-78, to about 550,000 vehicles (60
percent passenger cars and 40 percent commercial vehicles) in 1978. Traffic
growth has ranged between an estimated 15 to 35 percent yearly over the same
period. Traffic volumes on the federal road network vary widely, from
over 30,000 vehicles per day in the Lagos-Ibadan corridor to under 500
vehicles per day on many of the trunk roads. The road system has also been
adversely affected by heavy vehicles with axle loads up to twice the maximum
authorized. Weighbridges are now being acquired and installed. As they come
into use, highway authorities will have an important tool to enforce traffic
regulations. The Government has agreed to prepare revised axle- and vehicle
load regulations by December 31, 1982 (Section 4.02 of the Loan Agreement).
28.       Road accidents present a serious problem; Nigeria's accident rate
in relation to population and road use is abnormally high compared with other
developing countries. Concern about road safety has increased in recent
years, and some special measures have been introduced, including the establish-
ment of highway patrols operated by the Nigeria Police, mobile traffic courts,
and a Road Safety Corps in Lagos.
29.       Railways.  The rail system consists of about 3,500 km of single
track. The system is being managed and operated by the Nigerian Railway
Corporation (NRC). It reached its maximum performance in 1963/64 when it
carried about 3 million tons of freight and 11 million passengers. The
system suffered disruption at the time of the civil war, and has since then
continued in a state of severe malfunction; by 1974/75, traffic had dropped
to about 1 million tons of freight and 4 million passengers. In an effort to
overhaul the system, the Government, in 1978, contracted Rail India Technical



- 9 -
and Economic Services to set up an effective railway management system and
to operate NRC for a three-year period. There has already been a measurable
improvement in the availability of locomotives and rolling stock, and a con-
sequent upturn in the number of passengers and volume of goods carried.
30.       Waterways.  After the completion of some major expansion schemes,
the port system now provides a total of 59 berths, a quay length of about
12,000 meters, and a large number of anchorages. The system is being
managed and operated by the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA). Cargo handled
has almost tripled over the period 1971-78, from about 6 million tons in
1971 to 16 million tons in 1978. Lagos accounts for about 75-80 percent of
total traffic, Port Harcourt for about 15 percent, and the other ports
together for about 5-10 percent. Crude oil is handled at specialized tanker
terminals.
31.       Nigeria's navigable waterways consist of the Niger-Benue river
system, the Cross River, and an extensive network of creeks along the coast.
Traffic peaked in the early 1960s when over 300,000 tons of cargo were moved
annually by commercially operated river fleets. However, traffic was seri-
ously disrupted by the civil war, and had dropped to about 23,000 tons by
1970. Protracted drought in recent years and competition from road transport
has limited the chances of reviving water transport, which now accounts for
less than 1 percent of total transport. A master plan for river development
and water management was completed in 1977, and dredging and hydrographic
surveys necessary for the development of two river ports on the Niger have
also been completed.
32.       Airways.  Nigeria has about 46 civil airports and strips open to
public use. The system is being managed and operated by the Nigerian Air-
ports Authority. Demand for passenger air travel multiplied during the
period 1970-78, but remained fairly constant for air freight. In 1978,
domestic air transport accounted for 534 million passenger-km, 0.26 million
ton-km of freight, and 0.35 million ton-km of mail. Transport is being
handled by Nigeria Airways, which offers scheduled service between Lagos and
12 state capitals. It also provides international service. In view of
continuing management problems, the Government, in 1979, contracted KLM to
manage and operate Nigeria Airways for a two-year period.
33.       Pipelines.  Until 1970, the pipeline network operated by private
oil companies consisted of about 500 km of crude oil and about 85 km of
natural gas pipelines between producing areas, export terminals, and domestic
refineries. The Government is now developing a 3,000 km pipeline network
connecting the three national refineries with about 20 major regional storage
and distribution centers.
Transport Planning and Development
34.       Under the Third National Development Plan, the transport sector
objectives were to provide infrastructural support for the development of
agriculture, commerce, and industry and to assist the economic and poli-
tical integration of the country. The actual performance of the transport
sector has fallen short of physical Plan targets, mainly because of



- 10 -
financial constraints after 1977 (para. 7) and, even more so, because of the
severe shortage of qualified and experienced staff. Although the transport
development program was conceived without taking adequate account of these
constraints, its execution has reflected a pragmatic approach, with most of
the expenditures, particularly for roads and ports, directed at eliminating
major bottlenecks in the transport system. This has, however, encouraged an
investment attitude oriented more towards rapid achievement of physical
targets than to a careful economic assessment of resource use. This approach
is understandable as a short-term expedient, but has led to spiralling con-
struction costs and, in some instances, creation of excess capacity. As the
more urgent projects aimed at alleviating obvious deficiencies are completed,
and investment choices become more complex, detailed planning and coordination
of transport investments will become increasingly important to achieve optimum
use of available resources and balanced growth of the transport sector.
Recently, the Federal Government has been paying more attention to these
requirements. This trend is expected to continue under the forthcoming Fourth
National Development Plan (para. 16), which is expected to emphasize consoli-
dation, including the preservation and maintenance of the existing transport
infrastructure.
35.       The responsibility for transport planning and administration is
quite fragmented at both federal and state levels, and the sector has been
experiencing inter and intra modal coordination problems. The Federal
Government is aware of the need to improve transport planning and coordina-
tion. In 1977, it established the National Transport Coordinating Commission
as a functional unit of the Federal Ministry of Transport, with all relevant
ministries and agencies as members. The Commission now has an authorized
staff of 34 professionals. Its functions include coordinating transport
sector investments, preparing and monitoring the transport investment program,
formulating policies for the regulation, development, and operation of the
transport industry, and improving the information base for transport planning
and coordination. It is still in its formative stage, but is expected to play
an increasingly important role. The Commission recently started preparations
for a national transport survey, in which it will be assisted by local univer-
sities.
Bank Role and Development Strategy
36.       Between 1958 and 1973, the Bank approved eight loans and one credit
totalling about US$202 million, and two technical assistance grants totalling
US$365,000, for transport development in Nigeria. The first loan (Loan
193-UNI), in 1958, assisted NRC to improve and expand its railway system.
The second and ninth loans (Loans 320 and 922-UNI), in 1962 and 1973, were
made to NPA to improve and expand the port of Lagos. The closing date of the
latter loan was extended to June 30, 1980 to allow NPA to submit final
reimbursement requests.
37.       The other five loans and one credit, totalling about US$106 million,
assisted in constructing and reconstructing roads. In 1965, the Bank approved
a credit (Credit 73-UNI) and two loans (Loans 426 and 427-UNI) for the Northern
Roads, Apapa Road (Lagos), and Western Road Projects, respectively. Subsequently,
it approved two rehabilitation loans--for Highway Rehabilitation (Loan 640-UNI)



- 11 -
in 1969 and for Transport Rehabilitation (Loan 694-UNI) in 1970--and a
US$26.3 million loan for a Fifth Highway Project (Loan 838-UNI) in 1972.
Only the last of these projects is still ongoing. It was the only project to
include a sizeable technical assistance component aimed at institutional
improvements. Its civil works components, comprising the construction and
reconstruction of about 160 km of roads in the former Western State and
reconstruction of eight damaged bridges, was completed in 1975, but a large
part of the loan remained undisbursed, largely on account of administrative
problems related to the subdivision of Western State into three successor
states in 1976. About US$6.2 million was still undisbursed as at May 31,
1980, but a substantial amount is expected to be disbursed against expendi-
tures for the training of maintenance technicians and preparatory work for
the currently proposed project. Any amounts undisbursed as at the current
closing date of the loan, March 31, 1981, are expected to be cancelled.
38.       OED Project Performance Audit Reports have been prepared for the
Apapa Road, Western Road, and Highway and Transport Rehabilitation projects
(reports no. 1229, 1639, 1410, and 2092, respectively). The relevant recom-
mendations have been taken into account in designing the proposed project,
including detailed study of existing traffic on the project roads and factors
likely to affect traffic growth and need for the training of road maintenance
technicians. The Western Road audit report, dated June 23, 1977, also reflects
upon the disagreement between FMW and the Bank in 1972/73 on appropriate
standards of layout and phasing of the Lagos-Ibadan expressway. In the event,
the higher standards of layout used by FMW served to accommodate the unexpected
phenomenal growth of traffic since 1973/74 (para. 24).
39.       The Federal Government approached the Bank for renewed assistance to
the road sector in late-1977, and the relationship between FMW and the Bank
has improved considerably over the past few years. The renewed dialogue has
shown a serious interest on the part of FMW in reducing the cost of highway
construction; a resumption of road planning activities; the initiation of a
training program for road maintenance personnel; and a start in controlling
vehicle axle loads. FMW officials have also started to accept economic cri-
teria in project evaluation, in particular in ranking investment priorities
and selecting engineering designs, which is also reflected in FMW's request to
include in the proposed project a major study to build up a data base on which
the further restoration of the federal trunk road system could be planned in
the most economical way. These developments are auspicious beginnings in
coping with the major problems constraining the orderly development of the
highway sector in which much remains to be done: (i) the federal highway
administration needs to be restructured to provide for effective management of
the federal road development program; (ii) the federal road network is still
inadequate, both in coverage and in conditions; (iii) the state road network
is virtually non-existent; (iv) the maintenance infrastructure to cope with
an extended network carrying increasingly heavier traffic is embryonic;
(v) there is an acute shortage of trained technical manpower; and (vi) the
planning capacity is only a fraction of what is required to deal with the
volume of work currently underway.



- 12 -
40.       Although no road projects were financed after 1973, Bank cooperation
with Nigeria in the road sector was maintained within the context of a number
of agricultural development projects. These contained substantial programs
for feeder road construction and rehabilitation. Construction has been
undertaken by road units operated by separate agricultural project management
units. This has been quite successful in the short run. Any longer term and
comprehensive solution, however, will also have to provide for strengthening
the capacity of government road agencies to plan, maintain, and operate their
road transport system. Consequently, we intend to continue assisting feeder
road construction and maintenance through our agricultural projects, but will
also explore the possibility of developing comprehensive state-wide rural road
projects.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
41.       The project was identified in 1977, and prepared by FMW in close
cooperation with the Bank. It was appraised in November 1979. A Staff
Appraisal Report, dated June 2, 1980 (2833-UNI), is being circulated separately
to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held at the Bank in April
1980. Supplementary data on the project is to be found in Annex III.
Prolect Oblectives and Description
42.       As pointed out before, the road sector, despite institutional
weaknesses and staffing constraints, will continue to absorb a substantial
proportion of government expenditures. The basic objective of Bank assistance
to the sector is to induce greater efficiency of resource use. The project
is a renewed effort in this direction, and is aimed at augmenting the road
planning, design, construction, and maintenance capacity of the federal
highway authorities.   The road strengthening program, economic and en-
gineering studies for a major road, and federal trunk road survey, as well as
the institutional support and technical assistance included in the project,
are all directed at assisting the Government to maximize the economic benefits
from its investments in road infrastructure. The project is expected to play
a catalytic role in introducing systematic road planning at the federal
level, in reducing construction costs, in consolidating and building up
highway maintenance capacity at both federal and state levels, and in re-
lieving the heavy toll of road accidents.
43.       The project would be implemented over the period 1980-1984, and
would consist of:



- 13 -
Road Works
(i) strengthening about 520 km of six federal trunk roads in
Bauchi, Borno, Kwara, Ondo, and Oyo States;
Studies
(ii) carrying out economic and engineering studies for improving
about 135 km of road between the port of Calabar and Ikom in
Cross River State;
(iii) carrying out economic and technical studies to establish
improvement priorities for the further restoration of the
federal trunk road network under the Fourth National Develop-
ment Plan;
Institutional Support and Technical Assistance
(iv) providing consultancy services to train road maintenance
technicians;
(v) providing experts to fill critical positions in FMW in road
planning, design, construction, and maintenance, and to
establish a pavement evaluation unit; and
Equipment
(vi) providing road safety and pavement testing equipment.
Proi ect Implementation
44.       The project would be implemented by the Federal Highways Division
of FMW over a period of about four years. Detailed engineering of the road
works has been completed. Civil works would be undertaken by contractors
supervised by FMW with assistance from consultants. The feasibility study of
the Calabar-Ikom road and the federal trunk road survey would be carried out
by consultants. FMW has agreed to appoint a Project Coordinator to facilitate
implementation of the project (Section 3.05 of the Loan Agreement).
45.       The Federal Highways Division is seriously short of trained
and experienced professional and sub-professional staff. The proposed
project would to some extent alleviate the staffing constraints, and the
resulting neglect of planning and road maintenance in particular, through the
provision of 13 internationally recruited experts (28 man-years) to fill
critical line management positions in FMW. Seven of the experts would work
in FMW's highway design, construction, and maintenance sections. Four
experts would be engaged for highway planning and to assist in strengthening
the existing traffic unit in FMW, and two experts would assist in setting up
a pavement evaluation unit. The proposed project also includes the acquisi-
tion of pavement testing equipment for the pavement evaluation unit; the



- 14 -
establishment and staffing of the unit would be a condition of disbursement
against a deflectograph for the unit (Section 3.07 and Schedule 1, para. 4
(iii) of the Loan Agreement).
46.       The Federal Government has been contacting foreign governments
and organizations to obtain the above experts. As yet, these contacts have
failed to produce results, particularly because of the difficulty in providing
attractive working and living conditions in Lagos. The Government has
therefore agreed that, if it is not successful in its recruitment efforts, it
will hire consultants by December 31, 1981 (Section 3.03 (a) of the Loan
Agreement). The cost estimates for the project have been based on the latter
assumption.
47.       To assist the Government in its efforts to retain and recruit
qualified and experienced staff and experts, the project would provide for
the construction of 14 housing units, which are in very short supply in the
Lagos area. The Government has agreed that experts to be recruited under the
project would, at all times, have priority in the allocation of the units
(Section 3.03 (c) of the Loan Agreement).
48.       The Federal Government has the responsibility for federal road
maintenance training. Its current training program is operated by consult-
ants engaged under the Fifth Highway Project. A permanent center at Ugoneki
in Bendel State and two partly mobile centers at Kaduna and Lagos provide
for the training of about 200 foremen, mechanics, and plant operators each
year. However, there is a large unfulfilled demand for training, and the
proposed project would provide for the continuation and expansion of the
program to an output of about 1,500 road maintenance technicians annually.
Initially, the centers would continue to be managed and operated by consul-
tants (about 65 man-years) on terms and conditions, and with terms of refe-
rence, acceptable to the Bank. FMW would designate in the Ministry a Chief
Engineer in charge of planning and organization of training road maintenance
technicians, and would also prepare a realistic plan and time schedule for the
transfer of training responsibilities from the consultants to FMW (Section
3.04 of the Loan Agreement).
49.       Concern about road safety has increased in recent years.  Implemen-
tation of road safety measures lies with the individual states, and is being
coordinated at the national level by the National Road Safety Commission.
The Commission is chaired by the Federal Minister of Works. The states are
represented by their commissioners of works, and there is also representation
from the Police, the Army, the Red Cross, the Motor Transport Owners Union,
and the unversities. Although the Commission has focussed on road safety
propaganda activities, it is increasingly assisting in the provision of
physical facilities and training schools for drivers to organizations involved
in the country's road safety program, and requiring assistance. The proposed
project would include the provision to the Commission of some ambulances,
recovery vehicles, and equipment for gaining access to the injured and
for moving damaged vehicles. The vehicles and equipment would be channeled
to the Commission through FMW, which would appoint a Road Safety Liaison
Officer responsible for the procurement, allocation and monitoring of the



- 15 -
use of the items provided under the project. The Liaison Officer's appoint-
ment would be a condition of disbursement for this component (Section 3.06
and Schedule 1, para 4 (ii) of the Loan Agreement). Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that the allocation of the vehicles and equipment, and the
results of their use, would be monitored closely.
Project Cost and FinancinR
50.       Total project costs are estimated at US$178.0 million (including
taxes and duties of US$7.1 million), of which the foreign exchange component
would amount to US$108.1 million or 61 percent. A breakdown of the cost by
major categories is given in the Loan and Project Summary. About 7 percent
of total costs are allocated to training and the hiring of experts. The cost
of consultants, net of local taxes, is estimated at about US$9,700 per man-
month, and of internationally-recruited experts at about US$9,000. Allowance
has been made for physical contingencies equal to 10 percent on civil works.
Price contingencies for local costs allow for an annual rate of inflation of
15 percent throughout the project period. Price contingencies for foreign
costs are estimated at 12 percent for 1980 and 10 percent for succeeding
years. On this basis, total contingencies are estimated at 42 percent of
base costs.
51.       The proposed loan of US$108 million to the Federal Government
would finance 63 percent of total project cost, net of taxes, and would be
equivalent to the foreign exchange cost of the project. The Federal Govern-
ment would finance the remaining project cost.
Procurement
52.       All contracts for road strengthening, valued at about US$142
million, would be awarded through international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank guidelines. It is expected that all contracts would be
awarded to Nigerian-registered firms. Any foreign companies not incorporated
in Nigeria would, if awarded such contracts, be exempted from legislation
requiring incorporation as Nigerian companies. The construction of staff
housing, totalling about US$4 million, would be arranged in two contracts,
which would be let under local competitive bidding procedures in view of the
relatively small size of the contracts, the competitiveness of local contrac-
tors, and the need to have the housing units built expeditiously. The con-
tracts would be advertised separately in the local press, and bidding would be
open to foreign firms registered in Nigeria. Contracts for equipment for road
safety and pavement testing, amounting to more than US$100,000, and valued at
about US$6 million, would be let through international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Domestically manufactured equipment would be
allowed a 15 percent preference or the applicable import duty, whichever is
lower, for purposes of bid evaluation. Contracts for equipment, amounting to
less than US$100,000, and valued at about US$0.5 million, would be let on the
basis of applicable local procedures. The services of the consultants and
experts to be engaged under the project, valued at about US$25 million, would
be obtained on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.



- 16 -
Disbursement
53.       The proposed loan would be disbursed during the period 1980-84.
Disbursement would be made against 61 percent of total expenditures in the
case of civil works and 70 percent in the case of consultancy services.
For equipment, disbursement would be made against 100 percent of foreign
exchange expenditures for directly imported items or 83 percent for locally
procured items. On this basis, total disbursements are estimated at US$79.4
million against civil works, US$14.1 million against expert staff and consul-
tants, and US$3.7 million against equipment. An additional provision of
US$10.8 million has been made on an unallocated basis.
Economic Justification
54.       Road transport is the predominant mode for the movement of goods
and passengers in Nigeria. Hence, the continued serviceability of the road
network is a basic requirement for the realization of Nigeria's agricultural
and industrial potential.
55.       The proposed project would meet only a very small part of Nigeria's
physical road subsector requirements, but would have an important institu-
tional impact by alleviating some critical weaknesses in road planning,
design, construction, and maintenance activities. The Calabar-Ikom study and
the federal trunk road survey are expected to stimulate the use of careful
economic and engineering studies in the context of a systematic approach to
highway planning. The planning of the strengthening component has introduced
techniques of optimizing strengthening in relation to expected traffic,
providing the basis for planning a program of strengthening main roads in the
most economical way. The selected project roads represent a spectrum of
pavement types and of topographical and climatic characteristics so that the
experience gained in design and construction will be of considerable value in
refining techniques of road strengthening in Nigeria. Equally important will
be the components aimed at relieving the acute shortage of trained and
experienced staff. The provision of an expanded training program is expected
to result in considerable improvements in road maintenance practices.
Finally, the project would reduce the increasing toll of road accidents.
56.       Only the road strengthening component, which accounts for 77
percent of project cost (excluding taxes and price contingencies), has
quantifiable benefits, expressed in terms of savings in vehicle operating
costs and reduction in maintenance expenditures. Using these data, the
overall economic return for the road strengthening component is estimated at
30 percent. Sensitivity tests show that variations in project costs, benefits,
life of the investment, and traffic growth that would result in an economic
rate of return below 11 percent are well outside the range of what can be
expected.
Beneficiaries
57.       The project would directly benefit (i) the Federal Government
which could preserve its past investments and reduce its road maintenance
expenditures; (ii) the road transport industry through reduced operating costs



- 17 -
of trucks and passenger vehicles; and (iii) the people of Chad who depend upon
one of the roads for the uninterrupted supply of fuel and other essential
goods. Since the transport industry in Nigeria, both for passengers and
freight, is highly competitive, most of the vehicle operating cost savings
are expected to be passed on to the final consumers of transport services in
the form of lower passenger fares and freight rates. The primarily rural
population within the influence areas of the project roads would be the
principal beneficiaries from this reduction in rates.
Prolect Risks
58.       The road strengthening program has few technical risks since it is
based on sound pavement engineering principles, and involves normal road
construction practices. There is a possibility that the project may not
achieve some of its institutional objectives. The existing organizational and
management structure of the federal highway administration, combined with the
difficult living and working conditions in Lagos, could militate against the
effective use of the experts provided under the project to augment FMW's
highway planning and engineering capabilities. However, the arrangements
described in paragraphs 46 and 47 should assist in overcoming these problems.
Taking into account the priority which the Federal Government is expected to
assign in the forthcoming Fourth National Development Plan to consolidation
and the maintenance of existing assets, there is every indication that further
improvements in sector management can be expected under the proposed project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federal Republic of Nigeria
and the Bank and the report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
60.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III, including the following conditions of disbursement of the loan:
(a) Establishment and staffing of a Pavement Evaluation Unit (Schedule
1, para. 4 (iii) of the Loan Agreement) would be a condition of
disbursement against a deflectograph for the unit; and
(b) Designation of a Road Safety Liaison Officer (Schedule 1, para.
4 (ii) of the Loan Agreement) would be a condition of disbursement
against equipment for road safety.



- 18 -
60.       1 am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. HcNauara
President
Attachments
June 5, 1980
Washington, D.C.



-19-                                          ANNEX I
Pa5e 1 of 5
TA Lt 3A
NIUIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEELT
REFERENCE GROUPS (9=U51   WyI tS 
LAND AEaS (THOUSAND SQ. Flt.)              NIGCRIA                        -     RSST R   Z5tU ) -ZRFE
SOTAL           923.J                                                 SAME        SAME     qXT HtGhER
ACICULTURAL     446.4                                DST RCENT    GEOCRAPHIC   LNICONE       INCOM
1960  /b   1970 lb ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c  GROUP /4   GROUP /e
CGP PER CAPITA (USS)                150.0      240.0    560.0            306.1      467.5      1097.7
&NCTRY CONSU! TION PER CAPITA
(MILOGRAMS OF OOAL EQUIVALt14T)    34.0       32.0      94.0            80.6      262.1      730.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YA  (MILLIONS)    51.6       66.2      79.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 13.0       16.3     18.1            17.1       24.6       49.0
POPULATION PRJECSIONS
POPULATION IN TEAR 2000 (CILLIONS)                   152.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                     435.0
YEAR STATIONATY POPULATION t5 REACKED               2135
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Em.                      56.0        72.0     86.0            18.4       45.3       44.6
PnR SQ. IM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    125.0      152.0    177.0            50.8      149.0       140.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 nS.                         44.7       44.8      46.0            44.1       45.2       41.3
15-64 Y1S.                        54.1       53.0      52.0            52.9       51.9       55.3
65 1T5. AND ABOVt                  1.2         2.2      2.0             2.8        2.8         3.5
POPULATION GwC    AE (PET)
TOTAL                             2.4         2.5      2.6             2.7        2.7        2.4
URN                               5.0        4.7       4.6             5.7        4.3        4.5
CRUDE 811TH RATE (PEt THOSAND)     52.0       51.0      50.0            46.3       39.4       31.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PZR THOUSAND)    25.0       21.0      18.0            17.2       11.7        9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION  AT&              ..        3.3       3.4             3.1        2.7        2.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS AMPJAL (TWUSANDS)        ..        7.6      33.2
USERS (PERCENT OF  ARID  WOMEN)   ..          ..        ..              ..       13.2       34.7
FOOD AND NUITION
INDEX OF FOOD PODUCTION
PE  CAPITA (1969-71-100)         98.9       102.0     91.0            94.3       99.6      104.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIUS (PERCENr OF
PRQUIRtSN}rs2                  91P0/ *A9-0          88.0            89.5      94.7       105.0
tMNS (5WIMS PEL& DAY)           SO03.O     59.9      46.3            55.8      54.3        64.4
OF WHICH AN71 L AND PULSE       9.7r       16.3      9.3            17.9       17.4       23.5
CHILD (ACES 1-4) NDSTALITY RATE    38.0       33.0      24.0            22.3       11.4        8.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPtcTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   39.0       43.0      48.0            47.0       54.7       60.2
INFANT NORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..      154.0/1      ..              ..      68.1        46.7
ACCESS TO SAlE WATER (PEPCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         ..        ..            20.3       34.4       60.8
URBAN                              ..         ..        ..            53.9      57.9.       75.7
RURAL                              ..         ..        ..            10.1       21.2       40.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         ..        ..            22.5       40.8       46.0
UN                                 ..         ..        ..            62.5       71.3       46.0
RuRAL                              ..         ..        ..            13.9       27.7       22.5
POPULATION PtR PHYSICIAN        32000.0    20530.0  14810.0          17424.7    6799.4      2262.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    6020.0/1f   4220.0   3210.0          2506.6    1522.1      1195.4
POPULATION PtR ROSPITAL 81D
TOTAL                          2100.0/h   2220.0   1170.0            502.3     726.5       453.4
URAN                               ..      400.0    280.0            201.4     272.7       253.1
IUIRAL                             ..    18450.0   4140.0           1403.6    1404.4      2732.4
ADKISSIONS PER HOSPrTAL RED         ..          ..        ..            23.4      27.5        22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..         ..        ..             4 .9      5 .4        5 .3
URBAN                              ..         ..       4.7             4.9       51          5.2
RURAL                              ..         ..        ..             5.5        5.5        5.4
AVLACE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..         ..        ..              ..        ..         1.9
URBAN                             3.0         ..       2.2              ..        ..         1.6
vimAL                              ..         ..        ..              ..        ..         2.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                            81.0         ..        ..              ..      28.1        50.0
VIL"AN                           81.3         ..      42.4              .       45.1        77
RURAL                              ..         ..        ..              ..       99         1 



-20-                                            A
TA8L  3A                                    Page  2  of  5
NIGERIA - SOCIAL INUICATORS DATA SHEET
NIGERIA                REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AJUGAGES
SIG                   ~~~~~~- N05T REZCENT TMT
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MoST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   I!lCOME      INCOKIE
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c  GROUP ld    GROUP /a
EDUCATION
ADJSYg1D ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 36.0        34.0      49.0             59.0       82.7       102. 5
MALE                 46.0        43.0       59.0            64.2       87.3       108.6
nEmALE               27.0        25.0      39.0             44.2       75.8        97.1
SECO01DARY:   TOTAL                3.0         4.0       40.a             9.0       21.4        33.5
MALE                  4.0         6.0       14.0            12.0       33.0        38.4
fEmLE                 1.0         3.0       7.0             4.4        15.5        30.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (I OF SECONDARY)   5.0         8.5       3.8/i            7.0        9.8        11.5
PUru-TlACHEZ RATIO
PRLIMARY                          30.0        34.0      34.0             42.2       34.1        35.8
SECONDARY                         19.0        21.0      25.0             22.9       23.4        22.9
AWILT LITERACY RATE (PZlCENT)       15.0          ..        ..             20.8       54.0        64.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER rtHOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.7         1.0       2.1              4.0        9.3        13.5
RADIO RECEIVER5 PIE THOUSAND
POPULATION                         4.0        23.0      79.0             44.3       76.9       122.7
TV RECZIVERS PER THOUSASD
POPULATION                         0.2         1.4       1.8              2.9       13.5        38.3
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERL
UnIEuEST') CIRCULATION PER
TIHOUSAND POPULATION                 8.0         5.0       9.0              5.6       18.3        40.0
C*INEMA ANUAL ASTENDANCE PU CAPITA   ..           ..        0.5             0.4        2.5         3.7
LABOR FORCE
TTALtLA80R FORCE (THOUSANDS)    18300.0/f  25600.0  27700.0
FEMALe (PERCENT)                  41.3        40.6      40.2             31.9       29.2        25.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             70.8        62.1      56.0             77.6       62.7        43.5
INDUSTIY (PEPCE.'4)               10.4        13.8      18.0              7.9       11.9        21.5
PARTICIPATION RATC (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               42.7        40.5      39.1             40.8       37.1        33.5
MALE                                50.9        48.8      47.4             53.9       48.8        48.0
PEMALE                              34.8        32.4       31.0            25.6       20.4        16.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.4/f        1.2       1.4             1.2        1.4         1.4
INCOME DISTRI5UTION
PEJCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RCCEIVED BY
HICFST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSE8OLDS     ..          ..        ..               ..       15.2        20.8
RICHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          ..        ..               ..       48.2        52.1
WDWESZ 20 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..        ..               ..        6.3         3. 9
LDWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..        ..               ..       16.3        12.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URSAN                               ..          ..     352.0            187.6      241.3       270.0
RURAL                               ..          ..      156.0            96.8      136.6       183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOt(
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      286.0           138.4      179.7       282.5
URAL                                ..          ..      95.0             71.0      103.7       248.9
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW A8SOLTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..             34.5       24.8        20.5
RURAL                               ..          ..      27.0             48.7       37.5        35.3
Not :vailable
Not appli able.
NOTES
/a   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are pop..dtion-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the Indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countrles aDong the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
nd 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c  Africa South of Sahara;  /d  Lower Middle Income (S281-550 per capita, 1976);  /I  Intermediate Riddle
Incoe ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /f  1963;  L&  1961-63;  /h  Including ex-north Cameroons under
Britisb administration;   /i  certain fields of study previously classified under other second level edu-
cation of a vocational of technical nature are now reported under genSral education;   /. 1965-66 average.
Most Recent Estimate of CNP per capita is for 1978.
August. 1979



-21-                                                                  ANNEX I
rZMrni1n Of awza  MIC?BS                                                         Page  3 of S
lot.:  Alhuhthe lot. art dear. fro.  t.c.0e generally judged the scat eutheitetie and reliable, it ehoud ela  be awted that they sa  not be interna-
tlll   cepral beacene, Of the, lack of etendar-dleed definitione, end concepts need by d-ifferent countries in co1lectieg the data. The dat.arer, nonethelese,
Useful to describe orders of esgpituda, riull-te trande, sad chatecterlse certain ajor differencee between countries.
The  djutednounav ,:ne  for each indicator are pap.alation-weghttd geosetric sans, secluding the extres "aluea of the indicator end the wetpouae
coutryin  achgrop.   0,.to  ea  of data, grup &avrages of aln indicators for Capital SuIpl. Oil opOrters and of indicators of coot.. to Water and Noete
Dispoal,  ousin, tas Ditribution and Pverty fr.  other country groups are populatioo-wightsd gestric manss  cithoot oc-uI"on. ofthetrese rc -oad
tie ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Most Populated country.  Sic.h oe  e   foatissnteidotr  deed. on avilsbility of data ad to not -nf                     e acic   ut be  --riard
to  eltIon ave .ge  of one indoator to. anter.  Thea. aveae  aentl    eful. as aecrooletIons if 'eppected' -aloe  oboe ceamdte  auso 
Mediator at a tine asee  the coutry, end ref-erc  grouope.
laiDAglA (thousand sqka.)                                                              Acceea ntoj 1ert Daod Cort of eeci.tca"               -mtel aria, an rura
'Sf'Total surface areacopinglda a             ed   en  etra                        Dter ofpol   ttl   ro,sdrrl   erdb    ort   iPosa. a
&=r~Utorsl -  NOat recent astmeate of agicultural area use d tmprarily                pretgsOf their reepetive populatioas. Exoreta dispoesalsap inclde
or Peesenently for cempe, Pastures, market and kitchen garden. or to                 the  .    tnislo  ad4 disposal., with or oithoot troatent, of hoaen secret.
lie fllow,                                                                           end waste-waeUr by  twatr-icrne systtem  or the use of pit pr iies wan  tiier,
GNP FI  CAPp    (US$  - OF -apit  estiate,  t curent otat pices,inetallations.
-  Pper caiaetnsFtoretsce   rcs                                   OnaR   tcneUecan-Populatioe dliod*d by oueher of practicing piysicians,
calculated by seme conversion aetbod as World Desk Atlas (1973-77 basis);               ImflTA IM.la   shahl at onivrelty level
1960, 1970, ed 1977 dete..                              ~lbl.                                        uInd: ?ron~ - Population, divided hy fluter of prect  .ng ealo
PIp           Anea Qcnaion of commrcll  eneWu                                             nur7IissiIi'ibii   Practioal narsese *ad assistant  -toa..
natual gs ed byro-,asMea  ad gee                 oslteweDsia  e  - fttotl.                lt,a-d ral- Population (totel. urban,
tborml .1actrici   of ... a  qiv.1-t p- ..pit.;theirrespe1i960n.r9of bopitel beds sa-loblo i
thecead el9tic       issdofoteu..eipr  eia,90                                          public and private general and epealalbod hoetpital -ad rehbahilaitot centers.
1970, ad 1916 data.                                              te~~~~~~~~~ND9pitea   are esteblishemota permenently  Atf fed by at least cee.kyiin
TICS                                          S~~~~~~~~~~~~etabliseents providing priecipaLly oustodial care are oct icc1uded. Rural
-      one) - ~At of July I; 1960, 1970, ad                 boepItele, howvr iscide health and medil centers nOct pereantnly ataffd
1977' "ta.                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~by a flWaicien (hu  by a esiaLol uscietat, enree, tideife, etc.) okici offere
Urbs  ca.ton (  resat of total) . Hatio of urban in total population;                  in-patient acoadatin  and provide a liSited rang  of ediall&  facilIties.
differetu findt                 area 1so  NW affect ocaesahility, of data          Admisions  DerIHSlospital        - Total. numbes of adaisio.a to or di-ebtrva froe
go.  c..nt.; 1960, 1970, ad 1977 dana.                                           'hiiL diidtdbyth'=nSor of be.".
FM' 21120         - ferreut popalatio  Projections ar  based on           l l
a93t    gi   on by age ad se  and their mortality ad fertility          1Wedoofluhsdiea                      prhueod-ttl,ra,Ad rurLi-
rates. tprojection Paraeeters f or sortality rates comprise Of thes                   nehl   oseao"agopo  niiul   h  ahara lH ivn   quarters end
levels, "aseng Alife epeotaney at birth inareing tith Cosatry-. stheir adn seLal.  A boarder or lodger say or say Mct be included to the
pe  capita toes level, and femlt life aspeotency stabilliwig at                    househld for Statistical porpese.
7n.5 yes,..  The parameters for fertility rate els  have thre levels            Averg  mache  of aeen   e   o      oa.aia    drrl-aeaenno
aedtdecline, in fertility  co-ding i to osm level and pesto  pereos, per MnMe in                         Urba, a    ruaqccpe       wteeticoa  delinge,
fadly olaneing Perforeance. lash cesuntry is then assigned one of tbte,            rEepactivedy, Dweallga sexclude non-peruanent strUCtures ad unocoiptd Parte.
sine cambinattons- of mortality and fertility trends for Projection             leM   Cfetity(aenofd lins.ttl.ch.adral                                         o-
Purposes.                                                                          rationl   welig   m oetiiy  alvn    uresa penage o.f
statim     tio-I a  ttcayPopalation there, is an growth                        total, urban, and rural dwellings reepetively.
iisethbfithrate is, apoaL to -the death rate, ad also the Age
stracotrs raveins cootatnt. thie is antieved only after fertility rates        WADb
decline to tierepleeseaut leve  of -ntO  at reprdotciton rate, chee.aio
eah generatio fWasn  r.place  itself suatly.  Mhe atationary pope-               Prsyscoltoa               al   d        . tl  ;.- Io   total, oj.c and oeale   -1rvl-
istice sloe eaS estimated n  the basia of the projected charecteriatica               etosl  goa  h  Prar  leela  porentegee of reepective primary
of the Ppoplatiow  in the year 2000, and tie rate of declne of fertility           sohool-ege Popul1ations; onoenlyicue  cildrec a~ged 6-11 Years bto
rate to replacect leel.                                                              adjusted for diffrenot lengtbe of pritecy ed-otti-  for voocr 1eht
Ler statloosry Populatioe is reached - The yeer  hba stationary populaice              oaivereal oducatione enroliment tap nosed 100 Percent oio-  e-  popilo
sioc has been reached,                                                               are tlow or above the offioial sobol age.
Fbpati- Dens~ity                                                                       Seconqdary school - total.el  a    el     Onputed aa above; .owo-ay
Pr e.pi7    4-eropatcpesqrekilceter (iSO bactree) of                                  eoa                               IV-: -.ii   rducatIon  -aquir-  at lat  fo r easoapproved pr,sytarcio
t t!i                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~provides generl vectional, or toacher training itaruti.e. for pupils
Pee. h. agricultural lad - Coeputed as above for agricultural lad                  usually. of 312 to 17 peare ofM ag; cerresp-ondnc  courses are geesrally
Pouaio   g  truotu-  (nercaot) - Cbildrt  (0-lb years), eurking-age             oainloelen   nreto   eade)-Vctos   ettiosoio
(15-   yers   adretire  (65 MYears end ove) as percentages of tid-year            tcic,inuralorthrPrograms ~ohioprt                           dpntiora
popultion;1960,1970, ad 1977 data.                                                departalts Of aenondary infftitutioes.
Poulaton   eceh Rts(peroent) - total . Annea acoeth rates of total aid-          Pupl-eahe  raiElrsy,a    eedr  -.Total student:scerollied to
yearpoplatonsforl9~-o   19070   n  190-7Wpisya   scndr  lvlsdvie    -7 otrs of teacier  Iathe corre-
Poenlat1t-;Garowthr Rats4~ree-t  - urban - Anneal growth rates of urban                  spending level..
popolations for 1950   , 1950-70, and                                  tz9 r-75.M         ) - iterets  adut. (ebl  to reed ad vwite, as
typr 9519    t5gperfthousand) - onwal Live births Per thousand of mid-                    'pofng          totiiilZatPopulatice aged 15 pears andovr
7pqdg Death                   d)pqng   Annual idatks per thousand of eld.year      CUIPC
"oplllalt "    Ylw 970` 74id, 19,77 data".                                         Pasa En..e Cars pemr thounad pocolati.e) - Peseonger oars ocepries woot car
Gross ReyrOdution Rats.  A-rage oshor of daugbtere a -owan cdLI hear                   aeating less tie0 eight Persons;  -uI-"e  ambulances, beers.e and Calltary
me her or"irepoutive perid if ohe voperisecs Preseot Me-veils
oPsoiflo fertilit  rotes; usually five-year eore ending In 1960,                   RaI1Rcivr          -(a  tbnosani copulatio) - All types of receivers for radio
1970, ad 1975.                                                                       bed ttogsral pblcPor thousand of poPulation; c-ohut  oinlicee..d
Pail, Planing -Ac-eptor  Annealthuseds) - AnneL eomher of                              receivers in countries end Ie rears ohee, regietration of raie  note  eo
acceptors of birth-conrol. vte                ..er ..upc. of national feasy          effect; data for recent yearso.  ac.t be voepurblo scoco wo  coot        s
Planning Peogram.                                                                    abolished lIcensing.
feby  lnls      ees(cret  feridaeec  -Prenaeof serried                         iReivr(Petouad toeslaoe) -                     rceivrs- for broadoaet to goe..raL
'= Iof "bild-beartgae1.byusohenbItcotldvespblcprhosnpouainooldsniesd iVre-ivern io vocotos.
to all enrred  -ne  in  e   age grop.                                                end, in yetrs eta registratito ofTV sets wan1 offeot.
FOOD Ad ypni                                                                            es,e  Circulation, (Pe  bua   clto)-Oosthavrgciual
of -  "itlly generl interest news.paper, defled as. a Poiodial1 pubitotio-
Innenof rod FO-''~tlo pe Capia (19*71.13) -Inde of Per capta             deetad prisily to recrding genra  -es   Tto is conidered to  s "daily'
anneal poductionof nil fnd oosdtis.FProdno".-t   secludes seed ad          if it apper  at 1eet fou  tins. a aeth.
feed ad is ce  eLsodar pear bitoi.  Coamdities cover prissy gcdodsC.ns    sna At=                        itedcenraita per Year, - Eased on the number of tickets
e.g  .surae  intead of eager) thick  rs,0 edIblead costain outrienta             soddrn "heya,moligahsin   odiei   le.adek
( .g.=cofe  anditea are e-cloded).  Aggregate pro&oetbon of each country          an1ita.t   ~--Atl                                                  4   bl
is based en national aveag  prdueipit..ghs
Pee calt.awwoly of caoia(sonto .s                            onputed fron
energy squiv    tlr ofnet fo   upisaalbeI onr  per o.pita.                     "Tilior Forct 1tbonends) - foonseicaly active persons, includinhg urnd
per dwy. Availablesppliescoprs  doeetic Production, larri  lens                    fo,nee ad  nemployed buot secluding housewive, students, oto. Defitti.o.
osports, ad changes in stock.  let supplies enoodo eaniml feed,, seeds,            in venous, coutries are not oseaerable.
quantities oosd in food proce..siLg, ad losses vIn distribotios. Require-       !1-Atp9     Pl   lbr f-or  as percentage of tota1labtor frco.
asents wer  estisted by TAO based on physiolegloal a.eds far ocral               c.;.1pat) - labor Core  in facming, fores try, hunting ad
ativity ad health considering envirtgosetel. teepertore, body eights,           "fi7shing asprn       eaOf ttotl labor tons.
age ad sen distribotions Of Population, ad allowing 10 percet for                Industry     tjj  -laorforce in ainiNg, Constructine, manufaciuring and
sneat heouethoin leve.                                                         sdtrioity  enter and gas as percetage of total Labor forcs.
Per cmita  ucola of potein(see   erdi) - Pretio content of per             ParticipationRate (Percent) - total. eLLa   f ale  - Participatios o
capita wet supply of. fod-prdy. tsppl  of feed is defined as                       activity rtso ar  couted as tota,et, onad fae.Ls Labor fon  as Pe--
.abov. Requirese-te for all countries established by UMA previde for              ceagsof total, ale ad fonals population of all agee repectively;
minisa alloanc  of 60 gese of tota  Protein Pr day end 20 grasse of                196g 1970, ad 1975 lota.  These are tIWs partiompetios raiese reflecting
oean d, Pulse prtein, o  ehlo  10 Lgrese should be endmal Protein.             age-sen structure of the Population, ad long tis  trend.  A fow eanites
These stenad   r  bow   than thesa of 75 gees  of total Protein and                aefee nationad  _ese..
27 gras of animal Protinso   - enaeage for the  -id, proposed by PAO                                   tic j_ - Rati  of population aloe  15 and 65 and vee  to
in the Third  .Idol fend Surey.                                                    te IW     5-   age group of 15-i4 years.
Per oaotia ortte coPPiY foon onel. end ouI.e - P'rotein supply of food
Jorired Crow aniale endeats pulses innd  geses oofre dat,M7 .
Chili ,ages 1-4) Mortality tabs  per thousad   -oo datoprhusd                        Pceaec   ritel s(bth to cask ad kind) - Received by riciest
ao age group I-b prove, to ohildren ic thia age grop; for Most devl-                5  eee,rnot5            aecnt, Poorest 50Pere-e, snd pocree  L0 pocea
oping conatrire. Onto derived lo_ life taclos.                                       of households.
aA&LTH                                                                               P071117 TAPOET SItOP
Uf.i inectn         atBrt  yer) - iv-regc nobhr of y-r  of life                        alse  ibteoluto1  overt  taslvlSIcycpia      ra   n   ua
reann   tbrth;19, 190,ad 977. data.                                        nbaoepvrytos leve  to tha   nalee   eowomta  cia
-nat hort -itY tate 'or thousand) - Asnoal deaths of intants under on                otriticna...iy adequate lie t vin .e..osstial. not-food reqi-antorevct
year of age perh tho d Live birth.,                                                  affordable.
Acce..o to Saet dater (                                                              FAe fcpltio-ttl   ran   drrl- Etisted Relative Povert   -aos, level 71  per -anta.t - 'ubaadcol
Roekr ofpoope 'ttal,urba, ad rura  ciiresabeces to                             Rural relative p-ovrty  -aoes level I s ac-third ofaerg   pe apt
nafo cater aucoly (includes treated ourface eatse  or entreated boo                  Per-nl tacos of the v- y-. Urban .ove  le derived fro  t    -Lrt level
-u 0oeteantod eater suc  as that 70c, protected berehles, opigeith edjusisent for higher cost Of livin   a 'ari  area.
and caitasy wells  vs poerentges of their respetive posolatle.  12                EstIate  PoUclation Ssd0.w Abeolote  oet   nalvlpeco        ra   n
anubnarea a pubilc focatain or etmndpeet hosted ac  wr than 200                           eret o pouain   r             drori  cAn are 'ehaclte puc
etre -f    a house ay be ooneiderd -  being within -easseahiace,
of that boass. in rural areas; reesamble accede Old imply that the
Musoifs or eases-r of the household de  ean  have to speed a diepropor-                                                    eMaic  and denial Dta Dilsilou
tiana.part of the dap in fetching the SlRy's  eate  siege.                                                           S.onnied  Analysin  dPoatos   eet



ANNEX I
-22 -                                               Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977                                          ANNUAL RATE OF GROWEH (%. constant prices)
US$ Mln.       %                         197477-               1976             1277
ONP at Market Prices          39839         100.0                          7*4               11.3              5.4
Gross Domestic Investment    12119           30.4                         30.7               24.5             23.6
Gross Natiorial Saving        11101          28.3                         26.3               16.6             17.8
Current Account Balance       -1018           2.5
Eiports of Goods, NFS         12639          31.7                          1.9               14.7              9 9
Imports of Goods, NFS         13236          33.2                         33.1               31.0             17.5
OUlTUl, ADBOR FORCS AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1977
Value Added                   Labor Force-                    V. A. Per Worker
US$Mln.       %                  Hn.        -%                     USA 
Agriculture                   12840        33.6                  16:5      *56                    778          60
Industry                      16528        43.2                  5.2       18                    3178         245
*Service.                      8848        23.2                  6.2        21         .         1427         110
Unallocated                                                      1.6        5
Total/Average          38216
382-16     100.0                729.75    100.0 o%                            100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                               Central Oovernment
Of Mln.)  of T                   Min.)         % of GDP
192V79/        1917/8  1976/7-1977/8             1977/8        1977/8    1976/7-77/8
Current Receipts                    8809           34.1         34.8                  6868          26-6          26-6
Current Expenditure                 5047           19.5         19.0                               10.4           10.0
Current Surplus                     3762                        15.8                 41il                         16-5
Capital Expenditures                8822           34.1         33.0                 6287          24.3           24.4
External Assistance (net)
M YNE!, CREDIT and PRICES                  1972        1973         1974         1975         1976       1977     1978
TMalion  N  outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                      1161.4       1414.1      2156.3       3622.5       5278.9    7067.5  7395.6
Bank credit to Public Sector                519.0        497.1     -1460.1      -1281.5        199.5    2094.4  3238.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector               750.2        854.4      1070.2       1786.1       2417.8    3443.0  4623.9
(Parcentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP            15.1         15.9         14.9       21.9         26.7      27.3    tl.a.
General Price Index (1960 - 100) 2/         172.9        203.9        217.0      289.6        352,4    423.1       492.5
Annual percentage changes ins
Genaral Price Index                          -3.5         17.9          6.3       33.5         21.7      21.5       16.4
Bank credit to Public Sector                 -2.3         -4.2         n.a.        n.a.         n.a.    n.a.      0 .a.
Bank credit to Private Sector                26.9         12.7        26.6        66.8         35.4      45.3       34.3
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.  "Unallocated" consists
mainly or unemployed workers seeking their first job.
2/ Index of Urban Consumer Prices up to 1977.  National Price Index from 1978.
Not applicable



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
-23-
TRAI  PAM:TS AND CAPITAL FWW;
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                    MERCHANDISE MEPORTS (AVERAGE 1976-78)
1976     1977      1978                                                 US $ Mln    7
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS           10,549   12,974   10,979             Crude Oil                            10,170    92L5
Imports of Goods, NFS           10,517   13,271   14,242             Cocoa Products                          477      4.3
Resource Gap (deficit - -)          32     -297   -3,263             Palm Products                             38     0.4
Tin                                      20      0.2
Interest Payments (net)            386       324      246            All Other Comodities                     292     2.6
Workers' Remittances               -         -        -
Other Factor Payments (net)       -676     -860      -476
Net Transfers                     -156      -156     -270
Balance on Current Account        -414      -989   -3,763                   Total                         10,997   100.0.
Direct Foreign Investment          340       440      186           -EXTERNAL DEBT. DECEMBER 31. 1978
Net MLT Borrowing
Disbursements                    61        96    1,434                                                        US $ Mln
Amortization                    -29       -62      -22
Subtotal                         32        34    1,412              Public Debt, incl. guaranteed              2,180
Capital Grants                    -         -                          Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)               -453     -112        -5              Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i                 - 12     -216      -176
Increase in Reserves (+)          -507      -843   -2,346            DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1978#
Gross Reserves (end year)        5,517    4,617
Net Reserves   (end year)        5,433    4,590    2,244               Public Debt. incl. guaranteed              0.8
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                 *
Fuel and Related Materials                                             Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                          280       158      174
of which:  Petroleam           -         -        -
Exports                        9,468   11,553    9,488
of which:  Petroleum         9,468   11,553    9,488    IBRD/IDA LENDING. (Dec. 31, 1978) (Million US $):
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                          IBRD         IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed                450         38.3
1975:  N1.00  -  US$l.62                                           Undisbursed                            343          -
1976:  N1.00  - US$1.60                                            Outstanding incl. Undisbursed                      3T.3
1977:  11.00  =  US$1.55
1978:  N1.00  =  US$1.58
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
* Less than 1%
Not Available
September, 1979



-24-
AN'NF II
Page 1 of 6
TIME STATUS OF BANK CROlP? OPERATIONS IN NICERIA
4.  STATEtEfT OF LANlK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NtCGRtA
(as of April 30. lYeIO)
Loan or                                                                  _VS million
Credit                                                             moseu   Clams cenceilationi)
Iumber    Year    Borrover    Purpose                              lank    IDA    Undisbursed
Fourteen loans and two credits fully disbursed                     407.3   35.3
814      1972    Nigeria       Education                           17.3                0.6
838      1972    Nligeria      loads                               26.3                6.2
922      1973    SPA           Port                                55.0                2.1
929      1973    Nigeria       Education                           54.0              41.6
1045      1974    Nigeria       Cocoa Dev.                          20.0                5.8
1091      1975    Sigeria       Livestock                           21.0               15.0
1092      1975    Nigeria       Agric. Dev. Funtua                  29.0                1.0
1099      1975    Nig;ria       Agric. Dev. Cusau                   19.0                1.2
1103      1975    Nigeria       Rice Dev.                           17.5                7.9
1164      1975    Nigeria       Agric. Dev. Gombe                   21.0                1.4
U83       1975    Vigeria       M.W. State CUI Palm                 29.5               25.0
U91       1976    Nigeria       !.C. State Cil Pala                 19.0              14.8
1192      1976    Nigeria       W. State Oil Palm                   17.0              13.3
1454      1977    Nigeria       Agric. Dev. Lafia                   27.0              19.9
1455      1977    Nigeria       Agric. Dev. Ayangba                 35.0              25.5
1591      1978    Nigeria       Nuc.Est. Smailholder Oil           .30.0              27.1
1597      1978   N5DB           Industrial Dev.                     60.0              59.5
1667      1979    Nigeria       Agric. Dev. Bida                    23.0               23.0
1668      1979    Sigeria       Agiic. Div. Ilorin                  27.0              27.0
*1679      1979    Nigeria       Forestry                            31.0               31.0
*1711      1979    Nigeria       W ater Supply - Kaduna              92.0               92.0
*1719      1979    Nigeria       Agric. 4 Rural Mgmt. Inst.           9.0                9.0
C1766      1980    NEPA          Power - Lagos                      100.0              100.0
*1767      1980    Nigeria       Lrban Dev. - Bauchi                 17.8               17.8
*1838       1980    Nigeria      Agric. Dev. - Oyo-North             28.0               28.0
Total                                         1,232.7   35.3      594.8
Of which bas been repaid                        143.2    2.2
Total  attanding                              1,089.5   33.1
Atmot sold                     16.8
Of which haa bee  repaid       16.4               0.4
*Total mo  hold by Bank 6 IDA                   1.089.1   33.1
Total undiabursed                                                 594.8
S. STATEXEN OF IFC INVESTMNS1iS
(as of April 30. 1980)
Tiscal                                          Type of             Amount In US$ Million
Year                                           Businesa            Loan   Equity   Total
1964, 1967,   Arewa Textiles Ltd.               Textile Mfg.         1.0    0.6        1.6
1970
1964        Nigeria Industri-l               Dv. rin. Co.                  1.4      1.4
Development Bank Ltd.
1973        Funcua Cottonseed                Veg. Oil              1.6              1.6
Crushing Ltd.                    Crushing
1973        Nigerian Aluminuim                Alumirum             1.0    0.3       1.3
Ertrusion Ltd.                   Processing
1974        Lafiagi Sugar                    Sugar                         0.1      O .
Estates
1980        N-..                              Textiles             6.2    0.7       6.9
Total Cross Cc nmitnents                              9.8    3 1      12 9
Less carnellatincs                                  0.3              0.3
Lees sold or reraid                                 2.2    1.5       3.7
Total Co=ntments now he ld by I FC                    7. 3    1.6      8.9
UnrAtsburm"d                                          6.2    0.8        7.0
* Not yet effe-ttve
h Prlor to .x0- "%. rut,! adjut?tn1'nts-



-25-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan No. 838-UNI    Fifth Highway Prolect:  US$26.3 million Loan of
June 26, 1972; Effective Date: February 20, 1973:
Closing Date: March 31, 1981
The construction components of the project have been completed.
The closing date of the loan was recently extended in order to complete
disbursements for the training of maintenance technicians and preparatory
work for the Sixth Highway Project.
Loan No. 922-UNI    Second Lagos Port Project:  US$55.0 million Loan of
August 1, 1973: Effective Date: October 30, 1973:
Closing Date:  June 30. 1980
Civil works are complete. Container cranes are now installed
and will be in operation soon. Total project costs are much in excess of the
appraisal estimates due to labor awards and cost overruns. A revision of the
tariff structure in 1977 considerably improved the financial situation of the
Nigerian Ports Authority.
Loan No. 929-UNI    Third Education Project:  US$54.0 million Loan of
August 16. 1973; Effective Date: January 14, 1975t
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Since appraisal, project costs have increased fourfold and the
scope of the project is under review. Because of weak management and a need
to redesign the project, completion could be delayed by a year or more.
Project administration was complicated by the partition of many states in
1976. Discussions have been held between the Bank and the Government with a
view to strengthening the project administration and making adequate provisions
for timely counterpart funding. A revision of the project scope and extension
of the closing date was approved by the Board last year.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



-26-
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
Loan No. 1045-UNI   Second Cocoa Pro1ect:  US$20.0 million Loan of
October 11, 1974: Effective Date: October 15, 1975:
Closing Date: September 30, 1981
The project's planting targets have been fully achieved by all
four participating states.   Loan recovery performance has however surfaced
as a major problem. A tight "action program" has been initiated, and it is
expected that updating and reconciliation of farmer loan records will be
completed soon. Local funding for Ondo and Bendel State CDU/TCU is still
inadequate. A third cocoa project is being prepared.
Loan No. 1091-UNI   Livestock Development Project:  US$21.0 million Loan
of March 20, 1975: Effective Date: July 19, 1976:
Closing Date: July 1, 1981
Project implementation has been slow due to the creation of new
states and operational difficulties. Serious problems of counterpart funding
from the Federal Government were encountered at first. Following the award
of a management contract for this project, and a reorganization of the project
unit, project implementation has been improved. Supporting services are
better organized, and credit is now being channeled through NACB.
Loan No. 1092-UNI   Funtua Agricultural Development Project:  US$29.0 million
Loan of March 20, 1974; Effective Date: January 5, 1976;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily with excellent
farmer response and the full support of both Federal and State Governments.
Demand for inputs is consistently above appraisal estimates. The federally
controlled Agricultural Projects Monitoring and Evaluation and Planning Unit
financed under this loan is fully operational. Project costs are in line
with appraisal estimates and disbursement is proceeding satisfactorily. An
expanded second stage project to cover the remainder of Kaduna State has been
appraised.
Loan No. 1099-UNI   Gusau Agricultural Development Prolect:  US$19.0 million
Loan of April 4, 1975; Effective Date: January 5, 1976;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
Despite last year's inadequate state funding, the project is progres-
sing satisfactorily with support from both Federal and State Governments.
Farmer response is good and appraisal objectives are being met and in some
cases exceeded. A second phase project to cover the remainder of Sokoto State
is being prepared.



-27-
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Loan No. 1103-UNI   Rice Prolect:  US$17.5 million Loan of April 25,
1974: Effective Date: January 10, 1976: Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
Project implementation made a slow start due to deficiencies in coun-
terpart funding and staffing limitations. The Bank has withdrawn from the
project component located in Cross River State because of acute problems
of cost overruns and inadequate physical progress. The remaining funds set
aside for Cross River State will be reallocated to project components in
Anambra and Imo States, where physical project progress and counterpart
funding are more satisfactory, and development is accelerating.
Loan No. 1164-UNI   Gombe Agricultural Development Prolect:  US$21.0 million
Loan of September 29, 1975; Effective Date: December 29,
1976: Closing Date: July 1, 1982
The project is being implemented satisfactorily with full support
from both Federal and State Governments. Farmer response is most favorable.
The demand for inputs and the production of maize is exceeding appraisal
estimates. A second-stage project to cover the remainder of Bauchi State has
been appraised.
Loan No. 1183-UNI   Mid-Western (Bendel) State Oil Palm Project:  US$29.5 mil-
lion Loan of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: October 17,
1977: Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loan effectiveness was substantially delayed because of problems
relating to staff recruitment, land acquisition, and completion of the
Federal and State Legal Opinions and State Loan Agreement. Appraisal targets
for the nucleus estate and smallholder components have not been met due to
delays in land acquisition as well as continuing financial and managerial
problems. The monitoring component has not been fully effective because of
staffing difficulties. Specific remedial actions are being taken by Govern-
ment and, provided that these are completed, the project is expected to
achieve its objectives. Cost overruns are, however, likely to be substantial.
Loan No. 1191-UNI   East Central (Imo) State Oil Palm Project:  US$19.0 million
Loan of February 12, 1976; Effective Date: April 6. 1977;
Closing Date: December 31. 1984
Project implementation was initially delayed due to the creation of
new states and problems with staffing. Project management and staffing are
now satisfactory, but appraisal planting targets have not been met and the
construction of palm oil mills has been delayed. Substantial cost overruns
are expected.
Loan No. 1192-UNI   Western (Ondo) State Oil Palm Prolect:  US$17.0 million
Loan of September 22, 1976: Effective Date: February 13,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The smallholder component continues to face financial difficulties,
and final targets may not be achieved. For the nucleus estate component,



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
-28-
land acquisition, management, and funding problems have delayed progress.
Plantings are in poor condition and processing facilities are inadequate.
Actions to resolve these problems are being implemented and progress will be
evaluated shortly. High cost overruns are expected due to implementation
delays and inflation rates higher than anticipated at appraisal.
Loan No. 1454-UNI   Lafia Agricultural Development Prolect:  US$27.0 million
Loan of June 28, 1977; Effective Date: March 3, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Although local counterpart funding is now adequate, the project
is still experiencing some problems of a technical nature, particularly
concerning extension and training. However, overall project progress is
satisfactory.
Loan No. 1455-UNI   Ayangba Agricultural Development Project:  US$35.0 million
Loan of June 28, 1977; Effective Date: March 3, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project continues to improve with satisfactory support from the
Federal and State Governments. Farmer participation and physical project
progress is good. Disbursements are also proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1591-UNI   Rivers State Nucleus Estate/Smallholder Oil Palm Proj-
ect: US$30.0 million Loan of July 24, 1978; Effective
Date: July 10, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Loan effectiveness was delayed because of problems regarding comple-
tion of the State Loan Agreement, a Management Agreement, and Federal and
State Legal Opinions. Physical progress is satisfactory, and earlier funding
problems have been overcome. The smallholder component faces some managerial
difficulties.
Loan No. 1597-UNI   Nigerian Industrial Development Bank, Ltd.:  US$60 mil-
lion Loan of June 15, 1978; Effective Date: October 24,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. A number of sub-loans
have been processed and approved.
Loan No. 1667-UNI   Bida Agricultural Development Project:  US$23 million
Loan of September 17, 1979; Effective Date: April 25,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is progressing satisfactorily in its initial stages.
Loan No. 1668-UNI   Ilorin Agricultural Development Project:  US$27 million
Loan of September 17, 1979; Effective Date: April 25,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is progressing satisfactorily in its initial stages.



-29-
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Loan No. 1679-UNI   Forestry Plantation Project:  US$31 million Loan
of October 29, 1979: not yet effective;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Most conditions of effectiveness have been met. Project progress
is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1711-UNI   Kaduna Water Supply Project:  US$92 million Loan of
July 16, 1979; not yet effective:
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Most conditions of effectiveness have been met. Project implementa-
tion is being impaired by management problems.
Loan No. 1719-UNI   Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute
Project: US$9 million Loan of July 16, 1979; not yet
effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
A management contract has been negotiated but not yet signed.
Legislation to establish the Institute is now in draft form.
Loan No. 1766-UNI   Lagos Power Distribution Project:  US$100 million
Loan of February 19, 1980; not yet effective;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Loan effectiveness awaits submission of legal opinion from
Government. Project progress is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1767-UNI   Urban Development Project:  US$17.8 million
Loan of February 19, 1980; not yet effective;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Most conditions of effectiveness have been met and the project is
progressing satisfactorily in its initial stages.
Loan No. 1838-UNI   Oyo-North Agricultural Development Project:
US$28.0 million Loan; not yet signed;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985



-30-                         ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Sixth Highway Project
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project: 18 months.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project: Federal Ministry of
Works with assistance from consultants and Bank staff.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank: December 1977.
(d) Date of the first Bank mission to consider the project: March 1978.
(e) Date of departure of the Appraisal Mission: November 5, 1979.
(f) Date of completion of negotiations: April 25, 1980.
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: October 15, 1980.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Designating Project Coordinator within the Federal Ministry of
Works (para. 44);
(b) Recruiting experts to fill critical positions in the Federal
Ministry of Works and giving priority in allocation of the housing
units provided under the project for their use (paras 45-47);
(c) Establishing pavement evaluation unit within the Federal Ministry
of Works (Condition of Disbursement against a deflectograph for the
unit; (para. 45);
(d) Signing of contract with consultants on the training of road
maintenance technicians (para. 48);
(e) Developing capacity within FMW to take over and continue training
function, and establishing position of Chief Engineer within the
Federal Ministry of Works in charge of planning and organizing the
training of road maintenance technicians (para. 48); and



-31-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(f) Designating Road Safety Liaison Officer within the Federal Ministry
of Works (Condition of Disbursement against equipment for road
safety; para. 49).






z  X   , X             N  | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G  E  R,-         i   ,
B EN I N J t    aB   $;]e  
r   ~~   2   g   >  X; < ~~~~~ ; >/ ;;;*Xk W < ~~~~~~~ 0 'C.  M  E R  O 0 N
,, ~     ~~~ t_-                                                                  NIGERIA  X 0
| 0 - 0 '^>0 00 -, < =,;,+, '- < . ~~~~~~~~~~ESTIMATED AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC
LX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r~ 'A:             = 






IBRD 14842
-4.                                     UAI FOBIlOOY 19:0
E             A_--_                                                                                                                        A
12
(  /72242   40122              22              A~~~~~~~~~~DUGURI 2 
\      7244   0.4o21.L9    0S            2125            2-4,P%~  .6~g               0                                                  ,) t i  CAMEROON
~~~)                   w.,aa.  21        s         Ti.r                                                                                           /       R ;
B         X_0                                                                                                                                                                    E    IX N  NA  CHnADN 
SOaU
| AiEO~                                                                                                                                                        *1 >    Q42:4\ ,-  F  U   R NETWORK
I        a11  ca,aoact.dsw^t22~  ori*mu   j  -:   .  t   C   P   .   trE p ra _
A ~~~~~~~~       1                     j~ ~ AI'   =                         -
W.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
ATZANrIC                                                     J~~~~V             I                             I



