                                           Mozambique
                     Municipal Development Project - Credit No. 3549-MZ

                 Proposed Amendment of the Development Credit Agreement


 BACKGROUND

Project ImplementationExperience

 1.      The objectives of the Project are to assist th Borrower in: (i) operationalizin the legal
 and institutional framework for municipal governance; (ii) developing a sustainable training
 and technical assistance system and increase the capacity of municipal officials and personnel;
 and (iii) establishing an operating mechanism for providing grants to municipalities through a
pilot program in five cities to finance capital investments for municipal capacity building and
infrastructure.

2.       Project Implementation Experience was recently reviewed during a Mid Term Review
with results agreed as follows: Component (i) operationalizing the legal and institutional
framework for municipal governance: The Mid-Term Review (MTR) concluded that despite a
start-up delay of 14months, the component has achieved 80% of its Key Performance
Indicators (KPIs) and is clearly on track to reach its development objective.

Component (ii) developing a sustainable training and technical assistance system and increase
the capacity of municipal officials and personnel: Significant progress has been made in
reaching the major objectives of the capacity building component, namely establishing the
capacity building system for municipalities in the context of the public sector training system
and implementation of the programs to meet specific capacity building targets with impact on
the ground (while testing approaches and learning methodologies which may be used in future
programs). The component team has focused efforts to date on defining the system, a needs
assessment, preparation of manuals and training of instructors and training. This preparation
combined with municipal elections in November 2003 meant it was not feasible to carry out
capacity building with municipal officials before 2004. In addition to commencing activities
on the ground in 2004, particular efforts are needed by the team to ensure quality and develop
and monitor effective learning strategies as part of the program. The component has achieved
67% of its KPIs and is on track to meeting its development objective.

Component (iii) establishing and operating a mechanism for providing grants to municipalities
through a pilot program in five cities to finance capital investments for municipal capacity
building and infrastructure: The MTR determined that the pilot is achieving its objectives of
establishing, operating and testing a mechanism for providing grants to municipalities to
finance capital investments. However, there are key issues that need to be analyzed and
finalized before the mechanism for providing these grant funds to all 33 municipalities can be
established. In general the execution of works has been satisfactory and a positive social
impact can be felt by communities as drainage, garbage collection and market booth
                                                                                           ,

                                                 - 2 -


construction were on each municipality'slist of priority activities and a number of these have
now been constructed. The technical and financial management performance has also
significantly improved in year 2 in most municipalities and four out of five municipalities
received at least qualified audit opinions on their 2002 municipal accounts. Procurements plan
quality improved considerably for year 2 although there are delays in implementation of the
2003 procurement plan. A number of changes need to be made to the pilot Municipal Grants
Fund (MGF) in line with experience in years 1and 2 and the findings of the MTR. These
include the sustainability of the institutional arrangements, the evaluation criteria used to
determine eligibility for municipal participation and the level of financing to be received, the
replicability of the current model and the nature and objectives of the technical assistance. It
also appears that the mechanism is most viable for mid-sized and smaller municipalities and
perhaps not for the largest such as Maputo, and possibly Beira. All of these issues will need to
be addressed in the context of the participating municipalities as well as in preparation for
entry of the additional 3 municipalities into the program. This component's development
objective is likely to be achieved and it has achieved 25% of its KPI by mid-term review.

3.      Overall the MTR agreed that the Project's overall development objective remains
realistic and achievable. However, there are a number of steps the Government of
Mozambique needs to take to restructure the project to ensure these objectives are attained.

Proposed Amendments

4.      The proposed amendment would:
        (i) increase the number of cities named in the project development objective and
        included in Component 3 (Municipal Grants) from five to eight for the remainder of
        the project; and
        (ii) specifically include provisions under Component 4 (Project Management and
        Technical Assistance) for consultancies to evaluate the pilot and provide
        recommendations to the Government of Mozambique for a future program that would
        include all 33 municipalities.

Costs,Benefits and Risks After Amendments

5.      The proposed amendment would incur no additional cost. This is due to the longer than
expected subproject cycle at municipal level which has led to one less cycle of investments
than initially planned. This is due to the slower than expected pace of learning-by-doing at
municipal level and the need to constantly review and improve the pilot grants fund
mechanism. There are therefore funds to bring three new smaller municipalities into the Grants
Fund pilot and to conduct a number of studies to evaluate the pilot in more depth.

6.      The benefits of the amendment are that it would increase the number of participating
municipalities within the pilot grants fund mechanism and therefore provide a more robust set
of experiences from which to improve the mechanism and roll it out to the remaining

                                                - 3 -


municipalities in Mozambique in future. Finally the design of a future set of mechanisms for
the GOM to support municipal development will depend crucially on careful analysis of the
pilot and lessons learned.

7.      The increased number of municipalities would scale-up immediate project impact for
citizens in the three new cities. It would also enable a more thorough evaluation of the pilot
that would be important to scale-up the learning and benefits from the project as a whole in
future.

8.      The proposed amendments are risk mitigating in nature as they expand the size of the
pilot at no additional cost and also propose additional studies to ensure a more robust
evaluation of lessons learned.


The World Bank                                                     1818 H Street N.W.                     (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT              Washington, D.C. 20433     Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                              U.S.A.                     Cable Address: INDEVAS




                                                                                              DRAFT [date]


            Mr. Adriano Maleiane
            Governor
            Banco de Moqambique
            Avenida 25 de Setembro 1695
            P.O. Box 423
            Maputo, Mozambique

            Dear Sir:

                                   MOZAMBIQUE: Municipal Development Project
                     Amendment to the Development Credit Apreement (Credit No. 3549 MOZ)
               ,
                     We refer to the Development Credit Agreement (the Agreement) for the above-
            mentioned Project, dated August 15, 2001,between the Republic of Mozambique (the Borrower)
            and the International Development Association (the Association). We also refer to your letter,
            dated January 5,2004, requesting specific amendments to the Agreement.

                     We are pleased to inform you that the Association agrees to your request and proposes to
            amend the Agreement as follows:

            1.       Schedule 1, Part A (General), Paragraph 3 (c) is amended to read as follows:

                    "(c)    payments made under Category 1, 2 (a) and 3 (b) of the table in paragraph A.l
                    of the Schedule for: (i) Maputo until its respective Project Account has been opened and
                    the amount equivalent to $14,000 (counterpart contribution) has been deposited
                    accordingly; (ii) Beira until its respective Project Account has been opened and the
                    amount equivalent to $10,000 (counterpart contribution) has been deposited accordingly;
                    (iii) Nampula until its respective Project Account has been opened and the amount
                    equivalent to $10,000 (counterpart contribution) has been deposited accordingly;
                    (iv) Quelimane until its respective Project Account has been opened and the amount
                    equivalent to $7,000 (counterpart contribution) has been deposited accordingly;
                    (v) Pemba until its respective Project Account has been opened and the amount
                    equivalent to $7,000 (counterpart contribution) has been deposited accordingly;
                    (vi) Nacala until its respective Project Account has been opened and the amount
                    equivalent to $7,000 (counterpart contribution) has been deposited accordingly;
                    (vii) Dondo until its respective Project Account has been opened and the amount
                    equivalent to $7,000 (counterpart contribution) has been deposited accordingly; and
                    (viii) Xai-Xai until its respective Project Account has been opened and the amount
                    equivalent to $7,000 (counterpart contribution) has been deposited accordingly."




                                          RCA 248423. EB WUI 64145 2FAX (202) 477-6391

Mr. Adriano Maleiane                              2                        April          ,2004



2.        Schedule 1, Part B (Special Account), Paragraph 3 (b) is amended to read as follows:

          "(b)    withdraw from the Special Account and deposit into each Municipal Account an
          amount not exceeding $160,000 for Maputo, $140,000 for Beira, $120,000 for Nampula,
          $80,000 for Quelimane, $80,000 for Pemba, 80,000 for Nacala, 80,000 for Dondo, and
          80,000 for Xai-Xai and thereafter replenish said Municipal Accounts in accordance with
          Schedule 1 to this Agreement."

3.        Schedule 1, Part B (Special Account), Paragraph 9 (a) is modified to read as follows:

         "9. (a) The Borrower shall withdraw from the Special Account and deposit into each
         Municipal Account the funds to assist the municipalities to pay for MG under Part B of
         the Project. Such withdrawals or deposits shall be in amounts sufficient to assist each
         municipality to pay for such MG provided that in no event the Borrower shall cause the
         amount held in any Municipal Account to exceed the amounts determined by the PCU in
         accordance with the PIM or the equivalent of: (i) $350,000 for Maputo; (ii) $300,000 for
         Beira; (iii) $200,000 for Nampula; (iv) $200,000 for Quelimane; (v) $150,000 for Pemba;
         (vi) $ 150,000 for Nacala; (vi;) $ 150,000 for Dondo; and (viii) 150,000 for Xai-Xai,
         whichever is the smaller;"

4.       Schedule 2 (Description of the Project), first paragraph is modified to read as follows:

         "The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (i) operationalizing the legal
         and institutional framework for municipal governance; (ii) developing a sustainable
         training and technical assistance system and increase the capacity of municipal officials
         and personnel; and (iii) establishing an operating mechanism for providing grants to
         municipalities through a pilot program in eight cities to finance capital investments for
         municipal capacity building and infrastructure"

5.       Schedule 2, Part C (Project Management and Technical Assistance), a new paragraph 4 is
added and will read as follows:

         " 4.    Studies will be conducted to evaluate the project experience overall and in
         particular the pilot grants fund mechanism, in order to identify options and
         recommendations to develop and expand support by the Government of Mozambique to
         all municipalities in future."

6.       The following event is specified as condition of effectiveness of this Agreement, namely,
Grant Participation Agreements have been signed between the Borrower and three new
municipalities (Nacala, Dondo, and Xai-Xai) and evidence has been furnished satisfactory to the
Association that such agreements are binding upon the respective MG Municipality in accordance
with its terms.

Mr. Adriano Maleiane                            3                        April       ,2004



        All other provisions of the Agreement, except as herein amended, shall remain in full
force and effect.

        Please indicate your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Borrower, by
countersigning, dating and returning to us the enclosed copy of this letter. This amendment will
become effective at the satisfactory completion of provision described in Paragraph 6 of this
Agreement.



                                            Sincerely,



                                         Johannes Zutt
                                   Acting Country Director
                                   Angola and Mozambique
                                         Africa Region


CONFIRMED:

REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE



By:
      Authorized Representative


Date:

