Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 2243 3-MOZ
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR26.7 MILLION (US$33.6 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
FOR A
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 21, 2001
Water and Urban 1
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 6/20/2001)
Currency Unit = Metical
1 MZM = US$0.000048
US$1 = MZM 21000
FISCAL YEAR
Government & Public Enterprises -- January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DNAL         National Directorate of Local Administration
GCM          Municipal Capacity Building Office
GOM          Govemment of Mozambique
IDA          Intemational Development Association
IMAP         Intermediate Institute of Public Administration
MAE          Ministry of State Administration
MDP          Municipal Development Project
MGF          Municipal Grants Fund
MPF          Ministry of Planning and Finance
PCU          Project Coordination Unit
PIM          Project Implementation Manual
PROL         Local Government Reform and Engineering Project
PRU          Urban Rehabilitation Project
SIFAP        Training System for Public Administration
Vice President:   Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:    Darius Mans
Sector Manager/Director:   Jeffrey S. Racki
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Alan Carroll



MOZAMBIQUE
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                     Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      9
3. Benefits and target population                                                    10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     10
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        13
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                               15
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                  18
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       18
E. Summary Project Analysis
I. Economic                                                                          18
2. Financial                                                                         19
3. Technical                                                                         20
4. Institutional                                                                     21
5. Environmental                                                                     23
6. Social                                                                            24
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                25
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    26
2. Critical risks                                                                    27



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     30
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            30
2. Other                                                                              31
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          31
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         31
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          32
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    40
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        67
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary          68
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    76
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       82
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     93
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   94
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  96
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            98
Annex 11: Terms of Reference for Project Coordination Unit                              100
Annex 12: Environmental Guidelines for MGF Investments                                  115
Annex 13: Project Operations - Organizational Chart                                     125
MAP(S)
MOZ3 1398



MOZAMBIQUE
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFTUI
Date: June 21, 2001                               Team Leader: Alan G. Carroll
Country Manager/Director: Darius Mans             Sector Manager/Director: Jeffrey S. Racki
Project ID: P001806                               Sector(s): BD - Decentralization, UM - Urban
Management
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [X] Credit    [ Grant      [ Guarantee       [ Other:
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 33.6
| Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                         Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.5%                             Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                            Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                       1.44            1.84          3.28
IDA                                                           11.55          22.05          33.60
NORDIC DEVELOPMENT FUND                                        3.15            2.03          5.18
Total:                                                        16.14          25.92          42.06
Borrower: GOVT OF MOZAMBIQUE
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF STATE ADMINISTRATION (MAE)
Municipalities of participating cities
Contact Person: Mr. Jose Guambe, Director of Municipal Development, Ministry of State Administration
Tel: 258-1-307888           Fax: 258-1-428565             Email: prolmae@zebra.uem.mz
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$m):
FY         2002       2003       2004      2005       2006
Annual    3.59        8.82       9.59      10.83      9.23]_
Cumulative    3.59       12.41     22.00      32.83      42.06
Project implementation period: 2002 through 2006
Expected effectiveness date: 09/01/2001  Expected closing date:  02/28/2006
OC-S PAOFoI- e   ad 



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
1. The primary development objective of the proposed project is long-term, beyond the four-year life span
of the project itself. It is to strengthen the capacity of municipal governments in the areas of
management, finance, and the provision of infrastructure and services. This would encompass eventual
improvements in the fiscal transfer system, improvements in municipal revenue mobilization and
financial management, establishment of true municipal control over staffing and capacity-building, and
the development of effective mechanisms for municipal provision of infrastructure and services,
including the use of various forms of private sector participation.
2. The project's specific objectives are: (a) to assist the Government of Mozambique (GOM) in
operationalizing the legal, institutional, and fiscal framework for municipal governance; (b) to create an
institutional framework for training of elected and appointed municipal officials and municipal
employees and begin the training of officials and staff of all the municipalities in basic administrative
and technical subjects; (c) to pilot test a Municipal Grants (MG) mechanism to finance investments by
the municipalities, with a view to laying a foundation for a mechanism which would eventually become
a part of the intergovernmental fiscal system; and (d) to implement, through the MG, capital
investments which would have tangible economic and social benefits while also providing an
opportunity for the municipalities to improve their technical and financial capacities.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Legal and Institutional Reform Comonent:
1. Legal instruments elaborated and submitted for approval by the appropriate higher authorities
concerning (i) recruitment, management and mobility of municipal staff; (ii) municipal budgets,
financial management, accounting, and auditing; (iii) municipal revenue collection; (iv) the transfer of
responsibilities and resources (e.g. for primary education and primary health) to the municipalities; and
(vi) private municipal service providers and municipal public enterprises.
2. Studies undertaken and manuals prepared and disseminated for (i) recruitment, selection and
employment of municipal staff (prepared in coordination with the Ministry of Planning and Finance);
(ii) improving municipal financial management and revenue systems; (iii) preparation, supervision, and
execution of municipal development plans and municipal annual action plans; and (iv) community
participation in municipal decision-making.
3. Long-term program of municipal development elaborated in collaboration with governmental,
municipal, civil society, and donor stakeholders.
Capacity-Building Component:
I. GCM established in IMAP and plans in place for continued existence of GCM at project close.
2. Strategy for training for municipalities developed and under implementation with linkages to the
Government's public sector reform program and SIFAP.
3. Target numbers of municipal elected and appointed officials and municipal staff trained (see detailed
project description for exact targets).
Municipal Grants:
-2 -



1. Municipalities implement yearly investment activities (works, goods, consultancies) according to the
guidelines of the MG, procuring civil works contractors (firms), suppliers for the purchase of
equipment, and consultants for technical assistance.
2. MG mechanism is closely monitored quarterly and evaluated annually. The MG is modified in a timely
way to take account of ongoing lessons of experience.
3. By the end of the project, a refined MG is available for replication and eventual "mainstreaming"
within the Government's institutional and fiscal framework.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: IDA/R2000-76 (IFC/R2000-80)          Date of latest CAS discussion:
06/01/2000
The proposed project would support the primary CAS objective of poverty reduction through sustainable
economic growth. The project is central to one of the CAS's three strategic priorities, namely improving
governance and empowerment, a major element of which is support for the government's decentralization
program. By developing further critical elements of the legal and policy framework and strengthening the
capacities of the new autonomous municipal governments, and by enabling municipalities to start
improving the quality and coverage of municipal infrastructure and services, the project would both
advance the process of decentralization in the existing municipalities and lay the foundation for the
extension of the program to other municipalities.
The project also would form part of the Bank's continued support to improving human capabilities by (i)
upgrading environmental infrastructure in the five cities, thereby alleviating ill health and low productivity,
especially the urban poor and (ii) helping to create the conditions for the next stages of decentralization, in
which the delivery of social services would be improved through deconcentrated and devolved mechanisms.
The project would contribute to increasing economic opportunities through private sector-led growth
by improving basic infrastructure in five of Mozambique's largest cities.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The prolonged civil war in Mozambique (1975-92) had a severe impact on its urban centers. Large
numbers of rural people fled to urban areas, tripling the urban population between 1980 and 1995. The
urban population of Mozambique now represents about 38% of the national total (1998) and is still
growing rapidly, at nearly 6% per year, compared with a total national population growth rate of around
2.4% per year (figures from the World Development Indicators 2000). The huge influx of mostly poor
migrants into cities and towns overwhelmed infrastructure systems originally designed for much smaller
numbers. With severely deteriorated infrastructure and services, cities are not capable of adequately
supporting the economic productivity of fims and households. Living conditions in cities are deficient for
most residents. Slums and squatter settlements are a very visible part of the urban landscape. The urban
poor -- 62% of urban dwellers according to the most recent 1996-97 poverty study -- suffer
disproportionately from bad environmental sanitation, resulting in ill health and stunted economic
opportunities. Urban service deficiencies include deteriorated roads, inadequate supplies of potable water,
and poor drainage and domestic sanitation resulting in widespread water-borne diseases (infant mortality
was 135 per thousand in 1997 compared with 69 for low-income countries world-wide, with a major share
due to diarrhea and other sanitation-related diseases). In 1993, only 23% of households in Maputo had a
sewerage connection; the vast majority of urban residents still rely on pit latrines or have no sanitation
facilities. Haphazard dumping and low collection levels of solid waste (only 37% in Maputo in 1993,
which probably has gone down since then due to rapid growth of the city) contribute to these problems. In
- 3 -



addition, a severe problem of deforestation and loss of mangroves near coastal areas results from the
dependence of most of the urban population on fuel wood and charcoal for energy.
Since 1987, the Government has been engaged in a program of economic rehabilitation, shifting from a
command economy to one based on market forces. A policy of gradually decentralizing authority to local
governments is a key feature of this program. In early 1997 the National Assembly approved a package of
several laws governing municipal elections, the creation of municipal councils and assemblies, and
municipal finances. Among the main components were constitutional amendments to permit the creation of
local governments (Lei 9/96, November 22, 1996); the Law of Municipalities (Lei 2/97, February 18,
1997); and the Law of Municipal Finances (Lei 11/97, May 31, 1997). These constituted a comprehensive
national legal framework giving municipalities extensive administrative and financial autonomy. Municipal
elections were held on June 30, 1998 in 33 urban centers: 10 regional capitals (Cidades Capitais), 13 cities
(Cidades), and 10 towns (Vilas). In August 1998 the newly elected municipal Presidents (mayors) were
sworn in. Support for the preparation of the legislative package on municipalities was a major
accomplishment of the Bank-financed Local Government Reform and Engineering Project (PROL).
As the Government's Letter of Sector Policy indicates, the next few years will be a learning and testing
period for the new municipalities and the central govermnent. Based on these lessons, the Government
plans to go forward with further decentralization. Achieving the full degree of municipal autonomy
envisaged in the laws will be a long-term task, however. Entrenched habits of centralization and
authoritarianism will take time to break down, and the essential building blocks of successful government --
appropriate staff, adequate financial resources, and an appropriate regulatory framework -- will requires
years of work and experience to establish and fine tune. Moreover, the perfonnance of the municipalities in
the near future may be affected by the fact that the main opposition party boycotted the 1998 municipal
elections, and the voter turnout was extremely low (around 15% of the eligible population).
Municipal governments have consistently lacked investrnent funds, and they are barely beginning to develop
systematic approaches for the provision of urban infrastructure and services. There is a huge backlog of
dilapidated roads, drains, and sewer systems which have not been maintained. Recurrent services such as
solid waste collection have low coverage and fluctuate with the availability of municipal or donor funding.
Organizational structures for infrastructure and service provision are archaic, often relying on "force
account" cadres of municipal laborers. Little use is made of private sector contracting. User fees for
sewerage, sanitation, and solid waste disposal are minimal or non-existent. Municipal sanitation
departnents don't keep fees collected for services; these go back to the general municipal treasury.
Municipal governments' revenues are extremely low, averaging US$6.71 per capita across the five main
cities in 2000. Less than half are own source or locally collected revenues (US$2.71 per capita in 2000 for
the five cities), and these are largely a fees and licenses, with market fees being the most important. The
majority of municipal revenues are fiscal transfers from the central government. At the same time,
recurrent expenditures are increasing and now represent 70 percent of total expenditures on average. Of
these, over 40 percent are consumed by personnel costs. In consequence, maintenance of municipal assets
is extremely low in proportion to total expenditures, and, unless the trend is changed, municipalities will be
able to afford little of the needed new investment and improvement in municipal services.
To deliver the improvements promised by municipalization, municipal revenues will have to increase
significantly. Financial projections undertaken as part of the preparation of the project show that under a
realistic scenario of pro-active measures to increase revenues and control expenditures, the five main cities
would be able to afford steadily growing investment programs and still provide for adequate operation and
maintenance. This scenario presumes a modest success in increasing revenue generation (including fees to
- 4 -



cover costs of services), new tax revenues that exceed the cost of collection, actively controlled recurrent
expenditures, and an increase in fiscal transfers. Importantly, a number of new local taxes are provided for
in the recent Law of Municipal Finances, potentially representing very productive sources of municipal
revenues. In December 2000 the Council of Ministers approved the Municipal Tax Code (Decree No.
52/2000) setting out the regulations for municipalities to collect the head tax (Imposto Pessoal Autirquico
), the property tax (Imposto Predial Autdrquico), the economic activity tax (Imposto por Actividade
Economica), the commerce and industry tax (Imposto Autarquico de Comercio e Induistria), and the
Income Tax - Section B (Imposto Sobre o Rendimento de Trabalho - SecJcao B).
The new municipalities are empowered to provide a full range of municipal infrastructure and services.
Basic urban services (such as garbage collection and drainage) have always been handled by the local city
and town administrations. However, the transfer of competencies for activities beyond these basic services
(such as pre-school and primary education and primary health posts), along with commensurate resources,
will be a long and difficult process. It will depend, to a large extent, on improving the capacity within the
municipalities to fulfill existing responsibilities. MAE, with help from the PROL Project, drafted a decree
regarding the transfer of competencies which is being considered by the Council of Ministers. The transfer
mechanism envisaged in this proposed legislation is intended to be a contract between the central
government and the municipalities spelling out the assignment of central government staff to the
municipality, the transfer of fiscal resources, and the allocation of physical assets for each type of service.
Finally, the new municipalities require policy reforms and assistance to improve their human resource
capabilities. Except to a limited degree in Maputo, municipalities have no senior level engineers, planners,
or financial specialists, and one is lucky to find middle-level technical personnel in the larger urban centers.
The new municipal Presidents and Assembly members will require considerable orientation and training.
Even in the private sector, there is a severe shortage of trained and experienced Mozambican engineers,
planners, and financial specialists. It is especially difficult to recruit technically qualified people for
long-term assignments away from Maputo.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Long Tem
The project would constitute the first stage of an expected long-term (10-15 year) program of support for
municipal government strengthening. This program, which would be multi-institutional and open to
support from any donor agencies, would be one of the outputs of the project. The long-term program
would cover, among other things:
a. The eventual harmonization of the MG within the government's intergovernmental fiscal system and its
extension to all municipalities.
b. The eventual improvement of the municipal fiscal transfer system to make it more predictable and
transparent.
c. Continuation of reforms to give municipalities control over staffing and skills, through appropriate
policies and regulations from the center.
d. Development of an increasingly demand-driven municipal capacity building system through
development of a training "network".
-5 -



e. Greater empowerment of municipalities in revenue mobilization through assistance with tax cadastres
and related technical methods.
f. Testing and extension of new mechanisms for better municipal infrastructure and service provision
including autonomous public services and various forms of contracts with the private sector.
g. Operationalization of mechanisms to allow municipalities to exercise their responsibilities in the roads
and water sectors, in both capital investment and maintenance.
h. Management of urban land in a more efficient way.
Short Term Under the Proiect
The project would address a selected number of key priorities which are critical to continuing and
improving the process of making municipalities functional:
a. Completing major pieces of the legal and policy framework, particularly in the areas of municipal
finance and personnel management, that are needed for the effective operationalization of municipal
governments' autonomy and the improvement in urban infrastructure and services.
b. Laying a foundation of basic knowledge and skills among middle and senior level municipal staff and
elected and appointed municipal officials through pre- and in-service training programs; as well as
establishing an institutional and material capacity, in a semi-autonomous institution (IMAP) to carry
on with training over the long terrn.
c. Establishing an initial set of mechanisms for municipalities to plan, manage, and maintain public
investments in infrastructure and services.
d. Through the proposed Municipal Grants, initiating a system for financing capital investments by
municipalities to provide the opportunity to 'learn by doing' and to build legitimacy and support for the
municipalization process.
e. Developing new administrative models for municipal financial and fiscal management and service
provision.
f. Providing guidance, in the form of studies, technical assistance, manuals, and the like, for better human
resource management by municipalities.
g. Providing guidance and incentives for gradually improving operation and maintenance, as well as cost
recovery, of basic urban services by municipalities.
Taking into consideration institutional capacity constraints at the central and municipal levels and the need
to keep the project from becoming overly complex, a deliberate decision was made to exclude from the
project a number of important subjects. Some of these are the domain of other sectoral agencies and could
be taken up through separate projects and/or donors. Among the excluded subjects are urban land planning
and mapping; land management and land use control; land and housing cadastres; housing policy and
housing finance; urban environmental management; urban transport and major roads; and other large-scale
urban infrastructure.
-6 -



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The Municipal Development Project would have four components: (1) Legal and Institutional Reform, (2)
Municipal Capacity Building, (3) Municipal Grants, and (4) Project Management and Technical
Assistance. The first and second components would cover all 33 municipalities. The Municipal Grants
would be a pilot program in five municipalities: Maputo, Beira, Nampula, Quelimane, and Pemba. See
Section D.3 for the rationale.
Detailed descriptions of each component appear in Annex 2 of this PAD.
The Lezal and Institutional Reform component would provide technical assistance to the Ministry of State
Administration for the drafting of legal instruments (regulations, decrees, etc.) and the preparation of
studies, manuals, guidelines, and other materials needed to establish the legal and policy framework -- the
"enabling environment" -- for municipal development and management.
The Municipal Caoacity Building component would provide in-service training to elected and appointed
municipal officials, municipal staff, and members of other organizations which support the municipalities.
It would also develop materials for pre-service training and provide technical assistance to develop and
improve systems and processes. A significant part of the training program would be contracted out to
private and non-governmental entities. This component would develop a strategy that encompasses training
in the municipal government system and public administration in general, as well as basic technical skills
needed by the municipal authorities, such as municipal finance and delivery of infrastructure and services.
The Capacity Building component would be institutionalized in the Intermediate Institute for Public
Administration (IMAP). This component would be funded by the Nordic Development Fund (NDF) as
parallel financing of the project.
The Municipal Grants (MG) would provide municipalities with financial resources to implement
high-priority civil works, equipment, and consultant services. The MG is based on the idea that if
municipalities are to be responsible for the operation and maintenance of infrastructure and services, they
should be responsible for their implementation, in the interest of building local-level capacity and
promoting the sustainability of the investments. The Municipal Grants would be designed on a modest
scale, as a pilot program for "learning by doing". It has been agreed that, during the initial four-year phase
of this project, the MG would be initiated with five municipalities (Maputo, Beira, Nampula, Quelimane,
and Pemba). The objectives of the MG are (a) to provide resources to municipalities for small and medium
sized infrastructure, equipment, and consultant services; (b) to enable the municipal governments to
develop capacity to plan, implement, and manage basic investments and to integrate the associated
expenditures (municipal contributions to the investment costs; operation and maintenance costs) and
revenues into their budgets; and (c) to test and refine the MG, identifying problems, trying different
solutions, and, to the extent possible, laying a foundation for a sustainable, expandable municipal grants
mechanism.
It is important to note that the US$ 22.75 m. cost of the Municipal Grants component represents an
estimate of the maximum amount that could probably be drawn down by the five municipalities under
optimal conditions and with the best performance by municipalities and contractors. The actual amount
that would be disbursed under this component would depend on many factors (see Risks under Section F.2
of this PAD) and may be significantly less than the maximum estimate.
-7 -



The Project Management and Technical Assistance component would include a Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) to be located within MAE and accountable to the Director of DNDA (see section C.4 below on
institutional and implementation arrangements). The PCU would be headed by a Project Director and
staffed by five other professionals, all long-term international or national consultants. This component
would also include the provision of technical assistance to the five municipalities participating in the MG
through a consulting firm. It would offer support to the municipalities on demand in the areas of municipal
engineering, procurement, contract management, works supervision, and financial management.
hidliftiv                  Baof%o
_       _      _        _       _         _____________   ( 9;0\0 0,;;00 lt0;t  iit02Sr;  -7; WtI$   Total  (U )  n:ig tota
(I) Legal and Institutional Reform         BD                       3.37          8.0         3.37         10.0
(2) Municipal Capacity Building            UM                       4.77         11.3         0.00          0.0
(3) Municipal Grants                       llY                     22.75         54.1        19.86         59.1
(4) Project Management and Technical                                6.97         16.6         6.90         20.5
Assistance to Municipalities
Contingencies (Physical and Price)                                  3.35          8.0         2.62          7.8
PPF                                                                 0.85          2.0         0.85          2.5
Total Project Costs                          42.06        100.0        33.60        100.0
Front-end fee                            0.00          0.0         0.00          0.0
Total Financing Required                              42.06        100.0       33.60         100.0
Mozambique
Municipal Development Project   The Govemment  IDA              NDF              Municipalities   Total
Components by Financiers        Amount       %  Amount        %  Amount        %  Amount        %  Amount        %
(US$ Millions)
1. Legal and Institutional Reform  0.00   0.0%   3.37  100.0%     0.00    0.0%     0.00    0.0%    3.37    8.0%
2. Municipal Capacity Building  0.00    0.0%     0.00    0.0%     4.77  100.0%     0.00    0.0%     4.77   11.3%
3. Municipal Grants             0.62    2.7%    19.86   87.3%             0.0%     2.28   10.0%    22.75   54.1%
4. Project Management and TA    0.07    1.0%     6.90   99.0%     0.00    0.0%     0.00    0.0%     6.97   16.6%
Total Base Cost                   0.69            30.13             4.77             2.28            37.86
PPF                                              0.85                                               0.85
Contingencies                   0.04             2.62             0.41             0.28             3.35    8.0%
Total Disbursement                 0.73    1.7%    33.60   79.9%     5.17   12.3%     2.55    6.1%    42.06    100
- 8 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Decentralization. Decentralization is one of the key pillars of the GOM's long-term program of public
sector reform. Decentralization is both a means to make the provision of infrastructure and services more
efficient and an essential part of a more accountable and inclusive governance system. One component --
well advanced -- is the devolution of authority, responsibility, and resources to 33 municipal governments
("autarquias municipais"). The proposed project represents the centerpiece of support for the
implementation of this major element. Another component -- in its infancy -- is the deconcentration of
decision-making to provincial and district levels of public administration through multi-sectoral,
"horizontal" systems of planning, financing, and management. This initiative is being spearheaded by the
Ministry of Planning and Finance (MPF), with support from the Ministry of State Adrninistration (MAE)
and the UNDP, under the Decentralized Planning and Financing Program (Programa de Planificag5o e
Financiamento Descentralizado).
Legal and policy framework. The Legal and Institutional Reform component aims to help the
Government to produce a package of legal instruments (regulations, decrees, etc.), guidelines, and manuals
which would constitute an "enabling framework" for municipalities to effectively exercise their functions.
The component would address, among other things: (i) the correction of gaps, conflicts, or other limitation
in the Pacote Autarquico, the complex of 1997 laws creating the autonomous municipal govemments; (ii)
the need for new legal instruments conceming recruitment, management and mobility of municipal staff,
(iii) the need for legal instruments concerning municipal budgets, rules for municipal financial
management, accounting, auditing, revenue collection, and expenditure management; and (iv) the need for
regulations on the transfer of responsibilities and resources (e.g. for primary education and primary health)
to the municipalities, private municipal service providers, and semi-autonomous municipal public
enterprises; .
Capacity building. Addressing institutional capacity constraints is a major focus for Government policy.
The proposed project would help to complete the legal and institutional framework at the central level to
support decentralized municipal governance and build institutional capacity in the municipalities for
providing urban services and infrastructure. The project explicitly seeks to build upon existing institutions
where possible. Thus, the Capacity Building (training) component would be based within the Intermediate
Institute for Public Administration, the Government's designated institution for training of the public sector,
and would be coordinated with the SIFAP. The Capacity Building program would provide training to
municipal staff and elected and appointed officials, and will be linked to reform of the civil service salary
and employrnent laws. It therefore would support the Government's long-term civil service reforn
program, the focus of which is to improve the qualifications and skills of its public officials and increase
the degree to which the public administration is service-oriented and responsive to its constituents' needs.
Finally, the municipalities participating in the Municipal Grants would gain capacity, as implementing
agencies, in planning, financing, managing, and maintaining capital investments.
Staged approach to reform. GOM has adopted a "gradualist" approach to decentralization, in view of the
country's enormous capacity constraints, and in the belief that so fundamental a reform will require time
and flexibility to adjust programs to developments as they occur. The proposed project supports this
approach. Within the project itself, the issues to be addressed are explicitly limited. However, one of the
activities and outputs of the project would be the participatory development of a broader, long-term (10-15
years) program for municipal development. This program framework-consisting of policy reforms,
capacity-building measures at the central and municipal levels, and complementary investments-would be
agreed upon by the relevant Mozambican institutions and by interested external assistance agencies. It
would form the basis for future support in the urban development field.
-9-



The project also incorporates a new, incentives-based approach to financial assistance through the
Municipal Grants, to achieve institutional development in Mozambique. Municipalities would be required
to contribute an annual average of 10% in counterpart funds from their own budgets toward all activities
funded by the MG. This would promote ownership and sustainability. Municipalities would also be
required to demonstrate satisfactory performance in using the previous year's grant allocation in order to
qualify for a subsequent allocation. If a municipality fails to meet the qualification criteria within six
months of the start of the new 12-month grant cycle, it would be disqualified, and a new municipality
would be invited to participate. A municipality's overall financial performance over the previous two years
would, moreover, determine the extent to which the subsequent year's grant increases or decreases. This
would be determined by a formula measuring the ratio of the percentage change in operating revenues to
the percentage change in recurrent expenditures over a two year period. The higher the ratio, the greater
the municipality's capacity to mobilize capital investment resources to leverage grant funds. This approach
aims to stimulate better performance and increased self-reliance among the beneficiary institutions.
However, it also implies a higher risk of slow or non-performance than traditional projects, particularly
during the early stages of the project (see Section F2, Critical Risks).
MG risks. monitorina. and restructuring: It is important to note that the MG component is a pilot
scheme with high risks. Its design is based on detailed consultations with central government and
municipal stakeholders during more than 18 months of project preparation. Nevertheless, the MG is a
relatively complex mechanism whose actual performance remains to be tested. Its functioning and results
would be monitored carefully through quarterly reports and evaluated annually at the project review. If the
MG is found to have serious problems. it would be restructured as needed based on the lessons leamed.
3. Benefits and target population:
The main benefits of the project would be: (a) an increasingly more capable and accountable municipal
governance system; (b) a foundation for sustainable and reliable urban services through more effective
municipal management and finance; and (c) improved economic and social conditions in the five cities from
investments in roads, drainage, sanitation, community water, solid waste disposal, markets, and other
municipal facilities and services.
The project would benefit several groups. Households and businesses in municipalities would benefit
from a more accountable, responsive, and empowered local government, as well directly from
improvements in urban services and investments, and in the urban environment. Elected municipal
governments would gain from having their legitimacy enhanced, as a result of their improved ability to
provide services and from greater financial and managerial autonomy. The urban poor would obtain
health and productivity benefits from the investments in environmental infrastructure (drainage, sanitation,
community water, solid waste disposal), as they suffer disproportionately from the ill effects of the lack of
such services. Finally, predominantly local private contractors and their workers, as well as suppliers,
would benefit from the flow of up to $25 million in contracts for municipal civil works and equipment over
the four years of the project. About 4 million people, the total population of the 33 new municipalities,
would benefit from changes in the legal and institutional framework and from the capacity building
component. The populations of the five municipalities targeted for the Municipal Grants amount to just
under 2 million.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
An organization chart of the project's implementation arrangements appears in Annex 13.
- 10 -



The Ministry of State Administration (MAE), through its Directorate for Municipal Development
(DNDA), would be the responsible central government agency for the project.
The Legal and Institutional Reformn Component would be managed directly by an official of MAE,
nominated by the Minister and reporting to the Director of DNDA. This component would have a Steering
Committee composed of officials from MAE, the Ministry of Planning and Finance, and a sample of
municipalities.
The Capacity Building component would be implemented by the semi-autonomous Intermediate Institute
for Public Administration (IMAP), under a Memorandum of Understanding signed with MAE/DNDA.
IMAP already has been designated as the training arm of the Government's new civil service training
system (Sistema de Formacao da Administracao Publica/SIFAP). Under the project, IMAP would create a
new, permanent unit within its structure, the Gabinete de Capacitacao Municipal (GCM), to manage the
component. The GCM would be staffed by seven specialists, two of whom would be counterpart staff
from IMAP and five who would be contracted through a specialized consulting firm. The GCM manager
would report to the Director of IMAP. This component would have its own Steering Committee composed
of the Director of DNDA, the Director of IMAP, and municipal officials. The GCM would operate its own
budget for the implementation of the component.
The five municipalities participating in the Municipal Grants would be implementing agencies in their
own right for the activities funded by the MG. The municipalities would sign contracts, operate bank
accounts with project funds, carry out procurement, make payments, and be accountable for their financial
and technical performance. The obligations of each party would be specified in a Grant Participation
Agreement signed between each Municipality and MAE. Each municipality would be required to establish
a project team consisting of a Council member (Coordinator), a qualified civil engineer, a qualified
accountant, and a technician. A consulting firm under contract to the Project Coordination Unit (see
below) would provide technical assistance to municipalities on request to help irnplement contracts and
transfer skills.
A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) would be established within DNDA to administer the project's
finances, oversee procurement, manage contracts, and supervise technical assistance. The PCU would be
headed by a full-time Project Director reporting to the Director of DNDA. The other staff of the PCU
would be a Senior Financial Controller, a Senior Procurement Specialist, and a three-person Grants Unit
(see below). The Terms of Reference for the PCU appear in Annex 11 of this PAD. The PCU would
provide administrative, financial management, and procurement support for the Legal and Institutional
Reform component. For the Capacity Building component, the PCU's role would be limited to the
provision of advice on administrative and procurement matters.
An ad-hoc sub-unit within the PCU would be established to manage the Municipal Grants. This
arrangement is temporary. It is expected that, as a result of the policy dialogue to be carried out during the
project on "mainstreaming" of the MG and reforms of the fiscal transfer system, (see section B.3,
Long-Terrn Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project, points a. and b.), a more permanent and
sustainable institutional "home" for the MG will have been agreed on. The responsibilities of this Grants
Unit would be: (i) to assist the municipalities to meet the requirements for funding activities; (ii) to review
the eligibility of municipalities and grant-funded activities (see Annex 2 for review mechanisms); (iii) to
supervise the consulting firm providing technical assistance to municipalities; (iv) to compile annual data
on the technical and financial performance of the municipalities; and (v) and to manage disbursements of
grants to the municipalities. The Grants Unit would be staffed by a Grants Manager, a Civil Engineer, and
- 11 -



an Accountant. A Municipal Grants Board would be established to annually review the performance of the
MG and of the participating municipalities and to hear appeals from municipalities concerning decisions of
the Grants Unit. The Board would consist of the Director of Municipal Development (chair), two
representatives of civil society nominated by the municipalities participating in the Municipal Grants, one
official of MAE, and one official of the Ministry of Planning and Finance.
The Project Director would be hired on an individual, long-term contract. The remaining staff of the PCU
would be contracted through a consulting firm.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
No intervention: The situation described in Section B.2 cries out for amelioration. The legislative reforms
of 1997 that created the municipalities and the municipal elections of 1998 have produced a major
opportunity to support Mozambique's emerging local government system. The GOM and local leaders
have been expecting the World Bank to follow up the PROL project (1994-1999) with a new operation
covering both investment and capacity building. Reforming the public sector is a priority for the
Government Decentralization, including the development of autonomous municipalities, is one of the three
major pillars of the Government's public sector reform program. Some bilateral assistance agencies have
begun to provide limited support to selected cities and towns. The World Bank is in a good position to
collaborate with other donor agencies on a comprehensive policy and capacity-building program.
Improving governance is a central pillar of the Bank Group's CAS, and the project will also contribute in
important ways to the other CAS pillars. For these reasons, the "no intervention" option was rejected.
Centrally-imlemented. multiple-city traditional investment project: A centrally implemented,
multiple-city traditional operation was considered undesirable for two reasons. First, it was agreed-and
the Bank's operational experience clearly showshat, with few exceptions, investment programs for
municipal infrastructure and services should be implemented by the municipalities themselves in the interest
of (a) building capacity through "learning by doing" and (b) ensuring the sustainability of the investments,
by making the institution responsible for operation and maintenance-the municipal government-also
responsible for implementation. It was therefore decided that, for the investment component, decentralized
implementation should be the priority approach in this new operation. This would, therefore, preclude
large-scale infrastructure works which could neither be managed nor maintained locally. Second, the
Government felt very strongly that the investment component of the proposed project should cover at least
five cities in order to meet expectations generated under PROL and to have a reasonable degree of impact.
The Bank's traditional investment approach is cumbersome when extended over multiple local governments
because it requires too much ex ante planning and review. More importantly, the traditional investment
approach does not lend itself to being expanded to more cities in future phases of the program. Therefore,
a program-type approach was needed.
Small grant Mrogram for municipal investments with development of long-tern framework: The Municipal
Grants described in C. I above and in Annex 2 would be, in principle, an agile and replicable mechanism
for financing municipal infrastructure in multiple municipalities. As a pilot program, the Municipal Grants
would be part of a first stage of support for municipal infrastructure and services, focused on building
capacity at the municipal level, ensuring that the municipalities are suitably empowered, and developing a
long-term framework for further support. The Municipal Grants would be introduced as part of the
proposed project, and, if successful, could be expanded as a key element of the long-term municipal
development program. The Municipal Grants would mitigate implementation risks by releasing only
- 12 -



modest amounts of money at one time to each municipality and by requiring acceptable use of the
previously allocated funds before further allocations. This approach would also tie in with long-term
capacity-building, in that the eligibility of municipalities for subsequent annual grants and the size of these
allocations would be based on municipalities' performance in implementation and finances.
2. Major related projects fmanced by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest SupervisJon
Sector Issue                      Project                  (PSR) Ratings
.___________________________ .______1X,_________._ t (Bank-financed  projects  only)
ImplementatIon   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Technical assistance for municipal    Local Government Reform and    S             S
government policy and capacity    Engineering (PROL), Cr. 2530.
building in three areas: legal, financial (Completed)
and administrative, and technical.
Technical assistance to strengthen legal Capacity-Building: Public   S             S
institutions and build legal capacity;   Sector and Legal Institutions
assistance to MAE to formulate and    Development Project, Cr. 2437
implement civil service reform policies, (Completed)
improve public sector personnel
management, and build administrative
capacity within the ministry and its
provincial offices
Support for establishing private sector National Water Development II  S           S
management of urban water supply in Project, Cr. 3247. (Ongoing)
the five main cities; rehabilitated and
new water supply facilities; support for
policy, regulatory, and monitoring
measures.
Institutional development of water  National Water Development I     S             S
sector; development of regulatory  Project, Cr. 3039. (Ongoing)
capacity for the sector; preparation for
private management of urban water in
five main cities; other measures in
water resource management and rural
water.
Support for the Technical Unit    Building Capacity to Guide and     S             S
(UTRESP) charged with elaborating,  Coordinate Public Service
launching, and coordinating a strategy  Reform - World Bank support
for broad, long-tern, public sector    through IDF Grant. (Ongoing)
reforn
- 13-



Other development agencies
USAID: Local Empowerment in       Strengthening of participatory
Governance Activity (LEGA) in towns governance
in Zambezia Province (completed
2000).
Finland (FINNIDA): Nacala Integrated Municipal capacity building,
Urban Development Project (completed emergency works, urban
1999).                           planning and land management.
Sweden (SIDA): Public administration  Strengthening of framework for
reform and decentralization (national   municipalities and local
level) (ongoing to 2003).        administration
Austria: Promotion of District   Capacity building in local
administration and municipalities in   planning and infrastructure
Dondo and Marromeu (ongoing to   rehabilitation.
2001).
Netherlands: Urban Environmental    Capacity building and small
Management Program (PROGAU) in  investments.
Nampula through Centro de
Desenvolvimento Sustentavel with
MICOA (completed 2000).
DANIDA: Support to the PROGAU in Same.
Montepuez, Pemba, Ilha de
Mocambique, Mocuba and Quelimane
(ongoing through 2003).
France: Addressage in Beira, Nampula, Mapping and geographic
Quelimane, and Pemba (ongoing    information bases for the four
through 2003).                    cities (as was done in Maputo).
Germany (GTZ): Decentralization and  Capacity building.
Municipal Development Project
(PDDM) in Angoche, Monapo,
Catandica, Manica and Vilankulo
(ongoing through 2006).
Swiss Agency for Development and    Capacity building of
Cooperation: Program of Support to   municipalities and civil society;
Decentralization and Municipalization  improvement of services.
(PADEM) in Cabo Delgado, Niassa,
and Nampula Provinces (pilot phase
ongoing through 2001; main phase
through 2004).
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 14 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Africa and Other Regions:
The proposed operation incorporates the main lesson of the World Bank's experience in urban development
from the region and worldwide. The main lessons on decentralization and urban management are drawn
from (i) the Africa Urban Assistance Strategy prepared for the World Bank's Urban Strategy of 1999; (ii)
the Operation Evaluation Department's Evaluation Summaries; and (iii) the report "Fiscal Decentralization
and Sub-national Finance in Africa" (DANIDA and World Bank, 2000).
The project team examined four operations in the region designed to channel funds to local governments for
investments through grant systems: the Zimbabwe Rural District Council Pilot Capital Development
Project (closed in June 2000); the Zimbabwe Local Government Capital Development Project (negotiated
but "on hold"); the Uganda Local Government Development Program (active); and the Senegal Urban
Development and Decentralization Project (active). The Bank has financed numerous municipal grant
mechanisms in other regions; two examples which were examined in the preparation of the present project
are the Parana Municipal Development Project in Brazil and the Municipal Development Projects I and 11
in the Philippines.
Among the key lessons that have been incorporated in the design of the proposed project:
I1.    Long-term approach. The project takes into account the fact that the development objectives in
the local government area are inherently long-termn and must be pursued not on a project-by-project
basis but in the framework of an extended program. This gives rise to the conceptualization of this
project as the first stage of a hoped-for long-termn program, which would be an output of the
project.
2.    Realistic objectives. A further lesson is that local government projects should establish realistic
development objectives, taking into consideration (i) the long-term nature of the fundamental
objectives and (ii) that it takes a "critical mass" of technical assistance, training, and investments,
supported by a positive "enabling environment, to produce real results. The project's development
objectives (see A. 1) have thus been forrnulated as modest, concrete, and specific objectives which
are considered achievable within the span of the project's life.
3 .    Municipal implementation. As mentioned in D. 1, the project incorporates the lesson that
investment programs for municipal infrastructure and services should be implemented by the
municipalities themselves in the interest of (i) building capacity through "learning by doing" and
(ii) promoting the sustainability of the investments.
4.    Ownership and sustainability of investments. In line with the previous point, the Municipal
Grants mechanism is designed with several features which, according to experience, should
promote ownership and sustainability of investments by municipal governments. One is the
requirement for an annual average of 10% counterpart fund contribution from municipalities
toward all activities financed by the MG. Another is the requirement for an operation and
maintenance plan for each activity financed and the monitoring of the actual performance of O&M
once investments are completed.
5 .    Attention up front to implementation. The Govemment's main client agency, the Ministry of
- 15 -



State Administration, and the Bank have invested considerable time working out the details of
effective institutional arrangements during the preparation phase. Such "up front" attention to
implementation details has been shown to be key for project impact and sustainability.
6.    Demand and performance-based approaches. Prior experience has shown that strengthening
sub-national governments should be a demand-driven process, to ensure that the interventions are
truly effective and sustainable. Ideally, the grant system should operate with self-selection of
municipalities based on meeting criteria for participation. Mozambique's municipalities and the
legal framework are too new and weak for such an approach, and the Government has insisted that
five municipalities be pre-selected for the pilot. Nevertheless, the MG does incorporate an initial"
performance incentive" approach whereby a municipality's eligibility for an annual grant is
dependent on its performance in using the previous year's grant, and the amount of the subsequent
grant varies in proportion with the municipality's ability to improve its financial position.
7.    Mitigating risks of political factors. Previous local government projects in other countries have
shown that there is a risk of political interference in the operations of capacity-building programs
and municipal funds. The ideal approach is to try to institutionalize such mechanisms outside of
Government ministries and to provide steering committees or boards with non-political members.
In this project, the Capacity Building component would be housed in a semi-autonomous body, the
Intermediate Institute of Public Administration, whose vocation is public sector training. It would
have been desirable to establish the Municipal Grants as a separate entity, but the institutional
friamework in Mozanbique is not sufficiently developed to allow it at this point. The possibility of
setting up a new Municipal Development Institute was raised during project preparation, but the
Govermnent considered the idea premature. Therefore, for the pilot phase under the project, the
MG would be managed by an ad hoc unit in the Project Coordination Unit. The expectation is that
once the MG mechanism is tested and proven, its permanent institutionalization would be examined
as a key issue for the long-term municipal development program.
Mozarnbique:
The Bank has supported two prior urban projects in Mozambique, the Urban Rehabilitation Project (PRU,
Cr. 1949), effective from 1989 to 1996, and the Local Government Reform and Engineering Project
(PROL, Cr. 2530) which became effective in 1994 and closed in 1999. PRU financed mainly
infrastructure in Maputo and Beira. The main outcome of PROL was the set of laws, known collectively
as the Pacote Autairquico, that comprise the legislation creating the first 33 autonomous municipalities.
The recently completed First Roads and Coastal Shipping Project (ROCS I, Cr. 23740), which became
effective in 1992 and closed in 1999, also provides useful lessons. The lessons from these projects which
are reflected in the MDP's design include:
1.    Definition of responsibilities. The MDP reflects the lesson that project design should be well
focused and simple, with clearly defined institutional responsibilities. MAE, through its
Directorate for Municipal Development (DNDA), would be the main central government
counterpart agency for the project (see Section C4 above). The Legal and Institutional Reform
component falls clearly within MAE's main mission, which is policy formulation and legal
oversight of municipalities. Both the Capacity Building and MG components require implementing
agencies with specialized vocations in the respective areas. In both cases these are existing
institutions (IMAP and the municipalities) with the appropriate mission.
2.    Trust and ownership. The previous projects showed that the success of efforts toward
- 16 -



governance reforms are especially dependent on a high level of trust between the Bank and the
borrower and "ownership" by the client agencies. This lesson came particularly forcefully from the
PROL project, and it has strongly affected the project preparation process. The Government's
commitment and ownership are discussed in Section D.4 below, while Section D.5 indicates the
importance the Bank placed on building the relationship with the borrower.
3.    Institutional reform and investment reinforce. The PRU focused on physical investments with
little attention to institutional or policy measures while the PROL aimed to bring about policy and
institutional changes without accompanying investments. Both projects fell short. The MDP
attempts to give due weight to both aspects, recognizing that (i) investments provide a good vehicle
for local institutional reform and capacity building and (ii) the sustainability of investments at the
local level depends on a conducive policy and legal framework at the central level.
4.     Demand driven technical assistance. Some technical assistance interventions for local authorities
in the PROL project were not successful because they were supply-driven and top-down. The new
project incorporates features to correct this. The Capacity Building component includes annual
beneficiary assessments as well as include a Steering Committee of representatives from the
municipalities who will meet twice a year to approve action plans and strategies. The Municipal
Grants also includes a Municipal Grants Board with municipal officials on it. Also, technical
assistance for the municipalities is to be supplied by a consulting firm which will operate on a
demand-driven basis. This firm would be evaluated annually for the technical quality of its outputs
as well the promptness and consistency of its responsiveness to the Municipalities.
5.     Early skill training. Experience has shown that, where implementation capacity is especially
scarce (as in Mozambique), projects should ensure that project personnel have the necessary skills
from the start. Appointment of qualified staff, and their training in administrative procedures and
Bank guidelines, are a key part of the project preparation process and the early stages of
implementation.
- 17 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The borrower's commitment at the policy level is demonstrated by the National Assembly's enactment of
the municipal legislative package in early 1997, the holding of municipal government elections in June
1998, and the drafting of some complementary regulations and decrees. Ownership of the proposed project
has grown throughout the preparation period. MAE requested a project to support the new municipalities
even before PROL closed, and the Ministry has guided the development of the project from the start. The
basic project design was established under the previous Minister for State Administration, and his
successor, who assumed his post in February 2000, reconfirmed his support for it. The Ministry's and the
Bank's project preparation teams have together gone to unusual lengths to ensure ownership from the
various implementing agencies. The municipal council leaders of the five main municipalities have been
included in the core project preparation group. Three workshops in Maputo plus two sets of major
missions to each city during the course of project preparation have enabled municipal officials and their
technical staffs to fully understand and participate in the design of the project. Consultations also were
held with members of the municipal assemblies and representatives of civil society. Finally, extensive
discussions with the Director of IMAP and his staff have contributed greatly to the design of the Capacity
Building component. In 2000 the previous Director of IMAP was appointed as head of MAE's National
Directorate for the Public Service (Direccao Nacional para Funcao Publica, DNFP, the other in MAE
apart from DNDA), responsible, inter alia, for SIFAP. This ensures the full ownership of the relevant
parts of the project by DNFP as well as DNDA, and would help coordination between the project and
SIFAP.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank is the only extemal assistance agency in a position to provide significant resources for a national
program in urban policy, capacity-building, and investrnent. While a number of other agencies are
supporting activities in the sector, their interventions are limited in scope, mostly focusing on particular
urban centers or specific aspects of urban development. The Bank's comparative advantage is to operate
simultaneously at the center and local levels, linking both capacity building and investment to policy reform
and the strengthening of municipal autonomy, enabling an iterative and cumulatively reinforcing process.
The Bank's 10 years of experience in urban development in Mozambique (through the PRU and PROL
projects) give it credibility and a mature understanding of the issues. Moreover, throughout the duration of
these projects, as well as other projects related to reform of the public sector, the Bank has built up a
relationship of confidence with MAE in particular and the Government more broadly. As a result, the
Bank is leading the support for the next stages of public sector reform, now in the design stages, which will
also be supported through a Bank-funded project. As a multilateral agency, the Bank is in a position to
serve as a focal point for establishing a programmatic framework for urban development with the
concemed Mozambican institutions and other assistance agencies. Developing a program of support over
the long-term will be an output of the project. The other main agencies active in the public sector reform
sector are UNDP, through its support of SIFAP among other initiatives, and Swedish SIDA, through its
long term support for the institutional development of MAE.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = + % (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
The legal and institutional reforms to be undertaken with the support of the project would lead at the
national level to the introduction of regulations and guidelines for municipal budgeting and accounting,
- 18-



municipal personnel management, and other elements of municipal finance and management. These
reforms would lead to local improvements in municipal taxation, fee collection, financial administration,
and service provision. These reforms are important not only for improved municipal management but also
the national economy. The value added from urban-based activities must grow faster than the economy as
a whole as countries develop economically. Urban services are essential for commercial and industrial
enterprises to modernize. In the long term, successful municipal development can reduce the dependence of
local governments on the national budget.
The above also applies to the municipal capacity building program proposed under the project. The
benefits of the training of municipal assembly members, council officials, and staff would only be realized
over time. However, in both the short and the long term it will improve the contribution of cities to
economic growth and reduce the burden of municipal governments on the national budget.
The Municipal Grants would provide an opportunity for capacity building at both the national and local
levels. The investments financed by the MG are expected to yield high economic benefits. Small and
medium scale capital investments in infrastructure rehabilitation and expansion generally yield high rates of
return compared with larger-scaled investments in new infrastructure. There have been nurnerous examples
of high economic rates of return elsewhere in Africa from these types of programs. Economic rates of
return of 20% to 60% have been common in such projects throughout Africa.
Under the Municipal Grants, each municipality would select and prepare individual investments according
to its own priorities. This would be done on a programmatic basis each year during the project period.
The investment programs for the five cities for the first three years of the project have been identified, with
their approximate costs. Detailed designs and costs for the first year's investments have been prepared.
The infrastructure sub-projects for the first year range in value from US$40,000 (sanitation facilities and
solid waste containers) to US$250,000 (upgrading of roads and drains in a lower-income area of Maputo).
The maximum size of individual works in the second and third years would approach US$450,000 in
Maputo and Beira.
The small size of the investments to be financed and the need for agile, simple procedures in the
capacity-constrained Mozambican context make it difficult to justify the time effort, and expense of
calculating conventional economic rates of return. In addition, many investments (e.g. community water
supply, sanitation, drainage and street lighting) would not lend themselves to quantification of benefits,
even if the skills to do so were readily available. Therefore, the MG would use a checklist designed to
assess the economic justification and cost effectiveness of each type of investment. This would serve as an
adequate proxy method for economic evaluation. This approach is explained in Annex 4 of this PAD and
would be set out in detail in the Project Implementation Manual.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
A detailed analysis ("Municipal Finance and Fiscal Impact Analysis", by Roy Brockman and Lauren
Wojtyla, October 2000) was undertaken of the fiscal situation and potential for financial improvement in
the five municipalities (Maputo, Beira, Quelimane, Nampula, and Pemba) which would participate in the
Municipal Grants. The cities have limited resources and are dependent on transfers from the central
governnent. Own source revenues are from fees and licenses, mostly market fees. As municipalities were
elected in 1998, comparisons of data before and after that year are difficult. The 1997 Municipal Finance
Law allows municipalities to collect several taxes (property tax, head tax, economic activity tax, and
commerce and industry tax), but municipalities have not started collecting them because regulations have
not yet been passed. Cities use most of their revenue for recurrent expenditure, mainly for personnel and
- 19-



goods and services. This leaves very little for capital improvements.
The project would provide supplemental funding to the cities for new investments through the Municipal
Grants (MG). The "Municipal Finance and Fiscal Impact Analysis" study made projections of possible
municipal finance performance in the five cities over the 2001-2005 period. Because trend projections
could not be made due to the lack of time series data, two scenarios were developed, the "status quo"
projection and the "financial improvement" projection. Based on these, the study applied a financial model
to analyze the potential impact of the annual MG allocations on the financial situation of each city. The
objective was to deternine the extent to which the municipalities could absorb the projected grant amounts,
while ensuring that sufficient funds were set aside each year for operation and maintenance of the
investments.
Under the "status quo" scenario, the amounts of investments that municipalities can afford decline
dramatically after the first year of the MG on account of the increasing maintenance costs associated with
the program and the limited net revenues generated. The "financial imnprovement" scenario, however,
shows that all the municipalities would be able to afford growing investment programs while making
adequate provisions for O&M. The financial improvement scenario is a realistic one, in which
municipalities improve their revenues, control costs, and have growing surpluses which can be used for the
annual average of 10% counterpart contribution they would pay toward MG financed activities.
Municipalities that gradually introduce reforms would afford a growing capital development program under
the project. The need for significant improvements in the collection of additional revenues is clear for each
municipality to be able to participate and for the MG's success as a program. This implies a key link with
the Legal and Institutional and Capacity Building components of the MDP.
Under the financial improvement scenario, some MT 532.8 billion in investments are possible in total for
the five municipalities over the four years of the MDP. This is equivalent to about US$33.4 million over a
four-year period. The financing plan for the project assumes a somewhat lower, though still optimistic,
outer envelope of US$25 million.
Fiscal Impact:
See above.
3. Technical:
Works and equipment financed by the Municipal Grants should be cost effective, with functional
engineering standards in accordance with sector norns. The project would incorporate the following
premises for the assessment of capital investments: (i) rehabilitation and upgrading of existing
infrastructure would normally take precedence over new infrastructure investment; (ii) the expected impact
of proposed investments on service levels and the consequences of deferring the investments should be
assessed; and (iii) the relationship of sub-projects to other sectors (e.g. increases in water supply requiring
improvements in wastewater collection and treatment) should be assessed.
The checklist that has been prepared for evaluating sub-projects eligible for financing under the MG (see
E. I above) presents specific questions and requests specific information to be used by the municipalities
and the Project Coordination Unit to assess the cost effectiveness and technical viability of each
sub-project.
The limited capacity of domestic civil works contractors is an important constraint. The possibility of
supporting capacity-building of works contractors through the project, as has been done under ROCS, will
- 20 -



be assessed.
Some of the smaller civil works would be designed with labor-intensive specifications to keep costs down
and make it easier for domestic construction firms to qualify and perform.
4. Institutional:
The institutional arrangements for the project are being put in place before the expected effectiveness of the
credit. The Ministry of State Administration (MAE) has been the Government's lead agency and is
responsible for the preparation of the project. MAE delegated this responsibility to its National Directorate
of Local Administration (DNDA). The Director of DNDA has the authority for political and strategic
guidance of the project. However, he/she would not be involved in the day-to-day management of the
project. A full-time Project Director (PD), directly responsible to the Director of DNDA, would be
appointed. The PD would head a Project Coordination Unit (UCP) which would oversee the three
components and their respective implementing agencies.
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Ministry of State Administration (MAE), through its Directorate for Local Administration (DNDA)
would be the implementing agency for the Legal and Institutional Reform component.
The Intermediate Institute for Public Administration (IMAP) a semi-autonomous organization
accountable to MAE, would be the implementing agency for the Capacity Building component, via a
Memorandum of Understanding between MAE and IMAP. A new unit, the Office for Municipal Capacity
Building (Gabinete de Capacitacao Municipal/GCM), would be created within IMAP to manage the
component. The GCM would be staffed by seven specialists, two of whom would be counterpart staff
from IMAP and five who would be contracted through a specialized consulting firm. The GCM manager
would report to the Director of INAP. The GCM would operate its own budget for the implementation of
the component. Details on the operation of the GCM appear in Annex 2 of this PAD.
The five municipalities participating in the Municipal Grants would be implementing agencies in their
own right for the activities funded by the MG. The municipalities would sign contracts, operate bank
accounts with project funds, carry out procurement, make payments, and be accountable for their financial
and technical performance. The obligations of each party would be specified in a Grant Participation
Agreement signed between each Municipality and MAE. Each municipality would be required to establish
a project team consisting of a Council member (coordinator), a qualified civil engineer, a qualified
accountant, and a technician. A consulting firm under contract to the Project Coordination Unit (see
below) would provide technical assistance to municipalities on request to help implement contracts and
transfer skills.
4.2 Project management:
To assist DNDA in project management, a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) would be established to
provide specialized, technical, and project-specific administrative skills which MAE does not have
in-house. A full-time Project Director (PD) responsible to the Director of DNDA would be appointed to
head the PCU. The other staff of the PCU would be a Senior Financial Controller, a Senior Procurement
Specialist, and the three members of the Grants Unit (see below). The PCU would provide administrative,
financial management, and procurement support for the Legal and Institutional Reform component. For the
Capacity Building component, the PCU's role would be limited to the provision of advice on administrative
and procurement matters.
- 21 -



As explained in Section D.3, it would have been desirable to establish the Municipal Grants mechanism as
a separate entity, but the institutional framework in Mozambique is not sufficiently developed to allow it at
this point. The possibility of setting up a new Municipal Development Institute was raised during project
preparation, but the Government considered the idea premature. Therefore, for the pilot phase under the
project, the MG would be managed by an ad hoc unit in the Project Coordination Unit. The expectation is
that once the MG mechanism is tested and proven, its permanent institutionalization would be examined as
a key issue for the long-term municipal development program. The Grants Unit would be staffed by a
Grants Manager, a Procurement Officer/Municipal Engineer, and an Accountant.
The Terms of Reference for the PCU as a whole and the individual positions in it appear in Annex 11 of
this PAD.
Following careful, detailed discussions between the Bank and MAE, it was decided that the Project
Director would be hired on an individual, long-term contract based on advertised, competitive recruitment.
The remaining staff of the PCU would be contracted through a consulting firm, to ensure better cohesion in
the unit, the flexibility to change, replace or increase staff as needed, and because a firm is likely to have
access to a wider selection of qualified personnel. The PD would be engaged separately to make him or her
directly responsible and accountable to the Ministry.
4.3 Procurement issues:
The PCU will include a Senior Procurement Specialist to conduct procurement and to provide advice,
training and quality control. Details of procurement arrangements appear in Annex 6 of this PAD.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The Financial Controller of the PCU will be responsible for ensuring that financial management and
reporting procedures will be acceptable to the Government, the World Bank and other Cooperating
Partners.
The principal objective of the Project's financial management system (FMS) will be to support
management in their deployment of limited resources with the purpose of ensuring economy, efficiency and
effectiveness in the delivery of outputs required to achieve desired outcomes, that will serve the needs of the
people of Mozarnbique. Specifically, the FMS must be capable of producing timely, understandable,
relevant and reliable financial information that will enable management to plan, implement, monitor and
appraise the project's overall progress towards the achievement of its objectives.
For the Project to deliver on the aforementioned objectives, the financial management system will be
developed in accordance with the Financial Management Action Plan presented in Annex 5. Salient
features of the Action Plan include: retention of a Financial Management Consultant to develop and install
the Project's FMS and to prepare the Project's Financial Procedures Manual; quarterly financial reviews
by the project's Management Team; recruitment of the PCU, Municipal accounting staff and the
availability of support staff; capacity building; establishment of a Fixed Assets Register and a Contracts
Register; monthly bank reconciliations and quarterly reporting of financial information; cash flow
management including variance analysis; and an annual external audit undettaken on terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank.
By credit effectiveness, the Project will not have in place a FMS that can provide, with reasonable
assurance, accurate and timely information as required by the Bank for PMR-based disbursements i.e. the
Project Management Report (PMR). However, the successful implementation of the Project's FMS and
Financial Procedures Manual should facilitate the introduction of PMR-based disbursements within 18
- 22 -



months of credit effectiveness. In that regard, a financial management review of the Project will be
undertaken by a World Bank Financial Management Specialist within 12 months of credit effectiveness to
assess progress. In the short-term, existing disbursement procedures, as outlined in the Bank's
Disbursement Handbook, will be followed i.e. Direct Payment, Reimbursement and Special Commitments.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
An environmental analysis (EA) was delivered in October 2000, reviewed by the Africa Safeguard Policies
Enhancement Team (ASPEN), and subsequently submitted to the World Bank's Infoshop. The EA
assessed the environmental management capacity at Mozambique's five major municipalities, namely
Maputo, Beira, Nampula, Quelimane, and Pemba. These municipalities will implement the civil works
planned under the project's Municipal Grants (MG) component. The EA also assessed the environmental
management capacity at four minor municipalities (Cuamba, Manica, Angoche, and Maxixe).
In conjunction with the above assessments, the EA report noted in detail Mozambique's numerous efforts
to address environmental issues. For example, there are two existing agreements between the Municipality
of Maputo and the Eduardo Mondlane University that support environmental studies important to the
municipality (study on mangroves and studies related to the management of waste oils generated in the
petrol stations of the city). The Municipality of Pemba has developed an environmental strategy for the
MDP and the general urban environment. Some key components include the identification of risks related
to civil works; the need for environmental impact assessment in relation to large-scale civil works;
sewerage treatment prior to discharge at the coast; and dune stabilization. The Nampula Municipality
recently renewed a partnership with a Danish NGO (MS) which will provide support in the areas of
community education, training of extension workers at the Directorate of Environment, Water and
Sanitation, and with regard to sanitation-related activities.
The results of the EA indicate that there are currently substantial variations between municipalities with
regard to their ability to identify, manage, and monitor the environmental impacts of civil works as well as
any other environmental problems for which municipalities are directly responsible. Despite these
variations, the EA report notes that it will be possible to establish the degree of capacity building required
to ensure the effective implementation of the Municipal Development Program (MDP). This is due to the
fact that the scope of civil works envisaged by the MDP is broadly comparable across all municipalities.
In this context, the level of knowledge required to establish municipal-level capacity for environmental
management of the civil works progran will be similar across municipalities.
Thus, the EA report recommends short/medium term and long term capacity building measures as follows:
*  The short/medium term training would take the form of one-week (minimum) training workshops for
technical staff responsible for day-to-day activities and the monitoring of civil works, and who
regularly engage in dialogue with the workforce. These workshops would be facilitated by Provincial
MICOA and independent specialist consultants. The curriculum should focus on (i) the environmental
impacts of the civil works program and province-specific environmental problems; (ii) relevant
Mozambican environmental legislation; and (iii) the importance of adopting a multidisciplinary
approach to EA and the forging of strong institutional links.
*  The long-term training program is proposed for technical staff already tasked with environmental
responsibilities. Those staff selected would register for masters-level specialist training in an
appropriate environmental discipline, i.e. environmental impact assessment or environmental
- 23 -



management. Independent specialist consultants would be contracted to engage in a process of
dialogue with municipal governments to identify personnel suitable for specialist training, and to
identify the most appropriate specialist training courses for the selected personnel to attend. The
consultants should also act as technical advisors on environmental issues over the duration of training
and until functioning environmental units, run by suitably qualified staff, have been established.
The proposed training program will be revisited during project implementation.
In addition, the EA report provides an environmental mitigation plan designed to address potential
environmental impacts under MDP (see Annex 12). The environmental mitigation plan will be included in
the Project Implementation Manual.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The main features of the mitigation plan are the identification of potential environmental impacts of civil
works (surface water drainage channels, waste disposal and management facilities, public latrine
construction, sewage disposal and treatment, minor road construction and rehabilitation, construction and
maintenance of footpaths, water supply, hand pump and mechanized bore hole water supply, street lighting)
and recommendations on how to prevent or mitigate against potential impacts. Institutional responsibilities,
timeframe, and cost estimates for implementation of the mitigation plan will be added during
implementation. The purpose of this mitigation plan is to assist (i) the municipal governments in
determining the scope of civil works permissible for funding under the MG; and (ii) the MDP project
coordination unit in reviewing proposals for civil works scheduled for funding under the MG.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: Final EA report received October 2000
Not applicable
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
To ensure that comparable infornation was obtained for the major and minor municipalities, a
questionnaire was prepared and forwarded to the municipal offices prior to the site visits. The responses
contained in these questionnaires formed the basis for the information presented in the EA report. First, the
EA report describes the organizational structure of the major and minor municipal councils, and second,
current capacity for managing and assessing environmental components of civil works is highlighted.
Finally, the EA report provides an assessment of the capacity of the municipalities to incorporate
environmental considerations in the planning and implementation of investment projects. Furthermore,
relevant officials and staff of the Ministry of State Administration, the Ministry of Environmental
Coordination, and the municipal governments were consulted during the preparation of the EA.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The environmental guidelines developed by the EA (see Annex 12 of this PAD) would be converted into a
procedural checklist which would become part of the Project Implementation Manual.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
- 24 -



About 4 million people, the total population of the 33 new municipalities, would benefit from changes that
the project will help to achieve in the legal and institutional framework and from improved municipal
governments performance through the capacity building component. In particular, households and
businesses in municipalities would benefit from a more accountable, responsive, and empowered local
government, as well directly from improvements in urban services and investments, and in the urban
environment. Elected municipal governments would gain from having their legitimacy enhanced, as a result
of their improved ability to provide services and from greater financial and managerial autonomy. The
urban poor would obtain health and productivity benefits from the investments in environmental
infrastructure (drainage, sanitation, community water, solid waste disposal), as they suffer
disproportionately from the ill effects of the lack of such services. Major risks of negative social impacts
are not foreseen. Physical investments will be demand-driven, and the details of the social impact cannot
be assessed at this stage. However, as explained elsewhere in this PAD, the physical investments would be
small and would be in built-up urban areas. It would be the policy of the Municipal Grants to avoid or
minimize any adverse impact such as involuntary resettlement; in any cases where an infrastructure
sub-project is likely to cause negative impact on people or property, the numbers of households affected
would be very small. Due diligence will be applied to ensure compliance with Bank safeguard policies.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
MG The key stakeholders in this project are the municipal governments and the Ministry of State
Administration which has primary responsibility for the municipal policy framework at the central level.
Please see Section D.4 of this PAD regarding their ownership and commitment. Overall participation in
the decision process at the local level will be improved by the increased accountability of elected local
officials that is a developmental goal of the project. Regarding the ultimate users of the investments under
the Municipal Grants, the PCU would ensure that affected communities are consulted from an early stage
and will provide guidance on World Bank standards during the design of physical investrnents, in particular
social assessments and resettlement frameworks when needed.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Civil society organizations will participate in the investment selection process through their representatives
in the MG Board. The MG would also include a requirement in its operational procedures that
communities affected by any physical sub-project be consulted regarding site selection and design.
Municipalities would have to document such consultations in their application for funding.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The primary, long-term development objective of the proposed project is to strengthen the capacity of
municipal governments in the areas of management, finance, and the provision of infrastructure and
services. Positive social development outcomes will consist of improved living conditions in
the municipalities as described above. All institutional arrangements designed for the project are
therefore targeted towards achieving improved social development in municipalities.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The Project Coordination Unit/Grants Unit will ensure that each dossier with a sub-project proposal
adequately documents any impact on local communities and incorporates relevant mitigation measures.
The PCU will provide annual reports on ex-post compliance with the measures.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
-25-



7777 7      :      LSS0                   ;L Poity:          App-ic:bility
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          * Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                            0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)        0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
See section 5 above regarding environmental screening provisions for small- and medium-sized urban
infrastructure investments in five municipalities financed under the Municipal Grants.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The question regarding the project's Legal and Institutional Reform component is the extent to which the
government would promptly enact the new decrees, regulations, and other legal instruments that would be
produced under this component. This is difficult to predict, because the enactment of legal instruments is a
political process. Past experience-as in the case of the Municipal Tax Code which was sent to the
Council of Ministers in mid-1998 but was only approved in December 2000-shows that there is a lot of
uncertainty as to the timing of reforms. The project finds assurance of the government's commitment to
extending the legal and institutional framework in two factors. One is that the Legal and Institutional
Reform component was prepared entirely by the Ministry of State Administration. The work plan for the
component is therefore fully "owned" by the client. The other is that municipal governments, as
autonomous political entities, have been and should continue exerting pressures on the central government
to implement the "enabling" legal instruments for municipal finance and management. There is a risk that
changing political circumstances might lead the government to not create additional municipalities or to not
extend the competencies of the existing municipalities beyond the core urban services. Either of these
situations would represent a blockage in the decentralization program. The project aims to promote
conditions in which this would be less likely to happen by enabling the municipalities to show some
concrete results through the Municipal Grants, thereby enhancing their legitimacy; by creating a framework
for further donor support; and by building support for the municipalization process among the affected
populations.
There are two aspects to the sustainability of the Capacity Building Component. One is the sustainability
of the institutional framework for providing in-service and pre-service training to officials and staff. This
faces few risks, as the new Capacity Building Office will be fully integrated into the existing IMAP from
the start. The other aspect is the sustainability of the benefits of the training. MAE's priority for the
training program under this project is to provide as many officials and staff as possible in the 33
municipalities with basic knowledge; i.e., a strategy of training widely and broadly for the many rather than
deeply for the few. It is likely, therefore, that the benefits of the training program would likewise be broad
but not deep, in the sense of substantially implanting new technical skills. Even so, as with all training
programs for the public sector, some of the benefits could be lost to the public sector (but not to the
economy as a whole) because of the government's difficulty in retaining skilled staff. The mitigation
- 26 -



measures for this are long-term. The govermment is launching the next phase of civil service reforn to help
address this problem, and the project would work closely with these initiatives. The Legal and Institutional
Reform component would seek to consolidate the autonomy of municipal governments to manage their own
staff, thus freeing them to adjust their staffing tables, salary scales, and employment conditions to local
needs and the local environment. The project would also encourage contracting private enterprises to
deliver services, as well as local consultants to complement the regular municipal staffs. Nevertheless, in
the short term, as economic growth continues to fuel demand for scarce skills, losses to the public sector of
recently-trained staff will be difficult to avoid.
The Municipal Grants mechanism also poses sustainability issues at two levels. One is the sustainability of
the MG as an institution. The MG would require outside funding (from the World Bank and/or external
assistance agencies) for its medium/long-term continuation. It is hoped that, if successful, the MG can be
moved, in the next phase of the municipal development program, from its initial ad hoc status to a more
permanent institutional "home". The expectation is that once the MG mechanism is tested and proven, its
permanent institutionalization would be examined as a key issue for the long-term municipal development
program. The other aspect concerns the sustainability of the capital investments funded by the MG. The
Municipal Grants would require all proposals for sub-projects to include evidence of community
consultation on their selection and design and an acceptable operation and maintenance plan covering
institutional responsibilities for O&M and a financing plan based on user fees and/or general revenues.
Making municipalities responsible for proposing and implementing the investments and the requirement
that municipalities contribute an annual average of 10% from their own budgets to each investment are also
designed to promote sustainability.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk               T  Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Objective 1: Develop the legal and
institutional framework for municipalities
Failure by the government to enact         S         Design of the Legal and Institutional Reform
necessary decrees, regulations, legal                component of the project has been carried out by
amendments, or other legal instruments               DNDA under the guidance of its Director and in
needed to "enable" municipalities.                   response to leadership and support from the
Minister. Their "ownership" of the work plan
for this component maximizes the chances for
pro-active follow-up on the enactment of the
reforms.
Also, the component incorporates a steering
committee and better consultative mechanisms
with MFP and other ministries than in the past
(PROL).
Objective 2: Institutionalize capacity for
municipal training and begin training
program
- 27 -



1. The Capacity Building Office (GCM)       M         The GCM would be integrated into IMAP, an
in IMAP is not sustainable.                           existing institution funded through the central
budget and itself a part of the SIFAP initiative;
SIFAP includes training for municipalities; the
project is closely coordinated with SIFAP.
IMAP would provide two full-time professional
counterparts to the GCM.
2. Resources for longer-term support of     N         Ample donor support is available, provided that
municipal capacity building are not                   the component's first stage is successful and
available.                                            macro-economic and political stability are
maintained.
3. Municipalities are unable to retain      S         The Legal and Institutional reform component
trained officials and staff.                          would promote measures to improve the ability
of municipal governments to retain and attract
qualified personnel.
Government is launching the next phase of civil
service reform to help address this problem, and
the project would work closely with these
initiatives.
Objectives 3 (pilot test the MG) and 4
(implement investments with tangible
benefits and provide municipalities with
opportunity for capacity-building through
practice):
1. Municipalities are unable to             M         Project would provide technical assistance
successfully complete an adequate number              directly to municipalities on demand.
of activities for a replicable model.
MG rules provide that if a municipality does not
meet eligibility by satisfactory performance
within six months of the beginning of the next
cycle, it would be disqualified and another
municipality invited to participate.
2. Municipalities fail to make sufficient   S         Same as previous.
efforts to improve revenues to maintain a
rising MG investment program.
3. Municipalities are not empowered by      S         See Objective 1 above.
national legal framework to improve
revenues and therefore qualify for grants
in subsequent years.
4. Sizes of the grants are not large        M         Thorough consultations with municipalities
enough to provide an incentive for                    during project preparation; possibility of
municipalities to perform under the MG.               modifying the grant amounts if justified by
annual or mid-term reviews.
- 28 -



From Components to Outputs
1. Personnel assigned to manage the      N         PCU to be staffed by an international/national
project and its components not competent           consulting group; Project Director to be
or qualified.                                      recruited on contract separately and answerable
to the DNDA Director; Capacity Building
Office to be staffed mainly by an
international/national consulting group; TORs
and qualifications established for counterpart
staff from central agencies and municipalities.
2. Lack of effective support and          M        High project "ownership" by MAE established
coordination from MAE.                             during project preparation.
3. Political interference in the smooth   M        Project Director and PCU hired separately with
operation of the project.                          detailed TORs. Careful annual and mid-term
reviews.
4. Lack of counterpart funds from GOM     S        High project "ownership" by MAE established
during project preparation should produce
pro-active counterpart funds mobilization.
5. Project personnel unfamiliar with      N        Detailed Project Implementation Manual under
procurement and financial management               preparation; training of MAE, PCU, IMAP, and
procedures.                                        municipal personnel to be provided through
pre-effectiveness period.
6. Consultants, works contractors, or     S        Project managers would be trained to follow
suppliers fail to perform effectively.             procurement guidelines; technical assistance
would be provided to help them with supervision
of consultants and contractors.
7. The quality of training courses under  M        Course evaluations; annual reviews;
the Capacity Building component is                 twice-annual meetings of Steering Committee to
inadequate or courses do not respond to            ensure course quality; periodic monitoring of
municipalities' needs.                             cost-effectiveness of training courses.
8. Central unit for MG (Grants Unit in    M        PCU and Grants Unit to be staffed by qualified
PCU) fails to operate in a "facilitating"          professionals hired on contract; detailed TORs
manner.                                            and Implementation Manual establish
facilitating modus operandi.
9. Municipal councils and assemblies      M        High level of ownership by Municipal Council
unable to agree on meeting eligibility              Presidents and other officials established during
requirements or to provide adequate                project preparation; Municipalities would be
leadership and technical staff.                    provided orientation on Grant Participation
Agreements before effectiveness.
10. Municipalities unable to provide      M        Work with municipalities during project
counterpart funds                                  preparation is assuring that 2001 municipal
budgets will include allocations for MG
counterpart funds; Municipal finance study has
shown that counterpart contributions are
affordable.
- 29 -



11. Municipalities fail to implement          S         Project would provide technical assistance
revenue and financial improvements.                     directly to municipalities on demand; financial
and revenue improvements shown to be feasible
by municipal finance study; results of study
being disseminated and discussed with
municipal officials.
Except for Maputo, it is expected that grant
amounts are sufficiently high to constitute a
meaningful incentive for municipal leaders to
make revenue and financial improvements.
12. Municipalities fail to supply timely      M         See previous three risks; Project would finance
and reliable data to establish their                    annual independent audits of each municipality.
eligibility for subsequent grants.
13. Municipal staff fail to adequately        M         Each municipality required to establish project
manage procurement or to supervise                      unit consisting of council member, procurement
contractors, suppliers, or consultants.                 officer/municipal engineer, accountant, and
technician with acceptable qualifications;
technical assistance will be provided to
municipalities on demand.
Overall Risk Rating                           S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
While most of the risk factors are rated "M", some combinations occurring at once -- particularly those
risks related to political conditions (such as the Government's enacting the enabling legal instruments, the
municipalities' councils and assemblies being able to take effective decisions, or the municipalities'
improving their revenues) -- would pose a substantial risk to the project. Therefore the overall risk rating is
li59I*
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The project has no controversial aspects.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
1. Grant Participation Agreements signed by at least three municipalities.
2. Memorandum of Understanding between IMAP and MAE signed.
3. Project Director and PCU staff mobilized.
4. Project account opened.
5. Municipal Grants Board members officially designated and first meeting held.
6. External auditors appointed
- 30 -



7. Project financial management system established, including financial manual within PIM and
appointment of financial management staff in PCU and Municipal nucleos.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
None.
Conditions of Disbursement for each municipality under the Municipal Grants:
1. Municipal Project (counterpart) account opened, signatories designated, and initial deposit made.
2. Municipalities comply with MG eligibility requirements: (i) qualified staff in place, (ii) signature of the
Grant Participation Agreement, (iii) audits of 1999 accounts, and (iv) funds budgeted in following year's
municipal budget.
Conditions of disbursement for Legal and Institutional Reform component:
1. Official of MAE officially appointed to manage component.
2. Steering committee for Legal and Institutional Reform component officially designated.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
3 1. b) Not applicable.
X 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
3 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
Ol 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Alan G. Carroll                          S. R;  k               ~ Darius Mans
Team Leader                       Sector Manager/Director           Country Manager/Director
- 31 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
MOZAMBIQUE: MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Hi;  arhy of Objctve             Indiato             Monhitoin&  vluation    CriticaC l lAssmptioWs;
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:       Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
1. Improving govemance and (a) Additional building blocks Surveys of municipalities'    Municipal governance is
empowerment               of GOM's decentralization    indicators.            integrated with overall public
policy put in place (human                          sector and governance reform.
resources and fiscal transfer
system for autonomous
municipalities).
(b) Institutional capabilities of
autonomous municipalities
strengthened.
(c) Foundation laid for
extension of autonomy to new
municipalities.
(d) Improvements in selected
municipal indicators
including (i) increased own
source revenue collections per
capita; (ii) operating surpluses
in current budgets; (iii) staff
levels per 1,000 of population
decline; (iv) numbers of
professional and technical
staff increase.
2. Increasing economic    (a) Improved technical and   National economic indicators. Municipalities gradually but
opportunities through private  financial capacity of                           steadily assume significant
sector led growth         municipal governments to                            responsibilities for provision
provide urban infrastructure                        of infrastructure and services.
and services; (b) Increased
productivity of economically
strategic cities through
infrastructure investments; (c)
Reforms of local regulatory
framework enabled.
3. Increasing human      (a) Alleviation of ill health    National social indicators.    Municipalities gradually
capabilities              and low productivity of urban                        assume a significant role in
residents, especially those of                      reducing poverty through
lower incomes; (b) Improved                         provision of infrastructure and
knowledge and skills among                          services.
municipal officials and staff.
- 32 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
1. Assist the govemment to   (a) Long-term policy and  Annual and mid-term project To Goals 1 and 3:
extend the legal, institutional, institutional reform program   reviews.        (a) Political stability
and fiscal framework for   for municipalities agreed and                        continues.
municipal govemance,       approved.                                            (b) Political commitment to
focusing on the municipal    (b) Decrees, regulations, legal                    decentralization, public sector
finance and human resources  amendments, and other                              reform, and accountable
systems.                  instruments drafted for                                govemance is sustained.
enactment by higher political                         (c) The political framework of
authorities.                                         the municipalities is adequate
(c) Studies, guidelines, and                          and robust enough for
manuals conceming                                     effective decision-making.
municipal human resources,
finances, and management
completed and disseminated.
2. Create an institutional  (a) Permanent unit       (a) Annual and mid-term     To Goal 2:
framework for training of  established in IMAP to    project reviews.           (a) Favorable macroeconomic
elected and appointed     manage training for        (b) Periodic reports from  conditions for private
municipal official and    municipalities, with       IMAP to MAE.                sector-led growth continue.
municipal employees and    substantive involvement of   (c) Annual course evaluations. (b) Autonomous
begin training officials and   IMAP management and    (d) Annual independent audits municipalities are empowered
staff of all municipalities in   counterparts.       of courses (efficiency and  legally, politically, and
basic administrative and   (b) Strategy for training for   costs).              financially to invest in
technical subjects.        municipalities developed and                         improvements in urban
under implementation with                            infrastructure and services.
linkages to the govemment's
public sector reform and
SIFAP.
(c) Target numbers of
municipal officials and
municipal staff trained (per
targets set in project).
3. Pilot test a Municipal  (a) MG is closely monitored   Annual and mid-term project
Grants mechanism to finance  quarterly and evaluated  reviews.
investments by the        annually, based on which it is
municipalities, with a view to  "de-bugged" and modified.
laying a foundation for a  (b) By the end of the project, a
mechanism which would     refined MG is available for
eventually become a part of   replication and eventual "
the intergovemmental transfer mainstreaming" within the
system.                   Government's institutional
and fiscal framework.
- 33 -



4. Implement, through the    Impacts:                    (a) Impact measurement
MG, capital investments      (a) Roads: improved access;  surveys.
which would have tangible    more efficient circulation.    (b) Municipal performance
economic and social benefits  (b) Sewerage and sanitation:  data collection and analysis.
while also providing an      new facilities adequately
opportunity for municipalities maintained and used.
to improve their technical and (c) Drainage: alleviation of
financial capacities.       ponding and flooding in
affected areas.
(d) Solid waste: reduction of
indiscriminate dumping of
refuse.
(e) Markets and bus
terminals: improved efficiency
and environmental conditions.
Capacity:
(a) Increased own source
revenue collections per capita.
(b) Operating surpluses in
current budgets.
(c) Eligibility of
municipalities for subsequent
annual grants.
(d) Effective procurement and
supervision of works and
goods.
(e) Numbers of professional
and technical staff increase.
-34 -



Key Pemormance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitorln  & Evaluation    Critical Assuptons
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Component 1. Legal and   (a) Pacote Autarquico    (a) Quarterly and annual   Outputs to Objective 1:
Institutional Reform:     reviewed for conflicts or gaps progress reports.      (a) New legal instruments
(a) Decrees, regulations, and  and appropriate amnedments  (b) Annual and mid-term  enacted by higher political
other legal instruments based  drafted and submitted to  reviews.               authorities.
on the Pacote Autarquico of  higher authorities for passage.                    (b) New legal instruments
1997, focusing on the areas of (b) Decrees, regulations, and                    enacted are adequate.
municipal finance, municipal other legal instruments                            (c) MAE effectively mobilizes
human resource management, drafted and submitted                                participation and support of
and transfer of new        concerning recruitment,                              Ministry of Planning and
responsibilities to municipal  management and mobility of                       Finance and other
governments.              municipal staff; municipal                            stakeholders for new legal
(b) Models, guidelines, and   revenue collection, budgets,                      instruments.
manuals to help municipal   financial management,
governments to perform their accounting, and expenditure
functions, with particular  management; and the transfer
emphasis on improving     of responsibilities and
delivery of urban services and resources (e.g. for primary
better financial management. education and primary health)
(c) Studies and guidelines to  to the municipalities.
assist municipalities in  (c) Diagnostic study of the
securing and managing the    current staffing situation in
appropriate staff.        municipalities completed.
(d) Models and guidelines for (d) Manuals on recruitrnent,
improved revenue and      selection and employment
expenditure management    conditions of municipal staff;
systems, accounting practices, preparation, execution and
and budgeting.            monitoring of municipal
budgets; improving existing
municipal financial
management systems;
expenditure
management;implementing a
tax cadaster; and preparation
and execution of municipal
development plans and
municipal annual action plans
(e) Case by case analyses for
transfer of responsibilities for
primary education and
primary health in at least the
five major municipalities, and
necessary legal instruments
for transfer drafted.
- 35 -



(f) Guidelines and proposals
for private sector participation
and municipal public
enterprises disseminated and
adopted in at least 2-3
municipalities
(g) Methodology developed
and discussed for community
participation in municipal
decision-making
2. Component 2. Capacity    (a) GCM established in IMAP                               Outputs to Objective 2:
Building:                    at project effectiveness and                             (a) The GCM and IMAP are
(a) A permanent unit (GCM)  plans in place for continued                              maintained in place.
in IMAP for planning and    existence of GCM at project                               (b) The resources for future
management of training and   close.                                                   training of municipalities will
technical assistance for     (b) Strategy developed and                                be available from donors and
municipalities.              under implementation.                                     government.
(b) A strategy for short-to  (c) Targeted numbers of                                  (c) Municipalities can retain
medium-term in service       municipal elected and                                    trained officials and staff.
training and annual action   appointed officials and
plans.                       municipal staff trained (see
(c) Training courses per the   detailed project description for
project plan for elected and    exact targets).
appointed municipal officials  (d) Technical assistance on
and staff.                   demand and research studies
(d) Technical assistance and   carried out.
research according to TA     (e) Standard courses for
action plan.                 pre-service training identified
(e) Standard courses for     (f) Archive of short- and
pre-service training identified. medium-term courses
(f) Archive of standard short-  established.
and medium-term courses.    (g) Links with foreign
(g) Links with training boards training boards established.
of other countries.
3. Component 3. Municipal   (a) Unit to manage MG                                      Outputs to Objectives 3 and 4:
Grants:                      established and in operation.                             (a) Municipalities are able to
(a) A unit to manage the MG. (b) Sub-projects designed and                             complete an adequate number
(b) Sub-projects (small to  implemented.                                               of activities to develop a
medium infrastructure,       (c) Municipalities effectively                           replicable model.
equipment, or consultants)    manage activities from                                  (b) Amounts of grants are
identified, designed,       identification to maintenance.                             large enough to provide an
implemented, and maintained  (d) Municipalities integrate                             incentive for municipalities to
by municipalities using grants costs and revenues of                                  perform.
from MG and their own        investments into their                                   (c) Municipalities are
funds.                       budgets.                                                  empowered by national legal
(c) Municipalities use private                                                        framework to improve
works contractors, suppliers,                                                          revenues and thereby qualify
and consultants effectively.                                                           for grants in subsequent years.
(d) Municipal budgets                                                                 (d) Municipalities make
incorporate costs and                                                                  sufficient efforts themselves to
revenues of investments.                                                              improve revenues.
- 36 -



- 37 -



Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:        (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
(a) Progress reports from each Applicable to all Components:
implementing agency
(b) Annual and mid-term  (a) Qualified and competent
project reviews.          personnel assigned to manage
the project and its
components.
(b) Effective support and
coordination by MAE.
(c) Absence of political
interference in the operation
of the project.
(d) Project personnel trained
in Bank procedures.
(e) Required counterpart
funds provided by GOM.
(f) Adequate project
supervision.
1. Legal and Institutional  US$ 3.6 million                                   Specific to Legal and
Reform                                                                        Institutional Reform
component:
(a) Consultants perform
effectively.
(b) Coordination by MAE is
effective.
2. Municipal Capacity     USD 5.2 million                                     Specific to Capacity Building
Building                                                                      component:
(a) IMAP's management
treats GCM as a part of the
institution.
(b) Appropriate candidates for
training provided by
municipalities.
(c) IMAP and other
institutions are capable of
providing appropriate courses.
(d) Consultants perform
effectively.
- 38 -



3. Municipal Grants Fund     US$ 24.9 million                                            Specific to Municipal Grants:
(a) Municipal councils and
assemblies are able to agree
on signing Grant Agreements,
to settle on investment plans,
to allocate funds, and to
provide adequate leadership
and technical staff.
(b) Municipalities are able to
provide 10% annual average
counterpart funds.
(c) Contractors, suppliers, and
consultants perform
effectively.
(d) Municipalities implement
revenue and financial
improvements.
(e) Government releases
counterpart funds for IVA.
(f) Project management
adopts a facilitating approach.
(g) Municipalities supply
timely and reliable data to
establish their eligibility for
subsequent grants.
- 39 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
MOZAMBIQUE: MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
By Component:
Project Component I - US$3.37 million
LEGAL AND INSTITUTIONAL REFORM COMPONENT
Introduction
I .    The process of decentralization currently under way in Mozambique began in the 1980s. During
this period, the Mozambican Government was seeking solutions to the increasingly complex problems of
urban management in the country. The debate surrounding this issue culminated, in September 1988, in a
seminar on the Reform of Local Government Administration (financed by the World Bank.) In November
1991, with the conclusion of a further seminar, on the Reform of the Local Organs of the State, the
Government launched a series of studies in a sample of towns and cities with the aim of gaining a better
understanding of the issues concerning urban infrastructure, municipal administration, municipal finance,
and urban environment.
2.    The Governuent's analysis led it to define, broadly, a course of decentralization in Mozambique.
In 1990 and in 1996 the Government amended the Constitution to allow for the devolution of powers. This
created the conditions for new, autonomous actors to add their efforts to seeking solutions to Mozambique'
s growing urban management problems. In March 1993, the Council of Ministers launched a program of
decentralization. The process of decentralization was to be gradual, both from the perspective of the rate at
which it would create new autonomous authorities and enlarge the territory under autonomous control, as
well as from the perspective of increasing the areas of responsibility of the autonomous authorities.
3.    To put this program into effect the Government began carrying out the extensive studies and
revising the necessary legislation that would lead to the legal, institutional, and administrative changes for
creating autonomous municipal govemments and holding local elections. This work was made possible
with the support of the World Bank through the Local Govermment Reform and Engineering Project
(PROL) and of the Swedish International Development Agency (ASDI) through their pilot district
governments program. The objective of the assistance of these two development partners was the
elaboration of a new legal framework for municipal govermment, and the creation of autonomous local
public authorities with legal identities independent from the state. These authorities would have
autonomous responsibility for public administration, finances and public property within their authority.
The first stages of the process of gradual decentralization, since 1997, were the following:
*   Elaboration and approval of the Law of Municipalities (Law 2/97).
Elaboration and approval of complementary legislation - Legal instruments 4,5,6,7,8,9,10,11, and
12/97.
Creation of a first set of 33 municipalities.
* Undertaking the first municipal elections.
Installation of the first municipal governments.
Holding of the first training seminar for the heads of new municipal governments.
Training of the heads, elected and appointed officials, and staffs of the new govemrnments.
Monitoring and support of the activities of the municipal governments and identification of emerging
problerns.
4.    The process of decentralization is taking place against the backdrop of a country undergoing rapid
-40 -



change, from war to peace and from a centrally commanded economy to one driven by market forces. The
Government hopes that, by harnessing the greater ability of communities to solve their problems and
improve their well-being locally, the process of decentralization will help to soften the negative impacts of
the changes taking place at the national level. The decentralization program is expected to expand slowly
to incorporate a growing number of autonomous municipalities. The Government and the Bank are
preparing the current Project within this strategic context. The primary, long-term development objective
of the proposed project is to strengthen the capacity of municipal governments in the areas of management,
finance, and the provision of infrastructure and services. It is expected that this project will constitute a
first stage of a longer term program of support for Mozambique's decentralization program.
Objectives
5.    The main objective of this component is to undertake the institutional and legal reforms needed to
allow the municipalities to exercise fully their powers and responsibilities as defined by the law. At the
same time, the component will integrate and harmonize the ongoing process of administrative
deconcentration and decentralization to local authorities within the broader process of reform of the public
sector now under way.
6.    The specific objectives of this component are:
a.    Complete and refine the legal and institutional framework based on the Pacote Autarquico of 1997
(the Law of Municipalities and complementary legislation), particularly in the areas of municipal
fiscal management, municipal human resource management, and transfer of new responsibilities to
municipal governments.
b.    Develop new administrative models, consistent with the capacity available within each
municipality, that will allow the new municipal governments to perform their functions (with
particular emphasis on improving the delivery of urban services and on better financial
management).
c.    Assist the municipalities, through studies and technical support, in securing the appropriate
municipal staff, including training of existing staff in coordination with the Capacity Building
Component of the Project, and in parallel with the development of new legal instruments being
elaborated governing municipal human resource management.
d.    Develop improved revenue and expenditure management systems, including better municipal
taxation systems, improved accounting practices, and greater transparency for municipal
expenditures.
e.    Provide technical assistance to the municipal governments in areas of common concem such as
financial management, municipal administration, and coordination with the other components of
the Project.
f.    Provide institutional support to the central, provincial and local levels of government in their
relationships with the municipalities, in particular to the ministries with oversight responsibility for
the municipal governments.
Activities and Expected Outputs
7.    The Legal and Institutional component comprises four sub-components: (a) Human Resources, (b)
Municipal Finance, (c) Municipal Management, Administration and Service Provision, and (d) Technical
Assistance. Activities and expected outputs from each sub-component are outlined below. Staffing
necessary for each component, denominated in person/months (p/m) are indicated in each.
- 41 -



Sub-component (a): Human Resources
8.     Activities and outputs from this sub-component will include:
a.     Undertaking a diagnostic study of the current staffing situation and structure in the municipalities.
This activity will include collecting data from all 33 of the municipalities, comparing that data with the
records of MAE and the MPF., and holding seminars with representatives of the central, provincial and
municipal authorities. The output of this activity will be a detailed study of the current staffing situation in
the municipalities, including the number of staff, their roles and positions, the level of education and
training, and other pertinent data.
b.     Developing alternative model staffing tables for the municipalities as guidelines for municipal
governments and to facilitate review and ratification of new staffing tables proposed by the municipalities.
These guidelines will be developed in collaboration with MPF and the municipalities, and the activities will
also include seminars with representatives from these authorities.
c.     Elaborating manuals for the management of human resources of the municipalities, in coordination
with the Ministry of Planning and Finance (MPF) and the municipalities. Outputs will include the manuals
themselves, as well as their distribution to all municipalities and to other organs of government involved
with municipal staffing (e.g. provincial offices of MAE.)
d.     Elaborating drafts of the following legislation: the law goveming the mobility of personnel between
government and the municipalities, and decrees on recruitrnent, management, rights and duties of municipal
staff, and also municipal staffing structures This will include a study of the existing legislation to establish
the legal instruments that need to be revised and the new legal instruments that need to be passed.
e.     Elaborating draft legal standards for the training of elected and appointed municipal officials and
municipal staff.
9.     It is expected that the bulk of these activities will be under way during the first and second years of
the project. The human resources specialist, the lawyer and the public administration specialist will have
primary responsibility for them. Total time spent on this sub-component is estimated at 38 p/m of principal
staff (4 p/m of national staff and 34 p/m of international staff) and 4 p/m of short term consultants.
Sub-component (b): Municipal Finance
10.    Activities and outputs from this sub-component will include:
a.     Revising the model municipal ordinances and elaborating the draft of the relevant decree.
b.     Elaborating the regulations and manuals required for putting into practice the complementarv
legislation to Law 11/97.
c.     Undertaking studies with a view to possible alterations or corrections to the Pacote Autairquico.
d.     Revising the Municipal Tax Code (Codigo Tributario) on the basis of practical experience of
municipal governance.
e.     Improving the existing municipal finance system in order to satisfy the requirements of the present
municipal functions, in particular:
-      Proposing improvements to the current procedures for municipal expenditure, in particular with
regard to accountancy and internal control;
-      Elaborating manuals for the preparation, approval, execution and control of municipal budgets,
including tesouraria;
-      Designing the procedures necessary to enable the municipalities to start collecting taxes and fees,
once the complementary decrees have been approved, and elaborating a manual on the creation of
databases on taxpayers;
- 42 -



f.    Undertaking studies and defining operational guidelines for public investment in the municipalities
and the assignment of responsibility for public investment between the state and autonomous
municipalities;
g.     Elaborating manuals on designing programs of municipal investment;
h.     Elaborating a draft of the legislation on contratos-programa between the state and municipalities
11.   These activities will take place throughout the project, and the lawyer, the economist and the public
administration specialist will have primary responsibility for them. Total time spent on this sub-component
is estimated at 58 p/m of principal staff (23 p/m of national staff and 35 p/m of international staff) and 24
p/m of short term consultants.
Sub-component (c): Municipal Management, Administration and Service Provision
12.   Activities and outputs from this sub-component will include:
a.   Undertaking a diagnostic study of the existing management structures and operational practices of
municipal governments and proposing improvements.
b.   Undertaking studies of the provision and administration of municipal services and proposing
improvements, including elaborating draft legal instruments concerning autonomous municipal
services (Servicos Autonomos) and municipal public enterprises (Empresas Publicas Autarquicas).
c.   Undertaking studies and developing instruments and methodologies for the elaboration, supervision,
and execution of a) municipal development plans; and b) annual action plans, and mechanisms for
their adjustment.
d.     Revising the draft decree governing the transfer of responsibilities (e.g. for primary education,
primary health).
e.     Undertaking case by case analyses of proposals for transfer of responsibility, and drafting the legal
instruments necessary in order to effect the transfer.
13.   The public administration specialist, lawyers, economist, and municipal development specialist will
take primary responsibility for these activities, which will take place mainly during the first two years of
the project. Total time spent on this sub-component is estimated at 54 p/m of principal staff (10 p/m of
national staff and 44 p/m of international staff) and 10 p/m of short term consultants.
Sub-component (d): Technical Assistance
14.   Activities and outputs from this sub-component will include:
a.     Providing institutional support to the MPF and MAE, in order to create capacity for dissemination
of approved laws and regulations to the municipalities and other bodies, and for interpretation and
clarification of the laws.
b.     Developing a mechanism for securing the participation of conmmunities and other relevant groups in
municipal management, including ways of disseminating municipal legal instruments and regulations and of
receiving community input.
c.     Creating capacity for provision of technical support to the municipalities at the start of
implementation of new laws and regulations, and for systematic monitoring of the work of the municipal
organs.
15.    Activities for this sub-component will take place throughout the project, and the lawyer and the
public administration specialist will take primary responsibility for them. Total time spent on this
- 43 -



sub-component is estimated at 21 p/m of principal staff (11 p/m of national staff and 10 p/m of
international staff) and 11 p/m of short term consultants.
Implementation Arrangements
16.   The implementing agency for this component will be The Ministry of State Administration (MAE).
A senior official of MAE will be the Component Coordinator. The Minister of MAE will appoint this
official, who will be subordinated to the Director of DNDA. He or she will submit the required periodic
reports to the Project Director. The Component Coordinator's responsibilities will include:
The day-to-day management of the component.
* The development of effective communication and coordination mechanisms with the municipalities
and other state institutions involved;
The production of the required periodic reports.
17.   The Legal and Institutional Reform component will be managed as an integrated whole. The
various activities listed above will be implemented in such a way that they reinforce each other. The
Component Coordinator will therefore be responsible for ensuring that the various activities are fully
coordinated with each other, and that there is a free flow of information between them.
18.   The Project Coordination Unit will be responsible for procurement and financial management of
the component, payment of operating costs from the MDP funds and logistical support.
19.   DNDA, through the Project Coordinating Unit, will secure the service of a firm to provide the staff
to undertake the component activities. The firm will be engaged by MAE, and will report to the
Component Coordinator. The firm will provide the professional staff, as well as the secretarial and
logistical support staff needed for the component. MAE will provide the necessary office space, if
possible, within the MAE main office.
20.   The Component Coordinator will seek frequent coordination meetings with the MPF and the
municipalities. The component will establish links with other relevant institutions, such as: a) the Unidade
Tecnica para Reforma do Sector Publico, the inter-ministerial technical group for public sector reform; b)
the Ministry of Planning and Finance; c) the National Directorate for Public Administration in MAE; d) the
Direc,coes Provinciais de Apoio e Controle and the Direc,ces Provinciais de Plano e Finan,as, the
provincial offices of MAE and MPF; e) NGOs; and f) civil society. The Component Coordinator will
establish fortnal consultation processes with these institutions, and will ensure that staff of the component
adhere to them.
21.   The Ministry of State Administration will establish a Steering Committee (SC) consisting of the
National Director for Municipal Development (chair), two representatives of the municipalities, one
representative each from the Ministry of Planning and Finance (MPF) and the Ministry of Public Works
and Housing (MOPH), one representative from the Directorate for Public Administration in MAE (DNFP),
and one representative of civil society. The Component Coordinator will attend Steering Committee
meetings, but without voting rights.
22.   The representatives of the municipalities will be designated by the Minister of State Administration
after consultation with the 33 municipalities. The representative of civil society will also be designated by
the Minister of State Administration.
23.   The Steering Committee will meet ordinarily every six months, and extraordinarily when necessary.
- 44 -



Its functions will be to provide advice on the component implementation strategy, to help coordinate the
work between Ministries, and to review implementation of the component. The costs of Steering
Committee meetings will be supported by the Project. It should be noted that the Project will not pay
honoraria to members.
Staffing
24.    Aside from the Component Coordinator, who will be a senior MAE official, a consulting fimn will
provide the professional/technical specialists for the component. The staff needed is indicated below and in
Annex A. Allowance for short term consultants (including administrators, accountants, programmers,
sociologists, engineers, tax experts, public expenditure experts, urban planners, lawyers, and facilitators),
international and national, are also included. This will permit the consulting firm and DNDA to access a
range of different skills as needed throughout the project. Staff needed is as follows:
a.     One national lawyer, full time for the duration of the project (48 p/m).
b.     One international Public Administration Specialist, full-time for the full duration of the project (48
p/m).
c.     One intemational economist (36 p/m), who will work for three years starting midway through the
first year of the project.
d.     One international Hunan Resources Specialist, for an estimated total of 21 p/m.
e.     One international Municipal Development Specialist, for an estimated total of 18 p/m.
f.    International short term consultants in various areas of specialization for an estimated 24 p/m.
g.     National short term consultants in various areas of specialization for an estimated 25 p/m.
h.     Secretarial and logistic staff to be provided throughout the consultant contract.
25.    The following table illustrates the possible allocation of staff resources during the project.
Staff Allocations for the Legal and Institutional Reform Component
Year I          Year 2          Year 3           Year 4
1       2       1       2       1        2       1       2
Lawyer
Public Admin. Specialist    P-
Economist                    -
Human Resources Specialist   -
Municipal Devt. Specialist
Budget
-45 -



26.   The overall budget for the component is estimated at US$ 3.3 million equivalent base cost (without
price/inflation contingencies). Of this, it is estimated that US$ 3.0 million will go to consulting services, to
be provided by consultants. Training is budgeted at $120,000; vehicles and equipment will require
$180,000. A summary budget is attached as Appendix A
- 46 -



Appendix A
Budget for Legal and Institutional
Item             Cost
Staff
Consultants
Sub-component (a)   702,000
Sub-component (b)   922,500
Sub-component (c)  1,017,000
Sub-component (d)   333,000
Secretarial and logistic staff    25,500
Sub-total               3,000,000
Training                   120,000
Equipment                      180
Total                    3,300,000
Project Component 2 - US$4.77 million
CAPACITY BUILDING COMPONENT
Objectives
I .    The Capacity Building component of the MDP will provide in-service training to municipal staff,
elected and appointed officials, and other groups which support the municipalities. It will also develop
materials for pre-service training and provide technical assistance to develop and improve systems and
processes.
2.    The overall objective of the component is to improve capacity among the municipal government
members and staff to perform their respective tasks, through training and technical assistance in the 33
existing municipalities, and in any new municipalities that are created during the life of the project. The
project will develop a strategy for training and technical assistance that encompasses training in the
municipal government system and public administration in Mozambique in general, as well as essential
technical skills needed by the municipal authorities, such as municipal finance and delivery of basic
services. This strategy will begin by focusing on those skills most urgently needed by municipalities during
the project period that will enable them to manage the municipal development grant system and improve the
delivery of services. The project will fund some of the training and technical assistance within the strategy,
and will link with other donors and institutions who are currently providing or planning to provide support
for programs that could come within the strategy.
- 47 -



3.    A secondary objective is to build capacity at the national level to design and manage programs of
training and technical assistance for the municipalities over the long term.
Outputs
4.    The following indicative outputs would be expected by the end of the four years of the Municipal
Development Project. A definitive set of outputs would be developed during the start-up phase of the
project:
a.    A permanent unit established for planning and management of training and technical assistance for
the municipalities
b.    A strategy for short and medium term in-service training to be implemented under the MDP,
elaborated during the start-up phase of the project and reviewed and amended annually; and annual
action plans to realize the strategy.
c.    A target of 75 (7-8 per province) staff of the municipalities and relevant provincial directorates
trained as trainers, to create a pool of local trainers for municipal training activities funded under
the MDP and beyond.
d.    A target of 740 existing elected and appointed municipal officials (80 percent) provided with basic
training in the functioning of the municipal government system.
e.    A target of 340 new elected and appointed officials coming in with the municipal elections of 2003
(up to 50 percent) provided with at least one introductory course in the functioning of the
municipal government system (the precise number to be defined at mid term in accordance with the
number of new municipalities, the government's capacity for training within the component, and
the resources remaining).
f.    Each Municipal Assembly President provided with basic training in their specific functions and
duties.
g.    A target of 225 Council Presidents and members (7 per municipality) provided with one course in
planning and management of   basic public services and infrastructure.
h.    A target of 225 Presidents and members (7 per municipality) provided with one course in the
principles of financial planning and budgeting for municipalities.
i.    A target of 135 Council Presidents and members (4 per municipality) provided with one course in
environmental management.
j.     A target of 160 management and senior technical employees (80 percent) provided with basic
introductory courses to municipal government in Mozambique.
k.    Each municipal assembly secretary provided with one specialized course in the duties and
responsibilities of the post.
1.    A target of 50 management and senior technical employees of new municipalities created between
2001 and 2003 provided with basic introductory courses to municipal government in Mozambique.
m.    A target of 160 management and senior technical staff involved in municipal finance and delivery
of basic services (sanitation, road maintenance, waste management, etc.) (80 percent) provided
with at least one course to upgrade their technical skills.
n.    All financial and project management staff of cities participating in the Municipal Grant Program
(40 people, 8 per city) provided with the training and technical assistance necessary to implement
this component of the project.
o.    A target of 80 staff (8 per province, 4 each from DPAC and DPPF) of institutions which interact
with the municipalities (such as DPAC and DFFP) provided with training relating to their roles and
responsibilities with regards to the municipalities.
p.    Two support staff or junior technicians from each existing and new municipality (140 individuals)
provided with a course in  basic administrative skills (e.g. filing) and or computer skills (e.g.
-48 -



word-processing)
q.     Technical assistance, focusing on improving systems and processes for financial management,
delivery of key services, and public accountability, previded according to the technical assistance
action plan.
r.     Periodic reviews of needs and impacts of training and technical assistance by central and municipal
authorities leading to new work programs; these reviews to be continuing and institutionalized.
s.     Preparation of materials for a series of standard courses to be offered at vocational school,
university and graduate level to qualify candidates for management and technical staff positions in
the municipalities (pre-service courses). Courses would consist of up-to-date and relevant
curricula available at various existing institutions in Mozambique. The courses would constitute
standard preparation for entry into the municipal civil service. The project would help identify and
develop such courses, but their implementation would not be supported by credit fands.
t.     Links with training boards in other countries established and yielding results in terms of exchange
programs, participation of Mozambicans in programs abroad, and inputs into the design of courses
in Mozambique.
u.     Research studies undertaken as necessary.
v.     An archive of standard short and medium term courses established.
Training Programs
5.     The training courses supported by the project will be detailed as part of the strategy and work
program development just prior to the start of the project and during the first phase. However, training
programs are expected to consist of the general types below. In total, it is estimated that the project will
support 15 to 20 different courses, offered in an average of 17 sessions per year, for a total of about 77
sessions with an average participation of 30 at each session.
6.      It is estimated that the training program will reach some 1,400 individuals for an average of 1.5
courses each. This amounts to approximately 80 percent of the total estimated target group of 1,700
individuals. All existing municipal council presidents will receive basic training. Eighty percent of existing
elected and appointed personnel will receive basic training. Six senior technical employees in each existing
municipality will also receive basic training. As many as 50 percent of elected and appointed personnel
and career staff in the new municipalities will receive basic training. While not all senior staff will receive
basic training, and some will not receive specialized training in their field of responsibility, the project will
support basic training for all and specialized training for a majority of those with critical responsibilities in
such areas as municipal finance, planning and budget, procurement of goods and services, urban services
provision, and human resources management. These targets are high, but they are estimated to be
achievable considering the available time and implementation capacity. It is expect that some of the
officials and staff not reached by this program will receive training through projects sponsored by other
donor agencies.
a.     Training of Trainers. This course would be provided for staff of the municipalities and relevant
provincial directorates, in order to create a pool of trainers for municipal training activities, thus
ensuring long-term sustainability of the project outputs. Participants would be carefully selected
from staff working in the areas of finance and accounting, administration and technical
professions, so as to provide a balanced group in each province. The course would be offered in
each region (North, Center and South) at the beginning of the project.
b.     Basic course in Municipal Legislation. Organization and Operations for Municipal Elected and
Appointed Officials. This course would be for the presidents and members of the municipal
- 49 -



assemblies, and the presidents and members (vereadores) of the municipal councils. Given the
large number of the target audience, this will probably need to be taught by a number of trainers.
It is expected, therefore, that during the first year of the project brigadas, or teams, of trainers -
possibly three teams of two - would be trained. Between them these brigadas would be able to
give as many as twelve or more courses per year. The courses themselves could take the form of
five day seminars, given in each of the municipalities. The training schedule attached includes 36
such courses. In 2003 and 2004 the courses would include officials from the new municipalities.
c.     Government Policies. Basic General Law, and Democratic Participation for Municipal Presidents.
A specialized course for presidents of the municipal assemblies. In the training schedule attached
two five-day long national seminars are included.
d.     Planning and Management of Public Services and Infrastructure for Municipal Presidents and
Elected and Appointed Officials. Specialized course for municipal council presidents and
vereadores. These course could be offered at regional centers (North, Center and South). In the
training schedule attached this course, lasting five days, is offered five times.
e.     Principles of Financial Planning and Budgeting for Municipalities. Specialized course for
municipal council presidents, vereadores and members of the Assembly. This course could be
offered at regional centers (North, Center and South). In the training schedule attached this course,
lasting five days, is offered five times.
f.     Municipal Legislation. Organization and Operations for Managers. Basic courses in municipal
legislation, organization and operation for municipal permanent staff. These could be five day
courses, at which a selected number of key municipal staff members attend. This course is offered
seven times in the training schedule attached, and it is expected that and average of six staff from
each municipality would attend altogether.
g.     Specialized Courses for MG cities in Financial Management. Procurement. Infrastructure Project
Management and Supervision of Works. Specialized courses for technical staff in the five main
cities (Maputo, Beira, Quelimane, Nampula and Pemba) who will be beneficiaries of the Municipal
Grants Program. These courses will need to be offered towards the beginning of the project. The
training schedule attached includes four such courses, lasting up to one month.
h.     Specialized courses in technical subjects for technical staff (not MG cities). Specialized courses in
technical subjects for municipal permanent staff, in such areas as municipal finance; planning and
budget; procurement of goods and services; management information systems and document
handling; environmental management and land use planning; solid waste management; roads
maintenance; surface drainage; supervision and inspection of works; building management and
maintenance; human resources management; and public service and public orientation. The
training schedule attached includes 15 such courses, on a regional basis, with a maximum duration
of one month.
i.     Specialized course for Municipal Assembly Secretaries. A course aimed at Municipal Assembly
Secretaries, who are elected members of the assemblies with the task of managing the assemblies'
agenda, organizing assemblies' activities, and ensuring the assemblies fulfill their legislative
functions. The training schedule attached includes two such courses, lasting up to one month.
j.     Specialized course for Provincial Government Personnel. A course aimed at the staff of the
- 50 -



provincial offices of the Ministry of Planning and Finance (DPPF) and the Ministry of State
Administration (DPAC), for example, who have duties and responsibilities towards the new
autarkic municipalities. This course is offered three times in the training schedule attached, and
lasts up to one month.
7.     The estimated training schedule includes a total of 490 training days, or 29 weeks during the first
year of the project, 28 weeks during the second, 20 during the third and 21 weeks during the last.
8.     Beyond the training listed above, the project would support basic courses for support staff and
junior officials in basic administrative skills (such as filing and office administration) and computers (such
as in word processing, spread sheet and budget management programs). It is estimated that about 150
people, roughly three people per existing and new municipality would benefit from these courses. The
courses would be offered in regional centers, relying on existing firms to provide it. The extent of the need
for such programs will be established with a needs assessment, and a program will be developed during the
first year of effectiveness. These courses are therefore not included in the attached training schedule.
9.     The project will also seek to identify and develop programs of technical and professional training in
disciplines needed by the municipalities. Such programs might cover land management, municipal
management and planning, project management, water resources management, education management, etc.
These courses should be of a type and quality to be recognized in the career and remuneration system for
municipal employees. The project will seek programs at existing institutions which could be adapted to
meet these needs. It would not support any of these courses directly.
10.    Phases of Work. While the details of the annual work programs will be established during
implementation, they are likely to bear close resemblance to the estimated program described above. The
project will consist of a start up phase that will last from NDF Board approval to nine months after project
effectiveness. During this time the project will establish the unit for the management of the component (see
paragraphs 17-19 below) develop strategies for training and technical assistance, elaborate a first annual
work program, and prepare the curricula and materials for the first year's courses. The immediate
priorities for training are fairly clear, but, to confirm the priorities for the second and subsequent years, the
project will support a needs assessment for training and technical assistance during the first year of project
effectiveness, to be updated periodically as necessary. Also during this period, the capacity-building unit of
the MDP will recommend and the Steering Commnittee (see below) will approve the lists of training
activities to be undertaken by the Instituto Medio de Administracao Publica (IMAP) and those to be
carried out by outside contractors. The second phase of the project will last from nine months after project
effectiveness to six months prior to project closing. During this time work programs will be developed and
implemented annually, as well as annual assessments of the previous year's progress and revision of the
strategies and work programs. Organizations which will carry out the training not provided by IMAP will
need to be selected. During the final six months of the project, plans will be made to carry training and
technical assistance activities into the expected longer-term Municipal Development Program.
11.    Technical Assistance. This component will support a limited amount of technical assistance for
improving systems and processes in municipal governments. The project would not support technical
assistance to individual municipalities, but to all or groups of municipalities. For example, the project
could decide to assist a group of municipalities in privatizing their waste collection services. The capacity
building unit will develop a strategy and program for technical assistance during the first year of the
project, and renew it annually. This component of the MDP will not provide support to the five cities that
will participate in the Municipal Grants; they will receive separate technical assistance for implementation.
- 51 -



12.    Annual work program. The capacity-building component will require an annual work program.
At the end of each year, an evaluation of the effectiveness of the previous year's program and the changing
needs of the beneficiaries will be carried out. The program evaluation would be based on independent
evaluations and audits of each training activity, and could include an annual update of the needs
assessment, summarized in an annual report.
Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
13.    The Instituto Medio de Administracado Publica (IMAP) will be the implementing agency for the
Capacity Building component of the MDP. It has been agreed that a separate unit within IMAP will be
established to manage the component. This unit, to be named Gabinete de Capacitacdo Municipal
(GCM), will be established through a Memorandum of Understanding between DNDA and IMAP. The
memorandum will define the services to be provided by IMAP and the support IMAP will receive from the
project. It will also define the roles and responsibilities of the respective authorities, including the Project
Director (DP) and the Director of IMAP.
14.   The GCM, under the orientation of the Director of IMAP, would be responsible for the
coordination and execution of all the activities of the component, in close collaboration with the
Directorates and Departments of IMAP. The GCM would provide the basis for establishing a permanent
unit for the promotion and coordination of training for municipalities (in IMAP or, eventually, as part of
another organization).
15.   The training and technical assistance for Municipalities envisioned by the MDP component go
beyond the legal and technical competence of IMAP. While IMAP focuses on in-service training in public
administration, the MDP proposes also to support both in-service and pre-service training and technical
assistance in other skills areas needed by the municipalities. Many of these, such as general financial
management, accounting, and infrastructure management, will not be exclusive courses for municipal
govenmuents and are already provided by training institutions inside Mozambique. Thus, the GCM will
also be responsible for the procurement of training courses and technical assistance to be provided outside
IMAP. The GCM will select, for approval by the Steering Comnmittee, which courses will be provided by
IMAP and which will be procured elsewhere. Courses procured outside IMAP could be provided by
another specialized institution, by private firms, or, in rare cases, by individuals.
16.   To guide the work of the GCM, the Project Implementation Manual will include a section on the
Capacity Building component. It would include details of (i) the responsibilities of the various actors; (ii)
the requirements to be fuilfilled by firms and institutions providing training services under the project; (iii)
the requirements to be fulfilled by the municipalities so that their staff can take part in the training
activities; and (iv) the requirements for evaluations and audits of training activities, including specific
performance indicators (see paragraph 30).
17.   The GCM's activities would include preparing the implementation strategies for the training
program and action plans; preparing annual budgets and work plans for training and technical assistance;
preparing terms of reference for and overseeing the procurement of technical assistance and training
services to be provided outside IMAP; managing the contracts for services provided by other institutions or
individuals; coordinating the certification of finns and training institutions providing services under the
project; informing the municipalities of the program of training activities and selection criteria for
participants in training programs. The GCM would also be responsible for the continuous monitoring and
evaluation of the component's training program, including hiring independent services for the audit and
evaluation of each training activity, in terms of their efficiency and cost, whether provided by IMAP or
- 52 -



other bodies. Moreover, the GCM would prepare an annual evaluation of the training program as a whole.
18.   In addition, the GCM would be responsible for the coordination of the MDP's training and
technical assistance activities with those of other donors and with other municipal training activities of
IMAP. It should also maintain an inventory of local and regional training capacity and identify
international study opportunities.
19.   Under the Memorandum of Understanding, the GCM would have delegated responsibility from the
Director of IMAP to manage the funds relating to the component, and to purchase goods and services in the
execution of the project-supported activities. While action plans and budgets will be approved annually by
the Steering Committee of which the DP is a member (see below), the GCM will have responsibility for
day-to-day financial management of the component. GCM will establish a separate bank account for this
purpose. GCM would present financial accounts directly to NDF. GCM will be responsible for ensuring
that NDF's procurement and financial management rules are followed as they relate to this component.
The GCM will include staff to provide financial management, procurement and logistical support for the
component. IMAP would provide office space and secretarial support to the GCM.
20.   Steering Committee. The Capacity Building Component will have a Steering Committee (SC)
consisting of the Director of IMAP, the Director of the Directorate within MAE which supervises the
municipalities, one representative from among the five municipalities included in the MDP grants
component, three Municipal Council Presidents (one from each of the south, center and north regions of the
country), and one representative from the National Directorate for Public Administration (DNFP/MAE,
responsible for SIFAP). The GCM Manager and the Project Director (DP) would be ex-officio non voting
members of the SC. The Steering Committee should meet at least every six months, and will provide
guidance during the preparation of training strategies. Once each year, the Steering Committee will review
and approve the implementation strategy, action plans and budgets for the component. The costs of travel
and subsistence of SC members attending SC meetings, and other operational costs of holding SC
meetings, will be paid by the Component's operating costs budget. The Project will not fund honorariums
for SC members.
21.   Procurement. The GCM will be responsible for procurement of goods and services for the
implementation of the component. These will include equipment, auditing services, and the services of
training course providers other than IMAP. The GCM will prepare bidding documents and terms of
reference as necessary, and will undertake the bidding process and selection. Contracts for goods and
services will be made between IMAP and the provider, and signed by the Director of IMAP. Some prior
review of procurement actions by the NDF would be required in line with the procurement rules established
in the Credit Agreement. The GCM will provide the PCU with an annual report on its procurement
activities for the previous year.
22.   Reporting and approval. IMAP will provide the SC with the implementation strategy for the
training program, annual action plans and accompanying budgets for final approval in an annual meeting
chaired by the Director of the Directorate within MAE which supervises the municipalities. IMAP will
also provide both the SC and the PCU with summarized findings of the needs assessments, its annual
updates, and with course evaluations. IMAP will report on progress to the DP via the PCU. Plans and
budgets for programs provided in-house by IMAP will be reviewed and approved by the PCU (the project
will support a qualified staff member of the PCU for this purpose.)
- 53 -



Staffing
23.   The GCM will consist of seven staff overall, plus secretarial and other assistants. Other staff
could also be engaged, as consultants, from time to time as required.
Manager - a senior individual with considerable experience in management and training. The
Manager's job will be to direct the activities of the GCM and ensure the successful implementation
of the component. The Manager reports to the Director of IMAP with regard to technical
questions, and to the Project Director of the MDP with regard to matters of finance, accounting,
procurement and general project administration.
*     Training Program Coordinator - a senior individual with experience in training and management,
who will be a staff member of IMAP, and employed within IMAP's formal quadro de pessoal.
This individual will be responsible for the day-to-day management of the annual work program and
its budget. The Training Program Coordinator will report to the GCM Manager.
*     Technical Assistance Coordinator - a mid-level individual with experience in management and
administrative systems and processes, who will be a staff member of IMAP, and employed within
IMAP's formal quadro de pessoal. This individual will be responsible for the technical assistance
program supported by the project. The Technical Assistance Coordinator will report to the GCM
Manager.
Senior International Consultant - a senior individual with considerable experience in management
and training. The Senior   International Consultant will support the Manager, providing
advice based on experience in other countries and regions, and will work closely with the Manager
particularly in the areas of developing the annual training strategy and work program for in-service
training, undertaking periodic beneficiary surveys, developing the strategy for pre-service training,
and accrediting programs other than those offered by IMAP for both in-service and pre-service
training. The Senior Consultant will report to the GCM Manager.
Senior National Consultant - a senior individual who will work closely with the Training Program
Coordinator and who will serve as the procurement specialist for the GCM..
A Financial Manager, who will manage the expenditures of the Component, maintain accounts in
accordance with the Project's requirements, and carry out the needed financial reporting. The
Financial Manager will report to both the GCM Manager and the Financial Controller in the PCU.
*     An Administrative Assistant/Secretary, plus two clerical staff or office assistants.
24.   The GCM Manager, the Senior Foreign Consultant, the Senior National Consultant, the Financial
Manager, and the Administrative Assistant will be provided through a contract with a consulting firm or
consortium of firms. IMAP will provide four full-time counterpart staff: the Training Program
Coordinator, the Technical Assistance Coordinator, and two Office Assistants.
Budget for the Component
25.   The overall budget for the component is estimated at US$4.0 million equivalent, base cost (without
price/inflation contingencies). Of this, about 49 percent (US$1.96 m.) would go for the GCM. Vehicles
and equipment and incremental operating costs for the GCM would comprise another US$400,000 (10
percent). The cost of the training program is estimated at about US$1.48 million (37 percent of the total),
including course materials, participants' travel and subsistence, training contracts to outside organizations,
and other training-related costs.
Performance Indicators
26.   The following indicators will be used for evaluation and monitoring of the implementation of the
- 54 -



Component:
a.    The GCM will be established in IMAP at project effectiveness and plans will be in place for its
continued existence at project close;
b.    By the end of the first year of the project, one course for training of trainers will have been held in
each region (North, Center and South) and at least 75 staff of the municipalities and/or provincial
governments will have been trained as trainers for municipal capacity building activities;
c.    By the end of the first year of the project, 740 existing and appointed municipal officials will have
been provided with basic training in the functioning of the municipal government system.
By the end of each year:
a.    According to the annual training plans, certain number of courses in specified subjects will have
been held with targeted numbers of municipal elected or appointed officials and municipal staff
trained, in accordance with the annual training plans;
b.    Technical assistance activities will have been provided to the municipalities, in accordance with the
annual work plans for technical assistance.
c.    Cost-effectiveness criteria will have been established for the main types of training, and courses
carried out during the previous year will have been evaluated as to their cost effectiveness.
By the end of the project:
a.    A general strategy for training for the municipalities will have been developed and be under
implementation;
b.    with assistance from MDP, curricula and up-to-date teaching materials will have been developed
for standard courses to be offered by existing training institutions in Mozambique, at 'tecnico
medio' and/or undergraduate level in at least 4 professional areas, to qualify candidates for
management and technical staff positions in the municipalities (pre-service courses);
c.    An archive of short and medium-term courses will have been established;
d.    Links with foreign training boards will have been established and research studies undertaken.
Project Component 3 - US$ 22.75 million
MUNICIPAL GRANTS
Introduction
1.    The MDP includes a Municipal Grants (MG) mechanism to provide municipalities with resources
to implement high-priority civil works, equipment, and consultant services. The MG is based on the idea
that investments for municipal infrastructure and services should be implemented by the municipalities
themselves in the interest of (a) building local-level capacity and (b) ensuring the sustainability of the
investments, by making the institution responsible for operation and maintenance-the municipal
government-also responsible for implementation. The Municipal Grants mechanism is designed on a
modest scale for "learning by doing" (aprendizagem pela pratica).
2.    It has been agreed that, during the first four-year phase, the MG will be initiated with five
municipalities (Maputo, Beira, Nampula, Quelimane, and Pemba).
Objectives
3.    Within the context of the Government's decentralization program, the objectives of the Municipal
Grants are:
- 55 -



a.    To provide resources to municipalities for small and medium sized infrastructure investments,
equipment, and consultant services.
b.    To enable the municipal governments to develop capacity to (i) plan, implement, and manage basic
infrastructure investments, purchases of equipment, and utilization of consultants and (ii) to
integrate the expenditures (municipal contributions averaging 10% of the annual investment costs;
operation and maintenance costs) and revenues associated with the MG-funded investments into
their budgets.
c.    To test and refine the MG, identifying problems, hrying different solutions, and, to the extent
possible, laying a foundation for a sustainable, expandable municipal grants mechanism.
4.    It must be emphasized that the philosophy of the MG is one of learning by doing. This inherently
assumes that mistakes will be made, analyzed, and rectified in the interest of establishing an effective
program. The five municipalities that will receive grants under the MG will be "pioneers" facing many
unforeseen problems and outcomes. It is hoped that the experience gained by the five municipalities
participating in the initial stage of the MG will be used by the Government and the intemational community
in designing a program to be implemented by a larger number of municipalities in the future.
Expected Results from the MG
5.    Results expected from the initial four-year pilot phase of the MG are:
a.    Central Government establishes a unit to effectively manage the MG.
b.    Municipalities hold consultations with affected communities and the public about the selection and
design of infrastructure investments.
c.    Municipalities identify and prepare proposals for activities (small/medium infrastructure,
equipment, or consultants) to be fnanced with the municipal grants.
d.    Municipalities provide the required counterpart funds (average annual 10%) from their resources
for the grant-funded activities.
e.    Municipalities procure the services of civil works contractors (firms) to build the infrastructure;
contract with suppliers for the purchase of equipment; and enter into contracts with consultants to
provide technical assistance.
f.    Municipalities supervise the execution of the works, control the quality of goods and services
provided, and make payments to contractors, suppliers, and consultants.
g.    Civil works contractors gain capacity to meet adequate construction standards.
h.    Municipalities ensure operation and maintenance (O&M) of the works and equipment financed by
the MG.
i.    Municipalities integrate the expenditures (municipal contributions of 10% of the investment costs;
operation and maintenance costs) and revenues of investments into their budgets.
- 56 -



Functioning of the MG
6.     Grant Participation Agreements: In order to receive financial resources from the MG, each
municipality will have to sign a Grant Participation Agreement with MAE. The Agreement will specify the
rules of the MG and the obligations of all parties. The draft Grant Participation Agreement was reviewed
with MAE and the five Municipalities at appraisal.
7.     Eligible activities: The MG will finance the following activities:
a.     Small/medium infrastructure investments selected from a "menu" of road rehabilitation,
community water supply (but not larger-scale water facilities), sewerage, sanitation facilities,
surface drainage, solid waste facilities, street lighting, upgrading of markets and bus terminals, and
small-scale, community-level facilities such as bus shelters, foot paths and foot bridges, etc.
b.    Equipment needed for the provision of basic services or their management. Eligible equipment
includes tipper trucks, tractors and wagons, small excavation equipment, small equipment for road
maintenance (but not large items such as graders or bulldozers), mini-buses for Municipal staff,
pickups for technical departments, and office equipment for Municipal departments. No sedan
(saloon) cars or 4x4 vehicles will be financed.
c.    Consultancy services to improve municipal management, finances, or service provision.
8.    Grant allocations: Each municipality will receive an initial grant allocation at the beginning of the
project. Subsequent allocations will be made on the basis of performance. Municipalities will be
accountable for the proper use of the initial grant allocation in order to qualify for subsequent allocations.
When each municipality has shown that it has made satisfactory progress toward using its previous grant
allocation, it would be assigned the next one. In principle, the grants will be planned for yearly allocation,
but it will probably take longer to effectively utilize the initial grant allocations. See the section below on"
Determination of Amounts of the Grants" for details.
9.     Required matching contribution: The grants will cover 85% of the total cost of each activity
fmanced, except imported equipment which the MG will finance at 100% of foreign exchange costs. Each
municipality will be required to finance 15% of each activity except imported equipment as a counterpart
contribution from its own resources. For each municipality in any year, the total value of imported
equipment may not exceed 25% of the total value of investments (MG plus counterpart contribution)
financed through the MG.
11.   Eligibility of municipalities to receive grants: In order to receive grants, municipalities must meet
the following requirements:
11.1 To be fulfilled at the beginning of the project (Note: these are NOT conditions of credit
effectiveness):
a.    The municipality must present to the Grants Unit of the MDP (see para. 17) a three-year
investment program of works and equipment with estimated costs. The items in the program must
be prioritized based on their economic and social benefits.
b.     The municipality's organizational/staffing arrangement must be submitted and verified by DNDA
- 57 -



(see paragraphs 18 and 19 below), and qualified staff must be in place at the Municipal nucleos.
c.    The municipality must have signed a Grant Participation Agreement.
d.    The Municipality's financial accounts for the year 2000 must have been audited by independent
auditors. The costs of such audits will be covered by the MDP.
e.    The municipality must submit its budget for the following year showing that the annual 10%
matching contribution is allocated.
11.2 To be fulfilled annually:
a.    The Municipality's financial accounts for the previous year must have been audited by independent
auditors. The costs of such audits will be covered by the MDP.
b.    The Municipality's accounts for the previous year must show that the municipality had an excess
of total revenues over operating (recurrent) expenditures.
C.    The municipality must submit its budget for the upcoming year showing that the annual 10%
matching contribution is allocated.
12.   Conditions of disbursement of the MDP: The satisfactory completion of all six items in para. 11.1
will be conditions of disbursement of Project (Credit) funds to each municipality.
13.   Time limit for meetinz eligibilit requirements: If any of the five selected municipalities does not
meet the eligibility requirements within six months of credit effectiveness, it will be dropped from the MG
component, and another municipality will be invited to participate.
14.   Requirements for funding of activities: For each activity to be funded, a municipality will submit
to the Grants Unit a proposal covering all of the following requirements. The Grants Unit will review the
proposals for completeness and adequacy of content.
For each civil works and equipment proposal:
a.    An adequate physical design or specifications, a cost estimate, and a procurement document
according to the procurement guidelines in the Project Manual. For force account works, a
description of the work, a bill of quantities, an itemized budget for materials, labor, and equipment,
and a work plan.
b.    For civil works, a brief report giving evidence of community consultation on the selection of the
investment.
c.    A simple financial/economic justification or cost-effectiveness justification according to the
requirements of the Project Implementation Manual.
d.    An implementation plan & payment schedule.
e.    An operation and maintenance (O&M) plan including institutional and financing provisions
- 58 -



(designation of the responsible Department; an allocation of the Municipal budget funds for O&M
for the new facilities; tariffs or user fees, if any, and a plan for how user fees will be collected) and
f.     A simple environmental assessment according to the requirements of the Project Implementation
Manual.
For each consultant services proposal:
a.     A briefjustification of the importance of the consultant assignment.
b.     Terms of reference.
c.     Qualifications of specialists required and their estimated days, weeks, or person-months.
d.     A preliminary work schedule.
e.     A short list of consultants or a justification for selection in the case of an individual.
15.   Municipal Grants Implementation Cycle: To allow time for the municipalities to comply with the
eligibility requirements (see paragraph 12), the Grants will operate on a 12-month cycle from July 1 to June
30.
16.   Time limit for Grants Unit to respond to proposals: Upon receipt of a proposal for an activity to
be funded by the MG, the Grants Unit must respond within 10 working days with (i) a clearance or (ii) a
clear, detailed request for additional information which would be needed for clearance or (iii) a
disapproval-which could only be given when the proposed activity is not an eligible activity according to
paragraph 8 above or the activity clearly cannot meet the financial/economic, O&M, or environmental
requirements on paragraph 15 above-with the reasons clearly explained. Any proposal which does not
receive a response within the time limit will be considered approved. Submissions of additional information
to the Grants Unit also must receive a response within 10 working days. A municipality may appeal a
disapproval to the Grants Board by sending a letter to the MDP Project Director (see paragraph 28). The
Grants Manager will prepare a complete file on each appeal and circulate it to the members of the Grants
Board at least one week in advance of the Board's next quarterly meeting. The Board will review and issue
decisions on all appeals at its quarterly meeting immediately following the filing of the appeals.
17.   Central Unit to manage the Grants: A Grants Unit to manage the MG will be established under the
MDP's Project Coordination Unit. It will consist of a Grants Manager, a Grants Accountant, and a Civil
Engineer. The Grants Manager will report to the MDP's Project Director. The Grants Accountant will
report to the Grants Manager and coordinate closely with the MDP's Financial Controller. The functions
of the Grants Unit are (i) to assist municipalities to meet the requirements for funding of activities; (ii) to
review and clear the proposals for activities submitted by municipalities; (iii) to supervise the consulting
firm providing technical assistance to municipalities; (iv) to collect and compile quarterly and annual data
on the technical and financial performance of the municipalities; (v) to manage disbursements of grants to
municipalities; (vi) to collaborate with the PCU's Procurement Specialist to carry out quarterly and annual
reviews of procurement by municipalities; (vii) to collaborate with the PCU's staff on carrying out
quarterly and annual reviews of performance of the MG (see Reviews of Performance section below,
paragraphs 28 to 33); and (viii) to provide assistance and advice to municipalities in managing their bank
accounts for the MG and in providing timely financial reports to the PCU.
- 59 -



18.    Municipalities' management of their grants: Before it can receive its first grant allocation, each
municipality must establish a team of persons, with qualifications and experience acceptable to
MAE/DNDA and the World Bank, consisting of a Council member (coordinator), a procurement
official/municipal engineer, an accountant, and a technician. This team will be responsible for
implementing the municipality's responsibilities under the Grant Participation Agreements. Job
descriptions have been prepared for the procurement official/municipal engineer and accountant positions.
Each municipality must indicate the names of the specific persons who will be occupy the four positions
and must submit the curriculum vitae of the individuals nominated for the engineer and accountant
positions.
19.    Technical assistance for municipalities: The Project Coordination Unit will engage an international
consulting firm (staffed by international and Mozambican specialists) to provide technical assistance at the
request of municipalities to help them to carry out financial management, prepare designs and cost
estimates, implement procurement, and supervise activities under the MG. Terms of Reference of the
consulting firm will be disseminated to all municipalities. The performance of the firm will be evaluated
annually by a special committee composed equally of representatives of DNDA/PCU and the
municipalities. The firm will be held accountable for the technical quality of its assistance and outputs as
well as the promptness and consistency of its responsiveness to the municipalities. However, the firm will
not be accountable for the application of its assistance, which will remain the full responsibility of the
municipalities.
20.    Proiect Implementation Manual: All the rules and procedures for operation of the MG will be
compiled in the MDP's Project Implementation Manual. The Manual will provide specific project
identification and appraisal procedures, procurement, disbursement and implementation guidelines, and
monitoring and evaluation processes. It will be prepared with the participation of Govermment and
Municipal officials. The full contents of the Manual will be agreed at project negotiations. It is essential
that each of the municipalities completely understands the content of the manual and formally agrees to
participate in the program as described in the Manual.
Determination of Amounts of the Grants
21.    Total amount for Year 1: The MG will start with a fixed allocation of funds for all of the five
cities in Year 1 (the first 12 months of operation, not necessarily a calendar year). The total amount for the
five cities in Year 1 will be US$3.9 million including the contributions of the World Bank (IDA), the
Municipalities, and the Government. This is judged to be (i) sufficient for a reasonable number and scale
of investments within the capacity of the five municipalities to manage and supervise in a one-year period;
(ii) within the financial capacities of the municipalities to provide the annual average 10% matching
contribution; (iii) in proportion to the financial and technical capacity of the municipalities to adequately
operate and maintain new investments; and (iv) within the capacities of available civil works contractors
and consultants.
2.     Allocation of grants among municipalities for Year 1: Of the total amount for Year 1, 50%
(US$1.95 million) will be allocated equally to all five municipalities, to provide a basic amount for all and
to avoid large disparities in the allocations. The other 50% will be allocated proportionately on the basis of
the municipalities' populations (except that the population of Maputo is given a 50% weight, again to avoid
excessive disparities). The following table shows the basis for the MG allocations for Year 1:
- 60 -



Population      Year I Allocation (US$000)
0  Percen-  50%       50%          Total
tages**  Fixed Proportional
to
Population**
Pemba            85      5.9  390           116          506
Quelimane       150    10.4  390            203          593
Nampula         305    21.2  390            413           803
Beira           400    27.8  390            542          932
Maputo        1,000    34.7  390            676         1,066
Total         1,940     100( 1,950        1,950         3,900
*From 1997 Population and Housing Census
**Giving Maputo a 50% weight; i.e. 500,000.
23.    Eligibility of municipalities for subsequent year allocation: A municipality becomes eligible to
receive a new allocation for the next 12 month period by meeting the following criteria:
a.     The municipality submits its financial accounts for the previous financial year, audited by
independent auditors.
b.     The difference between the municipality's total revenues and operating (recurrent) expenditures in
the previous year, as documented in its audited accounts, is positive.
c.     The municipality has signed contracts (commitments) for 90% of the previous year's allocation.
d.     The Grants Unit has disbursed 80% of the previous year's allocation.
e.     The municipality has paid out 800/o of the its average required matching fund.
f.     The municipality has submitted all documentation on procurement for the previous year to the
Grants Unit.
g.     The municipality has submitted all quarterly financial reports for the previous year to the Grants
Unit.
h.     The municipality has generally complied with the project's financial management, disbursement,
and procurement procedures.
i.     The municipality has agreed to a plan approved by the Grants Board for preventing the recurrence
of any problems in the municipality's management of its activities under the MG (e.g.,
procurement, financial management, supervision, payments, etc).
24.   Time limits and appeals: The municipalities will submit the information required in a, c, e, f and g
to the Grants Unit by no later than April 30 of each year. By no later than May 31 of each year, the Grants
Unit will (i) inform the municipalities of their eligibility for subsequent grant allocations and (ii) submit a
report on the municipalities' eligibility to the Grants Board . The Grants Unit must provide a complete
-61 -



and clear explanation, in writing, to each municipality concerning its eligibility for the subsequent grant
allocation. Municipalities may appeal decisions on their eligibility to the Grants Board. The Board will
review any such appeal once, at its next quarterly meeting, and its decision will be final.
25.    Determination of amount of subsequent year allocation: If a municipality meets the eligibility
criteria for a subsequent year's grant (see para. 24), the amount of the next year's allocation is determined
by the municipality's performance on (i) generating an excess of revenues relative to recurrent expenditures
and (ii) operation and maintenance. At the end of each 12 month period, the Grants Board will evaluate
the municipalities and rank them in one of two performance categories as follows:
Category 1: The municipality receives a higher grant allocation, based on meeting the following
performance criteria:
a. The municipality has achieved an increase in its excess of revenues relative to recurrent
expenditures during the previous year, as documented in its audited accounts.
b. O&M is satisfactory for all the grant-funded activities as measured by implementation of the O&M
plan.
A Category I municipality will be eligible for an increased grant allocation proportional to the
percentage increase in its excess of operating revenues over recurrent expenditures compared to the
previous year, reflecting the municipality's improved fnancial situation. The formula for determining
the amount of the subsequent year's allocation is:
{[OR(y) - OR(y-1)] / OR(y-1)} x 100
A(y+1)= ------------------------------------------- x A(y)
{[RE(y) - RE(y-l)] / RE(y-l)} x 100
A(y+1) = Allocation in subsequent year
A(y)   = Allocation in current year
OR(y)   = Operating revenues in current year
OR(y- 1) = Operating revenues in previous year
RE(y)  = Recurrent expenditures in current year
RE(y-1) = Recurrent expenditures in previous year
{[OR(y) - OR(y- 1)] I OR(y- l)} x 100 = Percentage change in Operating Revenues
{[RE(y) - RE(y-1)] /RE(y-l)} x 100 = Percentage change in Recurrent Expenditures
Category 2: The municipality receives the same or a reduced grant allocation compared with the
previous year, based on meeting the following performance criteria:
a. The municipality's excess of revenues relative to recurrent expenditures has stayed the same or
declined during the previous year, as documented in its audited accounts.
b. The O&M plan has not been carried out satisfactorily for one or more of the MG-funded activities,
but a plan is greed to improve it.
A Category 2 municipality will be eligible for the same or a reduced grant allocation proportional to the
percentage change in its excess of revenues over recurrent expenditures compared to the previous year,
reflecting the municipality's lack of improvement in its financial situation.
26.   Total amount for the four years: The financial analysis of the five municipalities prepared for the
- 62 -



MDP shows that, with maximum efforts to improve their finances and control their expenditures, the five
municipalities as a group could perform well enough to receive, under the most optimistic conditions,
about 25% more in grants each year from 2002 to 2005. This would produce a maximum total Municipal
Grant program of about US$22.75 million (equivalent) for 2001-2005. This amount will be allocated for
the MG component in the MDP financing plan. However, it will be agreed in the Credit Agreement that the
actual disbursement of the MG component will depend strictly on the performance of the municipalities as
specified above.
Reviews of Performance of Municipal Grants and Municipalities
27.    Grants Board: A Grants Board will be established to carry out quarterly and annual reviews of the
performance (i) of the management of the Municipal Grants by the PCU/Grants Unit at the center and (ii)
of the municipalities in using the grants. The Board will not verify or approve the eligibility of
municipalities for grants; this will be done in a technical and impartial manner by the PCU/Grants Unit in
accordance with paragraphs 22-26 above. The Board will only intervene in case of an appeal (see
paragraph 25). The Board will be composed of the National Director of Municipal Development (chair),
two representatives of civil society nominated by the municipalities participating in the Municipal Grants,
one official of MAE, and one official of the Ministry of Planning and Finance. The Grants Board will meet
once each quarter to review and discuss the reports submitted to it by the Project Director. The costs of the
Board's meetings will be paid by the MDP.
28.    Quarterly Reviews and Reports: At the end of each quarter, the Project Director will ensure that a
review is carried out of the central Grants Unit and the municipalities covering (i) the status of
disbursements by the MG and of implementation by each municipality; (ii) compliance with financial
management, disbursement, and procurement procedures; (iii) compliance with other significant provisions
of the Municipal Grants Manual; (iv) identification and analysis of any significant problems in the
performance of the Grants Unit, the performance of the municipalities, or the application of the procedures
of the MG; and (v) recommendations and action plans for solving the problems. The Project Director will
submit quarterly reports no later than 30 days after the end of each quarter to the members of the Grants
Board, Director of MAE/DNDA, the Presidents of each Municipal Council receiving grants, and the
World Bank.
29.   Intervention by the Grants Unit to Assist Municipalities: If a quarterly review shows that a
municipality is having difficulties and is falling behind in implementation, the Grants Manager will
mobilize the staff of the Grants Unit, the PCU, and the technical assistance consultants to provide help. In
such cases the Grants Manager will also evaluate whether there are problems in the procedures or the
administration of the MG that need to be addressed, and will take the necessary action.
30.    Annual Evaluations: Every 12 months the Project Director will ensure that an annual evaluation of
the performance of the MG is carnied out. The annual evaluations will be prepared by the Grants Manager
for review by the Project Director, who will in turn present them as technical reports to the Grants Board.
The annual evaluations will contain assessments and recommendations for the Grants Unit. each
municipality, and the technical assistance consultants covering: (i) financial management and accounting;
(ii) audits; (iii) disbursements; (iv) municipal contributions; (v) procurement; (vi) payments to contractors,
suppliers, and consultants; (vii) performance of contractors, suppliers, and consultants; (viii) supervision of
contractors, suppliers, and consultants, (ix) quality and timeliness of works, equipment, and consulting
services obtained with the grants; (x) comparison of the final costs of the activities with the original
contract amounts; and (xi) operation and maintenance by municipalities; (xii) effectiveness and efficiency
of the Grants Unit in performing its functions; and (xiii) quality and timeliness of the technical assistance
- 63 -



consultants. Each year, one of the Grants Board meetings will be devoted to a review of the findings and
recommendations of the annual evaluation of the MG. Changes in any aspect of the MG will be
recommended by the Board to MAE and the World Bank for their concurrence.
31.   Data for Ouarterly and Annual Reviews: The Project Director will be responsible for ensuring that
the needed data are collected and that complete quarterly and annual reports for the Grant Board's reviews
are produced. Reports will be submitted no later than 30 days after the end of each quarter.
32.   Suspension of disbursements: The Grants Unit may suspend disbursements to individual
municipalities in case of evidence of major irregularities (e.g., the use of grant funds for purposes other
than those approved, fraud; or corruption). In such cases the Grants Unit will submit the evidence to the
Project Director, who will review it and transmit it to the other members of the Grants Board within 30
days. The Board will evaluate whether the suspension is justified and whether it should cover only the
specific contract or the entire grant allocation of the municipality. Disbursements will be suspended until
the municipality and the Board agree on a plan for rectifying the irregularities (including cancellation of a
procurement process, repayment of funds, changes in personnel, etc). If a suspension of disbursements
lasts more than 90 days, the Project Director will refer to case, in the form of a written report, to the
Director of DNDA and the World Bank.
Financial Management, Disbursements and Procurement
33.   Financial management and disbursements: The Project Implementation Manual contains a section
on detailed financial management and disbursement rules for the MDP, including the Municipal Grants.
Each municipality will establish two separate bank accounts. One will be for IDA funds and the other for
municipal and GOM contributions. Actual transfers of funds to the local municipal bank accounts will be
on the basis of identified, eligible expenditures. When a municipality has satisfied the disbursement
requirements (see point 11.1), including the deposit of its 60 day advance of budgeted municipal funds, the
PCU/Grants Unit will make an initial disbursement for 90 days of payments. Subsequent transfers are
made on the basis of disbursement applications which provide documentation on payments for works
completed, goods received, or consulting services provided.
34.   It is important to note that municipalities must manage the financial accounts of the MDP
separately from their general finances. Municipalities must maintain separate financial records and reports
for the MDP's Municipal Grants based on transactions in the two bank accounts established exclusively for
the MDP and must submit these reports monthly and quarterly to the Project Coordination Unit.
35.   Procurement by municipalities: The Project Implementation Manual contains a section on
procurement rules for the MDP, including the Municipal Grants. This covers procurement methods for
works, goods, and consultants and the limits for using the different methods; prior review of procurement
actions by the PCU and the Bank; and reporting, supervision, and auditing of procurement.
Audits
36.   Audits of Municipal Grants: The MG will be subjected to extemal audits annually along with the
rest of the MDP's components. Municipalities must submit all of their financial records and reports related
to their Municipal Grants activities to the MDP auditors and cooperate with the project audits.
37.   Audits of each Municipalitv's Accounts: The audits referred to in 11.1 e and 11.2 a and b above
are of the accounts of the Municipality as a whole; i.e., of the Municipality as a corporate body.
-64 -



Project Component 4 - US$6.97 million
PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
I .    A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) would be established within DNDA to administer the
project's finances, oversee procurement, manage contracts, supervise technical assistance, carry out
monitoring, and produce quarterly and annual progress reports. The PCU would be headed by a full-time
Project Director reporting to the Director of DNDA. The other staff of the PCU would be a Senior
Financial Controller, a Senior Procurement Specialist, and a three-person Grants Unit (see below). The
Project Director would be hired on an individual, long-term consultant contract. The remaining staff of the
PCU would be contracted through a consulting firm. The Terms of Reference for the PCU appear in
Annex 11 of this PAD. The PCU would provide administrative, financial management, and procurement
support for the Legal and Institutional Reform component. For the Capacity Building component, the
PCU's role would be limited to the provision of advice on administrative and procurement matters.
2.    An ad-hoc Grants Unit within the PCU would be established to manage the Municipal Grants.
This arrangement is temporary, for the duration of the MDP. It is expected that, as a result of the policy
dialogue to be carried out during the project on "mainstreaming" of the MG and improvements of the fiscal
transfer system, (see section B.3, Long-Term Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project, points a. and
b.), a more permanent and sustainable institutional "home" for the MG will have been agreed on. The
functions of the Grants Unit are (i) to assist municipalities to meet the requirements for funding of
activities; (ii) to review and clear the proposals for activities submitted by municipalities; (iii) to supervise
the consulting firn providing technical assistance to municipalities; (iv) to collect and compile quarterly
and annual data on the technical and financial performance of the municipalities; (v) to manage
disbursements of grants to municipalities; (vi) to collaborate with the PCU's Procurement Specialist to
carry out quarterly and annual reviews of procurement by municipalities; (vii) to collaborate with the PCU'
s staff on carrying out quarterly and annual reviews of performance of the MG (see Reviews of
Performance section below, paragraphs 28 to 33); and (viii) to provide assistance and advice to
municipalities in managing their bank accounts for the MG and in providing timely financial reports to the
PCU. The Grants Unit would be staffed by a Grants Manager, a Civil Engineer, and an Accountant. The
Grants Manager will report to the MDP's Project Director. The Grants Accountant will report to the
Grants Manager and coordinate closely with the MDP's Financial Controller.
3.    The Project Coordination Unit will engage an intemational consulting firm (staffed by intemational
and national specialists) to provide technical assistance to the municipalities participating in the
Municipal Grants. The consulting firm would provide assistance at the request of municipalities to help
them to develop investment proposals, prepare designs, cost estimates, specifications, and terms of
reference, elaborate tender documents, analyze tenders and prepare final contracts, supervise civil works
and the provision of goods, and carry out financial management. The technical assistance team will be
staffed by a full-time team leader, two full-time engineering specialists, two full-time financial specialists,
and 36 person-months of short-term specialists in various fields. Terms of Reference of the consulting firm
will be disseminated to all municipalities. The performance of the firm will be evaluated annually by a
special committee composed equally of representatives of DNDA/PCU and the municipalities. The firm
will be held accountable for the technical quality of its assistance and outputs as well as the promptness
and consistency of its responsiveness to the municipalities. However, the firm will not be accountable for
the application of its assistance, which will remain the full responsibility of the municipalities.
4.    Each Municipality would establish a small, dedicated team (Nzicleo) to manage the municipality's
work under the Municipal Grants. Each Nicleo will consist of a Municipal Council Member
- 65 -



(Coordinator), a Civil Engineer, an Accountant, and a Technician. The Technician would in all cases be a
staff member of the Municipality. In all cases except Maputo, the Civil Engineer and Accountant would be
hired as long-term consultants. Maputo would provide an Engineer and an Accountant from its own staff.
- 66 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
MOZAMBIQUE: MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                  US $million    US $million    US $million
1. Legal and Institutional Refonn                            0.94          2.43          3.37
3. Municipal Capacity Building                               2.90          1.87          4.77
2. Municipal Grants                                          7.92         14.83         22.75
4. Project Management TA                                     3.08          3.89          6.97
5. Project Preparation Facility                              0.00          0.85          0.85
Total Baseline Cost                                         14.84         23.87         38.71
Physical Contingencies                                      0.00          0.03          0.03
Price Contingencies                                         1.30          2.02          3.32
Total Project Costs               16.14         25.92         42.06
Total Financing Required                16.14         25.92         42.06
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                  US $million    US $million    US $million
Goods                                                          0.62           5.78          6.40
Works                                                          6.66           9.99         16.65
Consulting Services                                            5.78           9.30         15.08
Training                                                       2.09           0.00          2.09
Operational Costs                                              0.99           0.00          0.99
PPF Refinancing                                                0.00           0.85          0.85
Total Project Costs      16.14         25.92         42.06
Total Financing Required       16.14         25.92         42.06
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 42.06 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 79.89% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 67 -



Annex 4
MOZAMBIQUE: MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC AND COST-EFFECTIVENESS JUSTIFICATION
ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION FOR MAIN PROJECT COMPONENTS
Legal and Institutional Reform
1.        Legislation to support municipal reform was an important component of the previous
IDA-supported Local Government Reform and Engineering Project (PROL). The legislation
established a national framework to create autonomous elected municipal governments, and it was an
important first step in giving municipalities administrative and financial autonomy. However,
regulations and other legal instruments are still needed to enable the municipalities to collect fees and
taxes and to allow them to recruit and develop adequate staff to undertake their new functions. At the
national level such regulations would include guidelines for municipal budgeting and accounting, a
municipal tax code, and rules for municipal personnel management. At the local level, this would
include improving the management and provision of municipal infrastructure and services, improving
cost recovery, preparing budgets for operation and maintenance, and reforming municipal revenue
collection and financial management.
2.        The Legal and Institutional Reform component of the project would make the earlier
legislation operational by addressing the agenda described above. This is important not just for the
improved management of cities but also for the national economy. National economic development
requires the development of urban-based commercial and industrial activities. Typically, the value
added from these activities must grow faster than the economy as a whole as a country modernizes and
improves living standards. When urban infrastructure and services are not made available or are not
managed efficiently, commercial and industrial activities cannot develop, which constrains national
development. The policy reforms and institutional improvements that are proposed for this project
should help cities to provide and maintain the infrastructure and services needed for economic growth.
3.        The reforms would also contribute to fiscal stability. Presently the five largest
municipalities obtain well over half their revenues from fiscal transfers, and their locally collected
revenues are very low. The program of legal and institutional reform would seek to improve the local
tax base and user fees. This would be a long-term process, but important first steps would be made
under the proposed project. In time, this initiative is expected to reduce municipal dependence on the
central government in order to free govermment revenues for other national priorities while at the same
time increasing the total amount of revenues available locally for capital investments and operation and
maintenance of services.
Municipal Capacity Building
4.        The Municipal Capacity Building component is expected to yield economic benefits similar
to those of the Legal and Institutional Reform component. The targets of this component are municipal
assembly members, municipal council members and career staff. The project would support the
development of a strategy for training and technical assistance and fund a training program during the
project period. This training would include the enhancement of the administrative skills of elected and
- 68 -



appointed officials (municipal management and operations, government policies, democratic
participation, etc.). It would also include improvement of technical skills for the provision and
maintenance of urban infrastructure and services (infrastructure planning, environmental management,
land use planning, solid waste management, etc.) and financial skills (financial planning, budgeting,
accounting, municipal taxation, etc.). The full impact of this program would only be realized over the
long term. However, in both the short and long term it should improve the contribution of cities to
economic growth and reduce the burden of municipal governments on the national budget.
Municipal Grants
5.        Municipal infrastructure investments would be made through the Municipal Grants. These
small and medium-scale investments in urban infrastructure and equipment are expected to relieve
many present infrastructure and urban service constraints. More importantly, the program is expected
to build experience at the national and municipal levels in managing a municipal funding system.
Officials and technicians at all levels would gain experience with grant program administration, project
identification, design, appraisal and implementation. In addition the grants would provide an incentive
for improved financial management at the municipal level.
6.        One approach considered would have been to pre-select and pre-appraise a large
proportion of the sub-projects, especially those to be undertaken in the early years of the project.
While such an approach would have allowed much of the sub-project design and economic analysis to
be done in advance by consultants, it would have precluded an important opportunity for capacity
building within the municipalities. Under the Municipal Grants, each municipality would select and
prepare individual investments according to its own priorities. This would be done on a programmatic
basis each year during the project period. The investment programs for the five cities for the first three
years of the project have been identified, with their approximate costs. Detailed designs and costs for
the first year's investments have been prepared. The infrastructure sub-projects for the first year range
in value from US$40,000 (sanitation facilities and solid waste containers) to US$250,000 (upgrading
of roads and drains in a lower-income area of Maputo). The maximum size of individual works in the
second and third years would approach US$450,000 in Maputo and Beira.
7.        The small size of the investments to be financed and the need for agile, simple procedures
in the capacity-constrained Mozambican context make it difficult to justify the time effort, and expense
of calculating conventional economic rates of return. In addition, many investments (e.g. community
water supply, sanitation, drainage and street lighting) would not lend themselves to quantification of
benefits, even if the skills to do so were readily available. Therefore, the MG would use a checklist
designed to assess the economic justification and cost effectiveness of each type of investment (see Cost
Effectiveness and Cost/Benefit section below). This would serve as an adequate proxy method for
economic evaluation. This approach would be set out in the Project Implementation Manual.
8.        Small-scale projects involving limited investments in infrastructure rehabilitation and
extension generally have high rates of return compared with larger-scaled investments in new
infrastructure. For example, the cost required to restore existing infrastructure such as road surfaces
and drainage is usually small in relation to the large benefits realized from the rehabilitated facilities, as
measured by reduced vehicle operating costs and reduced flooding. Likewise, the cost of extending
existing water supply and sewerage systems to additional households by widening tertiary networks can
be low in relation to the benefits, assuming there is sufficient bulk supply and an adequate trunk
network to supply the new connections.
- 69 -



9.        There are numerous examples of high rates of return from urban rehabilitation works in
African countries. Ex-ante economic analysis of small scale investments in the multi-city Ghana Local
Government Development Project (1994) indicated that improvements in roads and drainage would
produce economic rates of return (ERRs) ranging from 68% to 100%. Improvements in markets and
bus stations were expected to yield ERRs of 15% to 30%. ERRs of 15% to 17% were expected for
improvements in solid waste management, and ERRs of 35% were expected from improved sewerage.
For the Public Works and Capacity Building Project in Chad (1994), estimated ERRs were 20% to
60% for drainage improvements 20% to 30% for urban road rehabilitation. Such high economic rates
of return have been confirmed upon the completion of urban development projects in Africa. For
example, the Second Urban Development Project in Djibouti was completed in 1999 with
improvements in roads and drainage in several neighborhoods. At appraisal ERRs had been estimated
between 20% and 30%, and it was confirmed at project completion that such rates had been achieved.
Ex-post economic analysis of recently completed road rehabilitation works in Accra under the Ghana
Urban Transport Project indicated that economic rates of return had been achieved of 41% for arterial
roads and 45% for access roads to low income areas. Ex-post rates of return for road rehabilitation in
a recently completed Social Fund II Project in Madagascar ranged from 41% to 349%.
ALTERNATIVES TO THE PROJECT AND REASONS FOR REJECTION
10. The need for improved urban services is clear. The present service deficiencies and poverty in
cities and towns need to be addressed urgently. Capacity is needed to cope with this situation on a
larger scale in the future. With no project there would be no opportunity to follow up on the initiatives
begun under the PROL project, and opportunities for investment and capacity building at the local level
would be lost. Present initiatives by bilateral agencies are limited to smaller cities and towns and are
unlikely to have the necessary impact on national capacity and policy. The World Bank is the only
agency in a strong position to take leadership in this field.
11. A traditional, centrally implemented, multiple-city investment project was considered but was not
recommended for two reasons. First, it was agreed-and the Bank's operational experience clearly
shows-that, with few exceptions, investment prograns for municipal infrastructure and services
should be implemented by the municipalities themselves in the interest of (a) building capacity through
"learning by doing" and (b) ensuring the sustainability of the investments, by making the institution
responsible for operation and maintenance-the municipal government-also responsible for
implementation. It was therefore decided that, for the investment component, decentralized
implementation should be the priority approach in this new operation. This would, therefore, preclude
large-scale infrastructure works which could neither be managed nor maintained locally. Second, the
Government felt very strongly that the investment component of the proposed project should cover at
least five cities in order to meet expectations generated under PROL and to have a reasonable degree of
impact. The Bank's traditional investment approach is cumbersome when extended over multiple local
governments because it requires too much ex ante planning and review. More importantly, the
traditional investment approach does not lend itself to being expanded to more cities in future phases of
the program. Therefore, a program-type approach was needed.
FISCAL IMPACT
12. A detailed analysis ("Municipal Finance and Fiscal Impact Analysis", by Roy Brockman and
Lauren Wojtyla, October 2000) was undertaken of the fiscal situation and potential for financial
improvement in the five municipalities (Maputo, Beira, Quelimane, Nampula, and Pemba) which will
- 70 -



participate in the Municipal Grants. The cities have very limited resources and are dependent on
central government transfers for more than half their revenues. Own source revenues, which are very
low, are from fees and licenses, mostly market fees. As municipalities were elected in 1998,
comparisons of data before and after that year are difficult. The 1997 Municipal Finance Law allows
municipalities to collect several taxes (property tax, head tax, economic activity tax, and commerce and
industry tax), but municipalities have not started collecting them because regulations have not yet been
passed.
13. Fiscal transfers to the five cities were about 62% of total revenues in 1999. The transfers, largely
from the Fondo de Compensacao Autarquico (FCA) and the Fondo de Investimento de Iniciativa
Local (FIIL) and project specific grants, are mainly based on population. These transfers provide a
growing source of revenue to the municipalities without the costs associated with local revenue
generation. However, as presently structured they provide little incentive to the municipalities to
increase local resource mobilization. While transfers from central government are likely to remain
important, it will also be important for the municipalities to focus on local revenue collection in order
to improve and maintain services over time.
14. The cities use most of their revenues for recurrent expenditure, which mainly includes expenditure
for personnel and for goods and services. These expenses are expected to average about 66% of total
municipal expenditures in 2000 in the five cities. This leaves limited funds available for capital
expenditure. Spending for maintenance is very low and is not increasing as a proportion of municipal
expenditure, which poses the danger of infrastructure and service deterioration at a time when the cities
are growing rapidly. Significant increases in revenue are needed to ensure that infrastructure can be
provided and investments can be adequately maintained.
15. The project would provide supplemental funding to the cities for new investments through the
Municipal Grants (MG). The "Municipal Finance and Fiscal Impact Analysis" study made projections
of possible municipal finance performance in the five cities over the 2001-2005 period. Because trend
projections could not be made due to the lack of time series data, two scenarios were developed, the "
status quo" projection and the "financial improvement" projection. Based on these, the study applied a
financial model to analyze the potential impact of the annual MG allocations on the financial situation
of each city. The objective was to determine the extent to which the municipalities could absorb the
projected grant amounts, while ensuring that sufficient funds were set aside each year for operation and
maintenance of the investments.
16. The status quo scenario is based on the assumption that revenues from existing taxes and fees
would grow slowly and the new taxes enabled by earlier legislation would not be fully exploited. There
would also be little real increase in fiscal transfers. Under this scenario, recurrent expenditure would
also increase slowly with a -2% real growth in personnel expenditure and limited growth in
maintenance and other categories. Municipalities would continue largely with the same cost structures,
and there would be no increase in net income to use as counterpart funding for the MG.
17. The more optimistic scenario assumes a decisive effort towards financial improvement. At the
national level, regulations would be enacted to enable municipalities to collect new fees and taxes, as
called for in the municipal legislation. At the local level, the new taxes and fees would be introduced,
and budgeting and financial management would be improved. Local taxes and licenses would be
collected more efficiently. The municipalities would take active steps to further improve services and
to control excessive personnel costs. Fiscal transfers are assumed to increase in real terms. New taxes
would contribute positively to net income. This strategy implies active intervention at both levels of
- 71 -



governance, central and local, to insure effective change. The improved levels of financing available to
municipalities would enable greater expenditure increases in all categories. Capital expenditure under
the MG would be allocated according to the same formula as under the first scenario. However,
because of municipalities would have much greater net income to use for its counterpart contribution
required for MG grants, their capital expenditures under the second scenario would be higher.
18. The grant allocations to each city in the first year of the MG have been pre-set and agreed with the
municipalities and the government. In subsequent years MG allocations would be established by a
performance formula which is linked to the improvement of the financial capacities of the
municipalities. The following year's grant amount would increase or decrease by a factor calculated
by multiplying the current year's allocation by the ratio of the percentage increase in the previous year'
s operating revenues divided by the percentage increase in the previous year's recurrent expenditures,
including maintenance. An annual average of 10% municipal counterpart contribution is required for
all funds disbursed from the MG. If the municipality produces an excess of operating revenues over
recurrent expenditures large enough to afford the full 10%/o of the amount allocated by the above
formula, the entire allocation can be used. If the municipality's net revenues are below the 10%
required to leverage the entire amount of the grant allocation, the grant is limited to the amount the
municipality can afford based on its 10%.
19. Under the "status quo" alternative, the amounts of investments that municipalities can afford
decline dramatically after the first year of the MG on account of the increasing maintenance costs
associated with the program and the limited net revenues generated (see graph below). The "financial
improvement" scenario, however, shows that all the five MG municipalities would be able to afford
growing investment programs while making adequate provisions for O&M. The financial improvement
scenario is a realistic one, in which municipalities improve their revenues, control costs, and have
growing surpluses which can be used for its counterpart contribution toward MG grants.
Municipalities that gradually introduce reforms would afford a growing capital development program
under the project. The need for significant improvements in the collection of additional revenues is
clear for each municipality to be able to participate and for the MG's success as a program. This
implies critical linkages with the Legal and Institutional Reform and Capacity Building components of
the MDP.
20. Under the financial improvement scenario, some MT 532.8 billion in investments are projected in
total for the five municipalities over the four years of the MDP. This is equivalent to about US$33.4
million over a four-year period. The financing plan for the project assumes a somewhat lower, though
still optimistic, outer envelope of US$25 million.
- 72 -



MGF-Talti
25MA  W7tm453
0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
0DI       20         23         20 1
COST EFFECTIVENESS AND COST/BENEFIT
Program Approach
21. Compared to more traditional filly defined investment programs, the Municipal Grants would
enable the municipalities to develop investment planning and budgeting capacity and set the stage for a
more comprehensive and broader municipal development program in the future. Municipal
governments would learn to plan and evaluate basic investments and equipment purchases, supervise
consultants, and integrate the related costs and revenues into their budgets. They would develop their
capacity to identify proposals in consultation with conmmunity groups. They would learn procedures
for procuring and supervising works, equipment and consultants.
Assessment of Benefits and Cost Effectiveness of Investments
22. Most of the Municipal Grants would be directed to the rehabilitation and upgrading of existing
infrastructure. This type of investment generally yields much higher rates of return than investrnent in
new infrastructure and facilities. Nonetheless, the benefits and costs of each proposal need to be
evaluated to assure that they would'be economically sound.
23. A detailed checklist has been prepared for evaluating sub-projects proposed by the municipalities
for financing under the Municipal Grants. It covers the main types of sub-projects that are eligible for
financing under the MG. Given the relatively small size of the investments to be financed, the need for
agile, simple procedures in the capacity-constrained Mozambican context, the large expense and effort
of calculating conventional economic rates of return, and the difficulties of quantifying the benefits of
many of the sub-projects, this checklist provides an adequate proxy method for the economic evaluation
of sub-projects. The checklist is summarized in the table below and will be elaborated in more detail in
the Project Implementation Manual.
24. The checklist in the Project Implementation Manual outlines the main objectives to be sought for
each type of sub-project. Proposed investments would be required to demonstrate that they meet these
- 73 -



objectives. The checklist also presents detailed questions and requests specific types of information
that would be used jointly by the municipalities and the Project Coordination Unit in order to assess the
economic benefits and cost effectiveness of each sub-project proposal.
25. The economic justification of proposed investments would be reviewed in terms of the Benefit
Assessment Criteria given for each category of sub-projects. Most investments are expected to
improve and extend critical urban services in the project cities, with particular emphasis on improving
services in poor areas and in areas of critical economic activity. The checklist calls for the assessment,
at least in qualitative terms, of how well the proposed improvements would meet these ends.
26. The Cost Effectiveness Criteria given for each type of sub-project would be used to assure that the
proposed investments achieve appropriate least-cost solutions. As part of the preparation of their
proposals, the municipalities would compile data to show whether the standards and costs proposed are
economical. This would include a comparison of the unit costs of proposed investments with unit costs
for similar investrnents in Mozambique. A data base of such baseline cost data would be collected and
maintained by the Project Coordination Unit and disseminated to the municipalities to facilitate this
analysis. Specific technical questions are posed for each sub-sector, such as whether there is adequate
bulk capacity to complement any proposed additional investments in water supply, sewerage and street
lighting. In addition to assuring that low cost designs and unit costs are used, adherence to proper
procurement procedures should help ensure economical costs. Creating mechanisms to operate and
maintain the investments is also important to ensure efficiency and sustainability over time. Therefore,
in most cases the checklists suggest the consideration not only of more effective municipal management
practices, but also private sector participation to provide, manage and/or maintain services.
27. In the case of proposed investments in markets and bus terminals, data on the amounts of
additional fees which vendors and bus operators would pay would be used together with cost data to
calculate a financial rate of return. Rates of return should be at least 12%.
- 74 -



Economic and Cost Effectiveness Checklist for Municipal Grants Fund Projects
(Summary List
Benefit Assessment Criteria       Cost Effectiveness Criteria
Community        What type of improvement is    Unit cost estimates of boreholes, wells
Water            proposed?                      and standpipes?
(wells and bore-  Income levels of beneficiaries?    Additional bulk supply required? At
holes,           How much do they pay for water   what cost?
standpipes, home  supply?                       O&M arrangements? Private sector role?
connections)     What will new water supply cost
them?
Sanitation       How is target community now    Unit costs of latrines/sewage connection?
(latrines, septic  served?                      Cost of any additional sewage network
tanks, sewerage   What types of facilities are  required?
with treatment)   proposed?                     Cost of additional treatment capacity
Income levels of beneficiaries?    required?
What do they now pay?          O&M arrangements? Private sector role?
Cost to them of new supply?
Road             Need, economic importance,     Technical specifications/unit costs of
Rehabilitation    traffic surveys of roads to be  road rehabilitation?
and Paving       rehabilitated?                 Unit costs of bridges, culverts, drains,
Reduced travel time and vehicle   etc.
operation costs?               O&M arrangements? Private sector role?
How will improvement prevent    Unit costs of proposed improvements by
Surface          damage to roads, property and  type of drain?
Drainage         businesses?                    Improvements required in secondary and
How will improvements increase   primary drains and discharge points?
property values?               O&M arrangements? Private sector role?
Reduction in disease?
How much solid waste is not    What is the proposed frequency of
Solid Waste      collected?                      collections?
Facilities       What do users currently pay for    Number and capacity of existing
(New collection   service?                      vehicles?
equipment,       What is additional service     How many additional/rehabilitated
landfill         required by group?             vehicles? What are unit costs?
management and  What do beneficiaries now pay?    How and at what cost could collection
equipment)       What will they pay under new   and disposal be better organized?
arrangement?                   Landfill site capacity, proposed
improvements, equipment.
O&M arrangements? Private sector role?
Improved lighting priorities in  Location and spacing standards?
Street           commercial and residential?    Specifications for fixtures?
Lighting         How would improved lighting be  Sufficient power capacity in areas to be
paid for?                      serviced?
O&M arrangements? Private sector role?
Demand for new/improved        Standards and unit costs for paved and
markets? How much are          unpaved surfaces?
Markets          beneficiaries willing to pay for    Number and costs of stalls?
new/improved market?           Standards and unit costs for access roads,
Demand for additional facilities?   water supply, public toilets, drainage,
How will economic development  solid waste management?
- 75 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
MOZAMBIQUE: MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN
General
1.    Under the supervision of the Project Director, the Senior Financial Controller (Controller) of
the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be responsible for ensuring that financial management and
reporting procedures are carried out in a manner acceptable to the Government, the World Bank and
other cooperating partners. Therefore, the Financial Management System (FMS) will be coordinated
by the PCU. The responsibility for the transactions and control of funds for the Municipal Grants rests
with separate implementing agencies (lAs), which will be the five municipalities. These entities will
provide financial reports to the PCU, which will in tum handle consolidated reporting to and
disbursements from the World Bank. The Capacity Building component will be fully financed by the
Nordic Development Fund. This component is not included in the FMS and will have its own financial
accounting and reporting system for the NDF. The NDF-funded Capacity Building Office to be
established in IMAP will have full responsibility for implementing the training and technical assistance
program. The PCU would provide advice and support to the Capacity Building component in the areas
of procurement and contracting.
2.    The principal objective of the PCU's financial management system (FMS) will be to support
management in their deployment of limited resources with the purpose of ensuring economy, efficiency
and effectiveness in the delivery of outputs required to achieve desired outcomes, that will serve the
needs of the people of Mozambique. Specifically, the FMS must be capable of producing timely,
understandable, relevant and reliable financial information that will enable management to plan,
implement, monitor and appraise the Project's overall progress towards the achievement of its
objectives.
3.    For the PCU to fully deliver on the aforementioned objectives, its FMS will be developed in
accordance with the Financial Management Action Plan presented in Section B below.
Quarterly Review
4.    On a quarterly basis, the Project Management Team (the Team), comprising the Director of
DNDA (chair) and the PCU staff, will meet to review project management. The reports that will be
reviewed will consist of:
a.    Financial Statements, as discussed below. Members of the Team will review and approve
Quarterly and Annual Financial Statements; they will also examine material variances between
budget/actual figures, seeking remedial action as appropriate within an agreed timeframe.
b.    A Progress Report on the technical and physical implementation of the Project.
c.    A Procurement Report (including Goods, Works and Services). The format and details of the
Procurement Report is detailed in the PIM.
- 76 -



Staffing
5. The Controller will direct and guide the financial operations of the PCU. The GU Accountant at
the PCU and the Accountants at the municipal nucleos will report to the Controller on all financial
matters. A diagram of the organizational structure of the Project is included as Annex 13.
6. Varying levels of staff training will be required in financial, management and accounting;
information systems and computer applications; and procedures relating to the utilization of funds (e.g.
Special Accounts, SOEs, Special Commitments, Procurement, etc.). On-the-job coaching will also be
provided.
Financial Procedures ManuaUlAccounting System
7. A Financial Management Consultant has been retained to develop and install the Project's FMS
(manual and spreadsheet-based) and to prepare the Project's Financial Procedures Manual. The
accounts will initially be maintained using a conventional spreadsheet package, supported as
appropriate with manual records. In due course, if it is decided that a fully computerized system is the
best outcome for the project, the PCU will have the responsibility to convert the initial system into an
integrated, computerized Project Management system.
8. Provision has been made in the budget for hardware and software requirements.
Planning and Budgeting
9.    Counterpart Funding will be approved in line with Governnent (both central and municipal)
budgetary processes. Quarterly and annual cash flow forecasts will be prepared by each IA (including
the PCU for the Legal and Institutional Reformn component) in consultation with the relevant
Procurement Officer and submitted to the PCU. At the PCU, the GU Accountant and the Controller
will review the individual lAs' reports and prepare consolidated cash flow statements analyzed by
quarter. These will be reviewed by the Project Director and approved by the Team at its quarterly
meeting. All statements will be prepared in line with generally accepted accounting practice.
Cash Basis of Accounting
10.   For the foreseeable future, Project funds will be accounted for on a cash basis.
Procurement of Goods, Works and Services
I.   World Bank and Government procurement regulations will be observed. The IA and PCU
Accounting staff and support staff will be conversant with those procedures, as intemal control issues
and the incurring of liabilities on behalf of the Project will be matters of concem to the financial
management function.
12.   Procurement procedures will be documented in the Project Implementation Manual. A
Procurement Report, showing procurement status and contract commitments, will be prepared
quarterly for consideration by the Team (see above).
Banking Activities-Flow Of Funds
- 77 -



13.   The PCU will maintain three (3) accounts as follows:
a.    Project Account in Meticais with a commercial bank acceptable to IDA to which counterpart
funds will be deposited. Initially, a three months float will be provided and, thereafter, it will
be replenished monthly.
b.    Special Account with a commercial bank acceptable to IDA in US Dollars, which will show (i)
Dollar/Meticais cost of transfers to Municipal and GCM IDA accounts; (ii) Dollar/Meticais
cost of direct payments to suppliers; (iii) Dollar advances (Meticais equivalent cost) from the
IDA Ledger Loan Account; and (iv) opening and closing balances.
c.    IDA Ledger Loan Account (Washington) in US Dollars/Meticais/SDR, which will show (i)
cost of transfers to Bank X; (ii) cost of direct payments to suppliers; and (iii) opening and
closing balances.
14.   The Municipalities and the GCM will maintain two (2) accounts as follows:
a.    Municipal Project Account in Meticais with a commercial bank acceptable to IDA to which
counterpart funds will be deposited. Initially, a three months float will be provided and,
thereafter, it will be replenished monthly. Thereafter, the account will be replenished monthly.
b.    Municipal Account with a commercial bank acceptable to IDA in US dollars, which will show
(i) Dollar/Meticais cost of direct payments to suppliers; (ii) Dollar transfers (Meticais
equivalent cost) from the Special Account; and (iii) opening and closing balances.
15. All Project bank accounts will be reconciled monthly; identified differences will be expeditiously
investigated. Control procedures will be documented in the Financial Procedures Manual.
Withdrawals/Disbursements
16.   By effectiveness, the PCU and the other lAs will not be ready for PMR-based disbursements
(World Bank's Loan Administration Change Initiative Handbook, LACI, September 1998). Thus, in
the short term, existing disbursement procedures as outlined in the World Bank's Disbursement
Handbook will be followed, i.e. Direct Payment, Reimbursement and Special Commnitment. However,
the development of the PCU's and the LAs' financial management systems should facilitate the
introduction of PMR-based disbursements within 18 months of credit effectiveness or such later date as
the World Bank shall agree.
Fixed Assets/Consultants/Civil Works
17. Control procedures will be documented in the Financial Procedures Manual. A Fixed Assets
Register will be prepared, regularly updated and checked. Regarding Construction/Capital Work in
Progress, controls will be established to ensure that payments are made only for certified work
(including physical verification). A Contracts Register will be maintained for all contracts with
consultants. Contract Status Reports will be prepared quarterly by each IA for review by the Team as
part of the quarterly progress report.
Financial Reporting (Monthly, Quarterly, and Annually)
- 78 -



18. Monthly: The Controller will be responsible for preparing a Monthly Return (Statement of
Expenses - "Prestac6es de Contas") to the Ministry of Planning and Finance (MPF) for consolidation
into the National Accounts of Mozambique.
19. Quarterly and Annually: The Financial Statements will include:
a.    A Consolidated Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds (IDA, Counterpart and Donor
Funds);
b.    Project Balance Sheet as at the reporting date;
c.    Notes on significant accounting policies and accounting standards adopted by management
when preparing the accounts; and on any supplementary information or explanations that may
be deemed appropriate by management to enhance the presentation of a "true and fair view";
d.    A Statement reconciling the balances on the various Bank Accounts (including the IDA Special
Account) to the bank balances on the Statement of Sources and Applications of Funds;
e.    SOE Withdrawal Schedule, listing individual withdrawal applications relating to
disbursements by the SOE Method, by reference number, date and amount;
f.    A Cash Forecast for the year, analyzed by quarter.
20. Indicative formats for Financial Statements are outlined in a number of World Bank publications -
Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook (FARAH, January 1995), The Loan
Administration Change Initiative Handbook (LACI, September 1998) and the Draft Project Financial
Management Manual (February 1999). The formats adopted by the Team will be documented in the
Financial Procedures Manual.
External Audit
21. Relevantly qualified, experienced and independent auditors will be appointed on approved terms of
reference. Audited financial statements will be submitted to the Bank within six months after the
financial year end. Besides expressing a primary opinion on the financial statements in compliance
with International Auditing Standards (IFAC/INTOSAI pronouncements), the auditor will be required
to include a separate paragraph commenting on the accuracy and propriety of expenditures withdrawn
under SOE procedures and the extent to which these can be relied upon as a basis for loan
disbursements. Regarding the Special Account, the auditor will also be expected to form an opinion as
to the degree of compliance with World Bank procedures and the balance at the year-end.
Additionally, the auditor will be required to prepare separate Management Letters for each IA, giving
observations and comments, and providing recommendations for improvements of accounting records,
systems, controls and compliance with financial covenants.
- 79 -



MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financial Management Review
Risk Assessment Table
1. Organizational Structure/institutional Arrangements                  X_
2. Project Structure angd Costing                                         _      X
3. Internal Control Structure  _                   
4. Accounting Standards, Financial and Management Reporting                      X
5. Special Accounts, Disbursements and Supporting Documentation                  X
6. Staffing and Training                                                         X
7. Audit Arrangements                                                            X
8. Budgeting and Monitoring __  ___= =_x
9. Country Risk (corruption, poor govemance, etc.)                      X
Notes:
The Project Risk is considered low as the following measures will be taken to strengthen the
control environment:
1 The financial management activities/transactions will be clearly identifiable and traceable.
2 Relevantly qualified staff will be recruited at the PCU and IA levels, including Accountants and
Procurement Officers at each IA.
3 A Financial Management Committee will be established and will meet quarterly to monitor the
Project's progress against financial performance indicators; Competent Program Management.
4 A Financial Procedures Manual will be developed.
5 Monthly bank reconciliations will be prepared and independently approved.
6 Quarterly Cash Flow Management; variances will be examined and remedial ac1tion will be
taken.
7 Independent monitoring by external auditors (Appointment and TORs of the external auditors
will be approved by the Bank: IFAC standards will be followed).
8 Financial statements will be prepared in compliance with International Accounting Standards.
9 The Budget will be approved in line with the Government process. Care must be exercised in
ensuring the timely availability/release of Counterpart Funds.
Conclusion:
Provided the financial management proposals outlined in the Financial Management Action Plan
are effected in practice, the overall Project Risk is assessed as being low. The challenge for
Project Management will be to convert from the "drawing board" to practice. Care must be
exercised in ensuring the timely availability/release of Counterpart Funds.
- 80 -



I



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
MOZAMBIQUE: MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procurement
1. The project has three components: (i) Legal and Institutional Reforms, which will be implemented
by the National Directorate of Municipal Development (DNDA) of the Ministry of State
Administration (MAE); (ii) Capacity Building, which will be implemented by the Intermediate Institute
of Public Administration (IMAP); and (iii) Municipal Grants, which will be managed by a small unit at
the central level, but which will finance specific works, goods, and consultancies implemented by each
municipality.
2. The Capacity Building component will be financed entirely by the Nordic Development Fund
(NDF), and therefore the World Bank's procurement rules will not apply to it. This Annex pertains to
the Legal and Institutional Reform component and the Municipal Grants component, both of which will
be financed with IDA funds and are thus subject to World Bank procurement rules.
3. The Ministry of State Administration, which will have overall responsibility for the implementation
of the project, will establish a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) to manage the project. The PCU,
which will include a Project Director, a Financial Controller, and a Procurement Specialist trained in
Bank's procurement rules, will be responsible for (a) carrying out the procurement of goods and
services for the Legal and Institutional Reform component, (b) carrying out the procurement of goods,
works and services, as needed, for the PCU, (c) carrying out the ICB based procurement of goods for
the MDF grant funds, and (d) for reviewing and assuring the quality of procurement by the
municipalities. Procurement of works, goods, and services financed under the Municipal Grants
component will be carried out directly by the municipalities' implementing units (the municipal
nucleos), with (i) technical assistance from a consulting firm specially contracted to support the
municipalities, and (ii) oversight by the PCU.
4. Consulting services, goods and works financed by IDA under this project will be procured in
accordance with the provisions of the World Bank Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (the Consultant Guidelines) published in January 1997, revised
in September 1997 and January 1999, and the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits, January 1995, revised January/August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. For any
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) for goods and works, the implementing agencies will use
Standard Bidding Documents and contracts issued by the Bank. For the selection of consulting firms,
the implementing agencies will use the Request For Proposal (RFP) for selection of consulting firms
and contracts issued by the Bank. For works and goods under National Competitive Bidding (NCB)
the implernenting agencies will prepare National Competitive Bidding (NCB) documents accepted by
the Bank. For procurement of works under USS30,000 and goods under $30,000 by municipalities,
fixed price contracts will be awarded on the basis of written solicitation issued to at least three
qualified suppliers after evaluation of bids received in writing.
Procurement Methods
5. It is not possible to detennine in advance the exact mix of works, goods, and consultant services to
be procured under the Municipal Grants component, because the MG is designed to operate on a
demand-driven basis in which the Municipalities will select their own packages of activities each year.
- 82 -



However, an estimated projection of aggregate amounts of procurement under each category was made
at appraisal for purposes of overall procurement planning. The methods to be used for procurement
are described below, and the estimated amounts for each method are summarized in Table A after the
appraisal. The proposed threshold contract values for the use of each method are shown in Table B.
Procurement of Works
6. Works procured under the Municipal Grants may include road rehabilitation, community water
supply (but not larger-scale water facilities), sewerage, sanitation facilities, surface drainage, solid
waste facilities, street lighting, upgrading of markets and bus terminals, and small-scale,
community-level facilities such as bus shelters, foot paths and foot bridges, etc. Works contracts equal
to or above US$0.5 million are not anticipated. Consequently; the project would not be expected to use
ICB procedures for works procurement. Works contracts larger than US$100,000 up to US$0.5
million equivalent will be awarded following NCB procedures, using standard bidding documents
agreed in advance with IDA. Contracts estimated to cost US$100,000 or less will use simplified NCB
documents consistent with the complexity of the work and the needs of the local works contract
industry. For
7. Smaller works contracts estimated to cost less than US$30,000 equivalent be procured on the basis
of at least three quotations received in response to a written invitation, which will include a detailed
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion time, a basic form of
agreement acceptable to IDA, and relevant drawings, where applicable.
Procurement of Goods
8. Eligible goods under the Municipal Grants include tipper trucks, tractors and wagons, small
excavation equipment, small equipment for road maintenance (but not large items such as graders or
bulldozers), mini-buses for Municipal staff, pickups for technical departments, and office equipment
for Municipal departments. Goods to be procured under the other components will include vehicles,
computers, office equipment and furniture, etc. Where possible, contracts for the same goods will be
grouped into bidding packages of more than US$200,000 equivalent and procured following
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures, using Bank-issued Standard Bidding Documents
(SBDs). Goods with estimated values of US$200,000 or less per contract may be procured using
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures and standard bidding documents agreed with IDA.
Contracts for goods which cannot be grouped into larger bidding packages and estimated to cost less
than US$30,000 equivalent per contract may be procured using shopping procedures based on a model
request for quotations satisfactory to IDA.
Selection of Consultants
9. Consultant services will be contracted under this project in the following areas of expertise:
institutional development, studies, training, design and supervision of civil works, and related subjects.
10. Firms: All contracts for fimns, except for small and simple contracts estimated to cost
US$100,000 equivalent or less, would be procured using Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) in
accordance with Chapter II of the Consultant Guidelines. Services for tasks that meet the requirements
set forth in paragraph 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines and are estimated to cost US$100,000
equivalent or less per contract may be procured in accordance with provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and
3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. Shortlists of consulting firms for services estimated to cost
- 83 -



US$100,000 equivalent or less per contract may be composed entirely of national consultants in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultants Guidelines, unless intemational
eligible consultants have expressed interest.
11. Individuals: Specialized advisory services would be provided by individual consultants selected on
the basis of their qualifications for the assignment and hired in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Operating Costs
12. Operating costs such as office supplies, telephone charges, fuel and maintenance for project
vehicles, in-country travel, document reproduction, and similar items may be procured using
administrative procedures as set forth in the Project Implementation Manual and which are acceptable
to IDA. The plan and budget for the PCU's Operating Costs will be reviewed and approved by the
Bank annually.
Prior Review of Procurement by the World Bank and the Project Coordination Unit
13. "Prior review" refers to the submission of procurement documents for "no objection" by the
supervising and accountable entity, which may be the World Bank according to the Procurement
Guidelines or the Project Coordination Unit. The proposed thresholds for prior review by Bank are
summarized in Table B. The prior review by PCU is indicated after Table B.
Procurement Management
14. Procurement activities will be carried out by the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and the
municipalities (under supervision of the PCU). The PCU will include a full-time Procurement
Specialist whose responsibilities will include: (i) maintaining a data base on procurement actions for all
contracts, (ii) carrying out and/or review of procurement actions for the PCU, the Legal and
Institutional Reform component and the Municipal Grants component prior to their review by the
World Bank, (iii) assist and facilitate procurement actions under the project, (iv) provide technical
assistance and training to personnel of the PCU and the municipalities, (v) coordinate with and support
the consultants who will provide direct technical assistance on engineering and finances to the
municipalities, (vi) maintain files of all standard procurement documents, (vii) prepare quarterly
procurement reports, (viii) assist the Bank to carry out annual procurement reviews, and (ix) arrange
for periodic (preferably annual) procurement audits-including works completion and post review of
procurement documentation-and take action on the reports arising there from.
15. To ensure adequate capacity, each municipality will have a dedicated project team (municipal
nucleo) composed of a council member (coordinator), a Municipal and Procurement Engineer, a
qualified accountant, and a technician. During the pre-effectiveness period these individuals will
receive special training on procurement procedures and procurement documentation.
16. Actions that will be taken to minimize risks of procurement problems are: (i) provision of training
in procurement to all staff of the PCU and the Procurement Officer and other staff of the project units
of the municipalities; (ii) preparation of a procurement plan with the participation of all the relevant
institutions and individuals; (iii) the contracting of a consulting firm to provide focused, on-site,
technical assistance to the Municipalities during the life of the project in areas related to their
management of the Municipal Grants, including advice and support in all the stages of procurement of
- 84 -



works, goods, and services; and (iv) creation of a monitoring and filing system for all procurement
actions which would be maintained by the PCU's Procurement Specialist.
Procurement Plan
17. At appraisal, the World Bank and DNDA prepared the finalize version of the procurement plan for
the project which will provide the basis for the aggregate amounts for the procurement methods (per
Table A). At the beginning of each calendar year, the PCU will update the Procurement Plan with a
detailed procurement schedule for the coming year.
Procurement Reporting and Supervision
18. A Procurement Management Report, showing procurement status and contract commitments, will
be compiled quarterly by the PCU for inclusion in the project's quarterly progress reports.
19. The Bank will cany out an annual ex post review of procurement actions not subject to prior
review. This should cover a sample of not less than 50% of the contracts signed.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category             ICB             NCO           othr        . N.B.F.  .TotCost
1. Works                                             16.32          0.33         0.00        16.65
(13.78)        (0.28)       (0.00)      (14.06)
2. Goods                             4.84            0.19           1.37         0.00         6.40
(4.62)          (0.18)        (1.35)        (0.00)       (6.15)
3. Services                          0.00            0.00           12.00        3.08        15.08
_______=== ___________=______      (0.00)           (0.00)        (11.70)       (0.00)      (11.70)
5. Training                                                                      2.09         2.09
()            iL.(C                      (0.00) -0.22
6. Operational Costs                 0.00            0.00           0.99                      0.99
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.84)        (0.00)      (0.84)
PPF                                  0.00            0.00           0.85         0.00         0.85
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.85)        (0.)        0.85)
Total                             4.84            16.51          15.54         5.17       42.06
(4.62)          (13.96)       (15.02)       (0.00)      (33.60)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
X Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govenment
units.
- 85-



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
ExpendIiureq Cate o    QC1S QBS    SFB    LCS         CQ     Other   N.BEF.        t'
A. Firms              0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)
Total  0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 86 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                               Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement             Prior Review
i Expernditure Category    (US$ thousands)             Method               (US$ millions)
1. Works                      >500,000                  ICB                      All
>30,000                  NCB                1st Year: All above
100,000
2nd Year onwards: above
250,000 by Bank and
above 100,000 by PCU
<30,000               3 quotations        1st year: first two from
each Municipality by Bank
and all by PCU
2nd year onward: half by
PCU
2. Goods                      >200,000                  ICB                      All
200,000-30,000           ICB or NCB         1st year: all above 100,000
by Bank and all above
50,000 by PCU
2nd year onward: all above
100,000 by PCU
<30,000               3 quotations        1st year: first two from
each Municipality by Bank
and all by PCU
2nd year onward: half by
PCU
3. Services
Firms                         >100,000                 QCBS                      All
<100,000              LCS & SBCQ           1st year: first two from
each Municipality by Bank
and all by PCU
2nd year onward: half by
PCU
Individuals              Individuals >50,000    See Section V of Guidelines  All (TOR, contract, CV)
Individuals <50,000    See Section V of Guidelines   1 st year: first two from
each Municipality by Bank
and all by PCU
2nd year onward: half by
PCU
- 87 -



Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 mondis (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds for prior review by PCUofprocurement by municinalities:
Works    >US$ 100,000
Goods    > US$100,000
Consultants > US$20,000
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentaton" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-88 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
21. Table C shows the allocations of the proceeds of the credit. Municipal Grants are designated as a
category because it is not possible to predict the precise distribution of works, goods, and consultancies
that would be financed through the MG. The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed over a 48
month project life span. The annual estimated disbursements are indicated in the Project Appraisal
Document. Disbursements would be made against standard IDA documentation. The expected Project
Completion Date is August 31, 2005. The Credit closing date is expected to be February 28, 2006.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million         Financing Percentage
1. Works for Part B                        12.86               85% of total expenditures
2. Goods and Equipment for Part B          5.48           100% of foreign expenditures and 85%
of local expenditures
Part C                                     0.14           100% of foreign expenditures and 85%
of local expenditures
3. Consultant Services, Training and       3.70                100% of total expenditures
Studies for Part A
Part B                                     1.51                 85% of total expenditures
Part C                                     5.60                100% of total expenditures
4. Incremental Operating Costs for Part    0.84                 85% of total expenditures
C                                  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _
5. Refinancing of the PPF                  0.85
6. Unallocated                             2.62      _
Total Project Costs                        33.60
Total                                      33.60
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
22.   Disbursements would be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOE) for contracts with
an individual value less than those requiring IDA's prior review (see Procurement above).
All applications to withdraw proceeds from the Credit will be fully documented, except for (a) expenditures
of contracts with an estimated value of less than US$ 100,000 each for works (b) expenditures of contracts
with an estimated value of US$ 100,000 each or less for goods, (c) expenditures of contracts with an
estimated value of lees than US$ 100,000 each or less for consultants' services provided by firms and US$
50,000 each or less for individual consultants, and (d) training, and operating costs under terms and
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice.
Eligible expenditures below the above mentioned thresholds, including training and operating costs, can be
claimed on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOE).
23.   Disbursements would also be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOE), between the
eligible Municipalities and the PCU, based in Maputo, for contracts with an individual value less than (a)
US$ 100,000 each or less for works, (b) US$ 100,000 each or less for goods and (c) US$ 20,000 each or
less for consultants services. Eligible expenditures for contracts with an individual value greater than the
above mentioned thresholds, will require IDA or PCU's prior review, as applicable.
- 89 -



24.   The documentation for disbursements made using SOEs will be retained by the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) or by the Municipal Nucleos , as applicable, and will be made available for
review when requested by IDA supervision mission and project auditors. All disbursements are subject to
the conditions of the Development Credit Agreement and the procedures defined in the Disbursement Letter
to be issued by IDA.
25.   All applications for (a) direct payments, and (b) issuance of special conmnitments in guarantee of
letters of credit for payments in excess of the above menttioned thresholds will be submitted directly to IDA
with appropriate documentation (copy of the contract,invoice, IDA no-objection, etc)
Special account:
26.   In order to ensure timely provision of funds available to finance the costs of the project, the
Government will establish, for the purpose of this project, a Special Account in US dollars , in a
commercial bank under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA,
27.     The authorized allocation of the Special Account is US$ 1,600,000. However, the Special
Account will be limited to US$ 1,000,000 until cumulative disbursements reach US$6 million equivalent.
Additionally, the initial deposit of the SA will only be increased after a SOE review is carried out.
28.    The PCU will be responsible for submitting monthly replenishment applications with appropriate
supporting documents for the actual expenditures.
Disbursement Arrangements:
29.   Given the decentralized nature of MDP implementation, there is an equal need to decentralize
disbursement procedures and financial management responsibilities to improve accountability. Therefore,
municipalities will open and maintain new separate accounts, Municipal Accounts (MA), in commercial
banks and in US dollars, independently managed, for the purposes of receiving, from the US$ Special
Account, based in Maputo, up to the equivalent of three months advances of approved planned activities
and eligible expenditures, namely works, goods, and consultants' services.
30.   Initial allocations to the municipal accounts have been agreed upon with IDA at: US$ 160,000 for
Maputo, US$ 140,000 for Beira, US$ 120,000 for Nampula, and US$ 80,000 for Quelimane, and Pemba.
31.   The management of the funds will be guided by procedures detailed in the PIM.
32.   The Grants Unit (GU) at the PCU will be responsible for replenishments of the Municipal
Account at each municipality. These replenishments will flow from the Special Account as follows:
*     By credit effectiveness, the PCU will submit to IDA a withdrawal application for the initial deposit
of the authorized allocation for the Special Account.
*     From the initial deposit into the Special Account, funds will be advanced to MAs, taking into
account the initially established ceilings for each Municipality referred to in para. 30 above. Subsequent
replenishments will be strictly on the basis of eligible and approved expenditures, with maximum ceilings
for the Municipal Accounts established as US$ 350,000 for Maputo, US$ 300,000 for Beira, US$
200,000 for Nampula, and Quelimane, and US$ 150,000 for Pemba), as specified in the DCA.
-90 -



*     Each month, the account will be replenished based on documented payments, including a
Municipal Account bank statement and bank reconciliation, not to exceed the established ceiling for IDA
funds.
Counterpart Funds, Project Account, and Municipal Project Account:
33.   In order to ensure the timely provision of counterpart funds, the Government will open and
maintain a project Account, at the central level, and a Municipal Project Account for each eligible
Municipality.
34.   By credit effectiveness, the PCU will open and maintain, in local currency, a separate bank
account, called the Project Account, for the counterpart contribution to the project, at central level, with an
initial deposit in an amount equivalent to US$ 12,000.
35.   Each Municipality will open and maintain a separate bank account called the Municipal Project
Account (MPA) in which counterpart funds, in local currency, will be deposited. The nucIleo Accountant
will be responsible for coordinating with the Financial Managers of the municipalities, to request
replenishment of the MPA.
36.   As a condition of disbursement, an initial deposit into Municipal Project Accounts is required, for
each eligible Municipality, as follows: equivalent to US$ 20,000 for Maputo; equivalent to US$ 15,000
for Beira, equivalent to US$ 15,000 for Nampula, equivalent to US$ 10,000 for Quelimane, and equivalent
to US$ 10,000 for Pemba).
37.   Replenishments from the municipalities will flow as follows:
*     By credit effectiveness, the municipality will make the initial deposit into the MPA, of its share of
the equivalent of up to three months advances of approved planned activities and eligible expenditures,
according to the Annual Work Plan.
*     Each month, the account will be replenished based on documented payments at the agreed
counterpart percentage.
Municipal Grants Component
(consisting of works, goods and consultants' services at Municipal level)
38.   Each individual subproject or grant under the MG will be approved in accordance with the
procedures outlines in the PIM, Volume 5 Chapter 1, Municipal Grants, Component Description.
Disbursement arrangements area also outlined in the PIM. Replenishment application and documentation
requirements for the municipal offices will follow an traditional disbursement procedures (SOE and
summary sheet) based on the defined MG and operating cost thresholds, that provides a detailing of
expense by project, bank statement and reconciliation, copies of contracts and all other original invoices or
evidence of expenditures.
39.   Each municipality will receive an initial grant allocation at the beginning of the project.
Subsequent allocations would be made on the basis of performance. Municipalities will be accountable for
the proper use of the initial grant allocation in order to qualify for subsequent allocations. When each
municipality has shown that it has made satisfactory progress toward using its previous grant allocation,
- 91 -



it would be assigned the next one. In principle, the grants would be planned for yearly allocation, but it
will probably take longer to effectively utilize the initial grant allocations.
40.   IDA's financing of the Municipal Grants component, will cover 85% of the total costs of eligible
activities and/or eligible expenditures, except for goods and equipment to be procured through ICB, which
will be financed at 100%.
41.   The Ministry of Plan and Finance (MPF) will authorize the GOM's counterpart funding in
accordance with GOM budgetary process and with project requirements. The Municipalities will authorize
municipal counterpart funding in accordance with municipal budgetary process.
Annual Work Plans:
42.   The Financial Controller and the MG Accountant will assist the various components in preparing
their annual work programs, broken out by quarter, and, based on these, will prepare the project's
Quarterly and Annual Financial Reports for review.
43.   The PCU will monitor the quarterly and annual work programs for the various components,
document the significant variances between budgeted and actual figures, and coordinate the needed
remedial actions.
44.   Annually, the PCU will prepare a report including:
*     the proposed Work Plan for the upcoming year, including a financial plan (budget) analyzed by
quarter, and
*     an evaluation of the execution of the Project during the previous year.
45.   The Work Plan will use the trends and assumptions in the project implementation plan and project
appraisal docurnent (PAD) to set out MDP's specific objectives, targets, perfornance measures and
financial plan (budget) for the forthcoming financial year and the way in which those will be met. The
financial plan (budget) will cover both recurrent operational costs of MDP and investment /development
expenditure of projects under the MDP and the MGF component.
46.   The performance of MDP will be judged against the objectives and targets set out in the plan.
Audit
47.   The Project Accounts and the Special Account will be audited each year by an independent
auditing firm under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. The audit report should be submitted to IDA
within six months of the end of each fiscal year and will include a special report on SOEs and Project
Monitoring Reports (PMRs).
- 92 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
MOZAMBIQUE: MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Schedule                                  Planied                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      24                           32
First Bank mission (identification)        .                                 06/15/98
Appraisal mission departure                     06/01/2000                   02/17/2001
Negotiations                                    09/03/2000                   03/05/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   09/01/2001
Prepared by:
Directorate of Local Administration, Ministry of State Administration
Preparation assistance:
PHRD Grant (Government of Japan) of $426,000
PPF of $850,000 (No. Q 164-0 MOZ)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Alan Carroll                      Team Leader/Lead Specialist
Subhash Dhingra                   Sr. Procurement Officer
Lance Morrell                     Sr. Financial Analyst
Jose Paulo Kastrup                Counsel
Jose Janeiro                      Disbursement Officer
Anthony Hegarty                   Sr. Financial Management Specialist
Irani Escolano                    Procurement Specialist
Charlotte Allen                   Consultant - Urban Planner
Jocelyn Mason                     Consultant - Public Sector Reform Specialist
Joao Wemans                       Consultant - Project Implementation Specialist
Natalino Nascimento               Consultant - Municipal Engineer
Lauren Wojtyla                    Consultant - Finance Specialist
John Hatton, Madalena Dray        Consultants - Environmental Analysis
James 0. Wright                   Consultant - Economic Justification
Royston A.C. Brockman             Consultant - Municipal Finance
Paola Ridolfi                     Operations Analyst
James Pannett                     Program Assistant
-93 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
MOZAMBIQUE: MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Outline of Project Implementation Manual (a separate document):
1.    OBJECTIVES OF THE MDP
2.     PURPOSE OF THE MANUAL
3.     PROJECT DESCRIPTION AND FINANCING
4.     ORGANIZATIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
5.     LEGAL AND INSTITUTIONAL REFORM COMPONENT
6.     CAPACITY BUILDING COMPONENT
7.     MUNICIPAL GRANTS FUND
8.     FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT, ACOUNTING AND DISBURSEMENTS
9.     PROCUREMENT
10.    PERFORMANCE INDICATORS, MONITORING, AND EVALUATION
Annexes to PIM:
A.    Logical Framework
B.    Detailed budgets for each component
C.    Detailed budget for PCU
D.    Manual for the Financial Management System
E.    Manual of administrative procedures
F.     Terms of reference for PCU and PCU staff
G.    Activity Schedules for Legal & Institutional and Capacity Building Components
H.    Terms of reference for Legal and Institutional Reform component consultants
I.     Terms of reference for Capacity Building component consultants
J.     Job descriptions of IMAP counterparts
K.    Memorandum of Understanding DNAL-IMAP
L.    Grant participation agreement model
M.    Annual calendar of key steps in the grant system
N.    Checklist for economic justification or cost-effectiveness for MGF-funded activities
0.    Environmental checklist for MGF-funded activities
P.     Terms of reference for technical assistance consultants for the five cities
Q.    Job descriptions for Municipal Civil Engineer and Accountant
R.    Specimen documents for National Competitive Bidding
S.     Specimen documents for Shopping
T.    Manual for procurement by Municipalities
B. Bank Staff Assessments
I . Municipal Finance and Fiscal Impact Analysis, Roy Brockman and Lauren Wojtyla, October 2000
2. Environmental Analysis, John Hatton and Madalena Dray, November 2000
3. Economic Justification, James Wright, November 2000
4. Assessment of Capacity-Building Institutions, Charlotte Allen, August 1999
5. Investment Programs and Designs for First Year Investments, Natalino Nascimento, December 2000
- 94 -



6. Organizational Arrangements and Terms of Reference, Joao Wemans, April 2000
7. Financial Management System and Manual, Lauren Wojtyla, December 2000
C. Other
Letter of Sector Policy
*Including electronic files
- 95 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
MOZAMBIQUE: MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions                               disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                        IBRD          IDA                  GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig  Frm Rev'd
P001808       2001 Mnssn Resources Projed (NRMCP)                      0.00      18.00                 0.00       0.00      17.53       0.00      0.00
P070305       2000 Cocsal etn Marne Sblodwersty MGMT                   0.00       s60                   0.00      00         5.00       3.22      0o00
P042039       2000 RAILWAY & PORT RESTR                                0.00     100.00                  0.00      0.00      90.65      44.60      0.00
P070432       2000 Flood Emegency Recovery Pr*d                        0.00      30.00                  0.00      0.00       0.13       1.26       0.00
P049874       2000 ENTERPRISE DEVELOPUENT                              0.00      26.00                  0.00      0.00      21.19       4.00      0.00
P052240       1999 NATIONAL WATER II                                   000       7500                  0.00       0.00      68.53       9.01      0.00
P001799       1999 AGRICSECTORPEP                                      0.00      30.00                 0.00       0.00      25.17      12.49      0.00
P001786       1999 Eduson Sector Strategic Program(ESSP)               0.00      71.00                  0.00      0.00      64.85      24.16      0.00
P039015       1998 NATIONAL WATER I                                    0.00      36.00                  0.00      0.00      27.71      12.73      o.0o
P001759       1997 TRANStORDER PARKS                                   0.00       0.00                  5.00      0.00       1.51       3.72       0.00
P001792       1996 HEALTH SEC RECOVERY                                 0.00      98.70                 0.00       0.00      39.84      51.76      0.00
P001804       1994 2ND ROAD AND COSTAL                                 0.00    1t8.00                  0.00       0.00      31.49      33.21      -2.01
P001780       1994 MZ GAS ENGINEERING (ENGY)                           0.00      30.00                 0.00       0.00       7.10       7.57      7.34
P001797       1993 CAPACrTY BUILDING(HU                                0.00      48.60                 0.00       0.00       4.97       6.84      0.00
Total:        0.00     756.90                5.00        0.00      405.46     214.55      5.33
- 96 -



MOZAMBIQUE
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                        Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1995               AEF Bonar                      0.26    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.26    0.00      0.00    0.00
1996               AEF Cahora Bassa               0.18    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.18    0.00      0.00    0.00
1997               Agrimo                         1.71    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.71    0.00    0.00    0.00
1996/00            BIM                            0.00    2.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.50      0.00    0.00
1998               BIM-INV                        0.00    0.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.30      0.00    0.00
2000               BMF                            0.00    0.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.20    0.00    0.00
1997               MOZAL                         55.00    0.00   65.00    0.00   49.50    0.00   58.50    0.00
1999               Maragra Sugar                 10.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1992               Polana Hotel                   1.05    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.05    0.00      0.00    0.00
2000               SEF Ausmoz                     0.99    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               SEF CPZ                        1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997               SEF CTOX                       0.73    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.73    0.00      0.00    0.00
2000               SEF Cabo Caju                  0.58    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.51    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               SEF ROBEIRA                    0.18    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.18    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        71.98    3.00   65.00     0.00    55.12    3.00    58.50    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
1999              SEF CTN                            0.67     0.00      0.00      0.00
1999              SEF Extramac                       0.42     0.00      0.00      0.00
1997              AEF Afristem                       0.57     0.00      0.00      0.00
2000               BFE                              10.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
1996              BIM                               10.00     0.00      0.00      0.00
2000               BIML                              2.00      0.00      0.30      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:        23.66      0.00      0.30     0.00
- 97 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
MOZAMBIQUE: MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Saharan       Low.      r 
Mozambique       Afrina  Income       Development diamond'
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                         17.3       642     2,417                   Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USS)                      230        500       410
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                         3.9       321       988
Average annual growth, 1993.99
Population (%)                                           2.3       2.6        1.9
Labor force (I%)                                         2.3       2.6        2.3     GNP           ,/   \              Gross
per                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year avaltablei 1993-99)                                 capita                        enrollment
Poverty (I of poputation below nationat poverty line)    69
Urban population (% of total population)                 39         34        31
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         45         50        60                        1
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live bifrths)               134         92        77
Child malnutrition (M of children under 5)               26         32        43                 Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)        32         43        64
Illiteracy (5 ofpopulation age 15)                      57         39        39
Gross primary enrollment (6 ofschool-age population)     71         78        96                   Mozambique
Male                                                   79         85       102                   Low-income group
Female                                                 60         71        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998      1999      1
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                               .       2.3       3.9        4.2
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                            14.8      20.4       35.S                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GODP                       8.2      11.7       13.4
Gross domestic savings/GDP                             -15 6        1.7      11.0
Gross national savings/GOP                             -23.5       -3.8       5 2
Current account balance/GDP /a                         -33.0     -20.5      -31,7      Domestic                    Invsten
Interest payments/GDP lb                                 1.4       1.5        1.5     Savings                      Investment
Total debt/GDP                                         191.1     214.3      184.2                        l
Total debt service/exports /b                           25.3      29.0       28.0
Present value of debt/exports Ic/d                         .     538.0     202,0
1979-89  1989-99     1998       1999   1999-3                    Indebtednes
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  -0.9      5.7      12.0       9.0        7.4                      Mozambique
GNP per capita                       -3.6      3.6       9,3       6.4        5.1                      Low-income gfoup
Exports of goods and services        -8.9     14.2       6.5       8.3       31.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999      Growth of investment and GDP I%)
(56 of GDP)                                                                           0
Agriculture                                     ..    47.4        34.3       31.6     r T
Industry                                                24.3      20.8       24.1    5s/
Manufacturing                                           ..       10.5      12.6
Services                                                28.3      44.9       44.3      o                  _
94   95   96   97   9a   99
Private consumption                                    104.3      89.0       78.8    -s5
General government consumption                          11.3       9.3       10.2                    GDI        *  GDP
Imports o1 goods and services                           38.6      30.5       37.9
1979-89  1989-99       1998      1999     Growth of exports and Imports I%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                    7.3       4.2       7.0        5.4    s0
Industry                                      -4.5       8.0      22.9       12.6    40
Manufacturing                                  ..    16.4         7.5      16.0
Services                                      10.0       5.7       9.9        7.9    20
Private consumption                            -2.3      3.2      11.8        8.7      o
General government consumption                 -3.0     -5.1      32.2        9.3       I          /5  3S   97   98   99
Gross domestic investment                      3.2      11.5      29.4       83.9    -20
Imports of goods and services                 -4.4       2.2      24.2       55.3              -Exports       _   Imports
Gross national product                        -1.9       5.9      11.8        8.6
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show Four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 98 -



Mozambique
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1998     1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                   80
(% change)
Consumer prces                                       42.1        0.6      2.0    60
Implicit GDP deflator                                47.4        3.8      5.2    40
Government finance                                                                20T
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                      16.8       15.7     17.6            94   95   96   97   Ga    9
Current budget balance                                2 2.5                 4            -     GDP deflator    2CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                              -9.9       -6.5     -6.2
TRADE
m1979    1989      1998     1999      Export and import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                   105       248       260    1,500
Cashews                                     52       21         41       35
Prawns                                      23       39         73       75      55oo5
Manufactures                                          0         14       20
Total imports (cid                                    723       868    1,346
Food                                         .        ..        32       39 
Fuel and energy                                                 84       86
Capital goods                                          -       211      307    |
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..       92        95        97           93  94  95  96  97  98  os
Import price index (1995=100)                          89        88        89    |             Exports     U Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..    103        108       108
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989       1998     1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                         200       534       559      o       _
Imports of goods and services                         790      1,075    1,579
Resource balance                                     -590      -540   -1,020    -to
Net income                                           -173      -256      -303
Net current transfers                                                             -20    5           If
Current account balance                              -763      -796   -1,3Z       -30
Financing items (net)                                 760       858    1,375
Changes in net reserves                                 3        -62      -53    o40
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)        ..    204         625       669
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)            32.6   744.9  11,850.3  12,691.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998     1999
(US$ millions)                                                                    Composition of 1998 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                4,422      8,344    7,682
IBRD                                                  0         0        0                        G: 9
IDA                                                 176      1,338     702                               B:1,338
Total debt service /e                                  69       159       214         C:7   -
IBRD                                         .        0         0         0/c:4
IDA                                                   6        12        16                 _
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                     573       674      428
Official creditors If                               147        14       191
Private creditors                                    11        43       344
Foreign direct investment                             3       213       392
Portfolio equity                                                                                E: 4,265
World Bank program
Commitments/g                                       197       186       176     A-IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements /g                                     51       134      218      B- IDA    D- Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                                  5         3         6     C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Netflows                                             46       131       212
Interest payments                                     1         9        11
Net transfers                                        45       122      201
Development Economics
- 99 -



Additional
Annex 11
MOZAMBIQUE MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (MDP)
TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR THE PROJECT COORDINATION UNIT (PCU)
Context
1.    The Government of Mozambique adopted decentralisation as one of the central elements of its
public sector reform programme in the long term. As part of this initiative, a comprehensive national legal
framework was prepared conferring autonomy to the Municipalities. The elections to the thirty-three
municipal bodies were held in 1998. The Government identified the need to provide regulations to
complement the initiated reforms as regards the autonomy of the autarchies as well as developing capacity
at the municipal level. For this purpose, the Government of Mozambique requested the assistance of the
World Bank (WB) for designing and financing of a Municipal Development Project (MDP), which is
presently being prepared. The duration foreseen for the implementation of the Project is four years. The
Project shall have three main components: (i) Reform of the Legal and Institutional Framework; (ii)
Capacity Building; and (iii) Municipal Grants Fund (MGF). Various organisations will be directly
responsible for the implementation of the activities of each component, respectively: (i) the National
Directorate of Local Administration of the Ministry of State Administration (MAE/DNAL); (ii) the
Intermediate Institute of Public Administration (IMAP); and (iii) five municipalities that will participate in
the Municipal Grants Fund. These bodies are hereinafter generally designated as Implementing Agencies
(IAs).
General organisation of the project implementation
2.    The Ministry of State Administration (MAE) shall be responsible for the preparation and
implementation of the project. MAE delegated this responsibility to the DNAL. Under the general guidance
of MAE, DNAL's Director is responsible for the political and strategic decision level of the MDP, but shall
not become directly involved in the operational management of its implementation. It is the responsibility of
DNAL's Director to ensure that the project has the political support which it needs for effective
implementation as well as to co-ordinate policies with other National Directorates and Ministries which are
directly or indirectly involved in the MDP.
3.    In order to co-ordinate the implementation of the MDP, a Project Director (PD), who will answer
directly to the DNAL's Director, shall be appointed. One of the PD's duties is that of ensuring an efficient
liaison between the political decision level and the execution level. In the performance of his duties, the PD
shall be supported by a Project Co-ordinating Unit (PCU), which he will lead. It is the PD's responsibility
to stimulate the implementation of the project in consultation with the various lAs and the WB. Each IA
shall be directly responsible for the implementation and management of the activities attributed to it in the
scope of the MDP, reporting to the PD for co-ordination purposes. The specific characteristics of two of
the components (Capacity Building and Municipal Grants Fund) require a wide autonomy in their
implementation in order for the latter to be effective. In this sense, a Memorandum of Understanding with
IMAP and Participation Agreements with Municipalities are being prepared, in which the conditions of
their participation have been defined.
- 100 -



The Project Co-ordinating Unit (PCIJ)
4.    The PD shall be supported by a Project Co-ordinating Unit (PCU), which he will lead. The role of
the PCU shall be the following main areas: (i) to stimulate and co-ordinate the implementation of the MDP;
(ii) to support the lAs in the implementation of their activities; (iii) to ensure the management and control of
Project funds; and (iv) to be accountable for the Project's compliance with the procedures and norms
applicable to the execution of projects financed by the World Bank (WB) Group, as defined in the
implementation manual. Under the leadership of the PD, the PCU shall be responsible for the following
tasks:
a.    Stimulating and supporting the Implementation Agencies (IAs) in the implementation of the MDP,
maintaining an active dialogue with all of them, through frequent trips by their personnel to the
different municipalities.
b.    Ensuring that all the IAs have a full understanding of the norms and procedures which are
applicable in the implementation of the project as well as of the guidelines established by MAE and
the recommendations and comments issued by the WB.
c.    Ensuring that the Memorandum of Understanding to be signed between MAE and IMAP is
formalised and updated and promoting compliance with it.
d.    Ensuring that the Participation Agreements to be signed between MAE and the Municipalities are
formalised and updated and promoting their implementation.
e.    Developing an integrated plan of the activities of the MDP based on the information given by the
lAs and following up the plan's implementation
f.    Keeping the Project Implementation Manual (PIM) updated in close collaboration with the lAs
g.    Verifying that the activities included in the annual work plans prepared by the Municipalities are
eligible and are in accordance with the rules of the Grants Component as specified in the
Implementation Manual
h.    Consolidating the annual work plans and budgets to be sent to MAE and, upon approval, to the
WB
i.    Consolidating the quarterly implementation progress reports to be sent to MAE, and upon
approval, to the WB
j.    Identifying difficulties in the implementation of the activities carried out by the IAs as early as
possible and maintaining an open dialogue with those responsible for them with a view to finding
solutions or corrective measures
k.    Alerting MAE and the WB in time to problems or difficulties which may cause delays in the
implementation of the project and proposing solutions or corrective measures directed at solving
such situations
l.    Taking minutes of the quarterly progress report review meetings and of annual work plan and
respective budget approval meetings which are led by MAE
m.    Supporting the PD in the management of the Project Special Account
n.    Replenishing the Project's accounts and sub-accounts on time, in order to prevent delays in
implementation
o.    Guaranteeing the quality of Project accounting by establishing norms for the Project's accounts
and sub-accounts and ascertaining that they are complied with
p.    Contracting an independent auditor to audit the Project accounts and those of the 5 municipalities
q.    Guaranteeing, directly or through technical assistance, the quality of procurement processes and
documentation, including tender documents, evaluation and award reports, and procedures for
decisions and purchases, in conformity with the World Bank's Procurement Guidelines
r.    Providing advice and guidelines to support procurement to be directly carried out by the IAs
s.    Updating and monitoring the project's Procurement Plan
- 101 -



t.     Carrying out consolidated procurement of equipment and services destined to the various end users
whenever significant scale savings justify it
u.    In general, ensuring that the Municipalities comply with the norms defined in the PIM
v.     Developing and maintaining a data base in relation to the MGF component in order to support the
assessment of the municipalities' performance
w.    Performning quarterly and annual revisions of the performance of the Municipal Grants Fund
Component
x.     Supporting the work of the Performance Review Committee (PRC) of the five Municipalities
y.     Contracting technical assistance which the municipalities may need and which is not contracted at
local level and making it available to them
z.     Supervising the technical assistance consultants contracted at the central level to support the
municipalities, reviewing their monthly activity reports and remaining in contact with the
Municipalities
aa.    Supporting the work of the Steering Committee (SC) of the Capacity Building Component
bb.    Analysing the evaluation and audit reports of the training activities carried out in the Capacity
Building component and identifying solutions, together with IMAP, for the difficulties or problems
encountered
cc.    Supporting the Legal and Institutional Reform Component in the contracting of services, goods and
equipment, as well as ensuring its financial accounting
dd.    Dialoguing with the Coordinator of Legal and Institutional Reform Component in order to seek
solutions to any implementation problems which could arise
ee.    Organise and maintain files on all the documentation in respect of the MDP
ff.    Keep the DNAL Director informed on the status of the project
gg.    Prepare for and support the WB missions
5.    It is expected that, in the execution of his duties, the Project Director will be supported by three
PCU staff members: the Senior Financial Controller (SFC), the Senior Procurement Specialist (SPS) and
the Municipal Grants Fund Manager (MGFM). The MGFM shall head a sub-unit called the Grants Unit
(GU), which will include the following personnel: one Civil Engineer (CE) and one Accountant (AT). Over
and above these technical staff members, the PCU shall have three support staff for the execution of
administrative duties. These are expected to be one Administrative Assistant (AA) who will supervise a
Secretary/Receptionist and a Driver/ Messenger. The Terms of Reference for each one of the main PCU
staff appear in Annex 1 - PCU Staff Terms of Reference. Note: The above-mentioned Technical Assistance
to support the municipalities is independent from that which is the object of the present Terms of
Reference.
THE PCU STAFF
6.     As regards the PCU staff (except for its Director, who shall be recruited on a separate individual
contract), the options of individual contracting and contracting of a firm to provide all the skills necessary
for an effective PCU during the life of the project (four years) were considered. The second option presents
the following advantages: (i) in case of need, a rapid replacement of staff without resorting to a new tender
and contract; (ii) greater facility to manage PCU staff; (iii) cohesion of the team being ensured by the firm;
(iv) greater facility in a firm having access to a pool of qualified consultants who have the necessary
profiles; and (v) within the scope of the contract, the possibility that the firm may supply additional staff if
necessary and/or, in special circumstances and upon request by the client, makes the temporary
reinforcement of technicians available. Taking these advantages into account, the second option, which is
the object of these Terms of Reference, was selected.
- 102-



7.     The objective of these Terms of Reference is to define the scope of the services to be provided by
the consulting firm to be selected in order to ensure that the PCU has the human resources and technical
skills necessary for the full execution of its mission available in a continuous manner during the life of the
project.
8.     Thus, the firm is responsible for providing all of the PCU staff (excluding the Project Director),
with appropriate qualifications for the performance of their required duties as well as for the cohesion and
discipline of its team. The firm must also provide support to the PD through short-term technical assistance
on Project Management during the inception phase of the contract and remain available for timely support
after this inception phase if this is requested.
9.     The firm shall also be responsible for ensuring back-up support to the PCU team and to provide
additional services in the PCU's areas of activity, as the Project Director may request, in order to be able to
deal with unexpected situations or problems beyond the scope of the regular personnel of the PCU. For
these purposes the consulting firm shall provide a total of 12 person-months of short-term experts in the
following areas of specialisation to be used as needed:
a.     Project Management, including planning and monitoring of activities, preparation of reports,
annual work plans and corresponding budgets; also information systems and computer
applications.
b.     Financial Management and Accounting in conformity with the norms in force in Mozambique and
the specific requirements of projects which have WB financing;
c.     Procurement of services, goods and construction works in accordance with the guidelines
applicable to projects financed by the WB;
d.     Engineering supervision support, including all aspects related to civil works and equipment, from
the identification phase until the final hand over of the works to the client;
e.     Management of administrative services including organisation and maintenance of document and
filing, organisation of secretarial duties, etc.
10.    The duration periods foreseen for the provision of services are as follows:
Field                       Function                   Months
Various, as indicated in no. 9  Back-up support on the ground for
short-term missions
12 in total
Project Management             Support to the Project Director  6
during start-up phase
Financial Management           SFC                          48
Procurement                    SPS                          48
Project Management             MGFM                         48
Civil Engineering              CE                           48
Accounting                     AT                           48
Administration                 AA                           48
Government Responsibilities
11.    The Government shall provide the firm with all documentation related to the MDP. In addition, the
Government shall provide office space appropriate for the PCU premises, through MAE. The PCU shall
manage the project funds on behalf of the Government. With these funds, the PCU shall carry out any
adaptation of the space provided that may be necessary. Project funds shall be used for maintenance of the
PCU office and the PCU's operating costs (including utilities, communications, travel and per diems
- 103 -



outside Maputo within Mozambique, fuel and maintenance for vehicles used for operational purposes,
maintenance of office equipment, and office supplies). The firm's staff expenses related to travel at
commencement and conclusion of duties or leave, as well as their expenses relating to accommodation in
Maputo shall always be paid for by the firm.
12.    For its operations, the PCU will need three (3) passenger vehicles (small 4x4 or saloon cars) for
office use, eight (8) computers with printers and UPS, one (1) medium-volume photocopier, one (1) fax
machine, telephones, and desks, tables, chairs, cabinets, and lamps for eight people. These items of
equipment shall be included in the firm's financial proposal.
Reports and their schedule
13.   The PCU shall produce the following reports during the life of the project:
a.     Six weeks after mobilization of the PCU team: Inception Report including and updated work plan
and identification of issues relevant to the execution of the Project. This report shall be submitted
to the Project Director, DNAL, and the WB by the designated team leader of from the consulting
group providing the PCU staff.
b.     Quarterly: Summary report on Project activities with identification of matters relevant to the
execution of the Project and proposals for solutions. The quarterly report will also present
indicators of financial and physical performance of the lAs. These reports will be submitted
through the Project Director to DNAL and the WB within 30 days of the end of the quarter.
c.     Annually: Annual report including (i) the proposed work plan for the upcoming year and (ii) an
evaluation of the execution of the Project during the previous year. These reports will be submitted
through the Project Director to DNAL and the WB no later than 30 days before the end of the
project year.
14.   The reports must be produced in Portuguese and English and submitted with the number of copies
indicated in the following table.
Govermnent                 World Bank
Report                        English                    PortugueseEnglishPortuguese
Inception of Activity         3                          322
Quarterly Sumnary             3                          322
Annual Report                 3                          322
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR PCU POSITIONS
A. Senior Financial Controller (SFC)
General duties
The Senior Financial Controller (SFC) answers directly to the Project Director (PD). The SFC's duties
- 104 -



shall be to support the PD and the lAs in all aspects concerning the Project's financial management and
accounting. The Project's sub-accounts shall be managed by six different entities (the IMAP and five
municipalities). It is the responsibility of the SFC to establish the rules for opening and operating those
accounts and to technically supervise compliance with these rules. The SFC shall be the supervisor of
IMAP's and the five municipalities' financial and accounting procedures. To this purpose, he will supervise
the Accountant in the Municipal Capacity Building Office established at IMAP and the Accountant to be
positioned in the PCU's Grants Unit. It shall be the SFC's responsibility to assure compliance with the
provisions of the Project Implementation Manual (PIM) in relation to financial management, namely, those
which are described in the specific annex of this manual containing detailed instructions on the norms to be
followed in the accounting of the Project's costs. The SFC must also update the PIM as needed.
Specific Duties
The SFC shall specifically be responsible for:
a.     developing, implementing and maintaining a Project Financial Management System which includes
control procedures on Credit and counterpart fund disbursements to enable an adequate control and
in order to advise the PD on matters related to the availability of Credit or Government funds;
b.     establishing and maintaining a financial transaction recording system kept in accordance with
internationally accepted norms and practices for accounting records and using a double-entry
system;
c.     ensuring that the various types of accounts necessary for the execution of the project are opened
and maintained in an appropriate manner;
d.     maintaining the files of documents to support expenses;
e.     maintaining strict financial control to ensure that the expenses incurred are in conformity with the
Credit Agreement;
f.     maintaining strict financial control to ensure that all payments effected under contracts are in
conformity with them, and directly carrying out sample inspections;
g.     developing control systems for any sub-accounts which may be authorised and, in collaboration
with the Accountants of the Municipalities and IMAP, ensuring that those responsible for their
operation are trained and strictly follow the guidelines and norms;
h.     ensuring that all those involved in managing and administering the Project are fully acquainted with
the financial norms and procedures; providing training to those who may need it; frequently
discussing relevant matters with them; and proposing corrective measures whenever necessary;
i.    training the Grants Unit's Accountant in order that the latter may stand in for the SFC during
his/her absences;
j.     directly managing the financial accounts for the Legal and Institutional Reform component of the
project.
k.     supervising the consulting firm contracted to support the 5 municipalities with reference to
financial management aspects; maintaining an active discussion in order to define solutions to
problems or difficulties identified in the financial and accounting areas;
l.     preparing the documentation and the applications to the World Bank for disbursements for direct
payments from the Credit Account;
m.    preparing the applications for replenishing the Special Account;
n.     preparing the applications for transfers from the Special Account to the Project Account;
o.     replenishing the sub-accounts established in the 5 municipalities and in the IMAP in a timely
manner;
p.     preparing monthly reconciliations of the bank accounts which are under the PCU's direct
management and technically supervising those under the responsibility of other lAs;
- 105 -



q.    contracting of account auditors acceptable to the World Bank (and other financing entities when
applicable) to audit all bank accounts of the Project including those of lAs;
r.    supporting the auditing of the accounts;
s.    following up on the compliance with the extemal auditors' recommendations;
t.     analysing and discussing the accounts of the 5 municipalities and their reports with the auditors;
u.     developing procedures for the preparation of monthly and quarterly reports in the area of financial
management and accounting which will enable an analysis of the financial situation by comparing
expected with actual performance;
v.     preparing the information on the financial area for integration into the quarterly reports;
w.    leading the preparation of the annual Project budgets;
x.     co-operating with the other PCU staff in order to optimise the performance of the unit by
co-ordinating efforts;
y.     effectively supporting World Bank missions.
Qualifications and Experience.
The SFC's relationship with the Municipalities, IMAP, officials of MAE, and the other personnel of the
PCU requires proven high professionalism, dynamism, and communications skills (written and oral).
Requirements: A university degree in accounting or finance and a minimum of 10 years' experience in
financial management and accounting, preferably in projects financed by intemational organisations.
Fluency in Portuguese and a working knowledge of English are indispensable conditions for the
performance of the duties. A high level of computer literacy, namely in word processing, spread sheet
programs, databases and preferably activity planning programmes, is also required.
B. Senior Procurement Specialist (SPS)
General duties
The Senior Procurement Specialist (SPS) answers directly to the Project Director (PD). The SPS's duties
shall be to support the Project Director (PD) and the lAs in all aspects related to the procurement of goods,
civil works and services. IMAP and five municipalities shall carry out procurement directly for their
respective components. It is the responsibility of the SPS to supervise the compliance by the PCU and the
other lAs with the procurement rules of the World Bank under the Project. The SPS shall be the main
adviser and interlocutor for the five municipalities and IMAP in all procurement aspects. It shall be the
SPS's responsibility to participate in the updating of the sections of the Project Implementation Manual
(PIM), related to procurement.
Specific Duties
The SPS shall specifically be responsible for:
a.     establishing and maintaining a procurement plan and monitoring system for the status of all
procurement actions under the Project;
b.     maintaining a file of all procurement documents under the Project;
c.    supervising procurement actions by the PCU and all lAs to ensure that they are in confornity with
the Credit Agreement and World Bank Guidelines;
d.     providing information to the SFC to help ensure that payments effected under contracts are in
- 106 -



conformnity with the contract provisions;
e.    through prior or ex-post review, as appropriate, evaluating the procurements carried out by each
IA, while avoiding delays to the processes underway;
f.    ensuring that all participants in the project are fully acquainted with the procurement norms and
procedures, frequently discussing relevant matters with them, providing training to those who may
need it, and proposing corrective measures whenever necessary;
g.    technically supporting the lAs or their collaborators in the area of procurement in response to their
requests;
h.    technically supporting the PD and lAs in the management of contracts and any eventual disputes
which may arise from their execution;
i.    by delegation of the PD, representing the PCU in all processes related to the clearance of goods
purchased by the PCU;
j.     participating in the updating of the Project Implementation Manual (PIM) and Annexes in relation
to his/her areas of competence, in conformity with MAE's and the Bank's guidelines;
k.    checking whether the annual activity plans and budgets proposed by the lAs are in accordance with
the PIM, with agreements with the Bank, and with guidelines received from the PD, in relation to
the planned procurement processes;
1.    supervising the consulting firm contracted to support the 5 municipalities with reference to
procurement matters, maintaining an active discussion in order to define solutions to problems or
difficulties identified;
m.    preparing quarterly and annual reports on the procurement process comparing planned with actual
performance;
n.    participating in the preparation of annual budgets with reference to procurement matters;
o.    co-operating with other PCU personnel in order to optimise the unit's performance by
co-ordinating efforts;
p.     effectively supporting World Bank missions;
Qualifications and experience.
The SPS's relationship with the Municipalities, IMAP, officials of MAE, and the other personnel of the
PCU requires proven high professionalism, dynamism, and communications skills (written and oral).
Requirements: A university degree, preferably in engineering, economics, or another relevant field and a
minimum of 10 years' experience in procurement and contract management, preferably in projects financed
by intemational organisations. Fluency in Portuguese and a working knowledge of English are
indispensable conditions for the performance of the duties. A high level of computer literacy, namely in
word processing, spread sheet programs, databases and preferably activity planning programmes, is also
required.
C. Municipal Grants Fund Manager (MGFM)
General duties
The Municipal Grants Fund Manager (MGFM) answers directly to the Project Director (PD). The MGFM
shall head a Grants Unit, within the PCU, composed of the MGFM, one Accountant (AT) and one Civil
Engineer (CE). The MGFM shall support the PD and the five municipalities in all technical aspects related
to activities of the Municipal Grants Fund. This component shall include civil works, procurement of
equipment for Municipalities' services, and consulting services. Each Municipality shall appoint one
- 107 -



Municipal Co-ordinator (MC) who shall be the main MGFM liaison. It shall be the responsibility of the
MGFM to promote compliance with the Project Implementation Manual (PIM) as well as its updating in
respect of this Component.
Specific duties
The MGFM shall specifically be responsible for:
a.    keeping the Project Director informed of progress in the implementation of the Municipal Grants
Fund component and requesting the PD's support whenever necessary in order to resolve matters
requiring attention;
b.    Maintaining the Project Implementation Manual (PIM) updated in conformity with MAE's and the
Bank's guidelines, as far as the MGF component is concemed;
c.    involving the Municipalities in a participative manner in keeping the PIM updated, and ensuring
that the Municipalities perform in a manner consistent with the PIM;
d.    mobilizing the personnel of the Grants Unit and the PCU to support the five Municipalities in order
that they may successfully carry out their activities under the scope of the MGF;
e.    dialoguing with the heads of the Municipalities to assist them in the identification and resolution of
implementation difficulties; frequently travelling to the Municipalities and having the Grants Unit
staff travel in accordance with the needs of the Municipalities and the dimension of the difficulties
found;
f.    developing and maintaining a database in relation to the MGF component to support the evaluation
of the Municipalities' performance;
g.    carrying out quarterly and annual reviews of the performance of the Municipal Grants Fund
component;
h.    analysing and discussing the implementation progress reports with the respective Municipal
officials and staff, comparing them with the corresponding annual activity plans;
i.    analysing the values (amounts) of the Municipalities' performance indicators related to the MGF's
and general activities and issuing assessments of their performance in quarterly and annual reports;
j.    checking if the annual activity plans and budgets proposed by the municipalities conform with the
PIM, plans agreed with the Bank, and the guidelines received from the PD;
k.    submitting a grant allocation proposal to the PD every year for each MGF municipality based on
an analysis of the previous year's performance and the criteria established in the PIM;
1.    issuing an opinion to the PD on the eligibility of the activities proposed by the municipalities and
their conformity with the PIM in order to ensure that the time limit of ten working days is complied
with;
m.    with the support of Grants fund staff, establishing a benchmarking of the five municipalities
participating in the MGF to be reviewed and approved by the Grants Fund Board;
n.    issuing assessments to the PD, based on data collected by the Grants Unit, on the eligibility of each
municipality to participate, or continue to participate, in the MGF programme within the time
limits established in the PIM;
o.    proposing to the PD the suspension of disbursements whenever this is justified in accordance with
the PIM, after other available corrective solutions have been tried;
p.    preparing and submitting to the PD the annual activity plan and budget of the Municipal Grants
Fund component by consolidating plans received from the Municipalities;
q.    ensuring that the guidance received from MAE and the World Bank is understood at the Municipal
level;
r.    in the same manner, transmitting any suggestions by, or requests from the Municipalities which fit
- 108-



in the scope of the component or result from concrete situations identified on the ground, to the PD
for discussion with MAE and the World Bank;
s.    preparing the quarterly progress reports of the MGF component, consolidating the reports from the
municipalities and the technical assistance consulting firm which shall support them, for review by
the PD and further transmittal to the Grants Fund Board;
t.    Supporting the PD in the preparation of the Grants Fund Board meetings;
u.    supervising the Technical Assistance (TA) contracted by the PCU to support the Municipalities;
v.    with the support of the AT and the SFC, ensuring that the procedures defined for the maintenance
of the Municipalities' financial and bank accounts are being complied with;
w.    with the support of the other staff of the PMU and Grants Unit, developing and maintaining a
database which permits the evaluation of the performance of each one of the Municipalities;
x.    in general, verifying that the procedures established in the PIM are followed and proposing the
appropriate corrective measures whenever this is not the case;
y.    supporting and advising the PD in all aspects related to the Municipal Grants Fund;
z.    supporting and collaborating with the annual external audit of the MGF;
aa.   co-operating with the other PCU personnel in order to optimise the perfonnance of the unit by
co-ordinating efforts;
bb.   maintaining documentation files in relation to the MGF in an organised and efficient manner,
cc.   effectively supporting World Bank missions.
Qualifications and experience
The MGFM's relationship with the Municipalities, officials of MAE, and the other personnel of the PCU
requires proven high professionalism, leadership skills, dynamism, and communications skills (written and
oral).
Requirements: A university degree, preferably in civil engineering or in another relevant field, and a
minimum of 10 years' experience in the management of services and projects, preferably of public works
and at local or municipal levels. Fluency in Portuguese and a working knowledge of English are
indispensable conditions for the performance of the duties. A high level of computer literacy, namely in
word processing, spread sheet programs, databases and preferably activity planning programmes, is also
required.
D. Civil Engineer (CE)
General duties
The Civil Engineer (CE) answers directly to the MGFM. The duties of the CE shall consist in supporting
the MGFM and the five Municipalities in all technical aspects related to construction works, equipment and
consultancy services contracted directly by the Municipalities. The CE shall be the main liaison for the five
Municipalities at the PCU in relation to technical aspects in the implementation of their activities. The CE
shall also be the main liaison with the frmn providing Technical Assistance to the municipalities in matters
concerning civil works, equipment and consultancy services related to civil works.
Specific duties
The CE shall specifically be responsible for:
- 109-



a.    keeping the MGFM informed on the progress of implementation of the Project's technical activities
in each Municipality and requesting his support whenever necessary;
b.    checking that the annual activity plans and budgets proposed by the municipalities conform with
the PIM, agreements reached with the Bank, and guidelines received from the MGFM;
c.    based on the technical documents submitted by the Municipalities and in the TA firm's reports,
verifying the technical soundness of proposals for activities to be funded by the MGF, alerting the
Municipalities, the TA firm, and the MGFM in case of any deviations problems identified and
proposing solutions;
d.    participating in the preparation of quarterly progress reports of the Grants component in relation to
civil works, procurement of equipment and consulting services, consolidating the reports of the
Municipalities and the TA consultancy firm;
e.    together with the AT and SPS, supporting the MGFM in the preparation of the Grants Fund Board
meetings;
f.    dialoguing with Municipal officials and staff in order to help them to identify and solve difficulties
in the implementation of civil works, procurement of equipment or provision of technical
consultancy services contracted directly by the Municipalities;
g.    analysing and discussing the implementation progress reports with the respective Municipal
officials and staff, comparing them to the corresponding annual activity plans, submitting
comments, and referring relevant matters to the MGFM;
h.    maintaining an active dialogue with the Technical Assistance (TA) consultants contracted by the
PCU to support the, analysing and discussing their monthly reports;
i.    based on the information received from the TA consultants and the Municipalities, travelling to
each municipality at intervals necessary to carry out adequate monitoring and resolution of any
difficulties found;
j .    dialoguing with the Municipal Co-ordinator and other local officials and staff during trips to the
Municipality in order to ascertain, on site, the progress of the construction works and the nature of
implementation problems, submitting suggestions to overcome the identified difficulties;
k.    during trips to the Municipalities, ascertaining if the technical quality of the execution of the
construction works corresponds to the respective specifications, advising the relevant Municipal
officials and staff on corrective solutions to be implemented with the eventual support of the TA
firm;
l.    supporting the Municipalities in the collection of performance indicators and other data as defined
in the PIM involving matters of a technical nature, ensuring that such indicators and the
methodologies for their collection are fully understood by all the Municipalities;
m.    during trips to the Municipalities, validating the information received on the main performance
indicators of a technical nature which are defined in the PIM;
n.    verifying, based on the information received from the Municipalities and the TA firm, if the time
schedules for the construction works, supply of equipment and consulting services contracted at the
Municipal level are being complied with and providing advice on dealing with any problems;
o.    in general, verifying that the procedures established in the PIM are followed and proposing
appropriate corrective measures whenever this is not the case;
p.    supporting and advising the MGFM in all aspects related to the tasks within this scope of work;
q.    co-operating with the other PCU staff to optimise the performance of the unit by co-ordinating
efforts;
r.    maintaining documentation files in relation to his/her area of competence in an organised and
efficient manner;
s.    collaborating with the MGFM in the support to World Bank missions.
- 110-



Qualifications and experience
The CE's relationship with the Municipalities and the other personnel of the PCU requires proven high
professionalism, dynamism, and communications skills (written and oral).
Requirements: A university degree in civil engineering and a minimum of 5 years' experience in the
management and execution of projects and construction works, preferably of public works at a Municipal
or local level. Fluency in Portuguese and a working knowledge of English are indispensable conditions for
the performance of the duties. A high level of computer literacy, namely in word processing, spread sheet
programs, databases and preferably activity planning programmes, is also required.
E. Accountant (AT)
General duties
The Accountant (AT) reports to the MGFM. As regards the technical aspects of his/her work, the AT
receives guidance and supervision from the SFC. The AT will be trained by the SFC to stand in for the
latter during the latter's absences. The AT's primary duties shall consist of supporting the Municipalities in
all aspects related to the financial management and accounting of the Municipal Grants Fund component of
the Project. Five municipalities shall mange Project sub-accounts. It is the AT's responsibility to, under the
SFC's to guidance, to maintain the Municipalities informed about the rules for opening and operating those
accounts and to technically supervise compliance with them. The AT shall be the technical supervisor of
the financial and accounting procedures of the five Municipalities. Provided that the above responsibilities
are fully carried out, the AT shall also assist the SFC to carry out project-wide financial management tasks
and assure strict compliance with the provisions of the PIM in relation to financial management.
Specific duties
The AT shall be specifically responsible for:
a.    under the guidance of the SFC, maintaining a financial transaction recording system for the MGF,
in accordance with the relevant provisions of the PIM; assisting the SFC in establishing such a
system.
b.    supplying the SFC with all the data and elements necessary for the latter to maintain the Project
Financial Management System;
c.     ensuring that the various types of accounts necessary for the execution of the component are
opened and maintained in a proper manner;
d.     maintaining the file of documents to support expenditures;
e.    maintaining financial controls to ensure that the expenditures are in conformity with the Credit
Agreement in relation to the MGF component;
f.    maintaining financial controls to ensure that all payments effected are in conformity with the
applicable contracts, directly carrying out sample examinations.
g.    Assisting the SFC to develop control systems for sub-accounts at the Municipal level and ensuring
that those responsible for their operation are trained and strictly follow the guidelines established
for them and documented in the PIM;
h.     ensuring that all participants in the MGF are fully acquainted with the norms and financial
procedures, providing training to those who need it, frequently discussing relevant matters with
- 111 -



them, and proposing corrective measures whenever necessary;
i.    training the Municipal accountants in order that they may correctly execute their tasks and advising
them as needed and requested;
j.    regularly travelling to the Municipalities, as directed by the MGFM, in order to ensure the quality
of the accountants' work and the control of funds;
k.    assisting the SFC in supervising the consulting finn contracted to support the 5 municipalities in
relation to financial management and accounting matters and in maintaining an active dialogue to
define solutions to problems identified in the financial and accounting areas;
1.    verifying the requests and completeness of documentation for replenishing of the Municipal
sub-accounts;
mn.    requesting the SFC to make transfers into the Municipal sub-accounts in a timely manner;
n.    technically supervising the monthly bank reconciliations of the Project-related accounts of the five
Municipalities;
o.    supporting the collection of accounting and financial indicators in collaboration with the PMT;
p.    supporting the audits of the Project's accounts;
q.    assisting the SFC in verifying that the Municipalities comply with the recommendations of the
external auditors;
r.    assisting the SFC in analysing and discussing the audit reports with the auditors and the 5
Municipalities;
s.    assisting the SFC in developing procedures for the preparation of monthly and quarterly reports of
the MGF component in the area of financial management and accounting, which will permit the
analysis of planned vs. actual performance;
t.    preparing information on the financial area in order to integrate it into the MGF component's
quarterly reports;
u.    actively participating in the preparation of the annual budgets of the MGF component;
V.    co-operating with the other PCU staff in order to optimise the performance of the unit by
co-ordinating efforts;
w.    effectively supporting the World Bank missions.
Qualifications and experience.
The AT's relationship with the Municipalities and the other personnel of the PCU requires proven high
professionalism, dynamism, and communications skills (written and oral).
Requirements: A certificate as an intermediate level accountant, economist or financial analyst and a
minimum of 10 years' experience in accounting, preferably in projects financed by international
organisations. Fluency in Portuguese and a working knowledge of English are indispensable conditions for
the performance of the duties. A high level of computer literacy, namely in word processing, spread sheet
programs, databases and preferably activity planning progrannes, is also required.
F. Project Management Expert (PME)
(Short-Term)
General duties
Co-ordinating a complex project such as the MDP, with multiple lAs and a wide territorial scope, requires
a high level of knowledge and experience in project management and implementation organisation
techniques. The management of a team of multidisciplinary experts and the optimisation of their output
- 112 -



requires leadership skills and team work organisation techniques. In the initial start up phase, the Project
Director (PD) (to be selected and contracted separately) must have support from and develop an effective
relationship with the PCU team. The Project Management Expert (PME) shall provide support to the PD in
these areas during the initial phase of the PCU team installation (approximately four months) and,
afterwards, may provide occasional follow-up support on request by the PD.
Specific Duties
The PME shall specifically be responsible for supporting the PD in:
a.    internal organisation of the PCU work, including the definition of periodic meetings, periodic
reports, their format and content, internal communication channels and their support, etc.
b.    reviewing the existing filing systems and proposing and implementing improvements;
c.    reviewing the existing version of the Project Implementation Manual (PIM) and making changes,
updates, or improvements with the support of the PCU staff and representatives of the IAs;
d.    reviewing the activity planning and control systems and proposing improvements to ensure their
simplicity and efficacy;
e.    reviewing and/ or defining work practices and routines to be maintained at the PCU;
f.    reviewing the PCU communications systems with outside parties and proposing improvements;
g.    reviewing the agendas of periodic work meetings with the lAs and proposing improvements;
h.    identifying project management and co-ordination difficulties or problems and proposing corrective
actions;
i.    identifying and proposing training for the PD and other members of the PCU and IAs;
j.     organising seminars and workshops on the project, project management, and the PIM in order to
improve the understanding and communication between the PCU and the lAs;
k.    assisting in the preparation of the first quarterly reports and in the methodology of their
preparation.
Qualifications and experience
A university degree in management or engineering or in another relevant field and a minimum of 10 years'
experience in the management of projects and construction works of high complexity are required.
Experience in World Bank financed projects and projects in developing countries is a necessary condition.
Fluency in Portuguese and a working knowledge of English are indispensable conditions for the
performance of the duties. A high level of computer literacy, namely in word processing, spread sheet
programs, databases, and preferably activity planning programmes, is also required.
Reports
The PME must present an initial report/work plan no later than 30 days after having started performing
his/her duties. In this report, the PME must carry out an evaluation of the existing organisation to
co-ordinate and implement the project, whether that which is designed in the Manuals or that which exists
on the ground, identify its main weak points, and propose a general work plan in order to overcome them.
The work plan must be explicit about which actions shall be carried out by the PME himself and which
must be implemented by others. Up until the approval of the plan, the PME shall continue with his
activities based on the Terms of Reference and agreement with the PD. Once the work plan is approved,
including MAE's and the World Bank's comments, the PME shall start submitting monthly reports on its
implementation while he/she remains on the ground. In later follow-up interventions, the PME must review
the level of compliance with the proposed plan, identify new issues and propose the corresponding
- 113-



corrective measures.
- 114-



Additional
Annex 12
Guidelines for Environmental Impact and Mitigation Measures
For Civil Works Financed by the Municipal Grants Fund
Description of   Environmental impact                   Mitigation measures
civil works
Surface water    Changes in water drainage could allow for    During the design phase the structure plans and
drainage        changes in land use (i.e. agricultural areas in  the present land use should be considered.
channels and    peri-urban areas could be urbanised).
basins:         Destruction of houses or other buildings.
construction,                                           During the design phase an inventory of houses
rehabilitation &                                        affected should be executed, including the extent
maintenance                                             of property acquisition of each house, and
deternination of tenancy of each resident.
Channels cutting roads, footpaths and house   Roads, main footpaths and houses entrances cut
entrances.                              by channels should be reinstalled.
Risk of drowning in the channels.       Channels with more than 1.0 m depth should be
avoided. In cases of greater depth, a protection
for children should be installed.
Channels cutting underground services.  During the design phase water, energy and
telecommunication institutions should be
contacted to define proceedings and minimize
problems in services supply.
Increase of flood risk in the discharge area    During the design phase the discharge area should
affecting downstream properties and land  be carefully selected to avoid downstream
use.                                    impacts, e.g. in settled areas.
Risk of erosion in the discharge area   Avoid discharges in high slope areas.
Protect the discharge area with gabions or any
similar structure that could be reinforced by the
application of vegetation suitable for wet areas
Risk of water pollution downstream and  Hygiene education campaigns should be
ecological impact in areas of special   conducted to raise awareness of these adverse
conservation concern (e.g. mangroves, wet    impacts.
lands).
- 115-



Description of    Envirommental impact             Mitigation measures
civil works
Surface water    Escalating erosion of the channel.  Adequate connection between tertiary & secondary
drainage                                           drains.
channels:
construction,                                      Create drain gradients & install check dams to optimise
rehabilitation &                                   water flow velocity.
maintenance
Keep drains clear of debris to avoid blockage &
ponding.
Defecation in the drainage channel.    Classify bank section according to erosion sensitivity.
Stabilise channel banks with stones. Plant soil
stabilising vegetation to promote stability & slow water
runoff.
Indiscriminate disposal of solid
wastes causing blockage &        Design, promote & conduct public hygiene awareness
contamination.                   campaigns focusing on adverse health impacts
compared to the proper use & maintenance of latrines.
Indiscriminate disposal of industrial
& commnercial liquid wastes causing   Design, promote & conduct public hygiene awareness
contamination.                   campaigns focusing on adverse health impacts arising
as a consequence of water contamination. Organise task
teams to remove solid wastes, & promote recycling
campaigns & environmental awareness.
Use of drain water for human
consumption causing health       Design, promote & conduct public hygiene awareness
problems.                        campaigns focusing on adverse health impacts arising
as a consequence of water contamination. Lobby for the
creation of legislation to impose penalties on frequent
polluters (commercial sector).
Design, promote & conduct public hygiene awareness
campaigns focusing on adverse health impacts arising
as a consequence of consuming contaminated water.
Ensure provision of alternative appropriate safe water
sources.
-116 -



Description of civil  Environmental impact                  Mitigation measures
works
Waste disposal &    Primary collection (waste from domestic
management         sources):
facilities
Ad hoc littering of public areas creates  Design, promote & conduct public hygiene
health risks & negative aesthetic impact.    awareness campaigns focusing on adverse
health impacts arising as a consequence of
indiscriminate disposal of solid wastes. Lobby
for legislation to impose fines for littering.
Accumulation of water in the containers  The containers should have a cover.
and discharge of contaminated water.
Secondary collection (waste from public
areas):
Dumping waste in public areas instead of    Design, promote & conduct public hygiene
at secondary waste collection points.   awareness campaigns focusing on adverse
health impacts arising as a consequence of
Overflowing skips or bunkers.          indiscriminate disposal of solid wastes. Lobby
for legislation to impose fines for littering.
Redistribution of wastes by foraging    Ensure that collection receptacles can be closed
domestic & other animals & birds.      to prevent access to opportunistically foraging
animals.
Final disposal:
Rodents & flies using composting areas as   Provide extension services for correct
breeding grounds, creating a health risk.  composting to minimise the proliferation of
vector animals.
Prior to project implementation, design a waste
management strategy that includes small
projects such as composting & recycling.
- 117 -



Description of civil  Environmental impact                Mitigation measures
works
Market wastes collection point:
Waste disposal &
management          Overflowing skips & bunkers.          Market wastes may require a more frequent
facilities continued.                                     collection schedule. Promote recovery of valuable
Waste collection vehicles:            solid wastes.
Waste falling off vehicle en route to  Train staff regarding proper loading procedures.
disposal site.                        Use vehicle with enclosed box or high sides.
Waste disposal sites:
Waste scattered by wind.              Cover waste as soon as possible after dumping.
Animals & flies feeding & breeding on  Fence the site to keep out large animals & cover
garbage & carrying diseases to the    waste as soon as possible after dumping.
human population.                     Awareness campaigns required regarding the
health hazards associated with (human) foraging
at waste disposal sites.
Runoff from disposal sites draining into    Construct drain around the perimeter of the
& polluting local watercourses.       disposal site directing water runoff to a treatment
pond. Prevent general runoff from flowing over
Leachate from waste polluting         the disposal site.
groundwater &/or surface water.
Select disposal sites underlain by a low
permeability substrate (not s& or gravel), & as
far away as possible from aquifers & surface
water.
Rapid accumulation of solid wastes at
disposal sites necessitating the creation  Promote the recovery of reusable solid waste in
of new waste disposal sites.          particular organic wastes. These, on average,
constitute up to 80% of solid waste.
- 118-



Description of civil    Environmental impact                       Prevention/Mitigation measures
works
Public latrine       Contamination of water supply sources         Locate latrines at least 30m but
construction.                                                      preferably 60m away from wells,
springs, & boreholes.
Blocked & overflowing latrine creates a health risk    Establish a routine maintenance &
through increased probability of human & animal    cleaning service.
contact with human waste.
Community do not agree with the location of the  The site selection should be done
toilets                                       with the community and agreement
of people living/working in the
surroundings
Lack of water for continuous toilet service   Ensure the installation of water
reservoirs (at soil level and elevated)
with enough capacity
Inadequate routine cleaning & maintenance creates   Establish a system to support the
unhygienic conditions, & as a result people avoid    employment of a caretaker for
using them.                                   routine maintenance & cleaning.
Animal vectors such as flies & rodents carry  Ensure access pathways to
diseases from the latrines.                   decomposing excrement for flies &
rodents are blocked, e.g. by using
screen netting over vents &
installing a lid on the toilet.
People defecating in open areas               Design, promote & conduct public
hygiene awareness campaigns
focusing on adverse health impacts
arising as a consequence of open
defecation & promote latrine use.
- 119-



Description of civil   Environmental impact                   Mitigation measures
works
Soak pits & septic tanks:
Sewage disposal &   Soak pits overflowing & contaminating     Ensure that pits are located in soils where
treatmnent          surface water.                            seepage can percolate.
Seepage from soak pits contaminating wells,   Ensure location an adequate distance from
boreholes & springs.                     wells, boreholes & springs.
Septic tanks & disposal fields:
Septic tanks overflowing & contaminating  Through public health education campaigns,
surface water.                           raise awareness about the dangers of
exposed sewage.
Disposal field overflowing.              Establish & support affordable pump out
services.
Primary sewage treatment works:
Indiscriminate disposal of sludge causing  Establish & enforce guidelines for design &
health risks.                            construction of disposal fields.
Sewage treatment lagoons:
Animals accessing lagoons and transmitting    Ensure the proper drying & disposal of
diseases to people.                      sludge in a manner that poses no risk to
human health.
Incompletely treated wastewater          Install & maintain fencing to keep animals
contaminating surface waters.            out.
Wastewater used for irrigation causing   Ensure lagoon outflow meets prescribed
contamination of crops grown for human   quality standards. Ensure that lagoons are
consumption.                             designed with retention times sufficient to
complete the treatment process.
- 120 -



Description of    Environmental impacts           Mitigation measures
civil works
Sewage collection piping &
drains:
Leakage from broken drains &     Control & regulate the use of wastewater for irrigation.
overflow from blocked pipes
forming ponds of wastewater &
contaminating surface waters.    Establish & support adequate leakage repair & clean out
capability. Raise public awareness on solid waste
Cross contamination of water    disposal via the drainage system.
supply from sewage collection
piping
Roads:
Minor road       Roadway blocking drainage        Install bridges or culverts across natural & man-made
construction &   channels for water runoff.       drainage channels & perform routine maintenance to
rehabilitation.                                   keep them clear of debris etc.
Ponding on roadways providing    Road profile construction design to ensure rapid drainage
breeding sites for water borne   off the road surface. May also involve raising the road
diseases & vectors of water borne    above ground level.
diseases.
Erosion caused by inadequate     Construct drainage ditches along either side of the road,
drainage along roadways.         & if required, install check drainage dams to control
water flow velocity. Road surface runoff directed into
natural or man-made drainage channels. Maximise the
number of receiving channels to avoid erosion caused by
overflow. Plant soil binding vegetation on the uphill sides
of ditches to reduce the velocity of water runoff.
Culverts & Bridges:
Flooding &  erosion caused by  Design dimensions appropriate to typical rainfall
overflowing & blockage.          patterns. Routine maintenance to ensure that culverts are
kept clear of debris etc.
- 121 -



Description of civil  Environmental impact                Mitigation measures
works
Footpaths:
Construction &     Footpath blocking drainage channels for  Install bridges or culverts across natural &
maintenance of     water runoff.                          man-made drainage channels & perform
footpaths                                                 routine maintenance to keep them clear of
debris etc.
Ponding on footpaths providing breeding  Design paths to facilitate drainage & if
sites for water borne diseases & vectors of   necessary, raise above ground level. Provide
water borne diseases.                 routine maintenance to fill depressions with
granular material.
Footpaths becoming watercourses during  Construct drainage ditches along either side of
heavy rains & causing erosion.        the road, & if required, install check drainage
dams to control water flow velocity. Road
surface runoff directed into natural or
man-made drainage channels. Maximise the
number of receiving channels to avoid erosion
caused by overflow. Plant soil binding
vegetation on the uphill sides of ditches to
reduce the velocity of water runoff.
- 122 -



Description of    Environmental impact                         Mitigation measures
civil works
Natural springs:
Water supply      Stagnant pools of wastewater providing       Ensure provision of adequate drainage
conditions suitable for the proliferation of water    channels away from water source.
borne diseases.
To avoid water logging of soils lay gravel
around the water source.
Contamination of water source by seepage from  Ensure latrines are constructed a
latrines.                                    minimum of 30m (optimally 60m) away
from the water source.
Contamination of water source by animal &    Establish an exclusion zone in the
human wastes.                                inuiediate vicinity of the water source.
Erosion of soils along watercourses supplying the   Cultivate soil-binding vegetation along the
spring causing blockages &/or siltation.     banks of watercourses. Create drainage
ditches to manage water runoff from the
water source.
- 123-



Description of    Environmental impact        Mitigation measures
civil works
Hand pump &      Spillage water around borehole  The site selection for borehole should avoid depressions or
mechanised       providing breeding ground for   low-lying poorly drained sites
borehole water    water borne diseases
supply                                        Fill any depression in the vicinity of the borehole and
construct a drainage channel to lead wastewater away from
pump pad and into local drainage channels.
The area around the hand pump pad should be filled with
gravel.
Erosion undermining hand    Construct a drainage channel to lead wastewater away from
pump pad                    punp pad.
The area around the hand pump pad should be filled with
gravel
Erosion undermining hand    Construct a drainage channel to lead wastewater away from
pump pad                    pump pad.
Contamination of borehole   The area around the hand pump pad should be filled with
water by spillage water on  gravel. Install pump base into concrete pad and extend above
pump pad                     surface of pad.
Contamination of borehole   Do not allow latrines to be constructed within a minimum 30
water by seepage from latrines   meters of the hand dug well, 60 meters is preferable
Contamination of borehole   Construct fence to keep animals away from well head
water by animal wastes
Standposts:
Spillage water around       The site selection for standpost should avoid depressions or
standpost providing breeding    low-lying poorly drained sites
ground for water borne
diseases                    Fill any depression in the vicinity of the standpost and
construct a drainage channel to lead wastewater away from
standpost and into local drainage channels.
- 124-



Additional
Annex 13
81~~pj
SPj
:  -  s s z E z | R~~. -  S-   i  G
e~~~~~~~~~ .n M
......_ I ..............!
Ii     y[ <              5   
ic~~~~~
I        i                               I1 -
jj~~~~~~~                             _ 411k  1_i  I
3 ca _ gi~~
_   X      _~~~~
- 125-~~~~~~



- 126 -



IBRD 31398
TANZANIA
42)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~g
Afr                        0                                       74NA0 
/  ~~~~          ~Lichinga
Z A M B I A  .   S   M                           A L A W                DEELPMN
-14       '                                                                                                       lkek         9\z1
ab  iM  A ev                                  Provincc pital
; t- -   1n ot      MOZAMBIQUE
ZIMBABWE                i  Chimoi                                                        CHANNEL
.20                           ,]-- ' -w                               MOZAMBIQUE
: .}  <    ffi   MUNICIPAl DEVELOPMENT
;    4f L                          ~~PROJECT
/lMp oooop dCities Portkipaoing in First Phase of
T     e. \l d.oonicipcl Go nts Compnonet
.221'                                                   t-                                                        2
i   tI  t' 4 t 4  t                    *    ~~~~~~~~National copital
<  ;    .              /            ---   ~~~~~~~~~~Province boundoeies
i                                               ootfi@ooo p ,oio.1   -  -   h.ernpionol boundories
24                \,\\                 J             W InlurFan2
SOUTH                                            J2
A F RJICA                                                                                                   2001
MsAPUOr&h-                                                K
*                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Thbowp  pt,, csolidon 6y Iny~ M.i ni.UM fTh.Wfd 8.
(WZLAN3D)
3,2    *            pH   FRICA    3   _         _      36                38'                4' ,_
JUNE 200



