E437
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT,
MOZAMBIQUE
ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
fr       S                       .1 :t
Maputo, Beira, Quelimane, Nampula and Pemba
On Behalf of the World Bank
FILE COPY
C           ~~~~~~October 2000



Municipal Development Project: Environmental Analysis
1.   PROJECT CONCEPT ......................................................                         5
1.1     BACKGROUND ......................................................                        5
1.2     PROJECT DESCRIPTION ......................................................               5
1.3     ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS ......................................................            6
2. REVIEW OF WORLD BANK OPERATIONAL POLICY FOR
ENVrIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT .......................................................                   7
2.1 RECOMMENDED APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT ................................ 8
3. LEGAL AND INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK FOR ENVIRONMENTAL
MANAGEMENT IN MOZAMBIQUE ......................................................                     8
3.1     NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROGRAMME (NEMP) ................. 9
3.2     THE FRAMEWORK ENVIRONMENT LAW .......................................................    9
3.3   MINISTRY FOR THE COORDINATION OF ENVIRONMENTAL AFFAIRS - MICOA. 10
Nampula ........................................................                             15
Quelimane ........................................................ 16
Mocuba ........................................................                              16
3.4     RELEVANT LEGISLATION RELATED TO MUNICIPALITIES .................................. 19
4. CAPACITY AND ACTIONS OF MUNICIPALITIES TO ADDRESS
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS ...................................................... .                    20
4.1 APPROACH .20
4.2 MAPUTO MUNICIPALITY .20
4.3 BEIRA MUNICIPALITY .24
4.4 QUELIMANE MUNICIPALITY .26
4.5 NAMPULA MUNICIPALITY .28
4.6 PEMBA MUNICIPALITY .33
4.7 MINOR MUNICIPALITIES .36
Maxixe ............... 36
Angoche ............... 37
Cuamba and Manica .............. Error! Bookmark not defined.
4.8     COMPARATIVE ANALYSIS OF TECHNICAL CAPACITY ......................................... 38
5.   THE CIVIL WORKS PROGRAM  ........................................................            39
5.1     PREAMBLE ........................................................                       39
5.2     DESCRIPTION OF CIVIL WORKS ........................................................     39
Beira Municipality .........................................................                 42
Quelimane Municipality .........................................................             42
Nampula Municipality                    .............. 43
Pemba Municipality .............. 44
5.3     ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND RECOMMENDED MITnGATION MEASURES ........ 45
6. GUIDELINES FOR IDENTIFYING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS AND
IMPLEMENTING MITIGATION MEASURES FOR THE MDP CIVIL WORKS
PROGRAM ........................................................                                  46
GENERAL ........................................................                               47
DRAINAGE CHANNEL CONSTRUCTION, REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE .............. 48
WASTE MANAGEMENT AND DISPOSAL ........................................................         51
LATRINES AND SEWAGE ........................................................                    53
ROAD, BRIDGE, AND FOOTPATH REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE ........................ 55



Municipal Development Project: Environmental Analysis
WATER SUPPLY SERVICES ..............................................                           57
OTHER URBAN INFRASTRUCTURES ...............................................                     59
7.   TECHNICAL CAPACITY BUILDING ...............................................               60
7.1 COST ESTIMATES FOR COURSE PREPARATION AND FACLITATION                          ..  60
8.   CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .............................................. 61
9.   ANNEXES ...............................................                                    63
9.1 ANNEx I: MDP ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS QUESTIONNAIRE ............................. 63
9.2 ANNEX II: PORTFOLIO OF PHOTOGRAPHS SHOWING EXAMPLES OF EXISTING URBAN
INFRASTRUCTURES .............................................                                65



Municpal Development Project: Environmental Analysis
Executive Summary
This report presents the findings of an environmental analysis of the Municipal
Development Project (MDP), which is the development stage of a long-term (10-15
years) program of Urban/Municipal Government strengthening funded by the World
Bank. The project concept was developed in response to a general acknowledgement
that the collapse of urban infrastructures in Mozambique is a consequence of their
inability to withstand the ever-increasing human pressure, and that a major symptom of
this decay process is chronic urban and peri-urban environmental degradation.
The proposed MDP has four components:
1. Policy reform.
2. Municipal capacity building
3. Infrastructure investments
4. Project management design and supervision
The MDP concept document identifies the environment as requiring special attention
within the overall framework of the project. A critical assumption is that in general the
project will bring about an improvement in environmental conditions in urban areas
because one of its key development objectives is to improve urban infrastructures such
as drainage, sanitation, water supply, and waste management. This can only be
achieved through the successful implementation of civil works programs in parallel with
dynamic awareness campaigns targeting user communities.
The overall focus of the present analysis is technical capacity building to ensure
effective environmental evaluation of the civil works component of the MDP, and
specifically to:
-  Review World Bank operational guidelines for environmental assessment, and
project concept documents, and identify the appropriate project category for the
proposed spectrum of civil works.
* Assess Municipal level capacity to conduct environmental assessments of the civil
works component of the MDP.
*  Make recommendations concerning the level of capacity building required to
ensure appropriate environmental assessment of civil works
This analysis generated the following major conclusions:
1. According to World Bank operational guidelines for environmental assessment
(EA), the construction envisaged for the civil works program are best classified as
category C projects, as they are likely to have minimal or no adverse environmental
impacts. Therefore, according to Bank requirements, beyond screening, no further
EA of the civil works program is required. Consequently, simple guidelines for EA of
the civil works program that can be implemented and monitored by Municipality
technical staff have been developed for the MDP.



Muniapdal Developrent Project. Environmental Analysis
2. To facilitate EA of the civil works program a set of guidelines have been developed
that specify the range of impacts and practical preventative or mitigation measures
associated with individual civil works projects. Technical personnel involved in the
day-to-day management of the civil works programs should use these guidelines.
3. The capacity to conduct environmental assessments is weak to non-existent across
all Municipalities regardless of size, technical staff compliment, and range and level
of academic qualifications. However, these are not considered to be critical
selection criteria for training in EA. The knowledge required is more of a practical
nature (common sense), and the most suitable candidates are those that have a
working knowledge of civil works and/or have a management role during
construction.
4. A one-week training workshop is recommended as the best approach to developing
Municipal-level capacity to ensure effective EA of the civil works program. The
workshop will begin with an overview of EA and current environmental legislation
and then switch to a case study approach focusing on:
. Analysis of environmental problems commonly experienced by Provincial
Municipalities
Practical application of the EA guidelines developed for the MDP
* Site visits to civil works in progress and existing urban infrastructures that
illustrate impacts and their prevention or mitigation
Designing effective environmental awareness campaigns



Municipal Development Project: Environmental Analysis
1. Project Concept
1.1 Background
The prolonged armed conflict (1 975-1992) had a profound impact on the urban centres
of Mozambique. As the fighting escalated so did the rate of influx of rural people to
urban centres. This migration trend did not stop after the signing of the peace accord;
by 1995 the country's urban population had tripled. This large-scale process of
resettlement by mostly poor migrants triggered the collapse and decay of urban
infrastructure systems, which were simply not designed to cope with such a massive
migrant influx. Some of the major urban service deficiencies include deteriorated roads,
inadequate supplies of potable water, inadequate waste management, and poor
drainage and sanitation resulting in widespread proliferation of water-borne diseases.
The surrounding peri-urban environment has also suffered from the unsustainable
exploitation of natural resources, notably fuel wood.
Starting in 1998, new Municipal governments have been established in the country's
major urban centres. In parallel, a process of legal reform gave rise to a new legal
framework that gives Municipalities extensive administrative and financial autonomy.
However, true empowerment of Municipalities requires a transition from the traditional
thinking that was largely reliant on central government for decision-making.
Furthermore, the lack of available investment funds and resources has hindered the
development of systematic approaches to the provision of urban infrastructures and
services by Municipalities.
It is against this background that the World Bank formulated the Municipal
Development Project (MDP) as a possible remedial intervention mechanism for the
widespread inadequacies of urban infrastructures and services throughout
Mozambique.
1.2 Project description
The current project is the development stage of a long-term (10-15 years) program of
Urban/Municipal government strengthening; targeting policy, legal, financial and
institutional issues affecting three key areas:
* Municipal governance and management
* Municipal provision of infrastructures and services
* Municipal finance and fiscal decentralisation
In this context, the proposed MDP has four components:
1. Policy reform - consultants to assist with review of relevant legislation, regulations
etc that relate to the policy reform agenda.
2. Municipal capacity building - technical assistance and training.
3. Infrastructure investments - high priority civil works (road rehabilitation, street
paving, sewerage, sanitation, surface drainage, solid wastes, markets, and bus
terminals).
4. Project management design and supervision - contract staff and consultants for
design and supervision of civil works, equipment and operating costs.



Municipal Development Project: Environmental Analysis
The first and second components include all 33 Municipalities, while the third and
fourth component cover the country's five largest cities: Maputo, Beira, Nampula,
Quelimane, and Pemba.
In summary, the MDP expects to achieve three long-term development objectives:
1. Continue to develop the policy and institutional framework for Municipal
governance, focusing on the Municipal finance and human resources systems.
2. Improve technical and financial capacity of Municipal governments to provide
sustainable infrastructures and services.
3. Establish a replicable mechanism for financing urban infrastructure in five
secondary cities.
1.3 Environmental Analysis
The MDP concept document identifies the environment as requiring special attention
within the overall framework of the project. A critical assumption is that in general the
project will bring about an improvement in environmental conditions in urban areas
because one of its key development objectives is to improve urban infrastructures such
as drainage, sanitation, water supply, and waste management. This can only be
achieved through the successful implementation of civil works programs, and hence
with a prior knowledge of the general nature of the development activity, key potential
environmental impacts can be predicted. Of major concern is to prevent or adequately
mitigate against potential adverse effects of sewerage, sanitation and solid waste
processing facilities on ground and surface waters.
Where civil works proposals equate to large-scale development, environmental impact
assessments will need to be conducted and must therefore adhere to the protocols
outlined by MICOA.
It is generally acknowledged that the collapse of urban infrastructures in Mozambique
is a consequence of their inability to withstand the ever-increasing human pressure,
and that a major symptom of this decay process is chronic environmental degradation.
However, there are many causal factors linked to the environmental degradation that
characterises urban and peri-urban areas, and it would be short-sighted to assume that
the simple process of upgrading and rehabilitation of infrastructures will automatically
result in environmental remediation.
Human pressure per se may not necessarily be the cause of infrastructure system
failure but rather it is the way in which such systems are used and maintained. In this
context there exists a fundamental need to raise human awareness to enable the
people to better understand the consequences of their actions. For example, under the
high-density living conditions that characterise the informal settlements of the urban
environment, conditions are optimal for the rapid spread of water-borne transmissible
diseases typically associated with poor hygienic conditions (e.g. dysentery, diarrhoea,
cholera etc).
This example highlights the importance of conducting environmental education
campaigns in parallel with the process of upgrading infrastructures to ensure that
appropriate levels of awareness are achieved. This in fact may be the key to ensuring
that the urban infrastructures essential to both human and environmental health are not
allowed to decay or are misused in the same way again.



Municipal Development Project: Environmental AnalysiS
2. Review of World Bank Operational Policy for Environmental
Assessment
In this section the following World Bank documents are reviewed.
* The World Bank Operational Manual (Operational Policies) - Environmental
Assessment, January 1999. OP 4.01 (6 pages).
* The World Bank Operational Manual (Operational Policies) - Definitions.
January 1999 - Annex A. OP 4.01 (2 pages)
* The World Bank Operational Manual (Operational Policies) - Environmental
Management Plan. OP 4.01 - Annex C (2 pages)
The purpose of this review is twofold:
1. To ensure that the present bank financed MDP project concept is environmentally
sound, and
2. To assess the relevance of these documents to the proposed Mozambique MDP.
The World Bank's environmental assessment (EA) operational policy establishes the
fact that some level of environmental assessment is required for all Bank financed
development projects.
EA is presented as a dynamic process dependent on the nature, scale, and potential
environmental impact of the proposed project. A typical EA will:
* Evaluate a project's potential environmental risks and impacts in its area of
influence.
* Examine project alternatives.
* Identify ways of improving project selection, siting, planning, design, and
implementation by preventing, minimising, mitigating, or compensating for adverse
environmental impacts and enhancing positive impacts.
* Include the process of mitigating and managing adverse environmental impacts
throughout project implementation.
* The Bank favours preventive measures over mitigatory or compensatory measures,
whenever feasible.
Depending on the nature and scope of EA, the following factors may need to be taken
into consideration, and in an integrated way:
* The natural environment (air, water, and land)
* Human health and safety
* Social aspects (involuntary resettlement, indigenous peoples, and cultural property)
* Transboundary and global environmental aspects



Munmcipal Development Project. Environmental Analysis
Other important factors that may require consideration include:
* Varations in project and country conditions
* The findings of country environmental studies
* National environmental action plans
* The country's overall policy framework, national legislation, and institutional
capabilities related to the environment and social aspects -
* Obligations of the country, pertaining to project activities, under relevant
intemational environmental treaties and agreements
Bank policy also requires that EA is initiated as early as possible in project processing
and is integrated closely with the economic, financial, institutional, social, and technical
analyses of a proposed project.
The commissioning of EA work is the responsibility of the borrower, and the Bank
reviews the findings and recommendations of the EA to determine whether they
provide an adequate basis for processing the project for Bank financing. When the
borrower has completed or partially completed EA work prior to the Bank's involvement
in a project, the Bank reviews the EA to ensure its consistency with this policy.
2.1 Recommended approach to environmental assessment
The operational policy provides a mechanism for project classification (four categories)
according to project type, sensitivity, location and scale, and the range and magnitude
of adverse environmental impacts. This classification process provides a simple
mechanism whereby the appropriate EA approach can be determined.
A screening exercise was undertaken to establish first, the nature and scale of the
proposed civil works program (see section 5 below) and second, the range and scale of
predicted impacts and pragmatic preventative or mitigation measures (see section 6
below)
3. Legal and Institutional Framework for Environmental Management in
Mozambique
In this section the legal and institutional frameworks for environmental management in
Mozambique are summarised. In the context of the MDP, the key elements of these
frameworks are:
* The National Environment Management Program
* The Environmental Law
* EIA Regulations
* The Municipal Law
* The role of MICOA and Municipalities regarding environmental management in.
Municipal areas



Municipal Oevelopment PrQject: Environmental Analysis
3.1 National Environmental Management Programme (NEMP)
The National Environmental Management Programme (NEMP), approved by the
Council of Ministers in 1995, seeks to promote and implement sound environmental
policy.
The NEMP represents the culmination of a series of initiatives and activities co-
ordinated by the Ministry for Co-ordination of Environmental Affairs (MICOA). It is the
master plan for the environment in Mozambique and contains a National Environment
Policy, Framework Environmental Legislation, and Environmental Strategy.
The NEMP consists of Sectoral Plans, for the medium and long term, which are
intended to lead to sustainable development in Mozambique. Three policy areas are
defined:
* Rural
* Coastal
* Urban
For rural areas, agriculture and forestry issues are considered the most important. In
coastal areas mangrove degradation, coastal pollution, and erosion are the main
issues to be addressed under the programme. For urban areas the degradation of
sanitation systems and poor water quality are the most urgent issues.
MICOA has been given the authority to oversee the implementation of the NEMP. To
this effect, environmental rules and regulations are being devised and enforced.
MICOA will evaluate policies of other sectors as well as their capacity to promote and
implement sound environmental policy.
The implementation of the NEMP will require a range of actions at all levels and across
sectors. In accordance with the NEMP, MICOA, in close co-ordination with other
ministries, private and civil groups, will work towards:
* Development of inter-sectoral policies for sustainable development
* Development and promotion of integrated resource-use planning
* Promotion of sector legislation and of establishment of norms and criteria for
environmental protection and sustainable use of the countries' natural resources
*  Creating conditions for law enforcement and environmental monitoring
3.2 The Framework Environment Law
The Framework Environmental Law was passed by the Mozambican Parliament in July
1997. It was published in the official government gazette and is, therefore, in force.
(Law No. 20/97, Boletim de Republica No. 40, 15t Series, 3d Supplement of the 7th
October 1997).
This law acknowledges the responsibility of the Government of Mozambique in the
promotion and implementation of the National Environmental Management
Programme.
The aim of this law is to provide a legal framework for the use and correct management
of the environment and its components such that it assures sustainable development.



Municipal Development Project: Environmental Analysis
The Environmental Law is applicable to all public or private activities, which may
influence the environment either directly or indirectly.'
The salient features of the Law include the following:
* The Law forbids pollution of the soil, subsoil, water or atmosphere.
* With regard to liability, those who pollute, or in any way degrade the environment,
are always under obligation to rehabilitate it or to compensate for the resulting
damage.
* The law also forbids the importation of wastes, except for that laid down in specific
legislation.3
* Projects and operations that are likely to have a negative impact on the
environment are subject to an Environmental Impact Assessment carried out by
independent assessors.
It also forbids all activities that may threaten the conservation, reproduction, quality and
quantity of biological resources, especially those in danger of extinction.4
Licensing of activities that are liable to cause significant environmental impacts shall be
required. The issuance of an environmental license shall be based upon an
environmental impact assessment.
In order to protect areas of recognized ecological and socio-economic value,
environmental protection zones can be created. These protected zones may be
national, regional or local and may cover land areas, lakes, rivers, marine waters and
other distinctive nature zones.
To ensure the effective co-ordination and integration of sectoral policies and plans related
to environmental management at the highest level, a National Commission for
Sustainable Development (NCSD), linked to the Council of Ministers, has been created
(September 2000) by a provision in the Framework Environmental Law.
3.3 Ministry for the Coordination of Environmental Affairs - MICOA
Central level
The Ministry for the Coordination of Environmental Affairs (MICOA) was created from
National Environmental Council in 1995. MICOA is responsible for implementing the
National Environmental Management Programme and associated environmental policy
and legislation.
The main responsibilities of MICOA are:
* To revise and develop sectoral policies
* Formulate sustainable inter-sectoral development plans
'Article 3, of the Envirornmental Law
2 Idem, paragraph (g)
3 Idem
'Article 12 of the EnvironImental Law



Municipal Development Project. Environmental Analysis
* Promote sectoral legislation
* Co-ordinate policy implementation
* Promote public awareness
* Create regulations (e.g., for Environmental Impact Assessments)
* Ensure that Environmental Impact Assessments (ElAs) are carried out as per
Terms of Reference
* Coordinate, assess and control the utilization of natural resources and, in doing so,
to promote their conservation and rational use
The Ministry, as indicated by its title has, primarily, a co-ordinating role. As
environmental management is shared across sectors MICOA should promote the
incorporation environmental dimensions into sectoral policies, programmes and
activities. This signifies that a working relationship with all the other sectors has to be
established. The success of MICOA's performance, therefore, depends to a large
extent on the degree to which it manages to co-operate with the other sectors
(including municipalities) as these sectors remain responsible for the integration of
environmental matters in their own sectoral programmes. Municipalities, dealing with
urban environmental issues are important partners.
Enhanced cross-sectoral co-operation, in turn, is contingent upon confidence building
with the sector partners and the clear definition of their respective roles and
responsibilities. As MICOA is a new ministry, the process of building confidence with
other sectors and defining and responsibilities and roles has taken time. The beginning
of MICOA's first mandate (1995 to 1999) was characterized by limited co-operation
with other sectors and a certain reluctance on the part of other the sectors to have their
policies and programmes reviewed with regards to environmental issues. Since the
establishment of MICOA in 1995, the situation has gradually improved. By the end of
1999, with the closing of it's first mandate, MICOA has become an accepted ministry
with increased co-operation with other sectors of government, private sector and civil
society.
During the first mandate, the level of co-operation between municipalities and MICOA
was variable and often dependent on personal relationships between individuals in the
provincial directorates of MICOA and the municipalities5.
Following the holding of Mozambique's second democratic elections in 1999 MICOA
was awarded a second mandate under a new minister. The Ministry is now seeking to
consolidate and strengthen its acquired position. In early 2000 MICOA was
restructured and currently comprises five national directorates viz.:
* The Directorate for Environmental Impact Assessment
* The Directorate for the Management of Natural Resources
* The Directorate for Land Planning
* The Directorate for the Promotion of Environmental Awareness
* The Directorate for Planning
Each directorate comprises several departments (see Figure 1 below).
SThis only refers to municipalities in provincial capitols as MICOA is currently only represented at the provincial
level and not lower levels of govemment.



Municipal Development Project: Environmental Analysis
Minister       |                                     ntltosunder MICOA|
His Exec. Kachamila
Vice-Minister 
His Exec., Mabjaia                                        i|        National     l
,      Environment Fund|
Provincial Directorates                                                 General Inspection        .      Training Centre
To be nominated      ,           for Territorial
l__ __ __   I  Planning
|  Permanent Secretary   |                                           |   Ministers Offce   |CentresMof
(PS)                                                                                             Sustainable Dev.
To be nominated                                                                                        Rural; Coastal;
Urban
Nat. Dir. of Human            Dept. of Adm. And                  Dept. of International              Legal
Nat. Dir. of Human            Dept. of Adm. And                     Cooperation                    Department
Resources                      Finance                      Ms. Rosa Cesaltina               Sr. Andre
Sr. Samuel               Sr. Francisco Lichacha                                              Augusto Silva
Nat. Dir. Territorial          Nat. Dr. Env.               Nat. Dir. EIA                                   Nat. Dir. Env. Promotion     Nat. Dir. Planning
Planning                   Management                 Dra. Felicidade                                    Dra. S6nia Silveira           Dr. Banze
Dr. A. Salazar Dgedge         Dr. Evaristo Baquete           Munguambe
Dept. of Coastal          Dept. of Quality           Dept. of Env. Auditing      Dept. of Training      Dept. of Dissemination
Zone (DGZ)                  Control
(DQA)
Dept. of Urban           Dept. of Natural
Environment                Resources                 Dept. of EIA Review
(DAU)                  Conservation
l  l  (DCRN)       l
'Office for
Coordination of
Conventions                                    Figure 1: Central level MICOA organisational structure
12



Municipal Development Prcject: Environmental Analysis
The role of MICOA regarding environmental impact assessment
Regulating Environmental Impact Assessments (ElAs) is one of the most important
roles of MICOA. This role requires significant interaction and coordination with other
govemment sectors involved in development and investment projects and,
consequently MICOA has assumed a much more visible and high profile.
Initially, EIA in Mozambique was applied through the Law of Foreign Investment that
was passed in 1993. However, there were no clear guidelines for carrying out ElAs
under this Law. Nevertheless, the Law of Foreign Investment gave a certain level of
legal support to control potential environmental impacts arising from project
applications for investments, which were submitted to the Investment Promotion
Centre.
The Framework Environmental Law passed July 1997 specifically referred to the
formulation of EIA regulations. In 1998 EIA Regulations were passed by the Council of
Ministers and an EIA Department (within the National Directorate for the Management
of Natural Resources) was created in MICOA in order to oversee the implementation of
EIA regulations and procedures in Mozambique.
During it's first mandate the EIA Department was small (comprising a department head
plus four to five technical staff). This period was also characterized by high staff
turnover including several changes of head. Due to the lack of human resources and
operational support the EIA Department was generally unable to efficiently implement
EIA procedures and regulations although this in no way reflects on the capacity of the
staff per se: the staff in place attempted to carry out their tasks under difficult
circumstances.
In December 1999, an independent consultancy mission performed functional analysis
and capacity needs assessment on the EIA Department. Based on the
recommendations arising from this mission the EIA department has been upgraded to
a national directorate and, consequently, the institutional and political importance of
EIA is increasingly recognised both within, and outside of, MICOA.
Concomitantly, co-ordination with other government sectors involved in development
and investment projects has also improved. The competence of MICOA to review and
process EIA Terms of Reference and reports has improved. Agreements of
understanding have been informally negotiated with and accepted by the national
directors in charge of tourism, industry and forestry and wildlife. Currently the EIA
Directorate is working with the National Administration for Roads (ANE) in order to
develop EIA guidelines for the roads sector. There have been comments, however,
regarding the lack of specific information about the EIA procedures and the varying
levels of cooperation.
The role of MICOA regarding environmental standards
Since 1997 MICOA has been developing environmental quality standards through the
Environmental Quality Standards of Mozambique Projects (PEPA) with the following
objectives:
* To define and prepare adequate environmental quality standards for the country.
* Through the establishment of a national committee, prepare regulations to be
submitted to the Council of Ministries for approval.



Municipal Development Project: Environmental Analysis
Draft environmental standard regulations have been prepared and discussed with
representatives of relevant agencies. However, the draft is still (as of October 2000)
undergoing revision before submission to the Council of Ministers.
The role of MICOA regarding environmental management plans
The National Institute of Physical Planning (INPF) has, until recently, been, responsible
for urban and rural planning (mainly the former). In this role the INPF has coordinated
the formulation of physical plans for all Provincial capitols, although only one (Nampula
City) has been approved. Other cities have failed to institute and implement their plans
on account of the lack of financial resources and technical capacity.
After several years of negotiations, the INPF has been integrated into MICOA as the
National Directorate for Territorial Planning (DNOT). The precise organizational
aspects of DNOT are currently under discussion by MICOA's Consultative Council.
Municipalities will, therefore, be working more closely with MICOA regarding urban
planning. This provides opportunities for closer collaboration between MICOA and the
municipalities and the development of modern principles of urban environmental
planning.
The Role of MICOA regarding environmental audit and inspection
Environmental audit and environmental inspection are the tools specified in the
Environmental Law for the control of activities that were in operation before the passing
of environmental legislation in 1997 as well as all subsequent activities that have been
implemented since 1997 with or without an environmental licence.
Environmental audits should be required for all activities of high impact and pollution
potential and should be performed by an independent environmental audit company.
MICOA has started to draft environmental audit and inspection regulations for internal
discussion and future external consultation. However, the present versions of the draft
regulations still require considerable technical review and improvement prior to
submission to the Council of Ministries for approval.
Provincial level
Since 1995 MICOA has been establishing Provincial Directorates in all the Provincial
capitols. The level of organisation and capacity varies from Province to Province.
MICOA is not represented at lower levels of government (i.e. District level) in any of the
Provinces. The Provincial structures follow, but do not strictly adhere to, the structure at
central level.
Maputo
The Provincial Directorate for Environmental Coordination Affairs Maputo Province is
located in Matola, having a greater liaison with this Municipality. This Directorate is
divided into three technical departments:
* Department of Environmental Education
* Department for Environmental Management
* Department for Land Planning



Municipal Development Project: Environmental Analysis
Only the Department for Land Planning has one technician with a university degree -
an architect, who works with nine medium-level technical staff. In the Department of
Environmental Education there are three medium-level technical staff and in the
Department for Land Planning there are four medium-level technical staff. Medium-
level technical staff are eligible to attend short-term courses on environmental
management and environmental education on an ad hoc basis.
This Provincial Directorate is relatively new, and to date all interventions by the
Directorate have centred on Matola city and not Maputo. This is due to the fact that
historically, Maputo Municipality was not part of Maputo Province but was a separate
Province, which still today has vestiges of a Provincial govemment. This situation led to
the establishment of links with MICOA at Central rather than Provincial level.
Beira
In Beira the Provincial Directorate for the Co-ordination of Environmental Affairs
comprises four Departments plus one inspectorate under the Directorship of a senior
level technician (Bachelors' degree in forestry).
* Department of Environmental Management, headed by a senior level technician
(Bachelors' degree in Chemistry).
* Department of Territorial Planning, headed by a senior level technician
(Bachelors' degree in Geography).
* Department for the Promotion of Environmental Awareness, headed by a mid-
level technician.
* Department of Administration and Finance, headed by a mid-level technician.
There is also a Provincial Inspectorate comprising two mid-level technical staff
responsible for environmental monitoring and enforcement.
There is currently no EIA Department. The Provincial Director oversees the
implementation of EIA regulations and procedures. The EIA Department needs,
therefore, to be established and strengthened.
The Organogram for the Provincial Directorate of Coordination of Environmental Affairs
in Sofala Province is given below.
Director
| Provincial |
Department of     Department         Department for the         Department of
Environmental     of Territorial      Promotion of the          Administration
Management t       Planning       Environmental Awareness        & Finances



Municipal Development Project: Environmental Analysis
Quelimane
In Zambezia Province co-operation between Provincial MICOA and the Municipalities
of Quelimane and Mocuba (Zambezia's second largest city) is good due to links forged
through the implementation of a two-year pilot project started in 1998 (the Urban
Environmental Rehabilitation Project) and financed by DANIDA. Activities include:
Quelimane
* Improved access roads to the airport neighbourhood
* Urbanisation of the airport neighbourhood
* Cleaning of drainage ditches
* Awareness education regarding health implications of defecation in the open
* Support for the centre for environmental development and education (the project
finances and monitors the centre's activities).
Mocuba
* Organisation of the central and the 25 de Setembro Bairro
* Improved access roads within the town
* Combating urban erosion
These activities are coordinated by MICOA although their implementation is carried out
by a local NGOs viz. the Centre for the Development of Environmental Education
CEDEA. In Quelimane Nucleus of the Friends of the Environment (NANA) in Mocuba.
Currently the Provincial Directorate for the Coordination of Environmental Affairs in
Zambezia comprises four departments with a staff of three senior level technicians
(including the Director) and eight medium level technicians (two of whom recently
received training in environmental management in Portugal) and eight basic level staff.
-  The Department of Environmental Management and EIA6 headed by a senior
level technician (a graduate forestry engineer) plus two mid-level technical staff.
*  Department of Territorial Planning headed by one mid-level technician (ex
Provincial Institute for Physical Planning) plus five mid-level technical staff.
*  Department for the Promotion of Environmental Awareness headed by a senior
level technician (a graduate forestry engineer) plus one mid-level technician.
*  Department of Administration and Finances (headed by a basic level technical
staff member).
The Director is a senior level staff member with a degree in financial management. In
addition, there are eight basic level technical staff.
The capacity to oversee EIA regulations and procedures is considered weak and needs
to be strengthened.
The simplified organogram of the Provincial Directorate for the Co-ordination of
Environmental affairs is shown below.
6 Note that EIA and Environmental Management roles are grouped under one Department, whereas
at central level they are separated



Municipal Development Project: Environmental Analysis
Director
Department of         Department of      Department for the    Department of
Environmental       Territorial Planning    Promotion of      Administration
Management and EIA                            Environmental      and Finance
Awareness
Nampula
In Nampula Province, the structure of the Provincial Directorate is similar to central
level, and comprises five Departments:
e Department for EIA comprising only one mid-level technician who is also the
head and the only staff member in this Department.
• Department of Territorial Planning - headed by one senior level staff (an
architect) plus three mid-level technicians.
- Department for the Promotion of Environmental Education (comprising one mid-
level staff member who is also the head of the Department).
i Department for Environmental Management headed by one mid-level
technician (currently completing his Licenciatura degree in Nampula).
e Department of Administration and Finance (one mid-level technical staff).
The Director is a senior level technician (degree in mechanical engineering with a
certificate in aircraft engineering).
The EIA Department is extremely weak and needs to be strengthened. This is
recognised by the Provincial Director who created a post for capacity building in this
sector in view of the development projects currently being proposed for the Province.
The Organogram for Nampula Province is shown below.



Municipal Development Project: Environmental Analysis
Director
Department of   Department        Department for the     Department of
Department      Environmental    for Territorial     Promotion of        Administration
of EIA       EManagement         Planning         Environmental        & Finances
Awareness
The Provincial Directorate in Nampula is relatively weak. This is partially compensated
for (specifically with regard to urban environmental management) by the Centre for
sustainable Development (CDS), an agency that falls under the responsibility of
MICOA and located in Nampula City. Through the CDS, MICOA has developed in
Nampula Province and has consequently established good working relationships with
Nampula Municipality (see also section 4.5 below).
Pemba
The National Directorate in Pemba is currently being established. The proposed
structure reflects that at central level and will comprise 5 Departments. Only the
Department of EIA is currently staffed, comprising 4 mid-level technicians viz. a town
planner, a sanitary engineer, a land use planner and a geographer. The only senior
level staff number is the Provincial Director who holds a Licenciatura degree in
Geography.
The strucyure of the Provincial Directorate in Pemba is shown below:
Director
Dr. Agusto Cdsar
I
Dept of EIA     Dept of Territorial  Dept of Env.  Dept far the Promotio  nance &
(4 staff members)   Planning         Management      of Env. Awareness  Administration
(no staff)       (no staff)         (no staff)       (no staff)
Overall the Provincial Directorate in Cabo Delgado Province is weak. The EIA
Department comprises four staff members with backgrounds in urban planning. These,
technicians were incorporated in the Provincial Director from the now defunct, National
Institute for Physical Planning. The EIA Department in Pemba, should therefore, be
able to assist the municipality in urban environmental planning and control.



Municipal Development Project: Environmental Analysis
3.4 Relevant Legislation related to Municipalities
The delegation of decision-making power to lower levels of govemment and to
Municipalities has recently started to be promoted in Mozambique. The competence of
the elected Municipality is restricted to the Bairros within the limits of the City or Town.
The Finances and Municipal Assets7  (Law 11/97 of 31"' May) provides for a greatly
enhanced degree of policy, program and budgetary authority to Municipalities deemed
competent for greater responsibility. According to the new Law, Municipalities will be able
to promote their local development, protect natural resources, and manage land. Within
established limits, Municipalities also have control over financial resources. The
Municipality is responsible for (amongst other areas) the following (Article 25):
* Green areas including gardens and nurseries
* Markets
* Fire-fighting
* Supply of water
* Drainage systems
* Collection and treatment of waste and public cleaning
* Cultural, aesthetic or urban heritage
C Camping grounds
e Support for vulnerable groups within society
* Protection and rehabilitation of the environment
* Aforestation, planting and the conservation of trees
* Establishment of Municipal reserves
Decentralisation is, however, a gradual process and capacity building will be required at
all levels.
Article 6 of the Framework Law for the Establishment of Local Municipalities8 (Law N°
2197) requires local councils to ensure the interest of residents with respect to (inter
alia):
*  Social and economic development
*  Environment, basic sanitation and quality
*  Health
*  Education
*  Culture, free-time and sport
Article 46 of the Framework Law specifically deals with the competence of the
municipality with regards to environmental management and protection. In this context,
the Municipal Assembly has the competence to approve:
a) An environmental plan and the ecological zoning of the municipal area.
b) Incentive programmes and activities that protect or rehabilitate environmental
conditions
c) Altemative energy-use programmes
d) Processes for the removal, treatment and disposal of solid wastes, including hospital
and toxic wastes
7Lei das Finansas e Patrim6nio Autarquicas, boletim da Republica, 1' Srie, n° 22 (4° Suplernento,
31 de maio de 1997
8 Lei do Quadro Juridico Legal para a Implanta,ao das Autarquias Locais, Boletm da Republica, 1'
Serie, n°7 (20 Suplemento) de 18 de Fevereiro de 1997 (Lei n° 2197)



Municipal Development Project Environmental Analysis
e) Re-forestation, programmes, planting and conservation of shade trees
f) Local programmes for the management of natural resources
g) Norms for fines and other sanctions for activities, especially polluting activities,
within the municipal area
h) Programmes for non-polluting modes of transport
i) Establishment of municipal reserves
j) Proposal for the establishment of protected zones
4. Capacity and Actions of Municipalities to Address Environmental
Impacts
4.1 Approach
In this section, the technical capacity of the major Municipalities (Maputo, Beira,
Nampula, Quelimane and Pemba) to undertake environmental assessments are
described and compared. In addition, the technical capacity of a further four minor
Municipalities (Cuamba, Manica, Angoche and Maxixe) to undertake environmental
assessment is compared to the technical capacity of the major Municipalities.
In order to ensure that comparable information was obtained for the major
Municipalities, a questionnaire was prepared and forwarded to the Municipal offices
prior to the site visits (see Annex I). The responses to this questionnaire form the basis
for the descriptions presented below.
First, the organisational structure of the major and minor Municipal Councils is
described and second, current capacity for managing and assessing environmental
components of civil works is highlighted. Finally, the capacity of the Municipalities to
incorporate environmental considerations in the planning and implementation of
investment projects is assessed.
4.2 Maputo Municipality
Maputo is the largest city in Mozambique (with approximately 967, 000 inhabitants), as
well as the political and administrative capital. Consequently it has the strongest
Municipal Council, with close links to Central Government.
Organisation, staffing and logistics
The Municipal Council of Maputo is currently in the process of reorganisation, and
awaiting approval of the proposed restructuring submitted in February 2000 to the
Municipal Assembly.
This proposal for restructuring recommends nine alderman's portfolios (see Figure 2
below):
* Economics
* Linkage with Government Institutions
* Sanitation and Cemeteries
* Environment, Parks and Gardens
* Transport, Traffic and Works
* Urbanisation, Urban Soil Management
* Green Zones and Fishery
* Portfolios for Municipal Districts 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5.



Municipal Development Project: Environmental Analysis
WUNICIPAL COUNCIL
| Ircsident
:conomy        Articulation with      Waste             Municipal        Environment,        Tran port,      Urbanization and      Green Areas       Municipal
Govemment         management        Infrastructures       Parks and        Traffic and       Management of        and Fishing       Districts 1 ,23,
Institutions          and                                Gardens            Works             Urban Land                           and 5
_             _C~~~~~emeteries_.
Municipal       Directorate for       Directorate for   Directorate for       Directorate for   Directorate for     Directorate for      Cabinet for
Directorate for   Education      1         waste          Roads and      1        Parks and       Transport and       Construction and     Green Areas an
Economy and     l                l      management        Bridges                 Gardens         Traffic            Urbanization         Fishing
Finance                              and Cemeteries                                                            l l                l_i_l
Directorate for  |_l_l
Work                                    Directorate for       Directorate for   Directorate for
Municipal                                               Water and      l    Environment and    Works and            Office for           Municipal
Directorate for |                                        Sanitation      l    Coast Protection    Publicity          Adressment           Directorate for
Markets        Directorate for  |                                     .                        __l  l   __l l                     l   |Catembe
llSocial Affairs |''Il
I   I                                                                                     I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Municipall
H ctoralth for                                                                                                      Directorate for
Health                                                                                                              Mnicia
Directorate for
Industry,
Commerce and
Tourism
| Directorate for
Youth and Sport                Figure 2: Maputo Municipality organizational structure
21



Municipal Development Prcject: Environmental Analysis
Under the present organisational structure environmental concerns are included in the
portfolio for Environment and Coastline Protection, and Parks and Gardens.
Presently, only the latter is provided with a management structure.
The alderman for the Environment and Coastline Protection has a Bachelors degree in
Civil Engineering.
The restructuring will result in the creation of two new Municipal Services Directorates
(MSD):
* MSD for Parks and Gardens (MSDPG)
* MSD for Environment and Coastline Protection (MSDECP)
Meanwhile, the recruitment of technical staff for this Directorate has begun, and the
following technical staff have recently been employed:
* Environment Management expert (who underwent a 2.5 year course in Germany)
* Biologist in Ecology field (graduate)
* Biologist in Public Health (graduate)
* Forest Engineer (graduate)
* Civil Engineer (less than 5 years experience)
* Mid-level Technician in Environment Management
The prospective Director has not been identified.
Despite their academic qualifications, none of the technical staff in this Directorate
have any practical experience in environmental impact assessment, nor do the
technical staff in any of the other Directorates.
The current lack of environmental directives necessitates that new projects are
analysed as independent cases without incorporation of environmental dimensions.
The relationship between the future MSDECP and the remaining Municipal directorates
is undefined. Awareness exists at executive level of the need for establishing formal
means of liaison between MSDECP and other Directorates concerning environmental
issues.
Until now, there are no environmental directives whatsoever, other than the general
provisions contained in the national legislation. However MSDECP is beginning to
develop Municipal Environmental Regulations with assistance from external
consultants.
Relationships with other institutions, NGO's, and local communities
At present, most MSDECP activities are supported by MICOA, and a Memorandum of
Understanding has been signed between MICOA and Maputo Municipality. There are
no formal links with the Provincial Directorate for the Coordination of Environmental
Affairs.
This situation is explained by the links Maputo Municipality has with central
government. The more logical link with the Provincial Directorate for the Coordination.
of Environmental Affairs has not occurred because at Provincial level, MICOA lacks
technical capacity.



Municipal Development Project: Environmental Analysis
There are no formal links with the Directorate of Forestry and Wild Life.
There are two existing agreements between the Municipality and Eduardo Mondlane
University - Department of Forest Engineering and Centre for Industrial Studies that
support environmental studies important to the Municipality. In this context, a
Department of Forest Engineering student recently completed a study on mangroves,
and a student from The Centre for Industrial Studies is beginning a study related to the
management of waste oils generated in the petrol stations of the city.
The Municipality has been collaborating with the National Directorate of Water
regarding coastal and unstable slope erosion.
A technician from the Municipal Environmental Directorate has been tasked with the
responsibility of monitoring the MDP civil works program.
NGO's do provide support by means of projects for improved sanitation and community
participation. However community-level relationships are limited to specific cases.
Existing plans and studies
Maputo City has been the location for a number of environment studies conducted by
government institutions at central level, and both academic and applied research
institutions. The data are however very scattered. For example, in 1996 an
Environment Profile of Maputo City was completed.
The Structure Plan for Greater Maputo was completed in 1999 and has integrated
information from previous studies, including an environmental profile. This document
has not been officially approved yet.
The Structure Plan includes land use planning and ecological zoning but nevertheless
has some major shortcomings. The ecological zoning identifies and maps nine
categories of sensitive environmental areas:
e Agriculture land
* Coastal zone
* Physiographic depressions, badly drained
* Instable slopes,
* Irregular flooding areas
. Mangroves
* Swamp
* Flood plain areas
* Areas with riparian vegetation
The Structure Plan also includes a preliminary environmental protection strategy, which
considers the following priority issues:
* Domestic energy
* Sanitation and Drainage
* Soils, including soil salinisation and erosion
* Management of solid wastes
* Water quality



Municipal Development Pmrject: Environmental Analysis
These environmental problems are described in a systematic way, with the
identification of the causes and effects. This strategy should form the basis for the
definition of an environmental protection strategy and an environmental action plan.
In legal terms, the 1969 Master Plan for Urbanisation of Maputo City is still in force, but
is completely outdated.
4.3 Beira Municipality
The Municipal Council is divided into ten principal sections (see Figure 3 below).
Beira Municipality is well staffed with technical personnel suitably qualified to manage
and monitor the environmental component of civil works programs. For example, there
exists a service for Environmental and Urban Management with a Directorate for
Environmental Management. The latter unit was established two years ago and
currently comprises three Technical Staff all with Licenciatura degrees. There is also a
Department of Coastal Protection headed by a similarly qualified professional. This
Department falls under Construction and Urbanisation, and its existence is a reflection
of the need to control coastal erosion, which is currently a serious problem in Beira.
Across other sectors capacity is variable but most comprise medium level/technicians
with some having senior level technicians, for example:
* Urban Services: Two senior level technical staff (geography and civil engineering)
* Institutional cooperation: one senior level staff (geography)
- Commerce, Industry and Tourism: one senior level staff (economics)
* Construction and Urbanization: three senior level staff (Architecture [one] and Civil
Engineering [two]).
Links with Provincial MICOA in Beira are informal but well established. Two senior level
staff both with Licenciatura degrees head Provincial MICOA.



Municipal Development Project: Environmental Analysis
Mayors OMce
istitutional      Transport          Economy &         Planning &     Construction &    Education       Health & Social      Livestock          Urban &           a et,
ooperation      Systems Civil       Development         Finances      Urbanization                          Affairs         Fisheries &      Environmental       & Fairs
Protection          Program                                                                                 Gender            Services
;eneral            DTTRC          CICT Industry          DPPF           Mapping          Education           Dept of City      Extension
acretary         Directorate of    Commerce &        Directorate of                                            Health
Transport         Tourism           Planning &                                                                                            Directorate
Finances                                                                                           Environmenta
:ipal Police                                                             Coastal       Culture Youth &      Dept of Social                                 Management
Fire Brigade                        |  Treasury          Protectio          Sport              Affairs                                 _
Urban Services
Directorate
Resources l                                                                                                                                         I
l                                l    |   { ~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                        ~~Physical|I 
Assets           Planning                                                              Dir. of Admin. &   |
T-                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Finance
(inning                                                                                                                                              I
Structure Plans                                                         Funeral Services
Gardens
Figure 3: Beira Municipality organisational structure
2S



Municipal Development Project: Environmental Analysis
4.4 Quelimane Municipality
The Municipal Council is divided into six principal sections (see Figure 4 below). None
of the technical staff complement of the Municipal Council has tertiary level
qualifications; most are medium level technicians. The mayor holds a Bachelor's
degree in aeronautical engineering
None of the technical staff have job descriptions that specifically relate to the
environment. However, the Directorate for Urban Services and Civil Works has been
tasked with the responsibility for environmental concerns. Within the Municipal
hierarchy there is a general awareness of the need for environmental protection within
the urban setting. This, for example, is illustrated in the routine maintenance activities
surrounding drainage, sanitation, and waste disposal. This awareness extends to the
minor civil works program, which follows existing environmental guidelines, but not to
major development. Here the Council liaises with Provincial MICOA who has the
mandate to ensure that environmental impact assessments are conducted prior to the
approval of proposed major developments.
Although environmental monitoring appears to be incorporated into the Council's day-
to-day activities none of the technical staff have benefited from specialist training in this
context. Within the Council's current organisational structure, if an environmental unit
were to be created it would be best located within the Directorate for Urban services.
Here the current technical staff could run the unit if they received sufficient specialist
environmental training. Specific recommendations regarding capacity building together
with key environmental concerns in an urban setting are given in section 7 below. The
creation of a Municipal level functioning environmental unit would necessitate a
transition from informal to more formal links with Provincial level MICOA for the
purpose of coordinating environment related activities.
In the formulation of a structural plan for Quelimane and in the prioritisation of civil
works, an environmental strategy is being formulated. Attempts have been made to
identify environmentally sensitive areas (e.g. the airport and Manhaua Bairro) and any
future planning and development will need to take this into consideration. Also,
attempts have been made to identify and document the range of environmental impacts
associated with the typical spectrum of civil works and the long history of ad hoc
unplanned resettlement within the peri-urban environment.
Urban environmental impacts can either be a direct consequence of civil works and
insufficient and/or inadequate basic infrastructures (e.g. drainage, sanitation, water,
and waste disposal) or an indirect result of human activities for which people are
largely unaware of the negative environmental consequences of their actions. This is
particularly true for public health.



Municipal Development Project: Environmental Analysis
|Municipal Council of the City
of Quelimane (CMCQ)
President of the
0f11ce of the President of the                       Municipal Counicil (MC)
Municipal Council (MC)
Munieipal Council (MC)                                                                     -   r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CMCQ Policee
Secretary of
the President                       llead of the Office
|General Secretary |
|Office of the CMCQ|
Culture, Youth         Urbanization and       Finance and administration      Education and              Directorate of Urban                Industry, commerce
and Sports          Civil works Office            Department            L       Health                       Services                          and tourism
Sport              Civil works                 Accounting and              City education
i  Associations] |  L             lbookkeeping                                  Directorate               Public cleaning                   Markets
-|   Cultural   |   H   Woodwork  |           q  Treasury      l            | Stiperior schools             Wcaleaste                        Sm   scal
Activities  Construction |ting
g  Municipal  |                                _  Markets       l          _    Pre-University         GardensSmall-scale
Sml-sal
1  pools    |       T   Drainage   |         _    Revenue                    Primary Schools          Funerary Servies                       industry
Sports fields |  _  Road                                                                                      L   Informal trading
l   l   maintenanc    1  Expenses    l                  Skills Training          Cleaning of
r   f  _ Schools  _    Drainage
Cadastre               Patrimony
City lHealth            Septic tanks
5  Physical    l       l               '       | r   --          I        l     Directorate
| Edueation   |   Ll  Physical                     1 |1 VWarehousehic .  .    q   Vehicle
Planning  |        1      eemen|Health Centres                                workshops
r   I   | | TrainingCentres  |  ce Offiefor
h liuman resources i                                 8    sanitation
Quelimane Municipality organisational structure



Municipal Development Prcject: Environmental Analysis
Since the election of the Municipal Council in 1998 a number of principal urban
environmental problems have been identified. These are as follows:
* Drainage of runoff water in the Bairros
* Rehabilitation of access roads
* Clean water supply
* Open air defecation
* Unhygienic marketing of fresh produce
* Uncontrolled proliferation of informal settlements in urban and peri-urban areas
Although the prioritisation of civil works clearly reflects these concerns, their long-term
sustainable amelioration can only be achieved through a fundamental change in the
behaviour and attitude of the residents of informal settlements. The Municipal Council
recognises this primary concern and has been proactive in the promotion and
implementation of a range of awareness campaigns in relation to environmental
degradation and its relationship with human health.
In this regard, interinstitutional (Provincial MICOA, Provincial Health Services, NGO's,
CMCQ) environmental awareness and health campaigns have been successfully run,
targeting e.g. cholera, malaria, HIV, sanitation & water. The success of these
campaigns have not been quantified, nevertheless they reflect good interinstitutional
cooperative links between CMCQ, MICOA, and DNFFB at both Provincial and Central
level. Furthermore environmental groups based in Quelimane also use the radio to
promote environmental awareness. These groups have made a significant contribution
to the development of sustainable waste disposal and latrine construction.
A number of NGO's in Quelimane are also active environmentalists contributing to
environmental awareness campaigns. These organisations include CEDEA (Centre for
Development and Environmental Education), which is a youth organisation founded in
1992, and CODEMAZA (the Community Association for the Defence of Zambezia's
Environment). Formal links between MICOA, CMCQ, and CEDEA also exist, as they
are joint participants in the urban environmental rehabilitation project for Quelimane
and Mocuba, currently funded by DANIDA.
4.5 Nampula Municipality
Nampula City is the Provincial capital of Nampula. Since 1989 the Municipality has
tackled environmental problems through the Office for Erosion Action, which in 1990
was converted into GAMA (Office for Environment Affairs). Over the past ten years,
GAMA has undertaken community-level awareness and mobilisation campaigns
focussing on preventing and combating environmental problems. Seven extension
workers have been directly involved with local communities for the duration of this
project. GAMA has benefited from financial and technical support provided by the
Dutch government and the Danish NGO MS - Mozambique.
In 1997, following on from the formulation of the National Program for Environment
Management (endorsed in 1995) a Centre for Sustainable Development (under
MICOA) was set up, specialising in urban environment issues. This had a significant
positive impact on environment awareness issues amongst local authorities based in
this city, and especially Nampula Municipal Council (CMCN).



Municipal Development Project: Environmental Analysis
In 1998, the election of the Mayor for Nampula City Council, who has a degree in
Geography, and was a former Provincial Director for Environment Affairs (MICOA),
has contributed substantially to the environment awareness of Municipal aldermen and
technical staff.
Organisation, staffing and logistics
CMCN is provided with 11 aldermen on a full-time basis. The academic qualification of
the alderman in charge of the environment portfolio is medium-level technician in
pharmaceutics and is employed on a part-time basis.
With regard to Municipal organisation (see Figure 5 below), CMCN is currently divided
into three technical directorates:
* Directorate of Construction and Urbanisation (DCU),
* Directorate of Urban Services (DSU) and
* Directorate of Environment, Water and Sanitation (DIMAS).
It should be pointed out that DCU was borne out of the Directorate of Physical Planning
that supervised the City Structure Planning, completed in 1999, and that DIMAS
originated from GAMA.
Some sub-divisions are anticipated for each of the three Directorates but they have not
been made due to shortage of technical staff. To date, there is only one technician with
a university degree - civil engineering, holding the post of Director of Construction and
Urbanisation. Meanwhile, CMCN plans to recruit two technicians with degrees (one of
which will be a civil engineer for the Directorate of Environment, Water and Sanitation),
plus another three medium-level technicians (hydraulic specialist, environmental
specialist and sanitary specialist).
At present the head of the Directorate of Environment, Water and Sanitation is a
medium-level technician trained in physical planning, who is currently studying for a
degree in geography. This Directorate also employs three forest technicians and seven
extension workers who are directly involved with the community, especially with regard
to environment awareness. Their education level is generally basic schooling,
supplemented by short-term courses in environmental management.
In addition to DIMAS requesting interventions from other Directorates, especially the
Directorate of Urban Services, and the Directorate of Construction and Urbanisation,
requests for technical assistance are also made to DIMAS, especially regarding the issue
of permits for new activities, and defining actions for sanitation issue.



Municipal Development Project: Environmental Analysis
Technical Council                               j      1.  President
Municipal Council
Cabinet for Public
Relations and
Protocol
Executive Secretarilat        Cabinet for Municipal        Cabinet for Juridical    Chief of the Urban
and Press AttachI           Development and Plan        Inspection and Intemai     Administrative Posts
Audit
Directorate of                     Directorate of      Direction        Direction of       Direction        Direction of                       Municipal
Administration      Direction     Construction and  _     Council       Urban Services      Council         Environment,       Direcion        Police and
Finance and    _   Council        Urbanization                                                              Water and          Council        Inspection
Property                                                                l                                 Sanitation     LJ
0,
r             -LID    
Department of           Department of
Finance and          Administration and                              i*.
Property            Staff Management                                           Department of          Department of
I   I   I             l             l                 |   j } ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gardens, Parks aind        Maintcnance and
i     l                       l                 l   l |    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Sanitation     I Works
15    .   2   .lc                      LI                 C                                                 a u
co                       U)~~~~1                                           coC 
0                 2:,~~~~ .2co                     1 
Cu~~~~~-
Cu  Cu   --6                                                Cu    CuO
8   (      E                   E                      .tm -: I=   Cu
-   a                CD                              0 -lCD
~~.   15  Cu  <~~~~0           _                                                                                       CDV ~   a    50 
Cu      2.                                      Cu              C
2L            c                        CC               E    E~  2                                   0               2       .      C
0.    m        C~Cifc  to~             0L2<    < 0.  < Fc 0
Figure 5. Nampula Municipality organisational structure
30



Municipal Development Prcject. tnvironmenral Analysis
Relationships with other institutions, NGO's, and local communities
DIMAS enjoys close relationships with the Centre for Sustainable Development of
Nampula (CDS), as a result of a program funded by the Dutch Government for urban
environment. Some of this funding has been allocated directly to DIMAS.
The principal role of the CDS is to promote and coordinate sustainable management of
the urban environment, with special attention to the following activities:
* Research;
* Technical assistance;
* Pilot project implementation / Demos;
* Technical training;
* Inter-sectoral co-ordination, including community participation;
* Setting up a data bank;
* Participation in policy formulation.
Since its inception in 1997 this institution has been benefiting from substantial support
from the Dutch Government. To date, this support has been used to implement the pilot
program - PROGAU (Program for Urban Environment Management for Nampula City
and District), supplemented by FURA (Fund for Environmental Rehabilitation).
These programs are intended mainly for:
i Capacity building for relevant institutions in urban environmental management for
the city and Districts of Nampula, namely, the Provincial Forest and WlId Life
(SPFFB), the Administration of Nampula District (AND), the Municipal Council of
Nampula City and CDS-Nampula;
a Undertaking research and urban planning; and
* Promotion and co-ordination of pilot project implementation.
Under PROGAU and FURA a number of studies have been conducted and CDS has
undoubtedly played the leading role in Nampula.
Its activities are limited mainly to Nampula City and District, with some intervention at
liha de Mo,ambique, Quelimane and Mocuba. In the short term, CDS anticipates
extending its activities to other towns in Nampula Province such as Angoche.
In addition to the Director, CDS employs one Sociologist and solid waste manager, two
medium-level technical staff for physical planning (studying for a degree in Geography),
one assistant for community participation, and two probationers.
It should be noted that there is a pre-appraisal project funded by DANIDA, in which the
CDS-Nampula shall be a counterpart. This project is aimed at capacity development for
urban environmental management for the Municipalities of Quelimane, Mocuba,
Pemba, lIha de Mo,ambique and Montepuez.
The relationship between DIMAS and the Provincial Directorate for the Coordination of
Environment Affairs is not as well defined as the one with CDS.
MICOA Provincial Directorate lacks technical capacity. It employs only three medium-
level technical staff that have considerable practical experience in dealing with
environmental issues through their involvement in the PROGAU and FURA programs.



JunICipaI ueveiopmenr i-rojecr: tnviruh'ri'Midi AndfySIS
The technical staff are divided among three sections - environmental management,
assessment of environmental impact, and environmental education.
Recently, the Physical Planning Institution (previously under the Provincial Directorate
of Planning and Finance) joined the Provincial Directorate of MICOA. An architect and
physical planner work for this institution.
The relationship between DIMAS and the Provincial Directorate of Forests and Wildlife
is limited to tree planting campaigns with local communities.
There is an existing partnership with the Danish NGO (MS) that has been supporting
the Municipal Council in environmental issues, specifically community education,
training of DIMAS extension workers, and sanitation-related activities. This partnership
was recently renewed for the period between 2001 and 2005. To this end, MS will post
an environmentalist to Nampula, and will provide continued financial support (200
million Meticais per annum).
The relationship with the community has been consolidated through the activities of the
DIMAS extension workers, and is based mainly on support to several environment
associations set up in the Bairros following the awareness campaigns. Awareness
campaigns are carried out be means of plays, dances etc. In this respect, the
community has engaged in fighting and preventing erosion, in collaboration with
DIMAS extension workers, technical staff from MICOA Provincial Directorate, and
CDS.
Existing plans and studies
Nampula City has benefited from a number of studies and projects conducted under
CDS. Among the studies was the preparation of PROGAU - Program for Urban
Environment Management for Nampula City and District, which was supplemented
later on by FURA - Fund for Environment Rehabilitation. The studies conducted
include Environmental, health, socio-economic and demographic profiles of Nampula
City and District. Under PROGAU and FURA additional studies and projects have been
developed, notably urban rehabilitation (roads, market places, gardens, sewage,
sanitation, solid waste and urbanisation).
The Structure Plan for Nampula City, prepared in 1999, under PROL, was officially
approved in the first semester of 2000. This document establishes guidelines for land
use, identifying environmentally sensitive areas and environmental problems, as well
as an action plan.
The Structure Plan undertakes a clear diagnosis of environmental problems, notably:
* Soil erosion
* Water pollution
* Solid waste
* Deforestation
* Degradation of biotopes and biodiversity
Each issue was assessed in detail and subject to local problem mapping, identifying
the causes of environmental problems and polluting sources. The analysis of
degradation of biotopes is however insufficient but still developing.



As a supplement to Structure Plan, in 2000 the CMCN prepared a Strategic Plan for
Environmental Management for Nampula City. This document presents environmental
problems in a systematic manner and establishes an integrated environmental
management strategy for the urban area, together with an action plan.
4.6 Pemba Municipality
Pemba Municipal Council (PMC) is the smallest of the major Municipalities and is
divided into two principal sections namely the Directorates of Urban Services and
Administration and Finances (see Figure 6 below). The Municipal Council has a staff
complement of 224, the majority (94%) of which are employed by the Directorate of
Urban Services (DSU).
The MC suffers from a serious shortage of technical staff trained to tertiary level. Of all
the staff, five have medium level secondary school education, ten only basic level while
the remainder (93%) only have elementary or primary school education.
PMC defines Municipal management policies including the supervision of the activities
of the Administrative Office and the DSU. None of the technical staff have job
descriptions that specifically relate to the environment. However, the DSU has been
tasked with the responsibility for environmental concerns. Three technicians have
experience with environmental problems, for example the evaluation of impacts. They
have also attended courses related to environmental impact assessment and debates
about the environment, including the implementation and supervision of a plan related
to establishing aforestation programs, erosion control, and management of solid
residue. These are components of an overall program financed by the Danish NGO,
MS - Mozambique
Hence, within the Municipal hierarchy there is a general awareness of the need for
environmental protection within the urban setting. This is further illustrated in the
routine maintenance activities surrounding drainage, sanitation, and waste disposal.
This awareness extends to the minor civil works program, which follows existing
environmental guidelines, but not to major development. Here the Council liaises with
Provincial MICOA who has the mandate to ensure that environmental impact
assessments are conducted prior to the approval of proposed major developments.
Being a coastal town, environmental monitoring of the coastal zone is incorporated into
the Council's day-to-day activities. Nevertheless, none of the technical staff have
benefited from specialist training in this context. Within the Council's current
organisational structure, if an environmental unit were to be created it would be best
located within the aforestation and gardens sector of Directorate for Urban services as
they already have the responsibility for implementation aforestation and erosion control
Programs Here the current technical staff could run the unit if they received sufficient
specialist environmental training. Specific recommendations regarding capacity
building together with key environmental concerns in an urban setting are given in
section 7 below. The creation of a Municipal level functioning environmental unit would
necessitate a transition from informal to more formal links with Provincial level MICOA
for the purpose of coordinating environment related activities.



Mi'1UJwPJd LJUvprnen( omjecr: tnwronmona, ofr
THE MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
PRESIDENT & COUNCILORS
Directorate for Urban Services                         Administration Secretary
Administration
Urbanisation & Cadastre
Secretary
Municipal Works                                      Patrimony
Inspection                                             Human Res ources        l
Hygiene & Cleaning     I
Cemeteries& Burial    J
Road maintenance
F   Woodwork &        g
XWorkshops|
Abattoirs|
|Marketsl
Figure 6: Pemba Municipality organisational structure



In the formulation of a structural plan for Pemba and in the prioritisation of civil works,
an environmental strategy has been developed for the MDP and the general urban
environment. Key components are:
* The identification of risks related to civil works and the use of adequate building
technologies
* The need for EIA in relation to large-scale civil works
* Sewerage treatment prior to discharge at the coast
*  Erosion control on the cliffs
*  Relocation of people currently occupying environmentally sensitive areas/l
* Dune stabilisation
Environmentally sensitive areas have been identified (e.g. the coastal zone and slope
areas) and any future planning and development will take this into consideration. Also,
attempts have been made to identify and document the range of environmental impacts
associated with the typical spectrum of civil works and the long history of ad hoc
unplanned resettlement within the peri-urban environment.
The principal urban environmental problems pre-date the election of the Municipal
Council in 1998. These are as follows:
Problems relating to the biophysical environment
* Low lying areas are at risk of flooding
* Uncontrolled salt mining
* Unsustainable exploitation of mangrove resources e.g. for use as building materials
* Areas affected by high tides
* Erosion along natural cliffs
* Cliffs created by natural erosion processes
* Severe erosion created by inappropriate farming and building techniques
Machambas and buildings located in environmentally sensitive areas
Problems relating to resource use
* Planting of casuarinas and exotic grass species
* Over-exploitation of fisheries resources
* Uncontrolled exploitation of mineral resources
* Uncontrolled eco-tourism development
Problems relatinq to environmental health
* Sanitation and open-air defecation
* Waste accumulation in the neighbourhoods
* Inadequate water supply for human consumption
These factors are responsible for the high incidence of malaria, diarrhoea and cholera
during the wet season.
Although the prioritisation of civil works clearly reflects these concerns, alone they are
not enough. The Municipal Council recognises this primary concern and has been
proactive in the promotion and implementation of a range of awareness campaigns in
relation to environmental degradation and its relationship with human health.



In this regard, interinstitutional (Provincial MICOA, Provincial Health Services, NGO's,
PMC) environmental awareness and health campaigns have been successfully run,
targeting e.g. cholera, malaria, HIV, sanitation & water. It is believed that these
campaigns have had a positive impact on local communities and reflect good
interinstitutional cooperative links between PMC and MICOA, at both Provincial and
Central level.
Informal links with MICOA and DNFFB focus on the goal of achieving a sustainable
environment. At times MICOA has to give technical opinions on the implementation of
certain projects since only they have the personnel qualified to do so.
Local environmental interest community organisations exist in the Bairros and within
local-level political organisations. The PMC encourages and supports their actions.
There are two important NGO's namely AMA and HELVETAS that address many
environmental problems, especially those relating to environmental health. These
organisations work together with the PMC though coordination meetings and where the
PMC supervises and supports their interventions.
4.7 Minor Municipalities
Maxixe
Maxixe is the largest town in Inhambane Province, and is a coastal Municipality.
Organisation, staffing, and logistics
The Municipal Council of Maxixe has six full-time aldermen. The Portfolio for
Urbanisation, Sanitation,  Environment and  Construction  is  responsible  for
environmental issues.
Urbanisation is the only Directorate with technical capacity, viz: one medium-level
physical planner, two civil engineering technicians and two topographers. There are no
university degree holders.
There is no local environmental management body, and no technical capacity for
environmental assessment. Environmental assessment is attempted with regard to
environmental problems that occur in the area (erosion and lack of sanitation), the
causes of which have been partially identified.
Relationships with other institutions, NGO 's and local communities
To date, the Municipality does not have any working relationship with MICOA Provincial
Directorate. The Provincial Directorate of Forests and Wild Life provides limited
assistance in terms of tree planting to contain coastal erosion.
There has been some support from NGO's in providing more drinking water sources.
Existing plans and studies
There are no development plans for the Municipality of Maxixe. The Municipality
intends, in the short term, to prepare a Plan of Urbanisation of the Town in co-
ordination with MICOA and the Provincial Directorate of Agriculture and Rural
Development, but it is currently constrained by a shortage of funds.



municipal vevelopment Project: Environmental Analysis
Angoche
Angoche is the third largest town in this Province, and is a coastal Municipality. The
newly set-up Municipal Council is still taking roots in terms of reaffirming its authority
and defining its powers and attributions with the District Administration, which was the
local authority formerly in charge of the town's administration.
Organisation, Staffing and Logistics
The organisation and management of Angoche Municipality is the sole responsibility of
aldermen.
There are six aldermen:
* Administration and Finance
* Education, Culture, Sports and Leisure
* Health and Welfare
* Economic Promotion
* Linkage with Community
* Urbanism and Environment
Only the alderman for administration and finance is employed on a full-time basis. It is
worth pointing out that the alderman for Education, Culture, Sports and Leisure is a
biologist, responsible for a development project for Artisanal Fishing in Nampula
Province focussing on the protection of natural resources. This alderman participates in
an active way with the president, other alderman and technical staff.
VVith regard to Municipal Services, there are two departments:
* Department for Administration and Finance
* Department for Urban Services.
There is no local body for environmental management.
There are three existing technical staff in the Department of Urban Services, a physical
planner, a cartographer, and a topographer. A staff member from the Provincial
Directorate of Physical Planning who provides technical advice to Angoche Municipal
Council supports this team.
Relationship with other institutions, NGO's, and local communities
The Municipal Council of Angoche enjoys good relationships with the Provincial
Directorate of Physical Planning, the latter providing technical advice. This Directorate
has moved recently to the auspices of the Provincial Directorate of Environment.
To date there are no working relationships with MICOA, or even CDS, despite initial
contacts having been made.
With regard to NGO's the Municipal Council has received some support from foreign
NGO's (Dutch SNV, British Healthnet) regarding sanitation. There are also a number of
theatre groups in the community that cooperate with the Municipality in civic education
campaigns.



Iviul it4paJi ueveioprrierl r-rojecr: ctiVit Li -I' -  riol 'ialysis
The community is organised in quarters (Bairros), the representatives of which are in
direct contact with the Municipal Council.
Existing plans and studies
The National Directorate for Territory Land Planning of MICOA has prepared a
Structure Plan for Angoche Municipality (this year).
This plan, despite a number of shortcomings, makes reference to ecologically sensitive
areas (especially mangroves) and pinpoints environmental problems:
* Destruction of mangroves;
* Coastal and inland erosion
* Sanitation problems.
The plan also provides some guidelines in terms of city expansion, and for this
purpose, some environmental constraints have been incorporated (erosion high-risk
areas, and areas with superficial aquifers).
As part of the Nampula Artisanal Fishing Project, studies have been undertaken
regarding coastal resources, biotopes, fishing resources inventories, and identification
of impacts.
4.8 Comparative analysis of technical capacity
There is enormous between-Municipality variation in the technical capacity of the
principal Directorates. This is an expected result simply because of size differences
between these urban centres, as 'size' is most likely the principal criterion upon which
the allocation of manpower and other resources is based.
Furthermore, it is not even possible to make a basic distinction between the major and
minor Municipalities, for example none of the technical staff in Pemba or Quelimane
have a degree. The only broadly applicable generalisation that can be made is that the
technical staff from all Municipalities, regardless of academic qualifications, have
limited practical experience of environmental assessment of civil works, and
environmental assessment per se.
Nevertheless, this variation in capacity does not represent a significant obstacle in
defining training needs to build the short/medium term capacity within Municipalities to
undertake the environmental assessment required for the MDP civil works program.
This discussion is developed further in sections 7 and 8 below.
Long-term capacity building may prove to be more problematic as a first degree is
anticipated as the entry level for specialist training in environmental assessment-
related disciplines. This is also discussed further in sections 7 and 8 below.



5. The Civil Works Program
5.1 Preamble
This section first describes the nature of civil works for the five Municipalities for year
one of the MDP, their impacts, and possible prevention or mitigation, and second
presents in table form operational guidelines for the comprehensive incorporation of
environmental considerations for the full spectrum of construction activities envisaged
for the civil works program over the lifetime of the MDP.
Earlier desktop studies and consultation with key informants established the nature and
extent of the civil works programs. However, the guidelines developed are deliberately
not specific to these programs but rather identify the range of environmental impacts
and mitigation measures associated with civil works at different sectoral levels (road
sanitation, waste management, buildings and other infrastructures etc).
In using these guidelines Municipal government technical staff should be able to
identify the range of impacts, and means of prevention or mitigation appropriate to any
proposed program of civil construction or rehabilitation. In other words the guidelines
are both diagnostic (identification of impacts) and prescriptive (means of p io o
mitigation) for the lifetime of the project and beyond for small-scale civil works.
5.2 Description of civil works
Maputo Municipality
Civil works scheduled for year one of the MDP are the construction/rehabilitation of
drainage channels in Chamanculo and Malanga Bairro, rehabilitation of roads in
Malanga Bairro, construction of the Cadastre Building, and the improvement of Vulcano
and Khalene Markets.
a) Drainage channels for Bairro Chamanculo
Bairro Chamanculo is not provided with drainage channels for rainwater, or sanitation
facilities for residual water, and the streets are not paved. It is located in a low-lying
area, and prone to flooding mostly due to the inadequate drainage. Vehicle access is
also difficult.
The project involves the construction of covered drainage channels alongside the
streets in the most affected areas for the purpose of rainwater drainage. The drainage
will be made through open covered channels. The channels will be 1,50 meters wide
and a maximum of 0,80 meters deep. Discharge will be into a channel of the Maputo
drainage system network that drains directly into the Infulene River.
The project will have a positive impact on sanitary conditions in the area and will
contribute to improving public health.
The project is being undertaken in conjunction with the community, incorporating
measures that will minimise possible environment impacts, notably:
* Minimum damage to existing buildings and properties.



* Compensation in case of affecting existing buildings (the project anticipates
budget lines for these eventualities).
* The channel section will be limited so that it does not affect vehicle and pedestrian
movement, and without posing any risk of drowning.
* All pathways and streets affected by the works will be restored.
* Discharge site (Maputo drainage system) will not cause risk of erosion or
flooding.
In the construction stage there may be negative impacts that can be mitigated through
the adoption of appropriate measures specified in sections 5 and 6.
In the operational phase there may also be negative impacts relating to the
community's behaviour:
* The health risks associated with using channels for defecation, discharging residual
water, and disposal of solid wastes.
* The health risks associated with using channel water for domestic consumption.
It is recommended that the future MCDECP develop awareness campaigns in this
regard.
b) Drainage systems and road rehabilitation in Bairro Malanga
The infrastructures in Bairro Malanga are extremely degraded. There is no rainwater
drainage system, which causes degradation of the streets and of the sewerage system.
The uncontrolled drainage of water is creating serious problems of erosion in the steep
slope areas that delimit the Bairro to the SW.
The MDP intends to finance the installation of a rainwater drainage system with pipes,
and road rehabilitation, including street paving. The rainwater discharge will be done
through a connection to one of the main pipes of the rainwater drainage system of the
City of Maputo.
This work will have significant positive social and environmental impacts.
The project design will minimise a number of possible environmental impacts, namely:
* Minimum damage to existing buildings and properties;
* Compensation in case of affecting existing buildings (the project anticipates budget
lines for these eventualities);
* The channel section will be limited so that it does not affect vehicle and pedestrian
movement and without posing any risk of drowning;
* All pathways and streets affected by these works will be rebuilt;
* Discharge site (Maputo drainage system) will not cause risk of erosion or flooding.



In the construction phase some measures of mitigation of civil construction.work
impact must be adopted, referred rinsection.
c) Cadastre Building
At the moment Maputo Municipality has serious difficulties as the City cadastre
department is not well organised, and this is creating difficulties regarding the
functioning of the Directorate of Construction and Urbanisation.
Consequently, the Municipality elaborated a project for the construction of a new two-
storey building, financed by MDP. The building will be situated in a property where the
Directorate of Roads and Bridges is located. At the moment the remaining area is not
being used, is without vegetation and fenced. The property has water supply, water
drainage, electricity and telecommunications. This area is zoned for economic
activities.
d) Toilet Facilities and market modules at Vulcano Market
Vulcano Market is an important market, however it is in a generally poor condition. The
counters are in bad shape, the roofing is dilapidated, the floor is dirt paved and there
are no drainage channels. There are no toilet facilities and for this purpose vendors
and customers use the surrounding area or even inside the market.
The MDP envisages the construction of a toilet block with underground water tank,
water pumping system, and a septic tank.
The project will have a positive impact on environmental conditions as well as public
health.
Potential negative impacts include:
- Toilets becoming dirty and as a result people refusing to use them.
* Septic tanks overflowing and creating health risk.
- People do open defecation instead of using the toilets.
In order to minimise this negative impact, it is recommended that a toilet management
committee should be set up, composed of people who are responsible for the
management of the market and representatives of the vendors association. This
committee shall be charged with cleaning and maintenance of the toilets and shall
conduct an awareness campaign on the correct utilisation of the toilets.
In the construction phase, some measures shall be adopted in order to minimise the
impact of the civil works being undertaken, as indicated in section 6.
e) Upgrading the water supply system for Khalene Market
Khalene Market is located in the peri-urban area of Maputo, and has toilet facilities in
good working condition. The toilets are provided with running water, sewage, and a
septic tank.
Water supply in this area of the city is a night time activity, which makes the cleaning of
the existing toilets very difficult.



The MDP will finance the installation of an underground reservoir with a pumping
system to improve the operation of the toilets.
This intervention will have significant positive social and environmental impacts.
Beira Municipality
Civil works scheduled for year one of the MDP are the rehabilitation of two drainage
channels and the rehabilitation and upgrading of two existing markets. The prioritisation
of these respective civil works is based on historical problems associated with flooding
in the Bairros and unhygienic market conditions.
a) Rehabilitation of drainage channels that will drain surface water from slightly higher
ground on which the houses of the 'Bairros" are located. The two drainage
channels are located in Bairros Munhava and Chipangara.
The channels generally lead from the "main road" and then meander among the
houses to link up with secondary and then the main channel, which drains into the sea.
The channels will be rehabilitated and lined with crushed rock and cement, and the
construction work will be labour-intensive.
b) Two markets (Maquinino and Munhava) will be rehabilitated and infrastructures
such as stalls and latrines will be built.
Quelimane Municipality
Civil works scheduled for year one of the MDP are the construction of a market (plans
still to be approved), and the rehabilitation of two existing drainage channels.
The proposed market, "Mercado Floresta" is intended to replace an existing informal
market located close to the ENI Quelimane Mocuba main road, which is considered an
unsafe and unhygienic location. The new location of the proposed market is a currently
unoccupied piece of land on the other side of but some distance away from the main
road. The market will cover an area of approximately 3,432 m2 and will be buffered
from the main road by a patch of open woodland covering an area of approximately
2,156 M2. A total of 42 stalls will be constructed of which 14 are 40 m2, and the
remainder 25 M2.
The two drainage channels service Kanse Bairro, which is located in a depression and
historically suffers from flooding during the summer rainy season. With a rise in the
groundwater table both the drainage channels and the numerous pit latrines tend to
overflow this gives rise to serious health risks that can be spread via the drainage
channels which connect to a major underground channel leading into the Bon Sinais
estuary. The situation is exacerbated as the channels have been filled in places to
create walkways and bicycle paths and the sandy banks of the channel are utilised by
the local population as a source of building material. Hence the existing channels are
not functioning optimally. Channel rehabilitation will involve lining and cementing and
the provision of walkways to replace the existing ones. The objective of the rainy
seasons exercise is to eliminate the possibility of future flooding of the Bairro during
typical.



Nampula Municipality
Civil works scheduled for year one of the MDP are the construction of a drainage
channel between Namicopo Bairro and the Mutumote River, rehabilitation of roads and
drainage channels in Limoeiro Bairro, upgrading of the market in Muhala Bairro and the
excavation of wells for water supply in peri-urban areas.
a) Drainage channel through the Bairros Namicopo, Namutequeliua, and Muhala up to
the Mutumote River.
The area of intervention is located in a peri-urban high-density area where there are no
basic urban infrastructures. Most of the houses are badly built, having pit latrines. The
water supply is via a limited number of stand posts, and solid wastes are simply
discarded in the drainage channels or in the open.
Natural water drainage channels develop along the sand roads in between the houses.
Drainage is inadequate causing ponding and stagnation, creating conditions suitable
for the development of water-borne diseases. In the rainy season the drain water levels
rise creating serious problems of erosion undermining buildings and other
infrastructures.
The MDP will finance the construction of open drainage channels alongside the roads.
The channels will be 1,50 meters wide and a maximum of 0,80 meters deep and will be
lined with concrete and stones.
The discharge will be to a low-lying permanently inundated area, where subsistence
agriculture is practiced.
Positive environmental impacts include reduced erosion, reduced risk of transmission
of water diseases, and better passable roads during the rainy season.
The project has already integrated measures that will minimise environmental impact,
notably:
* Minimum damage to existing buildings and properties;
* Compensation in case of affecting existing buildings (the project anticipates budget
lines for these eventualities);
* The channel section will be limited so that it does not affect vehicle and pedestrian
movement and without posing any risk of drowning;
* All pathways and streets affected by the works will be restored;
* The protection of the discharge site will avoid risk of erosion.
Negative impacts related to community behaviour include:
* The risk to the population from use of the channels for open defecation, discharging
residual water, and disposal of solid wastes. This would also lead to further
contamination of the water used for irrigation.
* The risk to the population from domestic use of the channel water.



It is recommended that the Municipal Directorate for Water and Sanitation of Nampula
Municipality develop a population awareness campaign in order to avoid this kind of
behaviour.
b) Rehabilitation of roads and rainwater drainage systems in Bairro Limoeiro
Bairro Limoeiro suffers from very inadequate surface water drainage. The street paving
is destroyed, and there are serious problems of erosion and water stagnation.
The MDP foresees the rehabilitation of the drainage system and rehabilitation of the
adjacent streets, including paving. The water will be discharged into the drainage
system of an already rehabilitated road.
c) Upgrading of the market in Bairro Muhala
The market in Bairro Muhala was recently rehabilitated through finance from the Dutch
Govemment. At the moment the market has a covered space with lighting. Toilet
installations with water supply and drainage are currently being constructed. However
many of the stalls are dilapidated, without proper cover, drainage, or lighting.
The MDP will finance the upgrading of this market, with the installation of three more
pavilions, comprising covered standard modules and small shops. One pavilion will sell
clothes, household utensils, and many others things, and the remaining pavilions will
sell dried fish, vegetables and cereals.
The project will have a positive impact, tidying up the market and creating better
conditions for the salesmen and respective users.
The project is being undertaken in collaboration with the community, incorporating
measures that will mitigate potential social impacts.
d) Deep wells with standposts forperi-urban area
A private company holds the concession for Municipal water supply in Nampula. In the
per-urban area there are insufficient standposts and this company does not foresee
the alteration of this situation in the short-term.
Given the shortage of water supply, the population has to dig deep holes in lowland
areas, where the water is not suitable for human consumption.
The MDP foresees digging 30m deep wells and installing manual pumps.
The location of these wells have not been finalised but will require environmental
assessment according to the guidelines presented in section 6.
Pemba Municipality
Civil works scheduled for year one of the MDP are the construction of two new
drainage channels to replace the existing natural channels.
The two drainage channels will service Natiti Bairro, which is located on the coastal
plain and historically suffers from flooding during the summer rainy season. With a rise
in the groundwater table both natural drainage channels tend to overflow causing
flooding of the local market and nearby houses. It also gives rise to serious health



risks. The situation is exacerbated as the channels have been filled in places with
market wastes. Also, during the dry season the channels have very flat profiles and
tend to be used as footpaths. Channel construction will be labour-intensive involving
lining with small stones and cementing and the provision of walkways. The objective of
the exercise is to eliminate the possibility of future flooding of the Bairro during typical
rainy seasons.
5.3 Environmental impacts and recommended mitigation measures
During the first phase of the civil works program the five Municipalities will be limiting
their civil works programs to the following sectors:
* Surface water drainage
* Sewerage and sanitation
* Markets
* Waste disposal
* Road works (rehabilitation of pavements and footpaths only)
In this section, potential environmental impacts and pragmatic preventative or
mitigation measures applicable to these civil works programs are presented. See also
annex 11 for a portfolio of photographs of existing urban infrastructures.
Drainage channels
During the construction phase there will limited local pollution (debris) and temporary
inconvenience to local residents. The storagelcement mixing sites should be located so
that they do not contaminate local water sources, food stalls etc.
The main problems relate to routine and periodic maintenance. Existing drainage
channels are littered with debris, plastic bags, and faeces etc that enter the drainage
system. Awareness campaigns involving local Bairro associations and local
householders will need to be promoted and supported. And local communities will need
to be persuaded to assume the responsibility for keeping the drainage channels clean
and free of debris.
Markets
There will be limited range of localised environmental impacts occurring during
construction (local pollution). Contractual obligations of the contractor must include
clauses regarding environmental protection focusing specifically of site clean up after
construction, waste management during construction, and possibly the rehabilitation of
land disturbed during construction. The main concern however will be to ensure that
sanitary conditions are maintained at the new market, viz:
*  Adequate solid waste storage/disposal (e.g. in bins/containers with lids to keep
flies away).
*  Proper drainage from stalls, this implies adequate channels.
*  Maintenance of sanitary conditions, provision of latrines etc.
* Adequate water supply to maintain hygienic conditions
Again, these are essentially common sense day-to-day management practices, which
need to be promoted and reinforced through environmental awareness campaigns.



Sewage and sanitation
There will be limited range of localised environmental impacts occurring during
construction (local pollution). Contractual obligations of the contractor must include
clauses regarding environmental protection focusing specifically of site clean up after
construction, and waste management during construction. The level of complexity of
the latrine (e.g. pit versus septic tank) will dictate the range and magnitude of potential
impacts. However, ensuring that contamination of ground and surface water does not
occur is of primary concern. The simplest mitigation is to ensure that latrines are not
constructed close to such water sources. Detailed mitigation measures in relation to
type of latrine system are outlined in section 6 below.
Road works
At present civil work will be limited to the rehabilitation of footpaths and pavements.
Environmental impacts will be localised and short term. The labour gangs working on
these projects need to clean up sites after rehabilitation and wherever possible path
design should be based on path profiles that prevent ponding. Footpaths that follow
seasonal watercourses and other wetlands should be avoided. Local populationo,
should be discouraged from using footpaths as latrines. Adequate drainage must be
provided in areas where substantial water run off is expected. This will preclude the
possibility of flooding and associated erosion.
Waste disposal
These are currently small-scale projects and do not therefore tackle the overall need
for the development of waste management strategies. The projects are basically the
construction of skips for waste disposal. No significant impacts are envisaged, though
from a health perspective it is recommended that skips are equipped with tight-fitting
lids to prevent opportunistic foraging and breeding by pest species such as flies and
rodents. Given the entrenched habits of people simply discarding solid wastes any new
initiatives to improve waste disposal facilities should be accompanied by an appropriate
awareness education campaign.
6. Guidelines for Identifying Environmental Impacts and Implementing
Mitigation Measures for the MDP Civil Works Program
The following set of tables is designed to serve as guidelines for the identification of
potential environmental impacts of civil works, and provide recommendations to
prevent or mitigate against potential impacts. The tables are organised according to
sector (roads, sanitation, water etc) and encompass the full spectrum of civil works
supported by the MDP.
The primary purpose behind the development of these guidelines is twofold:
1. To assist municipal governments to determine the scope of civil works permissible
for funding from the MGF.
2. To assist the MDP project coordination unit in reviewing proposals for civil works
scheduled for funding from the MGF.
It should also be noted that these are purely guidelines to assist in the formulation of
civil works projects, and should not therefore be viewed as a rigid mandatory list of pre-
qualification requirements.



General
Urban landscape             Environmental Impact   Mitigation measures
Landscape features (slopes,    Erosion              1. Determine institutional
wetlands, coastal zones etc.)                          responsibilities
2. Establish coordinating unit
3. Identify causal factors &
appropriate control measures
4. Implement erosion control
program
5. Monitor impact of the program



Drainage channel construction, rehabilitation and maintenance
Description of    Environmental impact               Mitigation measures
civil works
Surface water     Cagn  nwtrdang  ol
drainage channels:  hanging inr whatger drinagdue ould  During the design phase the structure plans
constructaon,     allow for changes in land use (i.e.  and the present land use should be
rehabilitation &  agricultural areas in pen-urban areas   considered.
maintenance       cudb  raie)
Destruction of houses or other    During the design phase an inventory of
buildings.                        houses affected should be executed, including
the extent of property acquisition of each
house, and determination of tenancy of each
resident.
Channels cutting roads footpaths and   Roads, main footpaths and houses entrances
house entrances.                  cut by channels should be reinstalled.
Risk of drowning in the channels.  Channels with more than 1.0 m depth should
be avoided. In cases of greater depth, there a
protection for children should be installed.
Channels cutting underground       During the design phase entities for water,
services.                         energy and telecommunication supply should
be contacted to define proceedings and
minimize problems in services supply.
Increase of flood risk in the discharge   During the design phase the discharge area
area affecting downstream properties  should be carefully selected to avoid
and land use.                     downstream impacts, e.g. in settled areas.
Risk of erosion in the discharge area   Avoid discharges in high slope areas.
Protect the discharge area with gabions or
any similar structure that could be reinforced
by the application of vegetation suitable for
wet areas
Risk of water pollution downstream  Hygiene education campaigns should be
and ecological impact in areas of  conducted to raise awareness of these
special conservation concern (e.g.  adverse impacts.
mangroves, wet lands).



Description of    Environmental impact            Mitigation measures
civil works
Surface water     Pipes:
drainage channels:  Increase of flood risk in the  During the design phase the discharge area
construction,     discharge area affecting       should be carefully selected to avoid
rehabilitation &  downstream properties and land    downstream impacts, namely in settled areas.
maintenance.      use.
Continued
Risk of erosion in the discharge    Avoid discharges in high slope areas.
area.
Protect the discharge area with gabions or
any similar structure that could be reinforced
by the application of vegetation suitable for
wet areas.
Retention basin:
Destruction of houses or other  During the design phase an inventory of
buildings.                     houses affected should be executed, including
the extent of property acquisition of each
house, and determination of tenancy.
Resettlement and/or compensation should be
considered and cost estimated.
Risk of drowning in the basin.  Protection for children should be installed.



Description    Environmental Impact       Mitigation measures
of civil works
Surface water  Escalating erosion of the  Adequate connection between tertiary & secondary drains.
drainage      channel.
channels:                                 Create drain gradients & install check dams to optimise water flow
construction,                             velocity.
rehabilitation &
maintenance                               Keep drains clear of debris to avoid blockage & ponding.
Classify bank section according to erosion sensitivity. Stabilise
channel banks with stones. Plant soil stabilising vegetation to
promote stability & slow water runoff.
Defecation in the drainage  Design, promote & conduct public hygiene awareness campaigns
channel.                   focusing on adverse health impacts compared to the proper use &
maintenance of latrines.
Indiscriminate disposal of solid  Design, promote & conduct public hygiene awareness campaigns
wastes causing blockage &   focusing on adverse health impacts arising as a consequence of
contamination.             water contamination. Organise task teams to remove solid wastes,
& promote recycling campaigns & environmental awareness.
Indiscriminate disposal of  Design, promote & conduct public hygiene awareness campaigns >
industrial & commercial liquid  focusing on adverse health impacts arising as a consequence of
wastes causing contamination. water contamination. Lobby for the creation of legislation to
impose penalties on frequent polluters (commercial sector).
Use of drain water for human   Design, promote & conduct public hygiene awareness campaigns
consumption causing health   focusing on adverse health impacts arising as a consequence of
problems.                  consuming contaminated water. Ensure provision of altemative
appropriate safe water sources.



Waste management and disposal
Description of   Environmental Impact            Mitigation measures
civil works
Primary collection (waste from
Waste disposal   domestic sources):
& management
facilities      Ad hoc littering of public areas  Design, promote & conduct public hygiene
creates health risks & negative  awareness campaigns focusing on adverse health
aesthetic impact.               impacts arising as a consequence of indiscriminate
disposal of solid wastes. Lobby for legislation to
impose fines for littering.
Accumulation of water in the     The containers should have a cover.
containers and discharge of
contaminated water.
Secondary collection (waste from
public areas):
Dumping waste in public areas    Design, promote & conduct public hygiene
instead of at secondary waste    awareness campaigns focusing on adverse health
collection points.               impacts arising as a consequence.of indiscriminate
disposal of solid wastes. Lobby for legislation to
Overflowing skips or bunkers.    impose fines for littering.
Redistribution of wastes by foraging  Ensure that collection receptacles can be closed to
domestic & other animals & birds.    prevent access to opportunistically foraging animals.
Final disposal:
Rodents & flies using composting  Provide extension services for correct composting to
areas as breeding grounds, creating  minimise the proliferation of vector animals.
a health risk.
Prior to project implementation, design a waste
management strategy that includes small projects
such as composting & recycling.



Description of   Environmental impact           Mitigation measures
civil works                                                                                    ------
Market wastes collection point:
Waste disposal
& management   Overflowing skips & bunkers.     Market wastes may require a more frequent collection schedule
facilities                                      Promote recovery of valuable solid wastes.
continued.      Waste collection vehicles:
Waste falling off vehicle en route   Train staff regarding proper loading procedures. Use vehicle
to disposal site.              with enclosed box or high sides.
Waste disposal sites:
Waste scattered by wind.       Cover waste as soon as possible after dumping.
Animals & flies feeding &      Fence the site to keep out large animals & cover waste as soon
breeding on garbage & carrying    as possible after dumping. Awareness campaigns required
diseases to the human          regarding the health hazards associated with (human) foraging
population.                    at waste disposal sites.
Runoff from disposal sites     Construct drain around the perimeter of the disposal site
draining into & polluting local  directing water runoff to a treatment pond. Prevent general
watercourses.                  runoff from flowing over the disposal site.
Leachate from waste polluting  Select disposal sites underlain by a low permeability substrate
groundwater &Ior surface water.   (not s& or gravel), & as far away as possible from aquifers &
surface water.
Rapid accumulation of solid
wastes at disposal sites       Promote the recovery of reusable solid waste in particular
necessitating the creation of new    organic wastes. These, on average, constitute up to 80% of
=  waste disposal sites.            solid waste.



Latrines and sewage
Description of    Environmental impact                  PreventionlMitigation measures
civil works
Public latrine   Contamination of water supply sources  Locate latrines at least 30m but preferably 60m
construction.                                            away from wells, springs, & boreholes.
Blocked & overflowing latrine creates a  Establish a routine maintenance & cleaning
health risk through increased probability of  service.
human & animal contact with human
waste.
Community do noareThe site selection should be done with the
Community do not agree with the location    community and agreement of people
living/working in the surroundings
Lack of water for continuous toilet service   Ensure the installation of water reservoirs (at
soil level and elevated) with enough capacity
Inadequate routine cleaning &          Establish a system to support the employment
maintenance creates unhygienic         of a caretaker for routine maintenance &
conditions, & as a result people avoid  cleaning.
using them.
Animal vectors such as flies & rodents  Ensure access pathways to decomposing
carry diseases from the latrines.      excrement for flies & rodents are blocked, e.g.
by using screen netting over vents & installing a
lid on the toilet.
People defecating in open areas        Design, promote & conduct public hygiene
awareness campaigns focusing on adverse
health impacts arising as a consequence of
open defecation & promote latrine use.



municipai ueveiopment t-rnjecr: tnvrunrnet,ai Analysis
Description of   Environmental impact             Mitigation measures
civil works
Soak pits & septic tanks:
Sewage disposal
& treatment     Soak pits overflowing &           Ensure that pits are located in soils where seepage
contaminating surface water.      can percolate.
Seepage from soak pits            Ensure location an adequate distance from wells,
contaminating wells, boreholes &  boreholes & springs.
springs.
Septic tanks & disposal fields:
Through public health education campaigns, raise
Septic tanks overflowing &        awareness about the dangers of exposed sewage.
contaminating surface water.      Establish & support affordable pump out services.
Disposal field overflowing.       Establish & enforce guidelines for design &
construction of disposal fields.
Primary sewage treatment works:
Indiscriminate disposal of sludge  Ensure the proper drying & disposal of sludge in a
causing health risks.             manner that poses no risk to human health.
Sewage treatment lagoons:
Animals accessing lagoons and     Install & maintain fencing to keep animals out.
transmitting diseases to people.
Incompletely treated wastewater   Ensure lagoon outflow meets prescribed quality
contaminating surface waters.     standards. Ensure that lagoons are designed with
retention times sufficient to complete the treatment
process.
Wastewater used for irrigation    Control & regulate the use of wastewater for
causing contamination of crops    irrigation.
grown for human consumption.
Sewage collection piping & drains:
Leakage from broken drains &      Establish & support adequate leakage repair &
overflow from blocked pipes forming   clean out capability. Raise public awareness on
ponds of wastewater &             solid waste disposal via the drainage system. N.b.
contaminating surface waters.     plastics.
Cross contamination of water supply   Separate sewage piping from water supply piping. If
from sewage collection piping     contact is unavoidable, ensure placement of
impermeable barriers between pipes.
Human contact with untreated water
in collector drains & from overflow  Cover collector drains & clean on a regular basis.
from plugged drains.



mvurllwpui vu:rvrolUP11011 V1%er%z. "JVI littuglvvS.., Z
Road, bridge, and footpath rehabilitation and maintenance
Description    Environmental Impacts       Mitigation measures
of civil works
Roads:
Minor road
construction &  Roadway blocking drainage    Install bridges or culverts across natural & man-made drainage
rehabilitation.   channels for water runoff.  channels & perform routine maintenance to keep them clear of
debris etc.
Ponding on roadways         Road profile construction design to ensure rapid drainage off the
providing breeding sites for    road surface. May also involve raising the road above ground
water bome diseases &       level.
vectors of water borne
diseases.
Erosion caused by           Construct drainage ditches along either side of the road, & if
inadequate drainage along   required, install check drainage dams to control water flow
roadways.                   velocity. Road surface runoff directed into natural or man-made
drainage channels. Maximise the number of receiving channels
to avoid erosion caused by overflow. Plant soil binding
vegetation on the uphill sides of ditches to reduce the velocity of
water runoff.
Culverts & Bridges:
Flooding & erosion caused  Design dimensions appropriate to typical rainfall patterns.
by overflowing & blockage.  Routine maintenance to ensure that culverts are kept clear of
debris etc.
Bridge deck failure causing  Regular routine maintenance & a 'bridge fund" to ensure that
accidents & injuries.       repair costs can always be met.



Description of   Environmental Impact            Mitigation measures
civil works              ___
Footpaths:
Construction &    Footpath blocking drainage    Install bridges or culverts across natural & man-made
maintenance of  channels for water runoff.       drainage channels & perform routine maintenance to
footpaths                                        keep them clear of debris etc.
Ponding on footpaths providing   Design paths to facilitate drainage & if necessary, raise
breeding sites for water bome    above ground level. Provide routine maintenance to fill
diseases & vectors of water bome    depressions with granular material.
diseases.
Footpaths becoming watercourses   Construct drainage ditches along either side of the
during heavy rains & causing     road, & if required, install check drainage dams to
erosion.                         control water flow velocity. Road surface runoff
directed into natural or man-made drainage channels.
Maximise the number of receiving channels to avoid
erosion caused by overflow. Plant soil binding
vegetation on the uphill sides of ditches to reduce the
velocity of water runoff.
Footpaths used as outdoor latrines.  Design, promote & conduct public awareness
campaigns concerning the health risks associated with
open defecation & promote the use of latrines.   .J



Water supply services
Description    Environmental Impact                 Mitigation measures
of civil works
Natural springs:
Water supply   Stagnant pools of wastewater providing    Ensure provision of adequate drainage
conditions suitable for the proliferation of  channels away from water source.
water borne diseases.
To avoid water logging of soils lay
gravel around the water source.
Contamination of water source by      Ensure latrines are constructed a
seepage from latrines.                minimum of 30m (optimally 60m) away
from the water source.
Contamination of water source by animal  Establish an exclusion zone in the
& human wastes.                      immediate vicinity of the water source.
Erosion of soils along watercourses   Cultivate soil-binding vegetation along
supplying the spring causing blockages   the banks of watercourses. Create
&/or siltation.                       drainage ditches to manage water
runoff from the water source.
Hand dug wells:
Stagnant pools of wastewater providing    Select well site where drainage away
conditions suitable for the proliferation of  from the well can be established. Avoid
water borne diseases.                 depressions or low lying poorly drained
ground.
Contamination of water source by      Ensure latrines are constructed a
seepage from latrines.                minimum of 30m (optimally 60m) away
from the water source.
Contamination of water source by animal  Establish an exclusion zone in the
& human wastes.                       immediate vicinity of the water source.
Contamination of water source by users.  Install hand pump & prohibit the
lowering of containers into the well.
Ensure the wellhead is properly sealed.



MuniCipal Development i-rnjecc tnvironmenidi ,lldyZilS
Description of  Environmental impact     Mitigation measures
civil works
Hand pump &   Spillage water around      The site selection for borehole should avoid depressions
mechanised    borehole providing breeding    or low-lying poorly drained sites
borehole water  ground for water bome
supply        diseases                   Fill any depression in the vicinity of the borehole and
construct a drainage channel to lead wastewater away
from pump pad and into local drainage channels.
The area around the hand pump pad should be filled with
gravel.
Erosion undermining hand   Construct a drainage channel to lead wastewater away
pump pad                  from pump pad.
The area around the hand pump pad should be filled with
gravel
Erosion undermining hand   Construct a drainage channel to lead wastewater away
pump pad                  from pump pad.
Contamination of borehole    The area around the hand pump pad should be filled with
water by spillage water on  gravel.
pump pad
Contamination of borehole    Install pump base into concrete pad and extent above
water by seepage from      surface of pad. Do not allow latrines to be constructed
latrines                   within a minimum 30 meters of the hand dug well, 60
meters is preferable
Contamination of borehole  Construct fence to keep animals away from well head
water by animal wastes
Hand pumps break through    Establish a system to support the maintenance costs of
improper use.             the hand pump
Campaigns should be conducted for the community to
promote the proper use of the hand pump
Standposts:
Spillage water around      The site selection for standpost should avoid depressions
standpost providing breeding   or low-lying poorly drained sites
ground for water borne     Fill any depression in the vicinity of the standpost and
diseases
construct a drainage channel to lead wastewater away
from standpost and into local drainage channels.
Stand post became not      The area around the standpost pad should be filled with
operational due to damage    gravel.
resulting from misuse      Establish a system to support the maintenance costs of
the standpost
Campaigns should be conducted for the community to
promote the proper use of the hand pump.



*',U,J.gJ#aIo  v7v@# @   *  '-.'-l -". @vsafg  wJ-' -fs
Other urban Infrastructures
Description of civil works    Environmental impact         Mitigation measures
Street lighting             Accidents as a result of       Support the Municipality for
exposed electrical components.  maintenance of the electrical
system.
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I                          I_ 



Municipal Development Project: Environmental Analysis
7. Technical capacity building
There is substantial between-Municipality variation in present technical capacity to
identify, manage, and monitor the environmental impacts of civil works, and any other
environmental problems for which Municipalities are directly responsible. However, the
type of knowledge required to tackle environmental problems in general, and
specifically to ensure implementation of the appropriate level of environmental
assessment for the civil works program, is of a practical (common sense) rather than
an academic nature. It would therefore be appropriate to select technical personnel
who are involved with the civil works program on a day-to-day basis, and who divide
their time- between deskwork and fieldwork, for capacity building in the context of
environmental assessment.
It is recommended that careful attention be paid to the type of environmental training
required for effective capacity building. For example, this year Provincial MlCOA-ran a
short course (one week) in Chimoio on environmental impact assessment for technical
personnel from Beira Municipality. It may be expedient to review and further develop
the curriculum for this course as the primary approach for the EA capacity building
component of the MDP.
Provincial MICOA personnel, together with an independent consultant could be
contracted to design short courses that are tailored to environmental conditions and
problems specific to each of the five major Municipalities. The most profitable strategy
would be to adopt a workshop approach to training, incorporating case studies
developed by the workshop participants and based on their day-to-day work.
Workshopping the guidelines developed and presented in section 6 above should also
be a training component, and included in the workshop. The training workshop should
also include the following modules:
* An overview of environmental assessment (scoping, screening, EA methodologies,
impacts and mitigation measures, public participation, monitoring and evaluation)
* Review of relevant environmental legislation
• Review of MICOA regulations regarding EIA
* Designing effective public awareness campaigns
7.1 Cost Estimates for course preparation and facilitation
We suggest that two consultants could prepare a training workshop of this nature in
one man week (five days) and that course delivery would take a further week (five
days).
Course preparation: two consultants, five days per consultant
Course delivery (five Provinces): two consultants, five days per consultant
This is equivalent to 30 days per consultant at ± US$450 per day
Additional costs will include transport (airfares and car hire), accommodation, and per
diems for consultants, and per diems for course participants.
Depending on which Municipality, it is envisaged that a minimum of five and a
maximum of fifteen Municipal Government technical staff will attend the course.



Municipal Development Project: Environmental Analysis
8. Conclusions and recommendations
Understandably, there is substantial between-Municipality variation in both the number
of technical personnel and their level of qualification. This variation is explainable by
the differences in size of Municipalities, and hence the allocation of both human and
material resources. Despite this variation it remains relatively straightforward to
establish the degree of capacity building required to ensure the effective
implementation of the MDP. This is because the scope of civil works envisaged by the
MDP is broadly comparable across all Municipalities. In this context the level of
knowledge required to establish Municipal-level capacity for environmental
management of the civil works program will be similar across Municipalities.
Furthermore, existing technical qualifications of Municipal personnel need not
necessarily be a prerequisite for capacity building. The rationale behind this argument
is that the environmental knowledge required is of a practical rather than academic
nature. However, this logic presupposes that the development objective of the MDP
relates only to the civil works program and not to other environmental problems that
also fall within the jurisdiction of the Municipal governments.
Although the development objective of the MDP is essentially long-term, in the context
of capacity building for environmental management it probably only facilitates short to
medium term development. Consequently, a two tier capacity building program is
recommended in which the first tier deals with the short to medium term objectives of
the MDP, while the second tier tackles the longer-term objective of establishing
competence at Municipal level to manage the full spectrum of environmental problems
that Municipalities encounter.
Shortimedium term capacity building
Selection criteria and placement
Technical personnel whose day-to-day activities include the management and
monitoring of civil works and who regularly engage in dialogue with the workforce. No
formal qualifications required. Preferably, personnel who undergo training should
ultimately be transferred to any newly established environmental units.
Training requirements
Attendance of a one-week (minimum) training workshop facilitated by Provincial
MICOA and independent specialist consultants. The training curriculum to focus on the
environmental impacts of the civil works program and Province-specific environmental
problems. Case studies that highlight environmental impacts of ongoing civil works
should be incorporated into the curriculum and should include a fieldwork component.
Other important areas to be covered include relevant Mozambican environmental
legislation, and the importance of adopting a multidisciplinary approach to EA and the
forging of strong interinstitutional links.
Long term capacity building
Selection criteria and placement
Technical staff already tasked with environmental responsibilities as part of their job
description. Ideally they will already have a Bachelors' level qualification in any of the
natural sciences, preferably at Honours level. After specialist training, selected



Municipal Development Project: Environmental Analysis
candidates should be appointed as directors of any newly established environmental
units.
Training requirements
Selected Honours graduates to register for Masters - level specialist training in an
appropriate environmental discipline e.g. environmental impact assessment or
environmental management. Graduates to register for specialist short courses (two
weeks to three months) in an appropriate environmental discipline e.g. environmental
impact assessment or environmental management.
Selection Process
Independent specialist consultants to be contracted to engage in a process of dialogue
with Municipal governments to identify personnel suitable for specialist training and to
identify the most appropriate specialist training courses for the selected personnel to
attend. The consultants should also act as technical advisors on environmental issues
over the duration of training and until functioning environmental units, run by suitably
qualified staff, have been established.



Municipal Development Project: Environmental Analysis
9. Annexes
9.1 Annex I: MDP Environmental Analysis Questionnaire
1. Describe the structure of the Municipal govemment, including technical staff
composition, their qualifications, roles and responsibilities.
2. Is any member of the technical staff tasked with the responsibility for issues related
to the environment?
3. Has any of the technical staff had formal environmental training and/or practical
experience in environmental assessment? If yes, please describe briefly.
4. Does the Municipal government have existing environmental guidelines for civil
works etc.?
5. Within the existing Municipal government structure, if an environmental unit does
not exist, where would it be most appropriate to establish one and why?
6. Could an environmental unit be better established through:
a. Additional training/capacity building of existing staff
Or
b. Appointment of new staff
Please explain your reasoning behind the choice you made.
7. Has the Municipal government attempted to identify potential environmental
impacts of the civil works program?
8. Has the Municipal government developed an environmental management plan for
the construction phase of the civil works program, and has a strategy for
environmental protection been developed?
9. Has the Municipal government considered the need for an environmental
awareness campaign to be associated with the civil works program?
10. Does the Municipal government have any past experience of any other public
awareness campaigns and any indication of their impact on local communities?
11. Can you briefly describe any environmental and public health problems your city
has experienced since the election of the Municipal government in 1998, and how
they have been remediated.



Municipal Development Project: Environmental Analysis
12. What formal and informal relationships exist between Municipal govemment and
Provincial and Central level representatives of MICOA and DNFFB? Describe the
contexts of these relationships in relation to question 9 above and any capacity
building initiatives.
13. Do environmental interest community organisations exist and what links do they
have with Municipal government?
14. Are there any environmentally active NGOs, and what links do they have with
Municipal govemment?
15. Do you currently have an approved town structure plan and is the environment
considered? E.g. location and classification of environmentally sensitive areas, and
environmental problem areas.



Z -AHnnex 1V Portfolio of photographs showiring exai'Ies o; existing urban
infrastruLitures
Quelimane
Foul, v   i 
Four views of existing drainage channels



MW ,^< c                                  LI
Two views of 'Mercado lixo"
r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Proposed location for the new "Mercado lixo"



*u*! /" t ' ntal Analysis
Pemba
Four viws ntualdringechn
Forveso aua dring chnes



Municipal Developrieflt P'rj,)tf N ,!  [;(tio:.'l'  i;dIvsIs
l   s:v~~~~~~~~~~~~~:
ff~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
hree viewsofnaturara
The     ieso  natra   driaecanl   ls    oterpi-    fetyt   h     e



Municipal Deveiopmnent Project En; ;(- 
Beira
A S71 _
Two views of existing drainage channels



Municipal Develop
Nampula
_    -",;,
~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .
:'-'
-4* '     \
; i 
-..    A-.      .
Community water source



Solid waste disposal
Market construction and rehabilitation



