                             Document of
                          The World Bank




                                                Report No: ICR000072




   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                      ( IDA-35490 IDA-3549A )




                                ON A

                   CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF

                         US$33.60 MILLION

                  (SDR 26.70 MILLION CREDIT)

                                 TO

                  REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE

                              FOR THE

              MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                           August 27, 2007




AFT: Water and Urban 1
Southern Africa Country Cluster 2
AFRICA

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective July 26, 2007)

                     Currency Unit = New Meticais (Mtn)
                             25.69 Mtn = US$ 1.00
                             US$ 1.54 = SDR 1.00

                                FISCAL YEAR

                           January 1 ­ December 31



                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS   Country Assessment Strategy
CPS   Country Partnership Strategy
DCA   Development Credit Agreement
EA    Environmental Assessment
DNDA  Directorate for Municipal Development
ESW   Economic and Sector Work
KPI   Key Performance Indicators
GOM   Government of Mozambique
ICR   Implementation Completion Report
IFAPA Training Institutes in Public Administration and Local Governance
MAE   Ministry of State Administration
MDP   Municipal Development Project
MGF   Municipal Grants Fund
MTR   Mid-Term Review
NDF   Nordic Development Fund
PAD   Project Appraisal Document
PAS   Public Administration Sector
PARPA Poverty Reduction Action Plan
PCU   Project Coordination Unit
PDO   Project Development Objectives
PIU   Project Implementation Unit
PROL  Local Government Reform and Engineering Project
PRSP  Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PRU   Urban Rehabilitation Project
ROCS  First Roads and Coastal Shipping Project
WBI   World Bank Institute



                         Vice President: Obiageli K. Ezekwesili

                       Country Director: Michael Baxter

                        Sector Manager: Jaime M. Biderman

                   Project Team Leader: Lance Morrell

                                         MOZAMBIQUE
                             Municipal Development Project




                                            CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph


  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design..............................................1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes..............................................4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ...........................................................................................6
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome........................................................10
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.....................................................10
  6. Lessons Learned.......................................................................................................12
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners..........13
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing..........................................................................14
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component..................................................................................15
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis .................................................................26
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes.............30
  Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .....................32
  Annex 6. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders .......................44
  Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents.......................................................................45



MAP
IBRD 31398

A. Basic Information

                                                                       MUNICIPAL
Country:                Mozambique              Project Name:          DEVELOPMENT
                                                                       PROJECT

Project ID:             P001806                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-35490,IDA-3549A

ICR Date:               08/27/2007              ICR Type:              Core ICR

                                                                       GOVT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                       MOZAMBIQUE

Original Total
                        XDR 26.7M               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 25.99M
Commitment:

Environmental Category: F

Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of State Administration (MAE) and the pilot municipalities

Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
Nordic Development Fund


B. Key Dates
                                                                            Revised / Actual
     Process              Date             Process         Original Date
                                                                                 Date(s)

Concept Review:        02/03/1999     Effectiveness:        11/15/2001         11/15/2001

Appraisal:             02/19/2001     Restructuring(s):                        05/24/2004

Approval:              07/19/2001     Mid-term Review:      11/15/2003         01/21/2004

                                      Closing:              02/28/2006         02/28/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR

Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory

Risk to Development Outcome:                    Substantial

Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory

Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower                Ratings
                        Moderately                                     Moderately
Quality at Entry:                               Government:
                        Unsatisfactory                                 Unsatisfactory
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory Implementing           Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank            Moderately Satisfactory Overall Borrower
                                                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                               QAG Assessments
                                 Indicators                                   Rating
      Performance                                    (if any)

Potential Problem Project                      Quality at Entry
                           Yes                                       None
at any time (Yes/No):                          (QEA):

Problem Project at any                         Quality of
                           Yes                                       None
time (Yes/No):                                 Supervision (QSA):

DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                              Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                11                 11
Sub-national government administration                           89                 89


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)

Decentralization                                              Secondary          Secondary

Law reform                                                    Secondary          Secondary

Municipal finance                                              Primary            Primary

Municipal governance and institution building                  Primary            Primary

Other financial and private sector development                 Primary            Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                         At Approval

Vice President:             Obiageli K. Ezekwesili          Callisto E. Madavo

Country Director:           Michael Baxter                  Darius Mans

Sector Manager:             Jaime M. Biderman               Jeffrey S. Racki

Project Team Leader:        Lance Morrell                   Allan Carroll

ICR Team Leader:            Lance Morrell

ICR Primary Author:         Ali Alwahti


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The long-term goal supported by the project was to strengthen the capacity of municipal
governments in the areas of management, finance, and the provision of infrastructure and
services. This would encompass eventual improvements in the fiscal transfer system,
improvements in municipal revenue mobilization and financial management, establishment of
true municipal control over staffing and capacity-building, and the development of effective
mechanisms for municipal provision of infrastructure and services, including the use of various
forms of private sector participation.




                                              ii

The project's specific objectives were: (a) to assist the Government of Mozambique (GOM) in
operationalizing the legal, institutional, and fiscal framework for municipal governance; (b) to
create an institutional framework for training of elected and appointed municipal officials and
municipal employees and begin the training of officials and staff of all the municipalities in basic
administrative and technical subjects; (c) to pilot test a Municipal Grants (MG) mechanism to
finance investments by the municipalities, with a view to laying a foundation for a mechanism
which would eventually become a part of the intergovernmental fiscal system; and (d) to
implement, through the MG, capital investments which would have tangible economic and social
benefits while also providing an opportunity for the municipalities to improve their technical and
financial capacities.


Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)
Based on the recommendations of the Mid-Term Review in January 2004, the Project
Development Objectives (PDO) were formally restructured. The restructured objectives were
intended to make them more realistic, to increase the number of municipalities in the pilot to
make the results more robust, and to reflect the training activities in the project. The restructured
PDO were to assist the Borrower in: (i) operationalizing the legal and institutional framework for
the municipal governance; (ii) developing a sustainable training and technical assistance system
and increase the capacity of municipality officials and personnel; and (iii) establishing an
operating mechanism for providing grants to municipalities through a pilot program in eight cities
to finance capital investments for municipal capacity building and infrastructure.

(a) PDO Indicators


                                             Original Target       Formally
                                                                                    Actual Value
                                                  Values            Revised
      Indicator          Baseline Value                                             Achieved at
                                             (from approval         Target
                                                                                    Completion
                                               documents)           Values
                       Key Personnel understanding municipal legal, regulatory & administrative
Indicator 1 :          frameworks in at least 70% of existing municipalities (Provincial Finance
                       Directorates, MPF Direction for Planning & Budget)
Value
(Quantitative or              60%                  100%                                100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved              05/01/2003           01/21/2004                           02/28/2007
                       Achieved: Elected officials and management in all municipalities have
Comments (incl. %      been trained in the critical legal, regulatory and administrative framework
Achievement)           relevant for municipalities and relevant documents have been updated and
                       disseminated to all municipalities
                       Training system for municipal elected and administrative personnel
Indicator 2 :
                       developed and operating in all regions and provinces
Value
(Quantitative or              50%                  100%                                100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved              05/01/2003           01/21/2004                           02/28/2007
                       Achieved: A training system for elected officials and municipal staff has
Comments (incl. %      been developed and is operating in all regions through one of the 3
achievement)           IFAPAs and related materials have been developed and updated based on
                       experienced gained from the students




                                                 iii

                                            Original Target      Formally
                                                                                 Actual Value
                                                 Values          Revised
      Indicator          Baseline Value                                           Achieved at
                                            (from approval        Target
                                                                                  Completion
                                               documents)         Values
                       60% of the MGF participating municipalities adopting improved practices
Indicator 3 :          for investment planning, procurement, financial management and
                       supervision
Value
(Quantitative or              50%                 100%                               100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved              05/01/2003          01/21/2004                         02/28/2007
Comments (incl. %      Achieved: All of the pilot municipalities (8) are currently using improved
achievement)           planning, procurement and financial management procedures


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicators

                                            Original Target
                                                                 Formally        Actual Value
                                              Values (from
         Indicator         Baseline Value                         Revised         Achieved at
                                                approval
                                                              Target Values       Completion
                                               documents)
                           Essential legal and administrative instruments for municipal
Indicator 1 :              management developed, disseminated in at least, two of the five
                           regulatory project areas
Value
(Quantitative                   62.5%             100%                               100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                05/01/2003        01/21/2004                         02/28/2007
Comments (incl. %          Achieved: Essential legal and administrative documents have been
achievement)               developed and disseminated to all municipalities

                                   Additional Indicators adopted at Mid-Term Review

1. Diagnosis of all sub-
components in all
municipalities completed
and policy documents on          0%               100%                               100%
municipal development
prepared for discussion
with the principal partners
Date achieved                01/21/2004                                           02/28/2007
                           Achieved: An analysis was conducted of all municipalities and the
Comments
                           findings were distributed and reviewed during a series of workshops
2. Critical legal and
methodological
instruments prepared to          0%               100%                               100%
promote municipal
management in areas
deemed critical
Date achieved                01/21/2004                                           02/28/2007
                           Achieved: The work was completed and has been used in the
Comments
                           development of new policies, legislation and regulations

                                                iv

         Indicator        Baseline Value Original Target
                                                               Formally       Actual Value
                                            Values (from
                                                                Revised        Achieved at
                                              approval
                                                             Target Values     Completion
                                             documents)
3. Preparation and
approval of manuals and
systems to operationalize       0%              100%                               100%
the various areas of the
municipal administration
Date achieved               01/21/2004
                          Achieved: Based on the analyses completed, manuals and systems
Comments
                          were developed to strengthen the various municipal functions
4. Capacity building
provided for DNDA,
DNPO and DPPF
technical staff in each
province in order to
disseminate, support and                                                           100%
                                0%              100%
monitor the
implementation of the
legal and methodological
instruments of municipal
development
Date achieved               01/21/2004                                          02/28/2007
                          Achieved: The local staff were provided the new manuals and
Comments
                          documents and training was provided to support implementation
5. Creation of
mechanisms that promote
participation by the
communities and the             0%              100%                               100%
principal partners in the
decision-making process
at municipal level
Date achieved               01/21/2004                                          02/28/2007
                          Achieved: Procedures were utilized as part of the municipal grant fund
Comments
                          to promote more active and effective community participation
6. % of the key municipal
staff trained to perform
their professional tasks
and duties, especially in       0%              100%                               100%
the financial areas and
management of property,
human resources, and
urban land
Date achieved               01/21/2004                                          02/28/2007
                          Achieved: Staff in all municipalities were provided with formal
Comments                  training in one of four key areas using materials developed by the
                          project and updated based on feedback provided




                                               v

        Indicator         Baseline Value Original Target
                                                                  Formally         Actual Value
                                              Values (from
                                                                   Revised          Achieved at
                                                approval
                                                                Target Values       Completion
                                               documents)
7. All course manuals
prepared, approved, and          0%               100%
                                                                                       100%
distributed in each of the
four subject areas
Date achieved               01/21/2004                                               02/28/2007
                          Achieved: Training materials were developed and refined and
Comments
                          distributed to the three training centers in four subject areas
8. % of the MGF
participant municipalities
that have implemented
investment and                   0%               100%                                 100%
procurement plans
properly and within the
intended time frame
Date achieved               01/21/2004                                               02/28/2007
                          Achieved: Each of the 8 pilot municipalities are now using improved
                          planning, financial management and procurement procedures to
Comments
                          implement capital projects and the time required is now within the
                          targeted 12 month timeframe
9. % of the MGF
participant municipalities
whose disbursement               0%               100%                                 100%
obligations for the
investment plans are on
schedule
Date achieved               01/21/2004                                               02/28/2007
                          Achieved: The procedures developed in the third cycle required that
                          all counterpart funds be available before a contract was signed -
Comments
                          resulting in payments being processing on schedule for the municipal
                          grant fund sub-projects




                                                vi

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
                                                                          Actual
      Date ISR
No.                       DO                       IP                 Disbursements
      Archived
                                                                      (USD millions)
  1   04/18/2002       Satisfactory           Satisfactory                    2.45
  2   12/18/2002       Satisfactory          Unsatisfactory                   4.35
  3   05/20/2003       Satisfactory          Unsatisfactory                   5.87
  4   05/28/2003       Satisfactory          Unsatisfactory                   5.87
  5   06/18/2003       Satisfactory           Satisfactory                    6.33
  6   11/26/2003       Satisfactory           Satisfactory                    8.47
  7   05/25/2004       Satisfactory           Satisfactory                   10.33
  8   11/10/2004       Satisfactory           Satisfactory                   12.23
  9   04/26/2005 Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Unsatisfactory           14.75
  10  11/10/2005 Moderately Satisfactory  Moderately Satisfactory            17.95
  11  06/19/2006 Moderately Satisfactory  Moderately Satisfactory            23.39
  12  11/15/2006 Moderately Satisfactory  Moderately Satisfactory            30.00


H. Restructuring (if any)
                            ISR Ratings at  Amount
                 Board      Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                             Reason for Restructuring &
                Approved                  Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                     Key Changes Made
               PDO Change     DO     IP     in USD
                                            millions


                                                         To make the PDO more realistic
    05/24/2004                MS     MU       10.33      and to include the training
                                                         component


I. Disbursement Profile




                                        vii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
1.1 Context at Appraisal
In early 1997, the National Assembly approved a package of laws creating municipal councils
and assemblies and procedures for municipal elections. The Government of Mozambique (GOM)
indicated that the next few years would be a period of testing for the new municipalities and the
central government. It was recognized that habits of centralization will take time to break-down,
and the development of successful municipal governments would require years of work and
experience to establish and fine-tune.

1.1.1    Country macroeconomic context: Mozambique has sustained rapid economic growth
since achieving peace in 1992, largely due to one-time events such as the resettlement of
displaced people to the countryside and the transformation of a centrally planned economy into a
market-oriented one. Despite an annual growth rate that exceeded 7% in the mid-1990s and 9%
by 1997, Mozambique remained one of the world's poorest countries with a GDP per capita of
US$210. In 1998, the first annual household survey showed that, while conditions had improved,
69% of Mozambicans still lived below the poverty line. From 1997 to 2002, the GDP grew at a
steady average annual growth rate of 9% due essentially to mega project construction and
production, foreign investment, and strong agricultural performance. As part of a strategy to
maintain this level of growth, the GOM formulated a Five-Year Program (2000-2004) and
prepared an Action Plan for the reduction of Absolute Poverty (PARPA) as part of its interim
Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP). The PARPA's strategy emphasized economic growth,
public investment in human capital and productive infrastructure, and institutional reform. The
IMF and IDA estimate that future growth will be at least 7% per annum through 2009.

1.1.2    Structural/sector background: The Municipal Development Project (MDP) was
designed in an environment of weak civil service capacity for policy development, analysis and
implementation. However, GOM focused on policy reform and, by 1997, had passed two
important laws for urban development, with the support of two previous World Bank-funded
urban projects in Mozambique, namely the Urban Rehabilitation Project (PRU), and the Local
Government Reform and Engineering Project (PROL). These laws, known collectively as the
Pacote Autarquico, comprised the legislation creating the first 33 autonomous municipalities.
The MDP was designed as a pilot to begin to implement the various reforms being implemented
which had an impact on the sector, and to focus on the nascent 33 municipalities which had
experienced the first municipal elections on June 30, 1998.

1.1.3    Rationale for Bank assistance: The legislative reforms of 1997 produced an opportunity
to support Mozambique's emerging decentralization program. The GOM had been expecting the
Bank to follow-up the PROL with a new operation addressing both investments and capacity
building. It was decided to preclude large-scale investments which could neither be managed nor
maintained locally, but Government felt very strongly that the investment component should
cover at least five cities in order to meet the expectations generated under PROL and to have a
reasonable degree of impact. Thus, the project was designed as a long-term capacity building and
institutional development project utilizing a pilot funding program, Municipal Grant Fund
(MGF), as the first stage of support for municipal infrastructure and services. While funding
infrastructure, the MGF pilot focused on building capacity at the municipal level using the
concept of Learning By Doing and developing a long-term framework for further support and not
on the delivery of improved services.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The long-term goal supported by the project was to strengthen the capacity of municipal
governments in the areas of management, finance, and the provision of infrastructure and
services. The objectives of the project, as presented in the Development Credit Agreement, are
different from those presented in the PAD (see section F) in that they were not as detailed nor


                                                 1

numerous. The objectives the project were to assist the GOM in: (i) operationalizing the legal
and institutional framework for municipal governance; and (ii) establishing and operating a
mechanism for providing grants to municipalities through a pilot program in five cities in the
Borrower's territory to finance capital investments for municipal capacity building and
infrastructure.

1.2.1 Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
As discussed in more detail in section 2, the KPIs contained in the results framework in the PAD
were output oriented and did not have any baseline information. Therefore, starting in 2002, the
Government and the Bank reviewed these KPIs and in 2003 agreed to five new outcome
indicators to measure the expected impact of each of the components. (See section 1.3).

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators
Based on the recommendations of the Mid-Term Review (MTR) in January 2004, the PDO were
restructured to make them more realistic, to reflect the training activities in the project, and to
increase the number of municipalities in the pilot to make the results more robust.               The
restructured PDO were to assist the Borrower in: (i) operationalizing the legal, institutional and
fiscal framework for the municipal governance; (ii) developing a sustainable training and
technical assistance system and increase the capacity of municipality officials and personnel; and
(iii) establishing an operating mechanism for providing grants to municipalities through a pilot
program in eight cities to finance capital investments for municipal capacity building and
infrastructure. The KPIs were reviewed during the MTR and it was agreed to drop one indicator
because it was very similar to another and to reclassify one as an intermediate indicator.


1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The PAD identified the primary target groups as: i) households and businesses in the
municipalities that would benefit from a more accountable local government as well from
improvements in urban services and investments; ii) elected municipal governments that would
gain from having their legitimacy enhanced as a result of their improved ability to provide
services and from greater financial and managerial autonomy; iii) the urban poor who would
obtain health and productivity benefits from the investments in environmental infrastructure
(drainage, sanitation, community water, solid waste disposal); and iv) predominantly local private
contractors and their workers who would benefit from the flow of up to US$25 million in
contracts for municipal civil works and equipment over the four years of the project. About 4
million people, the total population of the 33 new municipalities, would benefit from changes in
the legal and institutional framework and from the capacity building component.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
Component 1 - LEGAL AND INSTITUTIONAL REFORM (US$3.37 million (PAD), Actual
US$2.97 million)
The objective of this component was to operationalize the legal and institutional framework for
the municipal governance. Activities under this component aimed at developing the institutional
and legal reforms that were necessary to allow municipalities to fully exercise their powers and
responsibilities as defined by the law. At the same time, the component was to integrate and
harmonize the process of administrative deconcentration and decentralization to local authorities
within the broader process of reform of the public sector which was underway. The work
program of this component was divided into several phases which included: i) diagnosis and
municipal development strategy and policy and revisions of existing legal packages (2003);
ii) approval of new legal and institutional framework and operational needs addressed (2004);
iii) dissemination activities, stakeholders' participation, technical assistance to the Directorate for
Municipal Development (DNDA), Ministry of Planning and Finance and municipalities (2005);
and iv) systems implementation, corrections and technical support to the municipalities and the
central and local authorities (2006 and beyond).


                                                   2

Component 2 - MUNICIPAL CAPACITY BUILDING (US$4.77 million (PAD), Actual
US$2.89 million)
The objective of this component, financed by the Nordic Development Fund (NDF) was to
develop a sustainable training and technical assistance system and increase the capacity of
municipality officials and personnel.       The component was to improve capacity among the
municipal government members and staff to perform their respective tasks, through training and
technical assistance in the 33 existing municipalities. The component focused on the following
major activities: i) implementation of a municipal capacity building system; ii) creating a
mechanism for the sustainable operation of the municipal capacity building system in Training
Institutes in Public Administration and Local Governance (IFAPA); and iii) capacity building of
trainers and municipal personnel.

Component 3 - MUNICIPAL GRANTS (US$22.75 million (PAD), Actual US$30.09 million)
The objective of the component was to establish an operating mechanism for providing grants to
municipalities through a pilot program in five cities to finance capital investments for municipal
capacity building and infrastructure. The component was to establish a pilot MGF program in
order to strengthen the technical, financial, and administrative capacities of the municipalities to
manage infrastructure investments, maintenance operations and associated procurement. The
component was to provide practical Learning-By-Doing capacity building to the municipal staff
and personnel in the pilot municipalities, and was supported by the formal training provided
under component 2.

Component 4 - PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE (US$6.97
million (PAD), Actual US$9.06 million)
A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) was established within the DNDA to assist with the project's
finances, oversee procurement, manage contracts, supervise technical assistance, carry out
monitoring activities, and produce agreed upon progress reports. The PCU was headed by a full-
time Project Director reporting to the Director of DNDA. For the Municipal Capacity Building
component, the PCU's role was limited to the provision of advice on administrative and
procurement matters.

1.6 Revised Components
The four components were maintained throughout implementation; however, based on the
recommendations from the MTR there were some changes to their implementation, and the
original emphasis of the project was reoriented back to capacity building and away from the
financing of infrastructure. Since component 3 was a pilot, it was adjusted several times in order
to identify the criteria to make the pilot successful.

1.7 Other significant changes
1.7.1    Based on the recommendations of the MTR, the project was amended to: i) modify the
PDO to increase the number of municipalities participating in the MGF pilot from 5 cities to 8;
ii) eliminate the use of separate nucleos in the municipalities in order to increase the capacity
building provided to the municipal staff; iii) increase the emphasis on planning and budgeting for
the operations and maintenance of the existing infrastructure; and iv) restructure the MGF to
make the pilot program more effective using the lessons learned from the project and other
experiences.

1.7.2    Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA). The DCA was amended
once for the following reasons:

On October 19, 2004 ­ to reflect the agreements reached during the MTR which resulted in
changes to Schedule 1 "Withdrawals of the Proceeds of the Credit" in order to reflect the actual
and estimated disbursements, and to Schedule 2 "Description of the Project" including the
revision of the PDO and modifications referred to under 1.7.1 above and the provision to finance

                                                   3

studies to evaluate Project results, in particular the MGF pilot under in Part C (Project
Management and Technical Assistance) of the Project .

In addition, on November 9, 2005: (i) the Closing Date of the Project was extended by one year in
order to provide additional time to evaluate the new procedures developed for the MGF pilot for
its fourth and final investment cycle; and (ii) proceeds of the Credit were reallocated among
existing categories in order to reflect the estimated actual disbursements.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
2.1.1    The Quality at entry was "moderately unsatisfactory".         The Bank and GOM were
committed to preparing a project building on the two previous urban projects in Mozambique.
The PROL and PRU provided key lessons that both the Bank and GOM tried to capitalize on in
the design of the MDP. However, disagreements between the leader of the project team for the
Bank and the leader of the team for the GOM on whether the MDP should focus on capacity
building (the Bank's position), or on infrastructure (the GOM's preference), led to some flaws in
the start-up and eventual implementation of the project. In addition, given the weak institutional
and human capacity and the risk rating of "substantial", the project was too ambitious and
complex.

2.1.2    The project objectives were in line with the Country Assessment Strategy (CAS) as they
supported the three strategic priorities, namely improving governance and empowerment,
improving human capabilities, and increasing economic opportunities through private sector-led
growth. The components were clear and aligned with the project objectives. The overall lessons
of the project were drawn from the World Bank's experience in urban development in the region
and worldwide.


2.1.3    The project design also drew lessons from the First Roads and Coastal Shipping Project
(ROCS). The lessons from these three projects were incorporated and targeted at: i) setting a
clear definition of institutional responsibilities with Ministry of State Administration (MAE),
through the DNDA being the main counterpart agency; ii) focusing on building trust between the
Bank and the client and promoting "ownership" by the client agencies; and iii) reinforcing the
linkages between institutional reform and investments as a fundamental element to bring about
policy reform.

2.1.4    Although project preparation looked at these critical factors/projects to incorporate
lessons learned into the project, there was an apparent disconnect between the respective leaders
of the two project teams regarding the focus of the project. As such, both sides were not targeting
the same goal during the design and early implementation phases. This was reflected in the
unsatisfactory implementation ratings during the first year of implementation. Project preparation
seems to have also minimized the role that the nascent municipalities could have played in the
design of the components. In addition, the project was not ready for implementation as evidenced
by the slow selection of staff for the PCU which in turn delayed the start-up of components 1 and
2, and the fact that the project did not have clear management policies, procedures and
information. The budgets and procurement plans which had been developed were also not
realistic. As stated earlier, the KPIs presented in the PAD were output oriented and were not
considered useful. These factors negatively affected the project design and the quality at entry.

2.2 Implementation
2.2.1    The project experienced implementation delays at the start of the project due to the above
referenced design issues. These issues were addressed by MAE in collaboration with the Bank's
team during the first year of implementation, and new management procedures were
implemented, procurement plans and budgets were updated and basic project information was


                                                   4

developed. During the first year of the project, the KPIs were reviewed in a delayed project
launch and modifications were made to the M&E systems to gather the data. The needed baseline
information was also developed at this time.

2.2.2    Although the components were well conceived, several factors contributed to the slow
implementation in the first two years of the project which led to the restructuring of the project at
its MTR. For example, starting the MGF activities before ensuring that capacity was available at
the municipal level and ensuring that staff was trained effectively, inhibited the logical flow of
operations. Similarly, the staffing of the PCU and its weak management procedures also had a
negative impact on project implementation.

2.2.3    The MGF component, as a result of these issues, became the "visible tip" of the project
giving it the distorted character of an "infrastructure project" rather than an institutional and
capacity building project. This issue was addressed through meetings between MAE and the
municipal presidents in which the capacity building objective was re-emphasized. The design of
the MGF pilot also underwent numerous changes to find a mechanism that worked effectively in
the conditions in Mozambique.

2.2.4    Prior to the MTR, implementation was below what had been expected at appraisal. The
primary reasons for the early delays were the low level of readiness for implementation which
delayed the start-up of components 1 and 2, and the complexity of the pilot which required almost
two years to complete the first cycle of investments. During the second half of the project, the
pace of implementation accelerated as the major consultancies were in place and changes were
made to the design of the MGF which enabled the projects to be completed faster. In addition,
more funds were provided to Maputo where the capacity developed faster and the demand for
investments was large.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
2.3.1    The project results framework laid out the objectives, causal relationships and underlying
assumptions about how program actions would lead to the intended outcomes. However, the
framework provided neither the essential baseline information nor specific measurable key
performance indicators.     The KPIs were reviewed in 2002 and 2003 to make them more
measurable and appropriate, and at MTR, some further minor changes were made to address an
apparent duplication. During project implementation, the PCU was able to use the system to
collect the necessary data and carry out the M&E function. The quality of data was reliable and
GOM has been using these data to inform its policy.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
2.4.1    The safeguard and fiduciary issues were fully complied with by the project. A detailed
Environmental Assessment (EA) was carried out and an EMP was designed and included in the
Project Implementation Manual to address potential environmental impacts under the project.
The EA was very good and was used as a model for two subsequent Bank's projects in
Mozambique: the Decentralized Planning and Financed Project and the Maputo Municipal
Development Program (ProMaputo).

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
2.5.1. Transition arrangement to post-completion operation: Government has made requests to
several donors, including the World Bank, to capitalize on the experience and lessons learned
from the MDP to design a new municipal development program with a national focus aimed at
bringing donor partners into a type of SWAp. Government and donors have launched a series of
analytical studies aimed at this purpose with the goal of designing a national municipal
development program by 2009. In addition, the ProMaputo operation was partly based on the
experiences from MDP and is proceeding on schedule.


                                                 5

2.5.2    Operation & Maintenance arrangements: Government has elaborated and approved
operation and maintenance plans for the investments during the post completion phase of MDP.
Assessments in several municipalities conducted by close of project, however, indicated that
despite many warnings and recommendations throughout implementation from the Bank team,
serious O&M plans capable of ensuring the sustainability of the investments have not been
sufficiently incorporated by the municipal administrations as routine activities.

2.5.3    Sustaining reforms and institutional capacity: Many municipal staff and officials have
benefited from the capacity building training as well as from the on-the-job learning through the
MGF pilot. The four components added value to the overall municipal institutional capacity
building, complemented by an established municipal training system, mainstreamed technical
staff into the municipal government, and the establishment of the basis for municipal strategic
planning and operational procedures. These measures should ensure the sustainability of the
reforms and institutional capacity at the municipal level. (See section 5.2 (b)).

3. Assessment of Outcomes
3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
3.1.1    The project objectives are relevant to Mozambique's development priorities and
consistent with the GOM's and World Bank's current strategies to support development in
Mozambique. The GOM's second poverty reduction strategy paper (PARPA II) adopted in April
2007, sets out under its Pillar One, a broad range of institutional reforms in public administration,
public financial management, decentralization by devolution, the judiciary sector, and anti-
corruption measures. The decentralization reform consists of the "devolution of some functions
to district administrations, an increase in the number of municipalities with elected governments,
and a re-design of the inter-government fiscal relations and resource transfers to local
governments."

3.1.2    The Bank's newly approved Mozambique Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for 2008-
2011 (May 30, 2007) will focus, under its Pillar I, on Improved Economic Governance and
Stronger Citizen's Oversight Mechanisms, with the objective, among others, of strengthening
local governance and capacity. The outcomes of the MDP, along with key analytical work and
studies that the World Bank, Government, and other partners are starting to implement with the
purpose of examining the mechanisms for local government financing, accountability and
assessing municipal development will directly support these priorities and the Government's
decentralization program.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
The achievement of the PDO is Moderately Satisfactory. The achievements by components are
summarized below and include: (i) improved competences of both municipal elected officials and
staff; (ii) improvements in terms of financial management capacity of the staff in all MGF
participating municipalities; (iii) the development of a set of norms and procedures which
contributed to the improved functioning of the municipal system; (iv) the adoption of new
functional organizational structures for the municipalities; (v) the creation of a capacity building
system with the 3 IFAPAs; and (vi) the creation of a local procurement system consisting of
simplified procurement manuals harmonized with the national procurement system.

Component 1 - Legal and Institutional Reform - Satisfactory
3.2.1    The component satisfactorily achieved its objective which was to assist Government in
operationalizing the legal and institutional framework for the municipal governance.            The
component delivered outputs consisting of a series of decrees, draft policies and regulations that
created the "enabling framework" for municipalities to exercise their functions. These documents
were based on a thorough review and analysis of the situation in each of the 33 municipalities and


                                                  6

on a series of workshops with the relevant stakeholders. These outputs helped to correct the gaps
in the existing laws at the beginning of the project (Pacote Autarquico) in a manner to support the
"gradualist" approach to decentralization that the GOM has adopted. Thus, these results had an
impact on the overall devolution of authority, responsibility, and resources to 33 municipal
governments, most of which directly benefited from this component's activities.             The KPI
requiring the understanding of municipal legal and administrative frameworks was achieved. The
component prepared the analysis/information to support the approval by MAE of the Municipal
Development Strategy and to significantly improve the competences and understanding of the
relevant laws, regulations and institutions in terms of municipal management and administration
by both the elected and municipal officers. However, the Government points to some weaknesses
and risks which may affect the sustainability of some of the outputs at the municipal level. For
example, the non-institutionalization of the procedures and good practice models, with regard to
the organic regulations of the functioning of the municipalities, IFAPAs and within the
MAE/DNDA, and the transfer of qualified technicians from the areas in which they received
capacity building and training to positions that have little to do with the skills that were acquired
are some of these risks.

3.2.2   In its Strategic Plan for the Public Administration Sector for 2006-2010, Government set
a series of priority areas of intervention for the development of the Public Administration Sector
(PAS) and defined strategic and operational objectives to be achieved during this period. Among
these are: (i) deconcentration and institutional reform of the PAS; (ii) decentralization and
municipal and urban development; (iii) community participation and management; and (iv)
capacity building and professionalization of the public service. In this context, Government is
looking to further revise the current legislation with a view to increase the number of
municipalities. To achieve these objectives, GOM believes that the lessons and outcomes from
the MDP as well as other projects supported by other donors in this sector, will contribute to the
establishment and implementation of its Strategic Plan.

Component 2 - Municipal Capacity Building Component - Moderately satisfactory
3.2.3   The component partially achieved its objective which was to assist Government in
developing a sustainable training and technical assistance system and to increase the capacity of
municipality officials and personnel. This component partially achieved its objective through
outputs consisting of training manuals, training materials, training of trainers and designing
training programs.     This component complemented the outputs of components 1 and 3 by
developing and providing formal training programs in the areas of finance, human resource
management, fixed asset management and urban planning to increase the technical capacity of the
municipal staff and elected officials in the 33 municipalities. These courses were complemented
by the practical capacity building provided to the pilot municipalities using the Municipal Grant
Fund.    The first two years of implementation were unsatisfactory due to the problems
encountered during that period. However, implementation improved dramatically after a South-
South partnership was established with the School of Administration (ESAF) of the Brazilian
Ministry of Finance and significant inputs provided from the World Bank Institute (WBI). The
national training system established by this component provided training in the four areas
specified above to the 784 staff in all 33 municipalities, and based on the evaluations submitted
by the trainees upon completion of the courses the training was deemed to be highly relevant to
their work and that it was expected that the information provided would improve their
performance.

3.2.4   The component also supported the institutionalization of the IFAPAs by adapting, based
on the Brazilian and WBI experience, a didactic methodology for the design, preparation and
delivery of capacity building courses. The component also trained 114 of IFAPA staff to use the
materials and manuals that were developed to continue to provide training in these areas. The
component also strengthened the institutional capacity of the IFAPAs by supporting the
development of new facilities in Beira and Lichinga and equipping them as well as the center in

                                                  7

Maputo so that training could be provided to local staff in a more cost effective manor. The KPI
to develop a training system for municipal elected and administrative personnel was achieved.


Component 3 - Municipal Grants - Moderately satisfactory
3.2.5    The component partially achieved its objective which was to assist Government in
establishing an operating mechanism for providing grants to municipalities through a pilot
program in first five and eventually eight cities to finance capital investments for municipal
capacity building and infrastructure. Despite the disconnect between the Bank and Government
project teams on the nature of this project, the component partially achieved its objective of
piloting a municipal grant fund mechanism and providing a practical opportunity for the staff in
the pilot municipalities to apply the formal training that they received. As stated earlier, the pilot
was too complex and did not reflect the political environment and/or the institutional and human
resource capacity at the time. The design difficulties forced several changes to the grant fund
mechanism being piloted in order to make it operational. As a result of these changes, this
component not only provided the practical application (Learning By Doing) for the staff from the
municipalities that participated in the MGF pilot, but the staff from the remaining municipalities
also gained from the experience because of the efforts by MAE to disseminate the best practices.
The KPI of improving the practices for investment planning, procurement and financial
management for the municipalities participating in the pilot was achieved.

3.2.6    Through the MGF, the staff in the pilot municipalities were able to identify, design, and
manage the implementation of a large number of infrastructure projects aimed at improving urban
service delivery, and the project was able to finance the construction of markets, water points,
drainage improvements and other civil works projects which had never been undertaken by the
staff before (see Annex 2). The component established a municipal planning process, created
project planning mechanisms and consultancies, and introduced a mechanism for the
municipalities to work with the communities to identify priority investments. As a result of the
pilot, the staffs were able to plan for, procure and supervise a number of contracts for goods and
works. In most cases, these sub-projects were the first time the staffs had performed these
functions. The component also provided GOM with the means to design and implement local
procurement guidelines for civil works, goods and equipment and consultancies which are now
used for all projects in Mozambique. The project also provided an emphasis on operations and
maintenance of municipal assets and the importance of adequately funding these costs. Manuals
for O&M were also developed and are used by all 33 municipalities. The funding of O&M
activities remains a problem and the sustainability of the investments are at risk. The financial
management capacity of the staff was strengthened by the process of receiving and managing the
funds provided from the pilot, and the component recorded a strong achievement as it helped to
establish a system of municipal audits for the first time in Mozambique. These audits were a
requirement for participation in the MGF pilot

3.2.7    As a pilot program, the MGF was modified several times to incorporate experiences from
earlier cycles and experience from other countries. The initial implementation cycle for the pilot
required almost two years, and the value of the sub-projects was about US$3.7 million. As a
result of the changes and lessons learned, the final two cycles required less than one year and the
average annual value of the sub-projects was about US$11.0 million. The reduction in the
procurement cycle from about 22 months to 12 months by end of project demonstrates the
increased procurement capacity, and the fact that the technical evaluations indicated that the
quality of the works was satisfactory demonstrates the strengthened technical capacity (see
Annexes 2 and 3).

3.3 Efficiency
A cost-benefit analysis was conducted during project appraisal. For the ICR a cost effectiveness
analysis was conducted. An economic analysis is presented in Annex 3 and summarized below:


                                                  8

3.3.1    Measuring the economic benefit of component 1: Legal and institutional reform, and
component 2: Municipal capacity building is difficult to carry out directly. However, the cost-
effectiveness of the investments made in the two components can be measured indirectly. One
such approach is to observe the time it takes to complete the various phases of contracting and
completing the civil works financed in component 3: MGF, which have benefited from the
increased effectiveness of trained staff that now operate in a reformed legal and institutional
framework. If the training in legal and institutional reform and the capacity building have an
impact as expected, it will appear in a reduced number days required to implement the sub-
projects in component 3 in successive years. Assuming the first years (2001-03) represented the
base year, subsequent years will require less time than it took to complete the work in the base
year. An analysis of the actual data of the length of processing time during the life cycle of MGF
shows that the hypothesis is indeed true. The results of the analysis are shown in Table 1 of
Annex 3: Institutional Cost-effectiveness in implementing component 3: MGF Investments. In
successive years, the completion time reported is shorter than in the base-year.

3.3.2    With respect to the benefits of component 3: MGF investments, the small size and
composition of the investments made it difficult to carry out a rigorous cost-benefit analysis. The
cost of doing so was considered high, so no direct estimate has been undertaken. However, we
have evidence that the quality of the works completed was satisfactory and the time to complete
the works was shortened progressively as noted above. It can, therefore, be concluded that the
anticipated benefits have largely been achieved. That likely outcome is further supported by
studies of similar projects completed in other countries, which noted that such civil works
projects selected through the participation of the communities had a cost effective outcome.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The project partially achieved its development objectives which were relevant to the GOM's
development priorities, and consistent with the PARPA II and CPS objectives.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
MDP's interventions are likely to have some poverty alleviation impact through the support of
policy reforms that will improve governance and service delivery resulting from the increased
institutional and human resource capacity in the municipalities. Improved service delivery and
local development through the MGF stand-out as important benefits but their impact is limited
given the fact that the MGF was a pilot. As for the capacity building, benefits are of both
immediate and longer-term. The immediate benefits result from the trained staff returning to
their positions to apply what was learned, and the longer-term benefits are due to the fact that
systems, materials and procedures have been developed to provide this training on an on-going
basis. In addition, households and businesses are more aware of municipal responsibilities and
are more likely to hold their officials accountable. Constituents also gained from the use of the
sub-projects completed under the MGF pilot. In the broader sense, MDP had an impact on
further democratization as it expanded the basis for local empowerment.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The project managed to bring convergence between MAE and the municipalities in addressing
important issues of common and national interest. The project significantly contributed to the
establishment of the legal framework for local governments in Mozambique and the introduction
of good municipal management practices such as fair, transparent procurement procedures and
regular municipal audits. It has also contributed by establishing a capacity building program that
could contribute and supplement MAE's current policy reforms such as the Strategic Plan for the
Public Administration Sector. The ProMaputo preparation experience, which benefited from the
MDP's activities, is being disseminated throughout the 33 municipalities and the participatory
process that illustrated the program's preparation is being considered by other municipalities.

                                                  9

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)
The Association of Municipalities, ANAMM, was institutionalized and is playing a key role in
bridging the gap between municipal administrations as well as between the municipalities and the
donor community to streamline support for municipal development in Mozambique. It is also
playing an important advocacy role, by being an active stakeholder, in the legal and institutional
reform agenda. With the proposed government expansion of municipalities, ANAMM's benefits
from the MDP will be sustained and will be a catalyst for municipal development.

The project also laid the foundation for integrating the cross cutting issue of HIV/AIDS under the
legal and institutional reform component as it achieved the important output of getting
municipalities to adopt the World Bank Manual for Municipality Response to fight the pandemic,
as well as bringing the National HIV/AIDS Council to design and agree with the municipalities
on modalities for planning and financing specific actions.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Significant
4.1       The risks to Development Outcomes are significant. Given GOM's efforts to expand the
decentralization program, which started in the late 1990's, the risks to the sustainability of the
outcomes achieved by the project are reduced. However, international experience has shown that
decentralization programs are high risk areas where the progress is not always linear. GOM must
be consistent with its policy direction and continue to increase the capacity of the institutional and
human resources at the municipal level. GOM must also build on the achievements such as the
newly developed training system and the strengthening of the IFAPAs, the dissemination of
materials and the delivery of the newly developed programs. If adequate arrangements are not in
place to actively continue these programs, the risks could negatively impact on the project
outcome.

4.2       Mitigating factors include the strong Government commitment to move ahead with the
municipal development program particularly in requesting the Bank to lead a study of the sector
with the objective to provide policy makers and municipal authorities in Mozambique with an
analysis of the challenges and opportunities for municipal development in Mozambique as the
basis for an effective and integrated program of action to be supported by the development
partners.


5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
5.1.1     At project design, the impact of the prolonged civil war in Mozambique (1975-92) was
still strong and the lack of financial and human resources was apparent. Although the Bank team
undertook thorough social and economic analysis during preparation, the design of the various
project components, particularly in relation to the MGF component, failed to carefully address
these two dimensions. The MGF pilot was complex as it required a strong level of technical and
managerial skill to ensure its effective implementation, which the municipalities lacked. In
addition, the funding mechanisms that were adopted, particularly with regards to the counterpart
funding, seemed unrealistic and led to misunderstandings between municipalities and the central
government. The financial transfer mechanism was too complex and it assumed a level of local
revenue/financing capacity which did not exist and which resulted in counterpart funding
problems during implementation. The most serious issue, however, was the low level of
readiness for implementation which delayed implementation of two components and shifted the
emphasis of the project away from capacity building to infrastructure. The inadequate design of
the outcome indicators was not inconsistent with many projects designed at this time resulting
from a lack of understanding of the new procedures.

                                                 10

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
5.1.2    The Bank's multi-disciplinary team that supervised the project was professional and pro-
active, and the quality and availability of the team was high and frequent. During supervision
missions, the team focused on issues that would affect implementation, identifying,
documenting, and referring them to management attention. The Bank team worked closely with
government counterparts to address problems, and the team closely monitored procurement,
conducting post-reviews as part of the supervision missions' activities. While the project had
some procurement irregularities, actions were taken quickly to address them.             Financial
management (FM) and safeguard policies were also monitored and generally the results were
satisfactory. The Country Office provided support to ensure speedy clearance of disbursement
and procurement requests from Government. The frequent supervision, attention to details, and
pro-active stance that the supervision team took, ensured an effective implementation of the
MTR recommendations to achieve the intended PDO.

5.1.3    While the team attempted to address the issues that were of utmost importance, such as
getting the DNDA and the PCU to act quickly on issues surrounding procurement, staffing, and
implementing agreed actions, it is unfortunate that the Bank team was unable to take a stronger
position after the MTR to address counterpart funding which remained a serious issue that
negatively affected the project's outcomes. It should be noted that the issue of counterpart
funding also negatively affected the outcomes of many other projects in the portfolio. However,
as discussed earlier, the counterpart funding issue at the municipal level was resolved in the final
design of the MGF pilot.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The Bank played an important role in developing and implementing this project and in helping
the GOM to proceed with the design of its decentralization program, but basic design issues and a
low level of readiness negatively affected the implementation of the project. Nevertheless, the
intensive supervision effort contributed significantly to the achievement of the PDO. Moreover,
the design and preparation of the ProMaputo operation and the on-going work to develop a
coordinated donor program to support the decentralization efforts demonstrate that the MDP was
effective in not only increasing local capacity but also increasing the level of confidence in the
GOM in the area of municipal development.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory
5.2.1. As discussed earlier, several factors had a negative impact on the relationship between
the Bank and the key government counterparts. This relationship seems to have influenced some
of the work at entry for the MDP. There was an apparent disagreement between the leaders for
Government and Bank project teams on the very essence of the project. Furthermore, GOM was
not able to resolve the problems of delays in counterpart funding which negatively affected the
final outcomes.

5.2.2    Some of the problems that occurred during project preparation hampered the smooth
start up of the project, for example, securing well trained staff at the PCU, and ensuring timely
replenishments of municipal counterpart funds could have been mitigated if GOM had adopted a
more pro-active role. Although MAE, in collaboration with the Bank team, took corrective
measures that improved many of these and other problems, some persisted. Problems with
counterpart funding, at both the central and municipal levels, was the most significant problem,
and, at the central level, was still occurring up to June 2007 with late payment of contractors. A
more pro-active response from the GOM proposing realistic solutions to these problems would
have made a positive impact on project implementation.

                                                  11

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The performance of the municipalities was mixed, but generally positive. The combination of
the formal and practical training significantly strengthened the local capacity to plan, design,
procure and implement a wide range of infrastructure projects developed with the participation
of the communities. The increased performance can be seen from the reduced amount of time to
implement the sub-projects (see section 3.3.1). In addition, the local counterpart funding issues
were addressed with the final design of the MGF pilot, and the ability to prepare proper books of
account and draft financial statements was dramatically improved by the requirement to have
annual independent audits of the entire municipality.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The performance of the implementing agencies and the willingness to quickly address identified
problems resulted in the increased capacity at the municipal level and compensated for the weak
performance at the center.

6. Lessons Learned
6.1      Design of municipal development programs: The results of the pilot provide a number
of valuable lessons for future municipal development programs such as:

(i)    the design of a project and in particular of a pilot program should be kept simple and within
       the capacity of the staff and agencies responsible for its implementation. In this case the
       project and the pilot were both too complex;
(ii)   the implementation must be flexible to adapt to changes in the environment ­ in this case
       the design of the MGF was frequently adjusted to reflect lessons learned which resulted in
       successfully testing a transfer system that enabled local staff to design and implement small
       projects within a 12 month cycle;
(iii) the initial mechanism to transfer of funds was complex because of an unreliable treasury
       system at the time of the project's design. However, since the current treasury system is
       well established, future transfers to the municipalities should be via the intergovernmental
       transfer system and not using the mechanism tested in the pilot;
(iv) the MGF pilot developed in the third cycle a mechanism which included a provision that
       contracts could only be signed when all required funding was in place. This modification
       addressed the counterpart funding problem and reduced the time to completion
       dramatically;
(v)    increased involvement of the staff in the implementing agencies in management of the
       project would have helped to increase the local capacity more than by utilizing outside
       implementing units for the central and municipal governments; and
(vi)   the MGF had a complex implementation framework involving too many decision makers
       and which minimized the importance of local ownership. If decentralized systems are to be
       successful, they must have the active support and involvement of the elected officials and
       staff from the local governments.

6.2      Secure client ownership: The MDP was designed with the aim of strengthening nascent
municipalities' financial and human resources. The lessons from the MDP and other projects
show that political leadership and commitment from the mayors/presidents is a pre-condition for
a successful project design and management since the mayor has much greater ownership and
direct responsibility and accountability. This, therefore, strengthens the capacity of the municipal
staff to internalize the important institutional and capacity building elements of the project. A
strong ownership from municipal administrations under MDP, for example by appointing the
right staff at all implementation levels could have improved some of the achievements of this
project.    It is thus important that future programs consider the role the Association of
Municipalities (ANAMM) can play and include it, as well as the Municipal Councilors
(Vereadores), in all phases of the project cycle.

                                                  12

6.3     Designing capacity building activities: The involvement of WBI in the implementation
of component 2 was the major reason for the improvement in that component and for the eventual
impact of the training program.     In addition to providing specialized training and capacity
building expertise, the WBI was instrumental in bringing the South-South partnership to IFAPA
which was also critical to the eventual success of that component. Future Bank financed projects
should make more active use of the expertise available in WBI and bring them in at the design
stage of all capacity building activities.    More use should also be made of South-South
partnerships rather than contractual relationships with firms with limited understanding and
empathy towards clients.

6.4     Programming approach for donor coordination and to attract co-funding: The MDP
drew many lessons from several projects and was designed and implemented in parallel with
other donor-financed capacity building projects. The outcome of the MDP shows that better
coordinated efforts from GOM and partners for capacity development is important and necessary,
particularly as the GOM's and the Bank's CPS priorities are encouraging this as pre-condition for
reaching the Paris Declaration agenda.

6.5     Effective communication: As demonstrated by this project, it is essential for the team
leaders for the government and Bank project teams to develop a strong working relationship built
on effective communication to ensure the efforts of both organizations are working toward the
same objective.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
7.1     The Borrower's ICR is presented in Annex 7, and concludes that the project achieved its
development objective to the extent possible for a pilot project, as it provided experiences for the
consolidation of municipal development in Mozambique. The project also proved to be essential
in the search for experience and information that need to be understood by GOM, municipalities,
development partners and society in general, as medium and long term social and political
investments, whose results, in most cases, will only be visible after several years of
implementation, consolidation and expansion.

7.2     The report highlights a wide range of key achievements including: i) a significant
improvement of the competences of both municipal elected and officials and institutions in
municipality management and administration; ii) substantial improvements in terms of own
revenue, increase of financial management capacity as well as in terms of their operative
management and maintenance in all MGF participating municipalities; iii) the development of a
set of norms and procedures which contributed to the improved functioning of the municipal
system, iv) the adoption of new functional organizational structures for the municipalities; v) a
creation of a capacity building system within the 3 IFAPAS; vi) the creation of a local
procurement system consisting of project planning mechanisms and consultancies, launching of
bids, evaluation, adjudication, and the signing of contracts; and vii) simplified procurement
manuals harmonized with the national procurement guidelines approved by the Government of
Mozambique.

7.3     The Borrower's report raises a number of issues that negatively impacted on
implementation.

(b) Cofinanciers
Comments were requested from NDF but none were received.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders



                                                13

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                 Appraisal Estimate     Actual        Percentage of
          Components
                                  (USD millions)     (USD millions)      Appraisal
LEGAL AND INSTITUTIONAL
                                          3.37              2.97           88.10
REFORM
MUNICIPAL CAPACITY
                                          4.77              2.89           60.60
BUILDING
MUNICIPAL GRANTS                        22.75              30.09          132.30
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
AND TECHNICAL
                                          6.97              9.06          129.90
ASSISTANCE TO
MUNICIPALITIES


             Total Baseline Cost        37.86              45.01

Physical Contingencies
                                          0.03              0.00

Price Contingencies
                                          3.32              0.00
              Total Project Costs       41.21              45.01
Project Preparation Fund                  0.85              0.80
Front-end fee IBRD                        0.00              0.00
      Total Financing Required          42.06              45.81



(b) Financing
                                               Appraisal
                                  Type of                      Actual     Percentage
         Source of Funds                        Estimate
                                 Cofinancing               (USD millions) Of Appraisal
                                             (USD millions)
Borrower                                           3.28         5.42         165.20
International Development
                                                  33.60         37.50        111.60
Association (IDA)
Nordic Development Fund (NDF)                      5.18         2.89          55.80




                                            14

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1-Legal and Institutional Reform

This component supported the development and dissemination of essential legal and
administrative instruments for municipal management in the following key regulatory project
areas and achieved the following outputs:


    Subcomponent     Process              Output

 1 Institutional     1. Diagnosis         - Exhaustive diagnosis
    and Policy                            - D.A. strategy and policy approved by the Ministry of
    Framework                               State Administration (Ministério de Administração
                                            Estatal ­ MAE)
                                          - Representation of the State in the Municipalities
                                            (Council of Ministers - Conselho de Ministros - CM)
                                            Decree 65/2003)
                                          - National Bureau of Local Government Development
                                            (Direcção Nacional de Desenvolvimento Autárquico ­
                                            DNDA) By-laws and Action and Training plan 2005-
                                            2009
                                          - Technical support for the creation of an Association of
                                            Municipalities
                                          - Proposal for creation of a Technical Forum on DA and
                                            an Action Plan for the second term of office
                                          - Proposal for creation of Provincial Technical
                                            Assistance Offices in the municipalities
                                          - Proposals for adjustments to be made in the Regulations
                                            implementing the Law on Local Agencies of the State
                                          - General lines of an Urban Development Policy
                     3. Dissemination     - Dissemination and consultation of all municipalities
                                            concerning DA Policy and Strategy
                                          - Informational clips about DA.
                     5. Capacity Building - Technical discussions with the Chief of the DNDA's
                     to Support             Department of Local Government Organization and
                     Implementation and     Institutional Development and the National Director of
                     Monitoring of          the DNPO.
                     Institutional Reform - Proposal for the DNDA Work Program for 2004-2008
 2  Management of    1. Diagnosis         Human Resources
    Human                                 - Exhaustive diagnosis
    Resources;                            - Mobility of personnel between the State and the
    Administrative                          municipalities (CM Decree No. 45/2003)
    Framework,                            - Corrective measures taken regarding the legal
    and Transfer of                         relationship of municipal personnel with respect to the
    Functions                               municipal governments (CM Decree No. 36/2004)
                                          - Proposed Law on the Social Security system as it
                                            applies to the heads of local government agencies
                                            (under consideration by the MAE)
                                          - Decree creating and providing for functioning of the
                                            Municipal Police (Awaits approval by the CM)
                                          - Proposals for changes in the General Statute on
                                            Government Employees (Estatuto Geral dos
                                            Funcionários do Estado - EGFE) in light of the specific
                                            situation in the local governments (autarquias)
                                          Administrative Framework
                                          - Technical discussions and advanced training sessions
                                            with the heads of the DNDA's Department of Local

                                            15

Subcomponent Process               Output

                                     Government Organization and Institutional
                                     Development and Department of Support and Technical
                                     Assistance to Local Governments (Departamento de
                                     Apoio e Assistência Técnica às Autarquias - DATA).
                                   - Technical Assistance to the DNDA in the following
                                     areas:
                                      Survey of State personnel in the municipalities and
                                        personnel hired by the municipalities;
                                      Technical evaluation for ratification by the MAE of
                                        the Staffing Patterns approved by the CMs;
                                   - Dissemination and capacity-building for selected
                                     technical personnel from the DNDA, Provincial
                                     Directorates of Support and Control (Direcção
                                     Provincial de Apoio e Controle - DPACs and Provincial
                                     Directorates of Planning and Finances (Direcção
                                     Provincial de Plano e Finanças ­ DPPFs), on the
                                     subject of the legal and regulatory tools for the area:
                                      4th RN ­ May 2004
                                      Technical workshops­ September and October 2004
                                      Technical workshops­ April and November 2005
                                   Transfer of Functions
                                   - Diagnosis
                                   - Transfer of functions and powers of the State to the
                                     local governments (CM Decree n.º 46/2003)
                                   - Draft decree on transfer of functions and powers in the
                                     priority areas
             2. Operationalization Management of Human Resources
             of Systems-           - Rules for developing the "Staffing Patterns"
                                     (Resolution by the National Council on Public
                                     Employment - Conselho Nacional da Função Pública -
                                     CNFP)
                                   - Creation of specific functions for the local governments
                                     and approval of qualification standards and salaries
                                     (CNFP Resolution 6/2004)
                                   - Manual of Human Resources Management Procedures
                                     and application of the EGFE to the staff of the
                                     municipalities
                                   - Rules for municipal personnel retirement
                                   - Transfer of vehicles to the Offices of the Presidents of
                                     the Municipal Chambers - PCMs (CNFP Resolution)
                                   - Computerized System for Personnel Data (SIP):
                                       Computer equipment installed
                                       Adaptation of the system to the realities of the
                                       municipalities
                                   Administrative Framework
                                   - Technical standards for the drafting of the "Organic
                                     Laws"
                                   - Proposed framework law to define the criteria for the
                                     creation of new local governments
                                   - Proposal for revision of the Law on Administrative
                                     Guidance for Local Governments (Lei sobre a Tutela
                                     Administrativa das Autarquias)
                                   - Simplified methodology for use in functional analysis of
                                     the municipalities
                                   Transfer of Functions
                                   - Survey of functions to be transferred to in the areas of
                                     Education, Health, Public Works and Housing, and

                                     16

Subcomponent Process              Output

                                    Industry and Commerce
                                  - Proposal for a CM Decree on procedures for
                                    implementing the process, and details of the powers to
                                    be transferred in an initial phase
             3.Implementation of  Management of Human Resources
             Pilot Experience     - Implementation testing of the Computerized System for
                                    Personnel Data - SIP is completed in the municipalities
                                    of Maputo, Manhiça and Matola
                                  Administrative Framework
                                  - Functional analysis conducted in the municipalities of
                                    Matola, Manhiça, Dondo, Beira, Nacala, Quelimane,
                                    Pemba, Nampula and Xai-Xai
             4. Dissemination     - Survey of the specific fields of training to be introduced
                                    into the various modes and in the curricula of the Public
                                    Administration Training System (Sistema de Formação
                                    da Administração Pública - SIFAP)
                                  - Development of training manuals in the priority areas
                                    of Human Resources, for use by the CB Component
                                  - Dissemination and further training at the PCMs, PAMs
                                    and for selected technical personnel (a total of 300
                                    technical staffers - 9 per municipality), on the subject of
                                    legal and regulatory instruments for the various areas:
                                     4th RN ­ May 2004
                                     Technical workshops­ September and October 2004
                                     Technical workshops­ April and November 2005



                                  Dissemination and capacity-building in the 33
                                    municipalities in the Simplified Functional Analysis and
                                    its strategic usefulness ­ RLI

             5. Capacity Building ­ Technical discussions and advanced training sessions
             to Support             with the heads of the DNDA's Department of Local
             Implementation and     Government Organization and Institutional
             Monitoring of          Development and Department of Support and Technical
             Institutional          Assistance to Local Governments (Departamento de
             Reforms                Apoio e Assistência Técnica às Autarquias - DATA).
                                  ­ Technical Assistance to the DNDA in the following
                                    areas:
                                   Survey of State personnel in the municipalities and
                                    personnel hired by the municipalities;
                                   Technical evaluation for ratification by the MAE of the
                                    Staffing Patterns approved by the CMs;
                                  - Dissemination and capacity-building for selected
                                    technical personnel from the DNDA, Provincial
                                    Directorates of Support and Control (Direcção
                                    Provincial de Apoio e Controle - DPACs and Provincial
                                    Directorates of Planning and Finances (Direcção
                                    Provincial de Plano e Finanças ­ DPPFs), on the
                                    subject of the legal and regulatory tools for the area:
                                   4th RN ­ May 2004
                                   Technical workshops­ September and October 2004

                                   Technical workshops­ April and November 2005



                                    17

  Subcomponent    Process               Output

3 Fiscal policies 1. Diagnosis          Fiscal policies & Financial systems
  & financial                           - Detailed survey of the financial status and situation
  system and                              under which financial, budgeting and transfer payments
  Planning and                            systems are operating in the municipalities
  development                           - Draft bill submitted for revision of the Local
                                          Government Finances Act (LFA) and the Local
                                          Government Tax Code (Código Tributário Autárquico)
                                        Planning and development
                                        - Exhaustive diagnosis
                                        - Technical contributions with regard to legislation
                                          issued by competent sectors with respect to:
                                            Urban Land Regulations, in coordination with the
                                            Ministry of Public Works and Housing - MOPH;
                                            Land Zoning Law and Policy, in coordination with the
                                            Ministry for Coordination of Environmental Actions
                                            (Ministério para Coordenação de Acção Ambiental ­
                                            MICOA);
                                            Municipal policy positions, in coordination with the
                                            municipalities.
                  2. Operationalization Fiscal policies & Financial systems
                  of Systems            - Supplementary financial regulation and regulation of
                                          the procurement and property management process in
                                          coordination with the Ministry of Planning and
                                          Finance/National Bureau of Planning and Budget
                                          (Direcção Nacional do Plano e Orçamento
                                          (MPF/DNPO) working group (in progress)
                                        - Manuals on operationalization of financial and
                                          budgetary systems and transfers by the municipalities
                                        Planning and development
                                        - Rules on the simplified P&D system and Municipal
                                          Registry
                  3.Implementation of   Planning and development
                  Pilot Experience      - Testing of the P&D system completed and necessary
                                          adjustments made
                  4. Dissemination      - Dissemination and capacity-building at the PCMs,
                                          PAMs and for selected technical personnel (a total of
                                          300 technical staffers - 9 per municipality), on the
                                          subject of legal and regulatory tools, procedures and
                                          systems manuals, for the various areas:
                                           4th RN ­ May 2004
                                           Technical workshops­ September and October 2004
                                        - Technical workshops­ April and November 2005
                  5. Capacity Building  - Dissemination and capacity-building at the PCMs,
                  to Support
                                          PAMs and for selected technical personnel (a total of
                  Implementation and
                                          300 technical staffers - 9 per municipality), on the
                  Monitoring of
                                          subject of legal and regulatory tools, procedures and
                  Institutional
                                          systems manuals, for the various areas:
                  Reforms                  4th RN ­ May 2004
                                           Technical workshops­ September and October 2004
                                           Technical workshops­ April and November 2005
4 Cross cutting   In all 5 key          - HIV-AIDS
  issues          regulatory areas      (a) Adaptation of the WB Manual on the Response by the
                                          Municipalities in the battle against HIV/AIDS
                                        (b) Definition, with the CNCS, of types of financing and
                                          planning of specific actions by the municipalities

                                          18

Component 2: Municipal Capacity Building

 PHASE I
  Specific        Desired Indicator               Monitoring Indicator
  objectives
1 Introduce and   a) Identified personnel,       I ­ Of the technical personnel designated by the
  develop a       public and private             Government and the Public and Local Government
  sustainable     institutions, NGOs and         Training Institutes (Institutos de Formação em
  system for      cooperation partners           Administração Pública e Autárquica ­ IFAPAs) in
  training and    constitute the network of the  Maputo, Beira and Lichinga, 70% will have begun to
  municipal       system in order to ensure      efficiently   perform     their    responsibilities in
  technical       continuation of system         management of the system.
  assistance      coordination and               II ­ Of the instructors and trainers anticipated to be
                  functioning.                   in place, about 70% will have begun to efficiently
                  b) Instructors at the regional perform their work.
                  level and trainers at the      III ­ At least one manual, out of all the manuals,
                  provincial level have          scripts, and other planned teaching materials, will
                  assumed responsibilities and   have been produced in each of the following areas:
                  adopted practices for           Human resources management
                  training and technical          Financial management
                  assistance.                     Property management
                  c) Teaching materials have      Urban        land    management,      recording,  and
                  been gathered, produced,           oversight
                  and adapted for training and   Explanatory manual from the local government
                  technical assistance.          package provided to elected officials

2 Institute       a) Short- medium- and long-    IV ­ Memorandum of Understanding
  mechanisms for  term procedures and             Services contracts
  permanent       strategic plans exist for       Potential plans for further training
  functioning of  providing training and         Indicative plans for curriculum-based training at the
  the system      technical assistance to the    IFAPAs
                  municipalities
3 Train the                                      V ­ Of the technical and administrative employees
  institution and a) Personnel are present in    selected for training, 60% are beginning to perform
  begin training  each municipality who have     their duties properly, especially in the areas of
  the municipal   a basic knowledge of the       financial and property management, human
  personnel       principles of how local        resources, urban lands, and urban services.
                  government functions are to    VI ­ Of the elected officials who have been provided
                  be performed in accordance     training, 75% are beginning to perform their duties in
                  with the law and how to        accordance with part (a) of the indicators.
                  develop professional           VII ­ Of the municipalities that requested Technical
                  practices that facilitate the  Assistance in a specific area, 60% should have the
                  development of the             capability of using the mechanisms established
                  municipalities.                within the system and are beginning to do their work
                                                 according to the rules.




                                                19

PHASE II
1 Gradual            a) There exists efficient      I ­ The presence of a team, operating within the
 transfer of         management at the national     National Bureau of Local Government Development
 responsibility      level planning, strategy       (Direcção Nacional de Desenvolvimento Autárquico
 from the            formulation, institutional     ­ DNDA) and DNFP, ready and trained to assume
 Municipal           analysis, monitoring and       this kind of responsibility
 Training Office     supervision of the municipal
 (Gabinete da        training system
 Capacitação
 Municipal ­
 GCM), to the
 State
2 Raise the          a) Personnel in each           II ­ Of all the technical personnel designated by the
 professional        municipality have a basic      Government, 70% will have begun to perform their
 levels of the       knowledge of the principles    duties efficiently.
 technical           of how local government
 personnel, as       functions are to be            III ­ All of the presidents of the Municipal Chambers
 well as the         performed, in accordance       and the municipal councilpersons are familiar with
 levels of the       with the law.                  the provisions of law and regulations and 70% will
 elected officials,  b) The Offices of the          have begun to apply them.
 through             Presidents of the Municipal
 permanent           Chambers - PCMs and
 Technical           municipal councilpersons
 Assistance          are familiar with the laws,
                     rules, and in force and know
                     how to apply them legally
                     and democratically
3 Raise the          a) Instructors and trainers at IV ­ Of all the instructors and trainers called for in
 professional        the provincial level have      each of the four training areas, 70% will have begun
 level of the        assumed responsibilities and   to do their work efficiently.
 IFAPAs in           adopted practices for the      V ­ At least one reference manual is available for:
 Maputo, Beira       training and technical          Human resources management
 and Lichinga,       assistance                      Financial and Property Management
 by providing        b) Teaching materials have      Urban land management, recording, and
 permanent           been produced, and adapted          oversight
 Technical           for training and technical      Manual for use in training elected municipal
 Assistance and      assistance to the                   officials
 adapting this       municipalities                 VI ­ Of all the workers designated by the IFAPAs to
 support to the      c) Technical personnel who     receive training, at least 70% are taking training and
 specific needs      have responsibility for        applying the knowledge thus acquired.
 of each center.     planning and managing the
                     municipal training courses
                     are available in the IFAPAs
4 Assist the         a) The National Association    VII ­ The ANAMM has set up both electronic and
 ANAMM so            of Mozambican                  paper files containing data on internal and external
 that it can         Municipalities (Associação     contacts.
 fulfill its role as Nacional dos Municípios de     VIII ­ The ANAMM took part in municipal training
 interlocutor and    Moçambique ­ ANAMM)            activities, organized by the Component.
 spokesman with      has a network of contacts      IX ­ The ANAMM has established contacts with
 respect to the      both within and outside        some donor partners, NGOs, and similar
 municipalities      Mozambique and has             associations.
                     established contacts that      X ­ The ANAMM participates actively in the
                     will help the organization     planning the training with the Government, IFAPAs,
                     fulfill its role.              and partners.




                                                   20

Component 3: Municipal Grant Fund


                           MUNICIPAL GRANT FUND - Component 3 Outputs

                                               IN USD

                                                Participating Municipalities per Cycle

                                           Cycle 1     Cycle 2      Cycle 3       Cycle 4

                                           Maputo      Maputo       Maputo        Maputo

                                            Beira       Beira       Xai Xai        Beira

                                           Nampula     Nampula      Dondo         Nampula

                                           Quelimane  Quelimane     Nacala       Quelimane

                                            Pemba       Pemba                      Pemba

                                                                                  Xai Xai

                                                                                   Dondo

                                                                                   Nacala


                                                                Cycle
                Municipality
                                           Cycle 1     Cycle 2      Cycle 3       Cycle 4      Total

1 Maputo

    1.1 Works
  Roads Rehabilitation, Construction        349,946     978,892    7,004,930         532,429  8,866,197

  Sewage and Sanitation                                               53,000                     53,000

  Drainage                                  104,762                                            104,762

  Solid Waste                                                                                         0

  Markets and Others                        129,524     291,461      991,000                  1,411,985

                            Subtotal Works                                                   10,435,944

    1.2 Goods and Equipment

  Tractor and related equipment             162,203                          0        22,809   185,012

  Solid Waste related equipment              76,850                  703,253         145,402   925,505

  Vehicles and related equipment             29,246                  381,902               0   411,148

  Equipment and Supplies                     31,379     256,479    1,178,164          44,314  1,510,336

                                                                                              3,032,001
    1.3 Consulting Services, Training and
  Studies
  Roads Rehabilitation, Construction         14,000           0              0             0     14,000

  Sewage and Sanitation                           0           0      230,947               0   230,947

  Drainage                                   10,000           0              0             0     10,000

  Solid Waste                                     0           0              0             0          0

  Markets and Others                         65,816     167,206      282,319         268,991   784,332
    Subtotal Consulting Services, Training
                               and Studies                                                    1,039,279

  Subtotal Maputo                           973,726    1,694,038  10,825,515       1,013,945 14,507,224




                                                21

                                                            Cycle
                Municipality
                                           Cycle 1  Cycle 2  Cycle 3    Cycle 4    Total

2 Beira

   2 .1 Works
  Roads Rehabilitation, Construction              0                  0   495,281   495,281

  Sewage and Sanitation                           0       0          0         0         0

  Drainage                                  196,301  35,458          0         0   231,759

  Solid Waste                                     0       0          0         0         0

  Markets and Others                        227,722  44,393          0   472,611   744,726

                            Subtotal Works                                        1,471,766

   2.2 Goods and Equipment
  Tractor and related equipment              80,084                  0         0    80,084

  Solid Waste related equipment                                351,627   127,307   478,934

  Vehicles and related equipment             45,379                  0         0    45,379

  Equipment and Supplies                     78,647 115,253          0   124,427   318,327

            Subtotal Goods and Equipment                                           922,724
   2.3 Consulting Services, Training and
  Studies

  Roads Rehabilitation, Construction              0   7,875          0    40,600    48,475

  Sewage and Sanitation                           0       0          0         0         0

  Drainage                                   93,254       0          0         0    93,254

  Solid Waste                                     0       0          0         0         0

  Markets and Others                         10,800  14,400          0         0    25,200
    Subtotal Consulting Services, Training
                               and Studies                                         166,929

  Subtotal Beira                            732,187 217,379    351,627  1,260,226 2,561,419

3 Quelimane

    3.1 Works
  Roads Rehabilitation, Construction              0       0          0   359,415   359,415

  Sewage and Sanitation                           0 211,977          0         0   211,977

  Drainage                                   35,182       0          0         0    35,182

  Solid Waste                                     0       0          0         0         0

  Markets and Others                        267,434 113,156          0   350,470   731,060

                            Subtotal Works                                        1,337,634

    3.2 Goods and Equipment
  Tractor and related equipment             133,770                  0         0   133,770

  Solid Waste related equipment                      10,472               72,914    83,386

  Vehicles and related equipment                     24,200          0    64,078    88,278

  Equipment and Supplies                     61,604  53,634          0    95,774   211,012

            Subtotal Goods and Equipment                                           516,446
    3.3 Consulting Services, Training and
  Studies

  Roads Rehabilitation, Construction              0                  0    16,900    16,900

  Sewage and Sanitation                                                                  0

  Drainage                                   60,073                       48,873   108,946

  Solid Waste                                                                            0

  Markets and Others                         11,650  10,000               22,711    44,361
    Subtotal Consulting Services, Training
                               and Studies                                         170,207

  Subtotal Quelimane                        569,713 423,439          0  1,031,135 2,024,287




                                              22

                                                            Cycle
                Municipality
                                           Cycle 1  Cycle 2  Cycle 3    Cycle 4    Total

4 Nampula

    4.1 Works
  Roads Rehabilitation, Construction        184,451 466,701          0  1,647,408 2,298,560

  Sewage and Sanitation                      42,798       0          0    20,837    63,635

  Drainage                                  119,232       0          0   307,982   427,214

  Solid Waste                                     0       0          0         0         0

  Markets and Others                         90,825                                 90,825

                            Subtotal Works                                        2,880,234

    4.2 Goods and Equipment
  Tractor and related equipment             177,512       0          0             177,512

  Solid Waste related equipment                           0    421,952         0   421,952

  Vehicles and related equipment             29,850  29,750          0    95,126   154,726

  Equipment and Supplies                    123,193 130,740          0   207,352   461,285

            Subtotal Goods and Equipment                                          1,215,475
    4.3 Consulting Services, Training and
  Studies

  Roads Rehabilitation, Construction          8,750  78,463          0    27,725   114,938

  Sewage and Sanitation                      67,285  66,778          0     4,500   138,563

  Drainage                                    6,250       0          0               6,250

  Solid Waste                                 4,000       0                          4,000

  Markets and Others                          5,000  44,998                         49,998
    Subtotal Consulting Services, Training
                               and Studies                                         313,749

  Subtotal Nampula                          859,146 817,430    421,952  2,310,930 4,409,458

5 Pemba

    5.1 Works
  Roads Rehabilitation, Construction              0       0          0   202,442   202,442

  Sewage and Sanitation                           0       0          0         0         0

  Drainage                                  136,854       0          0   454,630   591,484

  Solid Waste                                     0       0          0         0         0

  Markets and Others                        188,332 273,578          0         0   461,910

                            Subtotal Works                                        1,255,836

    5.2 Goods and Equipment
  Tractor and related equipment              58,472       0          0         0    58,472

  Solid Waste related equipment              53,726       0    351,627   184,118   589,471

  Vehicles and related equipment                  0  89,763          0         0    89,763

  Equipment and Supplies                     18,257                  0   239,468   257,725

            Subtotal Goods and Equipment                                           995,431
    5.3 Consulting Services, Training and
  Studies

  Roads Rehabilitation, Construction              0       0          0         0         0

  Sewage and Sanitation                      53,791       0          0    11,200    64,991

  Drainage                                   15,000  48,567          0         0    63,567

  Solid Waste                                     0   7,500          0         0     7,500

  Markets and Others                         17,900                  0     9,900    27,800
    Subtotal Consulting Services, Training
                               and Studies                                         163,858

  Subtotal Pemba                            542,332 419,408    351,627  1,101,758 2,415,125




                                              23

                                                            Cycle
                Municipality
                                           Cycle 1  Cycle 2  Cycle 3    Cycle 4    Total

6 Xai Xai

   6 .1 Works
  Roads Rehabilitation, Construction              0       0    371,338         0   371,338

  Sewage and Sanitation                           0       0          0         0         0

  Drainage                                        0       0          0         0         0

  Solid Waste                                     0       0          0         0         0

  Markets and Others                              0       0          0   625,369   625,369

                            Subtotal Works                                         996,707

   6.2 Goods and Equipment
  Tractor and related equipment                   0       0     66,017    35,585   101,602

  Solid Waste related equipment                   0       0          0         0         0

  Vehicles and related equipment                  0       0          0   125,538   125,538

  Equipment and Supplies                          0       0     65,851   170,446   236,297

            Subtotal Goods and Equipment                                           463,437
   6.3 Consulting Services, Training and
  Studies

  Roads Rehabilitation, Construction              0       0          0         0         0

  Sewage and Sanitation                           0       0          0         0         0

  Drainage                                        0       0          0         0         0

  Solid Waste                                     0       0          0         0         0

  Markets and Others                              0       0     66,900   244,500   311,400
    Subtotal Consulting Services, Training
                               and Studies                                         311,400

  Subtotal Xai Xai                                0       0    570,106  1,201,438 1,771,544

7 Dondo

    7.1 Works
  Roads Rehabilitation, Construction              0       0     26,587   394,631   421,218

  Sewage and Sanitation                           0       0          0         0         0

  Drainage                                        0       0          0         0         0

  Solid Waste                                     0       0          0         0         0

  Markets and Others                              0       0      5,674         0     5,674

                            Subtotal Works                                         426,892

    7.2 Goods and Equipment
  Tractor and related equipment                   0       0     73,990    62,870   136,860

  Solid Waste related equipment                   0       0    175,813    77,233   253,046

  Vehicles and related equipment                  0       0     28,123    60,159    88,282

  Equipment and Supplies                          0       0     14,661       258    14,919

            Subtotal Goods and Equipment                                           493,107
    7.3 Consulting Services, Training and
  Studies

  Roads Rehabilitation, Construction              0       0      7,670    23,400    31,070

  Sewage and Sanitation                           0       0          0         0         0

  Drainage                                        0       0          0         0         0

  Solid Waste                                     0       0          0         0         0

  Markets and Others                              0       0          0     3,803     3,803
    Subtotal Consulting Services, Training
                               and Studies                                          34,873

  Subtotal Dondo                                  0       0    332,518   622,354   954,872




                                              24

                                                              Cycle
                Municipality
                                           Cycle 1   Cycle 2    Cycle 3    Cycle 4     Total

8 Nacala

    8.1 Works
  Roads Rehabilitation, Construction              0         0    128,400    107,300    235,700

  Sewage and Sanitation                           0         0          0          0          0

  Drainage                                        0         0          0          0          0

  Solid Waste                                     0         0          0          0          0

  Markets and Others                              0         0      7,000    354,000    361,000

                            Subtotal Works                                             596,700

    8.2 Goods and Equipment
  Tractor and related equipment                   0         0     74,628     95,803    170,431

  Solid Waste related equipment                   0         0    105,488    156,803    262,291

  Vehicles and related equipment                  0         0     24,745     41,708     66,453

  Equipment and Supplies                          0         0    151,014    165,310    316,324

            Subtotal Goods and Equipment                                               815,499
    8.3 Consulting Services, Training and
  Studies

  Roads Rehabilitation, Construction              0         0      3,700      5,000      8,700

  Sewage and Sanitation                           0         0     28,613          0     28,613

  Drainage                                        0         0        400          0        400

  Solid Waste                                     0         0          0          0          0

  Markets and Others                              0         0      3,000          0      3,000
    Subtotal Consulting Services, Training
                               and Studies                                              40,713

  Subtotal Nacala                                 0         0    526,988    925,924  1,452,912


                                                              Cycle

                                           Cycle 1   Cycle 2    Cycle 3    Cycle 4     Total

  Total Component 3                        3,677,104 3,571,694 13,380,333  9,467,710 30,096,840




                                               25

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Background

The restructured Mozambique Municipal Development Project (MDP) had as its objectives of
assisting the Government of Mozambique (GOM) in:


    (i)     Operationalizing the legal and institutional framework for the municipal governance;

    (ii)    developing a sustainable training and technical assistance system and increase the
            Capacity of municipality officials and personnel; and

    (iii)   Establishing operating mechanism for providing grants to municipalities through a
            pilot program in eight cities to finance capital investments for municipal capacity
            building and infrastructure.


The primary beneficiary groups of the MDP are:

i)       Households and businesses in municipalities who would benefit from a more
         accountable, responsive, and empowered local government, as well directly from
         improvements in urban services and investments, and in the urban environment;

ii)      Elected municipal government officials would gain from having their legitimacy
         enhanced as a result of their improved ability to provide services and from greater
         financial and managerial autonomy;

iii)     The urban poor would obtain health and productivity benefits from the investments in
         environmental infrastructure( drainage, sanitation, community water, solid waste
         disposal), as they suffer disproportionately from the ill effects of the lack of such
         services;

iv)      Predominantly local private contractors and their workers, as well as suppliers, would
         benefit from the flow of up to US$25 million in contracts for municipal civil works and
         equipment over the four years of the project; and

v)       About 4 million people, the total population of the 33 new municipalities, would benefit
         from changes in the legal and institutional framework and from the capacity building
         component. The populations of the five municipalities targeted for the Municipal Grants
         amount to just under 2 million. The restructuring in 2004 did not affect the target groups,
         which remained the same.

These objectives and benefits were to be achieved through the implementation of these
components:

Component 1 - Legal and Institutional Reform (PAD: US$3.37 million; ICR: US$2.97 million)
The main objective of this component was to undertake the institutional and legal reforms needed
to allow the municipalities to exercise fully their powers and responsibilities as defined by the
law. At the same time, the component will integrate and harmonize the ongoing process of
administrative de-concentration and decentralization to local authorities within the broader
process of reform of the public sector now under way.

Component 2 - Municipal Capacity Building (PAD: US$4.77 million; ICR: US$2.89 million)
The overall objective of the component was to improve capacity among the municipal
government members and staff to perform their respective tasks, through training and technical


                                                26

assistance in the 33 existing municipalities, and in any new municipalities that are created during
the life of the project.

Component 3 - Municipal Grants (PAD: US$22.75 million; ICR: US$30.09 million)
The overall objective was to establish a pilot Municipal Grants Fund (MGF) program in order to
strengthen the technical, financial, and administrative capacities of the municipalities to manage
infrastructure investments, maintenance operations and associated procurement

Component 4 - Project Management and Technical Assistance (PAD: US$6.97 million; ICR:
US$9.06 million).       A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) would be established within the
Directorate for Municipal Development (DNDA) to administer the project's finances, oversee
procurement, manage contracts, supervise technical assistance, carry out monitoring, and produce
quarterly and annual progress reports.

The project was financed through credit from IDA (US$33.6 million; ICR: US$37.50); Nordic
Development Fund (US$5.18 million; ICR: US$2.89 million); and GOM contribution (US$3.28
million; ICR: US$5.42 million)

Economic Evaluation of the project

Estimating directly the economic rates of return of Component 1: Legal and institutional reform,
and Component 2: Municipal capacity building is difficult to carry out. However, the cost-
effectiveness of the investments made in the two components can be measured indirectly. One
such an approach is to observe over time the time it takes to complete the various phases of
contracting and completing of the civil works under component 3: WFS Investments.

If the legal and institutional reform and the capacity building components have the expected
positive impact higher labor productivity will result. Consequently, the time required, in number
of days, to execute the various phase of the implementation process of component 3 will decline
in successive years. Assuming the first years (2001-03) represented the base year and sequential
years will show less number of days than the number of days required in the prior year. Analysis
of the actual data collected to measure the number of days required each phase implementation
life cycle of civil works shows that the hypothesis is indeed true.

For example, the time required to complete the process of implementation from bid to last
payment was 653 days in the base year. In the next year it took 451 days and the third year the
time needed was further reduced to 336 days. The average number of days reduced to 480 days.
The results of the analyses are summarized in Table 1: Institutional Cost-effectiveness in
Implementing Component 3: WFS Investments. The gain in productivity represented by the
decline in the number of days required to complete the implementation process, from bid opening
to final payments successive years, thus affirm that the investments made in the two components
was cost-effective.

With respect to the benefits of Component 3: WFS Investments, the small size and composition
of the investments made it difficult to carry out a rigorous cost-benefit analysis. The cost of doing
so was considered high. So no direct estimate has been undertaken. However, we have evidences
that the quality of the works completed is quite satisfactory and the time of completing the works
has shortened progressively as noted above. It is, therefore safe to conclude that the beneficiaries
have gained from the anticipated benefits. That this is the likely outcome is further collaborated
by rigorous studies carried out for similar projects completed in Uganda, which noted that such
civil works projects which are selected and implemented through the participation of the
community are cost-effective, have positive outcome and represent community priorities.



                                                 27

    Table 1:Institutional Cost-effectiveness in Implementing Component 3: WFS Investments
                                          Interval in Days between

                                                            Contract    Receipt   Bid opening
                                           Bid opening     signing and and last     and last
Municipality               Final cost      and signing       receipt   payments    payments


Total        2001/03           2014194          266           236         151         653
             2003/04           2556434          155           191         105         451
             2005/06           6040472           85           184         67          336
             2006/07            161320           98            n.a        n.a         n.a


Maputo       2001/03            586255          295           257         202         754
             2003/04           1269617          101           160         45          306
             2005/06           5897620          109           309         95          513
             2006/07


Total        2001/03           2014194         100%           100%       100%        100%
             2003/04           2556434          58%           81%         70%        69%
             2005/06           6040472          32%           78%         44%        51%
             2006/07            161320          37%


Maputo       2001/03            586255         100%           100%       100%        100%
             2003/04           1269617          34%           62%         22%        41%
             2005/06           5897620          37%           120%        47%        68%

             2006/07                            0%




                                                 28

Impacted the overall devolution of authority, responsibility, and resources to 33 municipal governments, most of
which directly benefited from this component's activities
Key personnel understanding      Output /Outcome/                  Long -term
legal, regulatory &              beneficiaries                     impact/benefits
administrative frameworks
in, at least 70% of existing
municipalities (provincial
Finance Directorates, MPF
Direction for Planning &
Budget
A. Legal and Institutional       Series of decrees, draft          Devolution of authority,    Lessons from MDP
framework for municipal          policies, and regulations         responsibility and          likely to contribute to
Governance                                                         resources to 33 municipal   the establishment and
                                                                   governments                 implementation of
                                                                                               the 2006-2010
                                                                                               Strategic Plan
Training system for municipal elected and administrative personnel developed and operating in all regions and
provinces
B1. Develop a sustainable        Produces manuals,                 Increases the capacities of
training and technical           management systems ,              municipal officials and
assistance system                training programs;                personnel
                                 Formal and on the job
                                 training program in finance,
                                 human resource management,
                                 fixed asset management and
                                 urban planning to municipal
                                 technical staff and elected
                                 officials in 33 municipalities
B2. Increase in capacity of      Long term municipal
municipal officials and          development policy
personnel                        covering: motivation and
                                 leadership; revenues, taxes
                                 and fees; strengthen the role
                                 of municipal authorities;
                                 Develop and improve the
                                 legal framework of state
                                 institutions to enable
                                 technical support in the areas
                                 of urban and spatial planning,
                                 service delivery, municipal
                                 infrastructure and finance
Essential legal administrative instruments for municipal management, developed, disseminated in at least, two of the
Five regulatory project areas.
C1. Establish an operating       Provide a vehicle for learning    Household and business
mechanism for providing          by doing the for 33 municipal     in municipalities; elected
grants to municipalities         staff;                            officials; the urban poor;
through a pilot program in       Municipal staff identify,         private contractors
eight cities to finance capital  design and manage the
investments for municipal        implementation of large
capacity building                number of infrastructure
                                 projects aimed at improving
                                 the urban service delivery
C2. Establish an operating                                                                     The lessons learnt are
mechanism for providing                                                                        being used in
grants to municipalities                                                                       designing the
through a pilot program                                                                        Government's
infrastructure                                                                                 Second Poverty
                                                                                               Strategy Paper,
                                                                                               particularly, Pillar I.




                                                          29

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                            Responsibility/
          Names                       Title          Unit
                                                               Specialty
Lending
Alan Carroll           Operations Adviser           LCSDE Team Leader
                                                          Sr. Procurement
Subhash Dhingra        Consultant
                                                          Officer
                                                          Sr. Financial
Lance Morrell          Lead Operations Officer      AFTU1
                                                          Analyst
Jose Paulo Kastrup                                        Counsel
                       Sr. Financial Management           Disbursement
Jose Janeiro                                        LCSFM
                       Specialist                         Officer
                                                          Sr. Financial
                       Chief Financial Management
Anthony Hegarty                                     OPCFM Management
                       Officer
                                                          Specialist
                                                          Procurement
Irani Escolano         Procurement Specialist       LCSPT
                                                          Specialist
                                                          Consultant ­ Urban
Charlotte Allen
                                                          Planner
                                                          Consultant ­ Public
Jocelyn Mason                                             Sector Reform
                                                          Specialist
                                                          Consultant ­
                                                          Project
João Wemans
                                                          Implementation
                                                          Specialist
                                                          Consultant ­
Natalino Nascimento    Consultant                   AFTU1
                                                          Municipal Engineer
                                                          Consultant ­
Lauren Wojtyla         Consultant
                                                          Finance Specialist
                                                          Consultant ­
John Hatton                                               Environmental
                                                          Analysis
                                                          Consultant ­
Madalena Dray                                             Environmental
                                                          Analysis
                                                          Consultant ­
James O. Wright                                           Economic
                                                          Justification
                                                          Consultant ­
Royston A. C. Brockman
                                                          Municipal Finance
Paola Ridolfi          Country Officer              AFCMZ Operations Analyst
James Pannett          Operations Analyst           LCC3C Program Assistant




                                        30

Supervision/ICR
Ali Alwahti             Urban Specialist                    AFTU1
Lurdes Samuel Malate
                        Executive Assistant                 AFCS2
Amaral
Mohamed Arbi Ben-
                        Sr Social Scientist                  AFTS1
Achour
Slaheddine Ben-Halima   Sr Procurement Specialist           AFTPC
Antonio L. Chamuco      Procurement Specialist              AFTPC
Serigne Omar Fye        Sr Environmental Specialist          AFTS1
Katherine Kuper         Sr Urban Specialist                 AFTU1
Jose N. Nascimento      Consultant                          AFTU1
Maria Isabel Nhassengo-
                        Procurement Assistant               AFCS2
Massingue
Rildo Santos            Language Program Assistant          AFTU1
Joao Tinga              Financial Management Analyst        AFTFM
Victor M. Vergara       Lead Urban Sector Specialist        WBISD
Lauren Wojtyla          Consultant                         EWDAF
Ephrem Asebe            Consultant (Economist)              AFTU1


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                     No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY94                                                                    1.07
  FY95                                                                    0.52
  FY96                                                                    8.90
  FY97                                                                   44.17
  FY98                                                                   62.48
  FY99                                                                   95.74
  FY00                                       47                         472.19
  FY01                                       23                         425.06

                        Total:               70                       1,110.13
Supervision/ICR
  FY02                                       16                         111.98
  FY03                                       19                         139.96
  FY04                                       25                         146.65
  FY05                                       29                         214.87
  FY06                                       17                         178.59
  FY07                                       13                          70.94
  FY08                                                                    4.63

                        Total:              119                         867.62




                                           31

Annex 5. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                   32

MINISTRY OF STATE ADMINISTRATION


Closing Report

1. Introduction

This Report is designed to summarize the review of the project performance covering the various
aspects of the project, which may direct or indirectly have influenced its implementation and,
therefore, positively or negatively affected the level of achievement of the project development
objectives and indicators.

The report was systematized on the basis of consultations with various stakeholders involved in
the design and implementation of the project and on the basis of reports prepared by the various
agencies involved in the Project implementation and monitoring.

Municipal Grant Fund

2. The Project and its Architecture

The Municipal Development Project was designed by the Government of Mozambique to serve
as an institutional capacity building tool for the development of the existing Municipalities under
the Public Sector Reform framework and consolidation of the country's democratization process
and its institutions.

For the Project design, the following aspects were assumed as the most critical and hence
deserved top priority in the current phase of the municipal administration:: i) Human Resources
Management, ii) Financial Management, iii) Management of the Municipal Patrimony,
iv) Management of the Urban Soil and Cadastre and v) Management of Investments with bidding
practices legal acceptable and transparent. All the foregoing aspects were considered as
reference marks.

In order to cover these priority areas, the project was composed of four (4) components: a) Legal
and Institutional Reform, b) Municipal Capacity Building, c) Municipal Subvention Fund and
d) Coordination and Technical Assistance Unit.

The Project was denied as a pilot experience with a four-year duration having later been given an
extension of one year following a delay experienced at the beginning of its implementation.

In order to ensure a successful and coherent implementation, the following sequence had been
planned for the practical implementation of the four components:

         First: The Legal and Institutional Reform component to prepare the environment and
         political-administrative scenarios of integration;
         Second: Capacity building to support the Project understanding and preparing the future
         action, through training activities;
         Third: The Municipal Grant Funds component, as the result of prior preparation of a
         legal and institutional environment and technical capacity building.

However, the effective mobilization of the four components did not occur in the appropriate
order as the following table illustrates:




                                                 33

   Project Management                                                  November        2001
   Municipal Grant Fund and Technical Assistance                       January         2002
   Capacity Building                                                   August          2002
   Legal and Institutional Reform                                      February        2003

Given the diverse implementation manner, the MSF component became "the face of the project",
partially undermining the project development objective for practical learning.

Only after two years, the project entered its logical course and adjusted itself to its initial
conception.

The Project Implementation Manual ­ PIM was the basis for the implementation of the entire
Project.

3. The Objectives and Indicators of the Project Performance

The strategic objective of the MDP was to strengthen the capacity of municipal governments at
their different levels and links, such as the production of the legislation and complementary
regulations, and in the areas of management, finance, infrastructure planning, supply of goods
and delivery services.

3.1. Key Project Performance Indicators

Having in consideration the strategic and specific objectives, the project performance indicators
consisted of the following results and goals achieved by the project implementation. See
Appendix 1.

4. The Project Implementation and Performance

The Project implementation process was marked by the way in which it was initially designed
and by mutations that has been suffering as the result of reforms and corrections made
throughout the entire course.

It was owing to the above, apart from the delays registered in the implementation of the various
components, that the responsibility for various activities rested in the hands of various
consortiums namely KPMG and Técnica Consultores, in charge of the project management and
technical assistance, Ernest & Young, in charge of activities related to Legal and Institutional
Reforms, and T & B Consult, in charge of Municipal Capacity Building.

Following the complaints from the Municipalities, the first restructuring of Technical Assistance
and of the Coordination Unit was carried out resulting in this task being exercised by individual
consultants.

The Legal and Institutional Reform was the only component that did not suffer restructuring and
exercised its mandate until the end of the contract. However, Municipal Capacity Building
Component saw a change of its leading organs either in Denmark or in its representation, in
Maputo, following the imperative need for a speedier implementation of the consortium's
mandate.

The medium term evaluation of the project helped to identify the weaknesses and recommend
the reforms that were necessary for the solution of the problems that affected the project's
performance.



                                              34

That evaluation resulted in a MIP review and the strengthening of the Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) team of consultants with the introduction of regional Engineers distributed in 3
regions in view to ensuring greater pro-activity in the provision of financial assistance and
monitoring.

The following aspects are among the factors that negatively influenced the Project
implementation:

       a. From the Government
                   ·   Delays in the issuing of the relevant documents for customs clearance of
                       imported goods and equipment.
                   ·   Insufficiency of funds from OGE in the first years of project
                       implementation.
                   ·   Delays in Stage Budget disbursement.

       b. From Executing Agencies

                i. The Municipalities
                   ·   Change of some Municipal engineers and accountants, during the
                       project implementation period, caused some disturbances until the new
                       staff gained the desired rhythm.
                   ·   Poor capacity of the Municipalities in the projection of budgetary
                       estimates, which always resulted in the estimation by defect.
                   ·   Lack of compliance of contractual deadlines in the investment execution
                       in all Municipalities, especially during the first 3 years prior to the
                       reformulation of the Grant Funds.
                   ·   Lack of maintenance habit of patrimonial assets of the Municipalities,
                       given their poor budgeting.
                   ·   The constitution of Municipal nucleus linked to the project
                       implementation, at the beginning, created problems related to lack of
                       socialization of the experiences that were being accumulated by the
                       group among other municipal workers apart from having created wage
                       disparities.
                   ·   Poor commitment of the Mayors in monitoring and coordinating the
                       implementation of investments financed by the Municipal Grant Fund.
                   ·   Poor financial capacity of the Municipalities in honoring their co
                       participation at 10% of the contract values.

               ii. The Management and Technical Assistance Unit
                   ·   The change of Directors throughout the period of the project
                       implementation caused some disturbances until the new official gained
                       the desired rhythm.
                   ·    In general, the changes operated brought about more gains than
                       disturbances as they introduced improvements and innovations in the
                       project implementation.
                   ·   The acquisition of equipment of unknown makes and without
                       representation on the local market, which created maintenance and
                       operation problems.

              iii. The Selected Contractors
                   ·   Poor technical and financial capacity of the selected contractors to carry
                       out the civil works.


                                              35

                    ·    Lack of experience with World Bank bidding.

       c. From IDA
                    ·    At the beginning there was excessive centralization in the processing of
                         various issues inherent to the project implementation at IDA
                         headquarters and little intervention from the resident mission, thus
                         causing major delays in the responses requested.
                    ·    The change of the Task Team Leader during the period of the project
                         implementation caused some disturbances until the new Leader gained
                         the desired rhythm.
                    ·    Excessive rigidity of the rules and mechanisms of IDA, very often
                         unadjusted to the reality of the Municipalities in particular and of the
                         country in general.
                    ·    Lack of harmony of the budgetary cycles between that of IDA and those
                         of the Municipalities.
                    ·    Delays in the concessions of the NO (no objection)
                    ·    Delays in the disbursement on the part of IDA.
                    ·    Lack of the increase of the limit of the special account and of the
                         municipal accounts created embarrassments in the management of
                         contracts, especially during the project extension period.

       d. From other partners

                ·   Difficulties in the coordination and harmonization of policies, priorities and
                    methods of approach to municipal matters.
                ·   Dispersion of resources and efforts among the various partners involved in
                    the municipal development.
                ·   Poor utilization of existing synergies in terms of experiences of the different
                    partners.
                ·   Lack of equilibrium in the geographical distribution of the various partners
                    supporting the municipalization process.

5. Results Achieved and Mechanisms for their Sustainability

5.1. The Results Achieved and the cost-benefit analysis

Among the results achieved by the Project implementation, the following are worth highlighting:
    ·  In general, the project brought about substantial gains in the areas identified as critical
       for Municipal Development at this phase;
    ·  Although in a progressive way, these gains manifest themselves in a significant
       improvement of the competences of both the elects and municipal officials and
       institutions in terms of municipality management and administration;
    ·  In all MSF member municipalities, there were substantial improvements in terms of an
       increase of their own revenue; increase of financial management capacity as well as in
       terms of their operative management and maintenance;
    ·  In the four project components, there were results that constituted value added in terms
       of municipal institutional capacity building and are hereby presented in the present
       report.
    ·  Production of regulation and review of grass root level municipal packages;
    ·  The set of norms and procedures which contribute to the improvement of the Local
       Municipality functioning system expanded;



                                                36

    ·  New models of functional organization of the Local Municipalities adopted;
    ·  The national municipal training system established;
    ·  A capacity building system within the 3 IFAPAS created;
    ·  Trainers and instructors mobilized;
    ·  The IFAPAS furnished with the necessary materials;
    ·  Pedagogical assistants for various courses made available;
    ·  IFAPAS and trainers trained on on-site technical assistance covering many of the
       workers and elects from the 33 Municipalities;
    ·  The bases established for the municipal strategic planning;
    ·  The creation of project planning mechanisms and consultancies, launching of bids,
       evaluation, adjudication, signing and management of contracts and supervision;
    ·  The operation planning and maintenance, especially in captivating money in the
       municipal budget, ensuring the sustainability of the investments was encouraged;
    ·   The production of simplified procurement manuals harmonized with the national
       procurement approved by the Government of Mozambique;
    ·  The production of infrastructure operation and maintenance manuals and mechanical
       equipments whose utilization will be extensive to all the 33 Municipalities.

5.2. Mechanisms adopted for the sustainability of the Project Outcomes

Among the key measures adopted to ensure the Sustainability of the Project Outcomes, the
following are presented:


5.2.1. Of Legal and institutional Nature
       ·   Creation of IFAPAs
       ·   Preparation and approval of specific Regulation for the organization and sustainable
           functioning of the Municipalities
       ·   Approval by MAE of the Municipal and Urban Development Strategy
       ·   Production of legal and normative Diplomas of mandatory nature
       ·   Integration of the technicians of the municipal nucleus into the organic structure and
           municipal budgets
       ·   Harmonization of the project procurement norms with the national normative rules
           and procedures
       ·   Institutional collaboration with ANAMM
       ·   Generalization of the bidding rules and procedures at the level of the pilot
           Municipalities and all investment projects regardless of those financed by
           international donors
       ·   Effectiveness of the functional analysis of member Municipalities of the Municipal
           Grant Fund

5.2.2. Of Material Nature
       ·   Production of manuals and respective modules
       ·   Certification of the manuals produced
       ·   Material equipment of IFAPAs and the Government institutions involved (MAE,
           MF and MICOA)
       ·   Production of the Catalogue of services
       ·   Equipment of IFAPAs in bibliographic material
       ·   Supply of basic equipment to IFAPAs
       ·   Provision of technical advisory services to the Municipal Councils, members of the
           Subventions Funds

                                               37

        ·   Provision of material to the Municipalities eligible to the Grant Funds

5.2.3. Of Human Nature
        ·   Identification of coordinators and institutions for the design of the training manuals
        ·   Training of trainers and instructors
        ·   Selection of coordinators among MAE's senior technical staff for each project
            component
        ·   Institutionalization of Technical Assistance of the Municipalities by IFAPAs
        ·   Training of Municipal officials
        ·   Selection of counterparts for each of Project's strategic posts, which will ensure the
            transfer of know-how during the project extension period
        ·   Technical Assistance to DNDA for its institutional strengthening in the "phasing
            out" perspective
        ·   Preparation of training Strategic Plans of the Municipalities
        ·   Dissemination of the experiences of good practices among the municipal officials
        ·   Normalization of good administrative and organizational practices
        ·   Capacity building for trainers on on-site technical assistance
        ·   Recruitment and training of the new municipal engineers
        ·   Integration of technicians working with the Municipal Grant Funds into the member
            Municipal Councils
        ·   Training of municipal technicians in the utilization of the manuals of operation and
            maintenance of both the infrastructure and equipment
        ·    Selection of the Coordinator for the Municipal Capacity Building Component as
            Public Sector Deputy National Director responsible for the area of Training and
            Technical Assistance

5.2.4. Of Organizational Nature
        ·   Creation of functional organization models of the Municipalities;
        ·   Reorganization of municipal markets and of the different sources of municipal
            revenue;
        ·   Creation of more spaces for community participation in municipal management;
        ·   Designed municipal capacity building mechanisms to be integrated into SIFAP;

6. The Project Impact on Municipal Development and Consolidation of the
    Decentralization Program

The following aspects are highlighted in terms of improvements at the infrastructure level:
    ·   The impacts of the Municipal Subventions Fund relative to the Municipalities covered
        were essentially visible in the significant improvements of sanitary conditions,
        improvement of access roads, increase in the collection of revenue with the construction
        of new markets, preparation of postures; increase the participation of communities in the
        identification and implementation of the investment programs.
    ·   The functional analysis conducted will allow an organization of the municipalities in a
        rational manner.
    ·   The equipments that the Municipalities acquired with this Fund helped substantially to
        improve the garbage collection system, to conduct periodic maintenance of roads and
        drainage systems to combat erosion.
    ·   As a result of the realized investments, significant improvements were realized in the
        quality of life of the Citizens in the framework of public health (garbage collection and
        drainage channels and health posts), Water Supply (boreholes and fountains), road
        network (rehabilitation of roads and art works), Food Security (construction of markets),
        public lighting network, bus terminals, sheds, municipal administrative posts, public

                                                 38

       hygiene (public toilets and public sanitation networks), environmental Impact (adoption
       of environmental mitigation measures in infrastructural investments, etc.

    ·  Regarding institutional Capacity Building, there were significant advances through the
       introduction of new and more transparent bidding practices, as well as new financial
       management methodologies. Through "consultancies" bases for an increased
       sustainability of the Municipalities were created with the increase in revenue collection,
       through construction of new markets.
    ·  Also important was the adoption of the new codes of conduct for the Municipalities to
       be observed both individually and collectively.
    ·  The resulting infrastructures ­ construction of markets, roads, beneficiation of the
       municipal road system, and improvement in garbage collection (supply of diverse
       equipment) had an impact in the increase in the quality of life.
    ·  Furthermore, this exercise increased the capacity of the municipal staff in managing
       small and medium scale works.
    ·  On job and group training has contributed to that.
    ·  The specific consultancies will help in the collection of additional revenue ­ case of the
       postures and analysis of the new revenue sources.
    ·  Elaboration of the approved Operation and Maintenance plans and of investments.
    ·  Involvement of local consultants in the preparation and implementation of investments.
    ·  Involvement of communities in the identification and implementation of Municipal
       investments.

7. Main Weaknesses and Risks

7.1. Project weaknesses

Some of the weaknesses identified during the first three years at the MSF level are enumerated
below:
    a. The MSF cycle did not coincide with the Municipality fiscal cycle causing disturbances
       at the level of the municipal budget;
    b. The period between the launch of some bids and their final payment exceeded the cycle
       in more than 50%;
    c. Lack of pro-activity from some Mayors contributed to the delays in the execution of
       investments;
    d. The     Municipality    did   not   honor    time   on   its   commitments       with   the
       suppliers/contractors/consultants of making its contribution available (10%);
    e. The Government, by delaying its co participation (5%), also contributed to the delays of
       payments;
    f. Some Municipalities did not recruit technicians for the staff (engineers, accountants),
       where, as a result of the departure of the existing members of staff, but hired on the basis
       of the World Bank financing, nothing remained of the known transmitted;
    g. The conditions imposed by the World Bank for participation in bids did not allow the
       participation of local contractors;
    h. The technical assistance, provided by a company, did not always come at the time it was
       requested by the Municipality;
    i. The UCP, conceived under entrepreneurial models, responded slowly to process
       requirements; and
    j. Poor communication between the UCP and the Municipalities.




                                               39

7.2. Risks

Above all, a project with a strong institutional, legal and political component has to leave as
legacy, a strong insertion in the state organization, in the institutional reforms of the
municipalities and IFAPAS to ensure its success and sustainability.

Therefore the following risks to achieving that objective are taken into consideration:

    a) Non institutionalization of the procedures and good practice models, in the respective
        organic regulations of the functioning of the Municipalities, IFAPAS and within
        MAE/DNDA.
    b) Non integration into the group of technicians who participated in the implementation of
        the project in each of the Municipality members of the Municipal Subventions Fund.
    c) Arbitrary transfer of qualified technicians, in each of the 33 municipalities, from their
        respective area in which they received capacity building and training to other areas that
        have nothing to do with the experience and skills acquired.
    d) Lack of motivation and consideration of the various technicians of the Municipalities.
    e) Lack of human resources development strategic plans in each Municipality.
    f) Lack of implementation of the various studies for the Municipality institutional reform,
        including the functional analysis conducted.
    g) Lack of a mechanism that facilitates the increment of own revenue creates a permanent
        dependency on the state and cooperation partners.
    k. Poor local capacity development in civil works and maintenance.

8. The lessons to Capitalize

The sustainability of a Project is a fundamental element; otherwise it would make no sense
producing documentation in the area of local governance without implementing it, producing
manuals for capacity building and not using them, rehabilitate or undertake new civil works and
acquire equipment without ensuring their use and maintenance and to undertake studies without
making use of them.

Below is summary of positive experiences that can be used as reference in future projects:

    ·   Mayors must be an integral part of the projects and, as such, must lead in designing,
        implementation, evaluation and monitoring processes and intervene timely in the
        removal of obstacles.

    ·   The Research and Project Offices of the municipalities must be reinforced with human
        and material resources.

    ·   The technicians linked to a given project must be part of the Municipality staff;
        otherwise the skills they may acquire may not benefit the municipality.

    ·   The mechanisms to adopt must be the same as those the State adopts, as well as the
        procedures.

    ·   The transfer of funds to the Municipalities must be made using the inter-governmental
        transfer system and not through special accounts.

    ·   The audits must be performed by State institutions with mandate to do so and on the
        basis of the rules and methodologies of the Administrative Tribunal.

    ·   When the Municipality has to co-participate, the percentage stipulated must always be
        deposited at the time of the signing of the respective contract in order to avoid payment


                                                40

          delays. This co-participation has to be according to the capacity of the Municipality.

    ·     The investment implementation period must be the fiscal year. If more time is required
          to complete the work, the works and the funds will transit to the following year.

    ·     The consultancies must be more oriented to the increase of the municipality's
          organizational and management capacity (postures, functional analysis, increased of
          revenue, financial advisor) than to future works.

    ·     Training must be continuous for the technicians of all areas considered as critical.

    ·     The internal communication system between all the parties involved in the program is
          very important and so its technological viability must be taken as a priority.


Conclusions

Once the Project implementation is concluded in line with the objectives contained in the Project
Document (PAD), this phase will be considered as a pilot phase thus providing experience and
inspiration for the consolidation of the Municipal Process in Mozambique.

This Project proved to be essential in the search for lessons and references, and it therefore needs
to be understood by the Government, Municipalities, cooperation partners and society in general,
as medium and long term social and political investment, whose results, in some cases, will only
be visible after several years of its implementation, consolidation and expansion.

The following are among other indirect benefits of the project:

    ·     Democratization of the society: to enlarge the direct involvement base of citizens in the
          exercise of power and in organizational management, including in its economic,
          financial and social aspects;
    ·     Public appropriation and local development: so that local communities acquire,
          because of their participation, a wider vision of the decision making processes and,
          therefore, develop the capacity and know-how for influencing them;
    ·     More efficient management of services: Provided there is competent staff, the
          proximity of managers and the community elects facilitate the dialogue, reducing the
          cost of services and increasing efficiency;
    ·     Development in diversity: when the reality in each municipality is different, which
          creates conditions for sound competitiveness and for testing the varied organization
          models and is very useful for the extension of the process to more municipalities.

While being the key players in these processes, the Government and the Municipalities assume
the responsibility for their implementation in a fast, participative and transparent manner as well
as promoting a demonstrative effect, from the institutional, social and economic perspective,
effective and balanced in the development process of the Country and the municipal territorial
units.

In a nutshell, the Project designed as a pilot experience to draw lessons that allow for the
institutionalization of system of capacity building and institutional strengthening and of
intergovernmental transfers of financial resources for the promotion of Urban and Municipal
Development, produced unequivocal gains which require from both the municipalities and the
Government the creation of effective mechanisms to ensure its consolidation, sustainability and
that it is replicable.

The direct and indirect results from this Project raise new challenges to the Government and the
Municipalities of designing a wider program that benefits all the Municipalities including those

                                                  41

that will emerge with the expansion of the Decentralization process.

In the design of the new project there is need to give priority not only to the expectations of the
Municipalities as well as, and above all, the vision and the priorities defined by the municipal
organs themselves in partnership with their communities, as this ensures the appropriation and
leadership of the strategic planning process by the Municipalities themselves.


Appendix 1

 Indicators                                                                       Percentage of
                                                                                   achievement
 Component 1: Legal and Institutional Reform
 1. Diagnosis of the municipalities in all the sub-components and preparation         100%
 of a Policy Document on Municipal Development, for debate with key
 partners.
 2. Preparation of legal and methodological instruments to promote municipal          100%
 management in the areas assumed as critical.
 3. Preparation and approval of legal and complementary regulatory                    100%
 instruments to the municipal package
 4. Preparation of manuals and systems to put in operation and document the           100%
 various areas of municipal Administration
 5. All produced legal and regulatory instruments disseminated.                       100%
 6. Municipalities with mechanisms working in a way towards promoting the             100%
 participation of the community and representatives of the partners in the
 development decision taking.
 7. Capacity building for DNDA, DNPO and DPPF´s technical staff of each               100%
 province, in order to disseminate, support and monitor the implementation of
 the legal and methodological instruments of municipal development
 8. Creation of mechanisms that promote the participation of representatives          100%
 of the community and key partners in the decision taking process
 Component 2: Municipal Capacity Building
 1. Capacity building for municipal staff so as to execute adequately their           100%
 professional tasks and duties, essentially in the areas of finance and
 management of patrimony, human resources and urban soil.
 2. Elected trainees exercising their job adequately according to their               100%
 obligations.
 3. All course manuals prepared, approved and disseminated in each of the             100%
 areas covered
 4. All technical staff appointed by the government to perform the job                100%
 efficiently according to their duties.
 5. All the instructors and trainers for each area exercising their duties            100%
 adequately.
 6. Existence of a team, functioning within DNDA and DNFP, prepared and               100%
 trained to take on this type of responsibilities.
 7. Of the 100% technicians appointed by the Government, 70% will have                100%
 begun executing their duties efficiently.
 8. Of the Mayors and councilors, 100% have knowledge of the legal and                 90%
 regulatory provisions, and 70% will have begun applying them
 9. Of the total of instructors and trainers foreseen for each of the four            100%
 training areas 70% will begun executing their work efficiently
 10. There is at least a reference manual for each of the five key areas:             100%
 Human Resources (1), Financial Management (1), Patrimonial Management

                                                  42

(1), Urban Soil Management, Cadastre and Inspection (1) Capacity Building
Manual for Municipal Elects (1)
11. Of the 100% of workers appointed by the IFAPAs for capacity building,     100%
at least 70% realized, applying the skills acquired.
12. ANAMM established an electronic file and in hard copy of internal and     100%
external contacts
13. ANAMM participated in municipal training activities, organized by the     100%
Component
14. ANAMM established contacts with donor partners, NGOs and similar          100%
associations
15. ANAMM participates actively in municipal capacity building planning       100%
with the Government, IFAPAs and partners.
Component 3: Municipal Subventions Fund
1. % of participating municipalities of the MSF that implement, timely and    100%
adequately, investment plans and procurement.
2.   % of participating municipalities of the MSF, with disbursement          100%
obligations for investment plans on time.
3. % of participating municipalities of the MSF with adequate maintenance     100%
procedures.
4.   % of participating municipalities of the MSF that presents annual        100%
accounts on time and auditable in an independent manner, even with
qualifications.
5.   % of management systems and financial implementation and of              100%
investments tested and documented in MIP and other necessary procedures
and methodologies
Component 4: Project Coordination Unit
1. Council of Director of the MSF meeting at least 3 times per annum          100%
2. % of procurement and disbursement made in an effective manner and on       100%
time in order to ensure the effective implementation by the components
3. % of Project documentation prepared in a satisfactory manner and timely.   100%
4. Independent Auditors' Report of the project on time and without            100%
qualification




                                                43

Annex 6. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Comments were requested from NDF but none were received.




                                      44

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

· Strategic Plan for the Public Administration Sector 2006-2010, Ministry of State
  Administration, December 2005

· Municipal Development Policy, Ministry of State Administration, (2005)

· Mozambique Country Assistance Strategy, October 20, 2003

· Mozambique Country Partnership Strategy, April 24, 2007 (Report No. 26747-MOZ)

· Promoting Shared Growth through Empowerment of Citizens and Institutions, Mozambique
  Country Partnership Strategy 2008-2011

· An Overview of the current state of urban development, planning, and land management in
  Mozambique, report for Rooftops Canada, Charlotte Allen & Vibe Johnsen, Draft February
  2006

· Decentralized Planning and Financing Project, PAD (October 15, 2003)

· PROMAPUTO-The Maputo Municipal Development Program , PAD (December 21, 2006)

· Strategic Conflict Assessment-Mozambique, Tony Levaux et. al., April 2006

· Projecto de Desenvolvimento Municipal, Recolha das Experiencias da Fase Piloto do PDM,
  Relatorio Final, Ministerio da Administracao Estatal-DNDA, 8 de Fevereiro de 2007

· Republica de Mozambique (2006) Plano de Acção Para a Redução da Pobreza Absoluta-
  PARPA II

· ICR for Local Government Reform and Engineering Project (PROL), October 12, 1999

· ICR for Rural Rehabilitation Project (PRU), June 12, 2001

· ICR for Local Government Development Program (Uganda), November 23, 2004

· Relatorio Banco Mundial, Ana Cristina Jurema, Junho 2006 (e-mail by J. Malling
  Christensen, 6 June 2006)

· Project Documents on file




                                             45

MAP




       46

                                                                                                                                                                                                   IBRD 31398
GABON              RWANDA
   CONGO     DEM. REP.                                                                                             36°
                            BURUNDI                                                    34°
                                                         INDIAN                                                                                           38°                                    40°
            OF CONGO                                     OCEAN
                             TANZANIA


                                                   COMOROS                                                            T A N Z A N I A
       ANGOLA
                                MALAWI
                                                     Mayotte                               LAKE
                  ZAMBIA                                (Fr)



                      ZIMBABWE

       NAMBIA                   MOZAMBIQUE mbiqueChannel                                                                                                                          River
                                                                                            MALAWI                                                                     Rovuma


             BOTSWANA                     Moza              MADAGASCAR
                                                                          12°                                                                                                                              12°

ATLANTIC                       SWAZILAND
                                                                                                                                                                                  C A B O
 OCEAN

               SOUTH    LESOTHO

              AFRICA                                                                                                                         River                           D E L G A D O
                                                                                                                                  Lugenda                                                             Pemba
                                                                                                                      N I A S S A
                                         32°
                                                                                                            Lichinga                                 River
               Z A M B I A                                              M A L A W I                                                      Messalo



14°                                                                                                                                                                               River                    14°
                                                                                                                                                                           Lurio


                                                                                                                                                                 N A M P U L A

                                                                      Zambeze

                Lake Cahora      Bassa                                                                 River                                                                  Nampula
                                                                             River
                                                           T E T E                                Chire

16°                                                                        Tete                                                                                                                            16°




                                                                                                                      Z A M B E Z I A




18°                                                                      M A N I C A                                                 Quelimane
                                                                                                                                                                            M O Z A M B I Q U E            18°




        Z I M B A B W E                                                       Chimoio                                                                                            C H A N N E L
                                                                                          S O F A L A


                                                                                                         Beira                 M O Z A M B I Q U E
20°                                                                                                                                                                                                        20°
                                                                                                               MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT
                                                                                                                                         PROJECT
                                                                                             River
                                                                                    Save

                                                                                                                               Beira          Cities Participating in First Phase of
                                                                                                                                                  Municipal Grants Component

22°                                                                                                                                                                                                        22°


                                                                                  I N H A M B A N E                                           Province capitals
                                       Limpopo
                                                                                                                                              National capital
                                                                 G A Z A                                                                      Province boundaries
                                                            River

                                                                                                                                              International boundaries
                                                                                                               Inhambane
24°                                                                                                                                                                                                        24°
          S O U T H

         A F R I C A                                                                                                       0                  100                  200                 300


                                                      MAPUTO                           Xai-Xai                                                      KILOMETERS



                                                                                                                          This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                          The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information shown

                                                                        MAPUTO                                            on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank Group, any
                                                                                                                          judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any endorsement or
26°                                                                                                                       acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                                                                                                                           26°


                         SWAZILAND

         32°                                            SOUTH AFRICA                     34°                      36°                               38°                                     40°

                                                                                                                                                                                                      JUNE 2001

