Report No. PID8361
Project Name                     Mozambique-Municipal Development Project (@)
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Decentralization; Urban Management
Project                          MZPE1806
Borrower(s)                      GOVT OF MOZAMBIQUE
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF STATE ADMINISTRATION
(MAE)
Municipalities of participating cities
Contact Person: Mr. Jose Guambe, Director of
Local Administration, Ministry of State
Administration
Tel: 258-1-307888
Fax: 258-1-428565
Email: prolmae@zebra.uem.mz
Environment Category             F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
Date PID Prepared                January 8, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         February 19, 2001
Projected Board Date             June 30, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
The prolonged civil war in Mozambique (1975-92) had a severe impact on its
urban centers. Large numbers of rural people fled to urban areas,
tripling the urban population between 1980 and 1995. The urban population
of Mozambique now represents about 38t of the national total (1998) and is
still growing rapidly, at nearly 6t per year, compared with a total
national population growth rate of around 2.4w per year (figures from the
World Development Indicators 2000). The huge influx of mostly poor
migrants into cities and towns overwhelmed infrastructure systems
originally designed for much smaller numbers. With severely deteriorated
infrastructure and services, cities are not capable of adequately
supporting the economic productivity of firms and households. Living
conditions in cities are deficient for most residents. Slums and squatter
settlements are a very visible part of the urban landscape. The urban
poor -- 62t of urban dwellers according to the most recent 1996-97 poverty
study -- suffer disproportionately from bad environmental sanitation,
resulting in ill health and stunted economic opportunities. Urban service
deficiencies include deteriorated roads, inadequate supplies of potable
water, and poor drainage and domestic sanitation resulting in widespread
water-borne diseases (infant mortality was 135 per thousand in 1997
compared with 69 for low-income countries world-wide, with a major share
due to diarrhea and other sanitation-related diseases). In 1993, only 23t
of households in Maputo had a sewerage connection; the vast majority of
urban residents still rely on pit latrines or have no sanitation
facilities. Haphazard dumping and low collection levels of solid waste
(only 37T in Maputo in 1993, which probably has gone down since then due



to rapid growth of the city) contribute to these problems. In addition, a
severe problem of deforestation and loss of mangroves near coastal areas
results from the dependence of most of the urban population on fuelwood
and charcoal for energy.
Since 1987, the Government has been engaged in a program of economic
rehabilitation, shifting from a command economy to one based on market
forces. A policy of gradually decentralizing authority to local
governments is a key feature of this program. In early 1997 the National
Assembly approved a package of several laws governing municipal elections,
the creation of municipal councils and assemblies, and municipal finances.
Among the main components were constitutional amendments to permit the
creation of local governments (Lei 9/96, November 22, 1996); the Law of
Municipalities (Lei 2/97, February 18, 1997); and the Law of Municipal
Finances (Lei 11/97, May 31, 1997). These constituted a comprehensive
national legal framework giving municipalities extensive administrative
and financial autonomy. Municipal elections were held on June 30, 1998 in
33 urban centers: 10 regional capitals (Cidades Capitais), 13 cities
(Cidades), and 10 towns (Vilas). In August 1998 the newly elected
municipal Presidents (mayors) were sworn in. Support for the preparation
of the legislative package on municipalities was a major accomplishment of
the Bank-financed Local Government Reform and Engineering Project (PROL).
As the Goverenment's Letter of Sector Policy indicates, the next few
years will be a learning and testing period for the new municipalities and
the central government. Based on these lessons, the Government plans to
go forward with further decentralization. Achieving the full degree of
municipal autonomy envisaged in the laws will be a long-term task,
however. Entrenched habits of centralization and authoritarianism will
take time to break down, and the essential building blocks of successful
government -- appropriate staff, adequate financial resources, and an
appropriate regulatory framework -- will requires years of work and
experience to establish and fine tume. Moreover, the performance of the
municipalities in the near future may be affected by the fact that the
main opposition party boycotted the 1998 municipal elections, and the
voter turnout was extremely low (around 15% of the eligible population).
Municipal governments have consistently lacked investment funds, and they
are barely beginning to develop systematic approaches for the provision of
urban infrastructure and services. There is a huge backlog of dilapidated
roads, drains, and sewer systems which have not been maintained.
Recurrent services such as solid waste collection have low coverage and
fluctuate with the availability of municipal or donor funding.
Organizational structures for infrastructure and service provision are
archaic, often relying on "force account" cadres of municipal laborers.
Little use is made of private sector contracting. User fees for sewerage,
sanitation, and solid waste disposal are minimal or non-existent.
Municipal sanitation departments don't keep fees collected for services;
these go back to the general municipal treasury.
Municipal governments' revenues are extremely low, averaging US$6.71 per
capita across the five main cities in 2000. Less than half are own source
or locally collected revenues (US$2.71 per capita in 2000 for the five
cities), and these are largely a fees and licenses, with market fees being
the most important. The majority of municipal revenues are fiscal
-2 -



transfers from the central government. At the same time, recurrent
expenditures are increasing and now represent 70 percent of total
expenditures on average. Of these, over 40 percent are consumed by
personnel costs. In consequence, maintenance of municipal assets is
extremely low in proportion to total expenditures, and, unless the trend
is changed, municipalities will be able to afford little of the needed new
investment and improvement in municipal services.
To deliver the improvements promised by municipalization, municipal
revenues will have to increase significantly. Financial projections
undertaken as part of the preparation of the project show that under a
realistic scenario of pro-active measures to increase revenues and control
expenditures, the five main cities would be able to afford steadily
growing investment programs and still provide for adquate operation and
maintenance. This scenario presumes a modest success in increasing revenue
generation (including fees to cover costs of services), new tax revenues
that exceed the cost of collection, actively controlled recurrent
expenditures, and an increase in fiscal transfers. Importantly, a number
of new local taxes are provided for in the recent Law of Municipal
Finances, potentially representing very productive sources of municipal
revenues. However, to date the appropriate regulations have not been
promulgated, and thus the municipalities have not yet been allowed to
start collecting these taxes.
The new municipalities are empowered to provide a full range of municipal
infrastructure and services. Basic urban services (such as garbage
collection and drainage) have always been handled by the local city and
town administrations. However, the transfer of competencies for
activities beyond these basic services (such as pre-school and primary
education and primary health posts), along with commensurate resources,
will be a long and difficult process. It will depend, to a large extent,
on improving the capacity within the municipalities to fulfill existing
responsibilities. MAE, with help from the PROL Project, drafted a decree
regarding the transfer of competencies which is being considered by the
Council of Ministers. The transfer mechanism envisaged in this proposed
legislation is intended to be a contract between the central government
and the municipalities spelling out the assignment of central government
staff to the municipality, the transfer of fiscal resources, and the
allocation of physical assets for each type of service.
Finally, the new municipalities require policy reforms and assistance to
improve their human resource capabilities. Except to a limited degree in
Maputo, municipalities have no senior level engineers, planners, or
financial specialists, and one is lucky to find middle-level technical
personnel in the larger urban centers. The new municipal Presidents and
Assembly members will require considerable orientation and training. Even
in the private sector, there is a severe shortage of trained and
experienced Mozambican engineers, planners, and financial specialists. It
is especially difficult to recruit technically qualified people for long-
term assignments away from Maputo.
2. Objectives
The primary, long-term development objective of the proposed project is to
strengthen the capacity of municipal governments in the areas of
management, finance, and the provision of infrastructure and services.
- 3-



The project's specific objectives are: (a) to assist the Government of
Mozambique (GOM) in completing the legal and institutional framework for
municipal governance, mainly to ensure municipalities' financial viability
and constitutionally defined autonomy; (b) to create an institutional
capability and a framework for training of elected and appointed municipal
officials and municipal employees; (c) to train officials and staff of all
the municipalities in basic administrative and technical subjects; (d) to
establish a replicable Municipal Grants Fund (MGF) -- through a pilot in
five cities -- to finance investments by the municipalities; (e) to
implement, through the MGF, capital investments which will have tangible
economic and social benefits; and (f) through their actual practice as
implementing agencies under the MGF, to improve the technical and
financial capacity of the five municipal governments to provide
sustainable urban infrastructure and services.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank is the only external assistance agency in a position to provide
significant resources for a national program in urban policy, capacity-
building, and investment. While a number of other agencies are supporting
activities in the sector, their interventions are limited in scope, mostly
focusing on particular urban centers or specific aspects of urban
development. The Bank's comparative advantage is to operate
simultaneously at the center and local levels, linking both capacity
building and investment to policy reform and the strengthening of
municipal autonomy, enabling an iterative and cumulatively reinforcing
process. The Bank's 10 years of experience in urban development in
Mozambique (through the PRU and PROL projects) give it credibility and a
mature understanding of the issues. Moreover, throughout the duration of
these projects, as well as other projects related to reform of the public
sector, the Bank has built up a relationship of confidence with MAE in
particular and the Government more broadly. As a result, the Bank is
leading the support for the next stages of public sector reform, now in
the design stages, which will also be supported through a Bank-funded
project. As a multilateral agency, the Bank is in a position to serve as
a focal point for establishing a programmatic framework for urban
development with the concerned Mozambican institutions and other
assistance agencies. Developing a program of support over the long-term
will be an output of the project. The other main agencies active in the
public sector reform sector are UNDP, through its support of SIFAP among
other initiatives, and Swedish SIDA, through its long term support for the
institutional development of MAE.
4. Description
The Municipal Development Project would have three components: (1) Legal
and Institutional Reform, (2) Municipal Capacity Building, and (3) a
Municipal Grants Fund. The first and second components would cover all 33
municipalities. The Municipal Grants Fund would be a pilot program in
five municipalities: Maputo, Beira, Nampula, Quelimane, and Pemba.
The Legal and Institutional Reform component would provide technical
assistance to the Ministry of State Administration for the drafting of
legal instruments (regulations, decrees, etc.) and the preparation of
studies, manuals, guidelines, and other materials needed to establish the
legal and policy framework -- the "enabling environment" -- for municipal
development and management.
-4-



The Municipal Capacity Building component would provide in-service
training to elected and appointed municipal officials, municipal staff,
and members of other organizations which support the municipalities. It
would also develop materials for pre-service training and provide
technical assistance to develop and improve systems and processes. This
component would develop a strategy that encompasses training in the
municipal government system and public administration in general, as well
as basic technical skills needed by the municipal authorities, such as
municipal finance and delivery of infrastructure and services. The
Capacity Building component would be institutionalized in the Intermediate
Institute for Public Administration (IMAP). This component would be
funded by the Nordic Development Fund (NDF) as parallel financing of the
project.
The Municipal Grants Fund (MGF) would provide municipalities with
financial resources to implement high-priority civil works, equipment, and
consultant services. The MGF is based on the idea that if municipalities
are to be responsible for the operation and maintenance of infrastructure
and services, they should be responsible for their implementation, in the
interest of building local-level capacity and promoting the sustainability
of the investments. The Municipal Grants Fund would be designed on a
modest scale, as a pilot program for "learning by doing". It has been
agreed that, during the initial four-year phase of this project, the MGF
would be initiated with five municipalities (Maputo, Beira, Nampula,
Quelimane, and Pemba). The objectives of the MGF are (a) to provide
resources to municipalities for small and medium sized infrastructure,
equipment, and consultant services; (b) to enable the municipal
governments to develop capacity to plan, implement, and manage basic
investments and to integrate the associated expenditures (municipal
contributions of 10. of the investment costs; operation and maintenance
costs) and revenues into their budgets; and (c) to test and refine the
MGF, identifying problems, trying different solutions, and, to the extent
possible, laying a foundation for a sustainable, expandable municipal
grants mechanism.
It is important to note that the US$ 24.8 m. cost of the Municipal Grants
Fund component represents an estimate of the maximum amount that could
probably be drawn down by the five municipalities under optimal conditions
and with the best performance by municipalities and contractors. The
actual amount that would be disbursed under this component would depend on
many factors and may be significantly less than the maximum estimate.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost       41
6. Implementation
The Ministry of State Administration (MAE), through its Directorate for
Local Administration (DNAL), would be the responsible central government
agency for the project.
The Legal and Institutional Reform Component would be managed directly by
an official of MAE, nominated by the Minister and reporting to the
Director of DNAL. This component would have a Steering Committee composed
of officials from MAE, the Ministry of Planning and Finance, and a sample
- 5 -



of municipalities.
The Capacity Building component would be implemented by the semi-
autonomous Intermediate Institute for Public Administration (IMAP), under
a Memorandum of Understanding signed with MAE/DNAL. IMAP already has been
designated as the training arm of the Government's new civil service
training system (Sistema de Forma6ao da Administra6ao Publica/SIFAP).
Under the project, IMAP would create a new, permanent unit within its
structure, the Gabinete de Capacita6ao Municipal (GCM), to manage the
component. The GCM would be staffed by seven specialists, two of whom
would be counterpart staff from IMAP and five who would be contracted
through a specialized consulting firm. The GCM manager would report to
the Director of INAP. This component would have its own Steering
Committee composed of the Director of DNAL, the Director of IMAP, and
municipal officials. The GCM would operate its own budget for the
implementation of the component.
The five municipalities participating in the Municipal Grant Fund would be
implementing agencies in their own right for the activities funded by the
MGF. The municipalities would sign contracts, operate bank accounts with
project funds, carry out procurement, make payments, and be accountable
for their financial and technical performance. The obligations of each
party would be specified in a Grant Participation Agreement signed between
each Municipality and MAE. Each municipality would be required to
establish a project team consisting of a Council member (Coordinator), a
qualified civil engineer, a qualified accountant, and a tehnician. A
consulting firm under contract to the Project Coordination Unit (see
below) would provide technical assistance to municipalities on request to
help implement contracts and transfer skills.
A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) would be established within DNAL to
administer the project's finances, oversee procurement, manage contracts,
and supervise technical assistance. The PCU would be headed by a full-
time Project Director reporting to the Director of DNAL. The other staff
of the PCU would be a Senior Financial Controller, a Senior Procurement
Specialist, and a three-person Grants Unit (see below). The Terms of
Reference for the PCU appear in Annex 11 of this PAD.     The PCU would
provide administrative, financial management, and procurement support for
the Legal and Institutional Reform component. For the Capacity Building
component, the PCU's role would be limited to the provision of advice on
administrative and procurement matters.
An ad-hoc sub-unit within the PCU would be established to manage the
Municipal Grants Fund. The responsibilities of this Grants Unit would be:
(i) to assist the municipalities to meet the requirements for funding
activities; (ii) to review the eligibility of municipalities and grant-
funded activities; (iii) to supervise the consulting firm providing
technical assistance to municipalities; (iv) to compile annual data on the
technical and financial performance of the municipalities; and (v) and to
manage disbursements of grants to the municipalities. The Grants Unit
would be staffed by a Grants Fund Manager, a Civil Engineer, and an
Accountant. A Grants Fund Board would be established to annually review
the performance of the MGF and of the participating municipalities and to
hear appeals from municipalities concerning decisions of the Grants Unit.
The Board would consist of the Project Director (chair), the Team Leader
of the consulting firm providing technical assistance to the
- 6 -



municipalities, two Municipal Council members from two municipalities
other than the five participating in the Grants Fund, one official of MAE,
and one official of the Ministry of Planning and Finance.
The Project Director would be hired on an individual, long-term contract
based on advertised, competitive recruitment. The remaining staff of the
PCU would be contracted through a consulting firm.
7. Sustainability
The question regarding the project's Legal and Institutional Reform
component is the extent to which the government would promptly enact the
new decrees, regulations, and other legal instruments that would be
produced under this component. This is difficult to predict, because the
enactment of legal instruments is a political process. Past experience--
as in the case of the Municipal Tax Code which was sent to the Council of
Ministers in 1998 but has not yet been passed--shows that there is a lot
of uncertainty as to the timing of reforms. The project finds assurance
of the government's commitment to extending the legal and institutional
framework in two factors. One is that the Legal and Institutional Reform
component was prepared entirely by the Ministry of State Administration.
The work plan for the component is therefore fully "owned" by the client.
The other is that municipal governments, as autonomous political entities,
have been and should continue exerting pressures on the central government
to implement the enabling legal instruments for municipal finance and
management. There is a risk that changing political circumstances might
lead the government to not create additional municipalities or to not
extend the competencies of the existing municipalities beyond the core
urban services. Either of these situations would represent a blockage in
the decentralization program. The project aims to promote conditions in
which this would be less likely to happen by enabling the municipalities
to show some concrete results through the Grants Fund, thereby enhancing
their legitimacy; by creating a framework for further donor support; and
by building support for the municipalization process among the affected
populations.
There are two aspects to the sustainability of the Capacity Building
Component. One is the sustainability of the institutional framework for
providing in-service and pre-service training to officials and staff.
This faces few risks, as the new Capacity Building Office will be fully
integrated into the existing IMAP from the start. The other aspect is the
sustainability of the benefits of the training. MAE's priority for the
training program under this project is to provide as many officials and
staff as possible in the 33 municipalities with basic knowledge; i.e., a
strategy of training widely and broadly for the many rather than deeply
for the few. It is likely, therefore, that the benefits of the training
program would likewise be broad but not deep, in the sense of
substantially implanting new technical skills. Even so, as with all
training programs for the public sector, some of the benefits could be
lost to the public sector (but not to the economy as a whole) because of
the government's difficulty in retaining skilled staff. The mitigation
measures for this are long-term. The government is launching the next
phase of civil service reform to help address this problem, and the
project would work closely with these initiatives. The Legal and
Institutional Reform component would seek to increase the autonomy of
municipal governments to manage their own staff, thus freeing them to
- 7 -



adjust their staffing tables, salary scales, and employment conditions to
local needs and the local environment. The project would also encourage
contracting private enterprises to deliver services, as well as local
consultants to complement the regular municipal staffs. Nevertheless, in
the short term, as economic growth continues to fuel demand for scarce
skills, losses to the public sector of recently-trained staff will be
difficult to avoid.
The Municipal Grants Fund also poses sustainability issues at two levels.
One is the sustainability of the MGF as an institution. The MGF would
require outside funding (from the World Bank and/or external assistance
agencies) for its medium/long-term continuation. It is hoped that, if
successful, the MGF can be moved, in the next phase of the municipal
development program, from its initial ad hoc status to a more permanent
institutional home, preferably in a semi-autonomous Municipal
Development Institute. The other aspect concerns the sustainability of
the capital investments funded by the MGF. The Grants Fund would require
all proposals for sub-projects to include evidence of community
consultation on their selection and design and an acceptable operation and
maintenance plan covering institutional responsibilities for O&M and a
financing plan based on user fees and/or general revenues. Making
municipalities responsible for proposing and implementing the investments
and the requirement that municipalities contribute 10% from their own
budgets to each investment are also designed to promote sustainability.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Africa and Other Regions:
The proposed operation incorporates the main lesson of the World Bank's
experience in urban development from the region and worldwide. The main
lessons on decentralization and urban management are drawn from (i) the
Africa Urban Assistance Strategy prepared for the World Bank's Urban
Strategy of 1999; (ii) the Operation Evaluation Department's Evaluation
Summaries; and (iii) the report "Fiscal Decentralization and Sub-national
Finance in Africa" (DANIDA and World Bank, 2000).
The project team examined four operations in the region designed to
channel funds to local governments for investments through grant systems:
the Zimbabwe Rural District Council Pilot Capital Development Project
(closed in June 2000); the Zimbabwe Local Government Capital Development
Project (negotiated but "on hold"); the Uganda Local Government
Development Program (active); and the Senegal Urban Development and
Decentralization Project (active). The Bank has financed numerous
municipal grant mechanisms in other regions; two examples which were
examined in the preparation of the present project are the Parana
Municipal Development Project in Brazil and the Municipal Development
Projects I and II in the Philippines.
Among the key lessons that have been incorporated in the design of the
proposed project:
1.      Long-term approach.   The project takes into account the fact that
the development objectives in the local government area are
inherently long-term and must be pursued not on a project-by-project
basis but in the framework of an extended program. This gives rise
- 8 -



to the conceptualization of this project as the first stage of a
hoped-for long-term program, which would be an output of the
project.
2.      Realistic objectives.   A further lesson is that local government
projects should establish realistic development objectives, taking
into consideration (i) the long-term nature of the fundamental
objectives and (ii) that it takes a "critical mass" of technical
assistance, training, and investments, supported by a positive
"enabling environment, to produce real results. The project's
development objectives have thus been formulated as modest,
concrete, and specific objectives which are considered achievable
within the span of the project's life.
3.      Municipal implementation.   The project incorporates the lesson that
investment programs for municipal infrastructure and services should
be implemented by the municipalities themselves in the interest of
(i) building capacity through "learning by doing" and (ii)
promoting the sustainability of the investments.
4.      Ownership and sustainability of investments.    In line with the
previous point, the Municipal Grants Fund is designed with several
features which, according to experience, should promote ownership
and sustainability of investments by municipal governments. One is
the requirement for a 10. counterpart fund contribution from
municipalities toward all activities financed by the MGF. Another
is the requirement for an operation and maintenance plan for each
activity financed and the monitoring of the actual performance of
O&M once investments are completed.
5.      Attention up front to implementation.   The Government's main client
agency, the Ministry of State Administration, and the Bank have
invested considerable time working out the details of effective
institutional arrangements during the preparation phase. Such "up
front" attention to implementation details has been shown to be key
for project impact and sustainability.
6.      Demand and performance-based approaches.    Prior experience has shown
that strengthening sub-national governments should be a demand-
driven process, to ensure that the interventions are truly effective
and sustainable. Ideally, the grant system should operate with
self-selection of municipalities based on meeting criteria for
participation. Mozambique's municipalities and the legal framework
are too new and weak for such an approach, and the Government has
insisted that five municipalities be pre-selected for the pilot.
Nevertheless, the MGF does incorporate an initial "performance
incentive" approach whereby a municipality's eligibility for an
annual grant is dependent on its performance in using the previous
year's grant, and the amount of the subsequent grant varies in
proportion with the municipality's ability to improve its financial
position.
7.      Mitigating risks of political factors.   Previous local government
projects have shown that there is a risk of political interference
in the operations of capacity-building programs and municipal funds.
- 9-



The ideal approach is to try to institutionalize such mechanisms
outside of Government ministries and to provide steering committees
or boards with non-political members. In this project, the Capacity
Building component would be housed in a semi-autonomous body, the
Intermediate Institute of Public Administration, whose vocation is
public sector training. It would have been desirable to establish
the Municipal Grants Fund as a separate entity, but the
institutional framework in Mozambique is not sufficiently developed
to allow it at this point. The possibility of setting up a new
Municipal Development Institute was raised during project
preparation, but the Government considered the idea premature.
Therefore, for the pilot phase under the project, the MGF would be
managed by an ad hoc unit in the Project Coordination Unit. The
expectation is that once the mechanism is tested and proven, its
permanent institutionalization would be re-visited as a key issue
for the long-term municipal development program.
Mozambique:
The Bank has supported two prior urban projects in Mozambique, the Urban
Rehabilitation Project (PRU, Cr. 1949), effective from 1989 to 1996, and
the Local Government Reform and Engineering Project (PROL, Cr. 2530) which
became effective in 1994 and closed in 1999. PRU financed mainly
infrastructure in Maputo and Beira. The main outcome of PROL was the set
of laws, known collectively as the Pacote Autarquico, that comprise the
legislation creating the first 33 autonomous municipalities. The recently
completed First Roads and Coastal Shipping Project (ROCS I, Cr. 23740),
which became effective in 1992 and closed in 1999, also provides useful
lessons. The lessons from these projects which are reflected in the MDP's
design include:
1.      Definition of responsibilities.   The MDP reflects the lesson that
project design should be well focused and simple, with clearly
defined institutional responsibilities. MAE, through its
Directorate for Local Administration (DNAL), would be the main
central government counterpart agency for the project. The Legal
and Institutional Reform component falls clearly within MAE's main
mission, which is policy formulation and legal oversight of
municipalities. Both the Capacity Building and MGF components
require implementing agencies with specialized vocations in the
respective areas. In both cases these are existing institutions
(IMAP and the municipalities) with the appropriate mission.
2.      Trust and ownership.   The previous projects showed that the success
of efforts toward governance reforms are especially dependent on a
high level of trust between the Bank and the borrower and
"ownership" by the client agencies. This lesson came particularly
forcefully from the PROL project, and it has strongly affected the
project preparation process.
3.      Institutional reform and investment reinforce.    The PRU focused on
physical investments with little attention to institutional or
policy measures while the PROL aimed to bring about policy and
institutional changes without accompanying investments. Both
projects fell short. The MDP attempts to give due weight to both
- 10 -



aspects, recognizing that (i) investments provide a good vehicle for
local institutional reform and capacity building and (ii) the
sustainability of investments at the local level depends on a
conducive policy and legal framework at the central level.
4.      Demand driven technical assistance.   Some technical assistance
interventions for local authorities in the PROL project were not
successful because they were supply-driven and top-down. The new
project incorporates features to correct this. The Capacity
Building component includes annual beneficiary assessments as well
as include a Steering Committee of representatives from the
municipalities who will meet twice a year to approve action plans
and strategies. The Municipal Grants Fund also includes a Grants
Fund Board with municipal officials on it. Also, technical
assistance for the municipalities is to be supplied by a consulting
firm which will operate on a demand-driven basis. This firm would
be evaluated annually for the technical quality of its outputs as
well the promptness and consistency of its responsiveness to the
Municipalities.
5.      Early skill training.   Experience has shown that, where
implementation capacity is especially scarce (as in Mozambique),
projects should ensure that project personnel have the necessary
skills from the start. Appointment of qualified staff, and their
training in administrative procedures and Bank guidelines, are a key
part of the project preparation process and the early stages of
implementation.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        An Environmental Data Sheet (EDS) for this project
was prepared and cleared by AFTE1 on February 24, 2000. In the approval
of the EDS it was agreed that the review process for investments under the
Municipal Grants Fund would incorporate a system of environmental
checklists prescribing mitigating measures for the various types of
eligible facilities. This is the same approach used in similar IDA-
financed projects in Uganda (Local Government Development Program) and
Zimbabwe (Local Government Capital Development Project). The Grants Fund
would require that the appropriate mitigation measures be included in each
proposal (along with other requirements for approval such as O&M plans,
etc.). To keep implementation risks to a minimum, the project would also
require that civil works should involve no involuntary resettlement in
order to be eligible for financing. It was also agreed that an
Environmental Analysis (EA) should be carried out before appraisal of the
project. Terms of Reference for preparing the EA were approved by AFTE1
on March 6, 2000.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Alan G. Carroll
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473-4554



Fax:   (202) 473-8301
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending, January 12, 2001.
- 12 -



