Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3549 MOZ 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
(Municipal Development Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated August 15, 2001 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3549 MOZ 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated August 15, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE 
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
 
WHEREAS  (A)  the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;  
 
(B) 
by an agreement dated April 2, 2001, between the Borrower and the 
Nordic Development Fund (the NDF Credit Agreement), the Nordic Development Fund has 
agreed to make a credit to the Borrower in a principal amount of SDR 4,000,000 (the NDF 
Credit) to assist in financing Part D of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
NDF Credit Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 Section
 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth  below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, and 
the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly renumbered as 
paragraphs (13) through (15): 
“12. 
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 194 of the 
Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; and ‘Participating 
Countries’ means, collectively, all such countries.” ;  
 
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) 
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or 
entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of 
the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council 
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.” 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following 
additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a) “Annual MG Investment Plan” means a MG Municipality’s (as hereinafter defined) 
annual plan for the activities to be financed by its allocation from the MG (as hereinafter 
defined); 
(b)  “BM” means Banco de Moçambique, the Borrower’s central bank; 
(c)  “DNDA” means the Borrower’s Directorate of Municipal Development within MAE (as 
hereinafter defined) ;  
(d) “Eligible Categories” means categories set forth in paragraph 5 of Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement;  
(e) “Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for works, goods and services referred 
to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated from time to time to the Special Account’s respective Eligible Categories;   
(f)  “Grant Board” means the oversight committee to be established by the Borrower for the 
purposes of Part B of the Project and referred to in Section 6.01 (g) of this Agreement; 
(g) “Grant Participation Agreement” means, for the purposes of Part B of this Project, the 
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and a MG Municipality (as hereinafter 
defined), which sets out the rules for each  MG (as hereinafter defined), referred to in 
Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement; 
(h)  “IMAP” means the Borrower’s Intermediate Institute of Public Administration; 
(i)  “Initial Deposit” means the amount specified in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement;  
(j)  “MAE” means the Borrower’s Ministry of State Administration; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(k) 
“Memorandum of Understanding” or “MOU” means the agreement between MAE and 
IMAP regarding their mutual obligations for the purposes of carrying out Part D of the 
Project; 
(l)   “Meticais” means the Borrower’s currency; 
(m) “MG” or “Municipal Grants” or “
Fundo de Subvenções Municipais” 
means, for the 
purposes of Part B of the Project, the funding mechanism through which the Borrower will 
provide grants to a MG Municipality for eligible identified municipal activities to be 
financed in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(n) 
“MG Municipality” means each one of the municipalities to receive their respective MG, 
all selected in accordance with the respective criteria specified in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;  
(o)   “MPF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Planning and Finance;  
(p) “Municipal Accounts” means the accounts referred to in paragraph 3 of Part B of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(q) “Municipal Project Accounts” means each one of the bank accounts that shall be opened 
for each one of the municipalities referred to in Section 3.04 (e) of this Agreement;  
(r)  “
Nucleos
”
means the groups of consultants hired by each participating MG Municipality 
for the implementation of their respective MG.  
(s)   “PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit referred to in paragraph 2 (d) of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement; 
(t)  “PIM” means the Borrower’s Project Implementation Manual referred to in paragraph 9 
(a) of Part B of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, containing detailed arrangements regarding 
the implementation of the different activities under the Project, including, 
inter alia
,
the 
institutional responsibilities, reporting structure, review and monitoring, procurement, 
disbursement and financial management for the purposes of the implementation of the 
Project; 
(u)  “Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.04 (a) to this Agreement;  
(v)  “Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with Section 
4.02 of this Agreement; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(w) 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance granted by the 
Association to the Borrower pursuant to a letter signed on behalf of the Association on June 
7, 1999 and on behalf of the Borrower on June 30, 1999;  
(x) “Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; and 
(y)  “Steering Committee” means the committee to be established  for the purposes of Part A 
of the Project. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to twenty-six million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR26,700,000).   
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: 
(i) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 
to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii) amounts paid 
(or if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by the Borrower on account of 
withdrawals made for the benefit of municipalities under the MG, to meet the reasonable 
costs of goods, works and services required for such MG, and in respect of which 
withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested.  
 
(b)  
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay 
the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of 
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized 
amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be February 28, 2006, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on 
the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent 
(1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
Page  6
-
5
-
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of 
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set 
from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in 
each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory 
of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as 
may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 1 
and October 1 commencing October 1, 2011 and ending April 1, 2041. Each installment to 
and including the installment payable on April 1, 2021 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal 
amount. 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Association shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after 
the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the 
Page  7
-
6
-
events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed 
with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from 
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not 
change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) above, 
the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated 
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms 
of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of United  States of America is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end: (i) shall carry out the  
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, 
technical, administrative, engineering and environmental practices, and shall provide 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project; and (ii) without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under 
this Agreement, shall cause each MG Municipality to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of their individual Grant Participation Agreement all the obligations of the 
municipalities therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all actions, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable 
the municipalities to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance;
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and, 
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement; 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and, 
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall assist 
Page  8
-
7
-
the municipalities in carrying out Part B of the Project in accordance with the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Grant Participation Agreements; and 
 
(d) 
For the purposes of Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall: (i) make 
available part of the proceeds of the Credit under Category 1, 2 (a) and 3 (b) of the table in 
paragraph A of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to the municipalities as grants under a 
subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and each MG Municipality 
(the Grant Participation Agreement) under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Association; and (ii) exercise its rights under the Grant Participation 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association 
and to accomplish the purposes of the Project. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:  
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish 
to the Association not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan designed to 
ensure the sustainability of the Project; and  
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.04.  Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
open and thereafter maintain, until the completion of the Project, an account 
(the Project Account) in Meticais, in a commercial bank acceptable to the Association;  
 (b) 
deposit, no later than 60 days after the Date of Effectiveness, an initial 
amount in Meticais equivalent to $12,000 (Initial Deposit) into such account to finance the 
Borrower’s contribution to the Project;   
(c) 
thereafter deposit into the Project Account by the first day of each quarter 
each year during Project implementation such amounts as shall be required and agreed upon 
with the Association to timely replenish the Project Account back to the amount of the Initial 
Deposit referred to in paragraph (b);  
 
(d) 
use the funds in the Project Account exclusively to finance expenditures 
under the Project; and 
Page  9
-
8
-
(e) 
cause each MG Municipality to: (i) open and maintain, in Meticais, in one or 
more commercial banks acceptable to the Association, a Municipal Project Account,  in the 
name of each MG Municipality to be used by such MG Municipality as the MG 
Municipality’s counterpart contribution to the costs of Part B of the Project; and (ii) deposit 
into each Municipal Project Account, an initial amount sufficient to cover the counterpart 
funds contribution to the Project for each MG Municipality as determined by its Annual MG 
Investment Plan
.
A
RTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof. 
(b)  
The Borrower shall: 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports, or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Page  10
-
9
-
Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can 
be relied upon to support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan for the strengthening of a 
financial management system acceptable to the Association in order to enable the Borrower, 
not later than eighteen
 
months after the Effective Date, or such later date as the Association 
shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, 
consisting of three separate, but coherent reports of which: 
(i)  
the financial report: (A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered 
by said report, and projected sources and applications of funds for 
the Project for the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report; and (B) shows separately expenditures financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report; 
(ii) 
the status report describes: (A) physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report; and (B) explains variances between the actual and 
previously forecast implementation targets, as the case may be; and 
(iii)  
the procurement report sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under contracts financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the period covered by said 
report. 
(b) 
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the 
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period. 
Page  11
-
10 - 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that
 the Borrower’s (i) Municipal Legislation (
Pacote 
Autárquico)
 or Law of the municipalities (Law No. 2 of February 18, 1997), the Law of 
Municipal Finances (Law No. 11 of May 31, 1997) and Law No. 9 of November 22, 1996, 
and (ii) Municipal Tax Code or Decree No. 52/2000, shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the 
Borrower and the municipalities to perform any of their obligations under their respective 
Grant Participation Agreement. 
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely that the event specified in Section 5.01 
of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement have been 
appointed on terms of reference acceptable to the Association and in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;  
 
(b) 
the Borrower has established a financial management system, in form and 
substance acceptable to the Association, including the development of a financial procedures 
manual and the appointment of financial management staff for the Municipal 
Nucleos
 and 
PCU with experience acceptable to the Association; 
 
(c) 
Grant Participation Agreements have been signed between the Borrower and 
at least three municipalities and evidence has been furnished satisfactory to the Association 
that such agreements are binding upon the respective MG Municipality in accordance with 
its terms;   
 
(d) 
the Memorandum of Understanding has been signed between IMAP and 
MAE; 
Page  12
-
11 - 
 
(e) 
the Borrower has employed the Project Director and the consulting firm that 
will provide the staff for the PCU, in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement; 
 
(f) 
the  Project Account has been opened; and 
 
(g) 
the Grant Board members have been officially appointed and the Grant 
Board  has held its first meeting.
 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  13
-
12 - 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 7.01. The Governor of the Bank of Mozambique  is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the  purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
Governor 
Banco de Moçambique 
Departamento de Estrangeiro 
Maputo 
Republic of Mozambique 
 
Cable address:   
      Telex: 
 
          Facsimile: 
 
MOBANCO 
 
 
   6355/BMMO           258 1 428565 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, NW 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
 
Telex:   
Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
 
(202) 477 6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
             64145 (MCI) 
Page  14
-
13 - 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the 
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE 
 
By: 
 
 
 
/s/ Ismael Valigy 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: 
                                /s/ Theodore Ahlers 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Africa  
Page  15
-
14 - 
SCHEDULE 1  
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage 
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
1.  Works for Part B of  
 10,250,000 
85%  
 
the Project 
 
  
 
2.  Goods and equipment 
 
 
 
100% of foreign  
 
including vehicles for: 
 
expenditures and 
 
85%
of local 
 
expenditures  
 
(a)   Part B of the Project 
4,470,000 
 
 
(b)  Part C of the Project 
100,000 
 
3. 
Consultants’ 
services, 
 
   
 
training, and studies for:  
 
 
 
(a)  Part A of the Project 
2,840,000 
100% 
 
(b)  Part B of the Project 
1,220,000 
85%  
 
(c) Part C of the Project 
4,470,000 
100% 
 
including audits 
Page  16
-
15 - 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
4.  Incremental Operating Costs for 
 
 
Part C of the Project 
710,000 
85% of local expenditures 
 
5.  Refinancing of the Project  
710,000 
Amounts due pursuant to  
 
Preparation Advance 
 
 
Section 2.02 (b) of this  
 
Agreement  
 
 
6. Unallocated 
1,930,000 
 
_________
TOTAL 26,700,000 
 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of 
any country other than that of the Borrower;  
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c) 
the term “Incremental Operating costs” means the incremental expenses 
incurred by the Borrower on account of the Project implementation including  office 
supplies, fuel and maintenance for official Project vehicles, maintenance of office 
equipment,  in-country travel, accommodations and subsistence for Project-related business, 
and communications for project-related business, but excluding salaries of officials or staff 
of the Borrower. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made 
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement or:  
 
(a)  
payments made under Category 3 (a) of the table in paragraph A.1 of this 
Schedule until: (i) MAE has appointed an official to manage the implementation of Part A of 
the Project; (ii) the Borrower has designated a Steering Committee for the implementation of 
Part A of the Project; and (iii) the Steering Committee has held its first meeting; 
 
Page  17
-
16 - 
 
(b)  
payments made under Category 1, 2 (a) and 3 (b)  of the  table in paragraph 
A.1 of the Schedule for each MG Municipality until: (i) the respective MG Municipality has 
executed its Grant Participation Agreement with MAE; (ii) the MG Municipality’s 
Municipal Project Accounts have been opened and the counterpart funds deposited 
accordingly;  (iii) the respective MG Municipality has complied with MG eligibility 
requirements in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (iv) the respective MG Municipality has 
appointed staff for its respective 
Nucleo 
acceptable to the Association; (v) the MG 
Municipality’s Project Accounts for the previous year have been audited; and (vi) the MG 
Municipality counterpart funds for the MG have been budgeted in the following year’s 
budget; and 
 
(c) 
payments made under Category 1, 2 (a) and 3 (b)  of the  table in paragraph 
A.1 of the Schedule for: (i) Maputo until its respective Project Account has been opened and 
the amount equivalent to $14,000 (counterpart contribution) has been deposited accordingly; 
(ii) Beira until its respective Project Account has been opened and the amount equivalent to 
$10,000 (counterpart contribution) has been deposited accordingly; (iii) Nampula until its 
respective Project Account has been opened and the amount equivalent to $10,000 
(counterpart contribution) has been deposited accordingly; (iv) Quelimane until its 
respective Project Account has been opened and the amount equivalent to $7,000 
(counterpart contribution) has been deposited accordingly; and (v) Pemba until its respective 
Project Account has been opened and the amount equivalent to $7,000 (counterpart 
contribution) has been deposited accordingly. 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contracts for goods  
costing (i) less than $100,000 equivalent each during the first year of the Project, and (ii) less 
than $200,000 from the second year of the Project and onwards; (b) contracts for consulting 
firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (c) contracts for individual consultants 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (d) works costing: (i) less than $100,000 during 
the first year of the Project; and (ii) less than $250,000 from the second year of the Project 
and onwards; and (e) all operating costs and training as the Association shall determine. 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in US 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank acceptable to the 
Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
2.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
until the Association shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the 
Page  18
-
17 - 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and 
 
(b) 
upon receipt by the Association of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
3. 
Promptly after the Effectiveness Date the Borrower shall: 
(a)  
open and maintain in Dollars Municipal Accounts, for each of the 
municipalities where commercial banks are available, in a commercial bank acceptable to 
the Association, on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association (including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment), to be used by such 
municipalities exclusively for the purposes of financing MG under Part B of the Project to be 
carried out by such MG Municipality; and 
(b)  
withdraw from the Special Account and deposit into each Municipal  
Account an amount not exceeding $160,000 for Maputo, $140,000 for Beira, $120,000 for 
Nampula, $80,000 for Quelimane and $80,000 for Pemba and thereafter replenish said 
Municipal Accounts in accordance with Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
4. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.  For each payment made by 
the Borrower out of the Special Account or out of any of the Municipal Accounts, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
5.   
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “Eligible Categories” means Categories 
(1) through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule 1. 
6.   
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals should 
be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: 
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account, or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of Project 
Management Reports. 
7. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Page  19
-
18 - 
Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Association shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be 
made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the 
Borrower of its determination. 
8. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account or out of any of the Municipal Accounts was made for an expenditure 
which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such 
additional evidence as the Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account or 
the respective Municipal Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account or the 
respective Municipal Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence 
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the 
six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 7 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement. 
9. 
(a)  
The Borrower shall withdraw from the Special Account and deposit into 
each Municipal Account the funds to assist the municipalities to pay for MG under Part B of 
the Project. Such withdrawals or deposits shall be in amounts sufficient to assist each 
municipality to pay for such MG provided that in no event the Borrower shall cause the 
amount held in any Municipal Account to exceed the amounts determined by the PCU in 
accordance with the PIM or the equivalent of:  (i) $350,000 for Maputo; (ii) $300,000 for 
Beira; (iii) $200,000 for Nampula; (iv) $200,000 for Quelimane; and (v) $150,000 for 
Pemba, whichever is the smaller; 
 
(b)  
payments out of any Municipal Account shall only be made for eligible 
expenditures under categories 1, 2 (a) and 3 (b) as set forth in the table in Section A.1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;  
Page  20
-
19 - 
 
(c)  
withdrawals from any Municipal Account may be justified by the Borrower 
on the basis of statements of expenditures for eligible expenditures under the MG including 
(i) works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent, (ii) goods estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent, and (iii) consultant services costing less than $20,000  equivalent; 
and  
 
(d) 
in the event the Association, after consultation with the Borrower, 
determines that any outstanding amount in any Municipal Account is not further required to 
cover payments for eligible expenditures, the MG Municipality beneficiary of such 
Municipal Account, upon notice from the Association, shall promptly refund such 
outstanding amount to the Special Account. 
Page  21
-
20 - 
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex: 
The term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of $1,600,000 to be withdrawn 
from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount of $1,000,000 until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of  SDR 5,000,000. 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish said Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Association 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3. of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by the 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible 
Categories. 
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Special 
Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the 
Page  22
-
21 - 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made 
only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  23
-
22 - 
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Made 
On the Basis of Project Management Reports 
 
1. 
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit 
Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories. 
2. 
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the Special 
Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report. 
3. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the Project Management 
Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed 
the amount of three million seven hundred thousand US Dollars (US$3,700,000). 
Page  24
-
23 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in: (i) operationalizing the 
legal and institutional framework for municipal governance; and (ii) establishing and 
operating a mechanism for providing grants to municipalities through a pilot program in five 
cities in the Borrower’s territory to finance capital investments for municipal  capacity 
building and infrastructure. 
 
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications thereof as 
the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A:
Legal and Institutional Reform
1. 
Carrying out studies of the legislation and regulations governing the recruitment, 
management and mobility of municipal staff, including the identification of the legal 
instruments that will require revision and the development of an action plan for drafting 
them, through the provision of technical advisory services. 
2. 
Drafting legal instruments to: (i) regulate municipal budgets; (ii) establish municipal 
financial management, accounting and auditing rules for municipal finance; (iii) regulate 
revenue collection; (iv) regulate municipal expenditure management; and (v) regulate 
training of municipal officials and staff, all through the provision of technical advisory 
services. 
3. 
Review of the Municipal Legislation (
Pacote Autárquico
), including the Laws No. 
02 and 11 of 1997 and the Municipal Tax Code, to identify and propose amendments to the 
legislation
,
through the provision of technical advisory services. 
4.  
Review of drafts of the model Municipal Ordinances Code and the decree for 
transfer of responsibilities from the state to the municipalities, through the provision of 
technical advisory services. 
5. 
 
Carrying out case-by-case analyses of proposals for transfer of specific 
responsibilities 
from Borrower’s Government central agencies to the municipalities and 
drafting the legal instruments for effecting such transfers, through the provision of technical 
advisory services. 
6.  
(a) Carrying out studies, defining mechanisms and drafting the basis of legal 
instruments for public investments in the municipalities and the repartition of public 
investments between the state and the municipalities; and (b) drafting of manuals for the 
programming of public investments, through the provision of technical advisory services. 
7. 
Carrying out studies on the provision and administration of municipal services and 
drafting legal instruments to regulate municipal autonomous public services, public 
Page  25
-
24 - 
investments, municipal public enterprises and the assignment of the responsibilities for 
public infrastructure from the State to the municipalities. 
8. 
Developing mechanisms for taxes and fees collection and drafting of a manual for 
the implementation of a municipal tax cadastre, through the provision of technical advisory 
services. 
9. 
(a)  Carrying out a diagnostic study of the staffing situation in the Borrowe
r’s 
municipalities and developing model staffing tables as guidelines for municipal 
governments; and (b) drafting a manual for the recruitment, selection and employment 
conditions of municipal staff, through the provision of technical advisory services. 
10. 
Carrying out a diagnostic study of the management structures and financial 
management of the municipal governments, including: (a) drafting a manual for the 
elaboration, supervision and execution of: (i) municipal development plans; and (ii) annual 
action plans; and (b) drafting of manuals for the preparation, execution and monitoring of 
municipal budgets, through the provision of technical advisory services. 
11. 
Developing a methodology for the promotion and consideration of community 
participation in municipal decision-making, through the provision of technical advisory 
services. 
12. 
Building capacities of MAE and MPF to publicize, explain, interpret and clarify 
legal instruments to the municipalities and other bodies, through the provision of technical 
advisory services. 
13. 
Institutional support to the Borrower’s municipalities for starting the implementation 
of new laws and regulations, through the provision of technical advisory services. 
        
Part B:
Municipal Grants
Provision of grants to the Borrower’s municipalities for the: (i) rehabilitation and 
expansion of infrastructure; (ii) purchase of equipment and materials for the provision of 
municipal basic services and management; and (iii) provision of technical advisory services 
to improve municipal management, finances and services. 
Part C:
Project Management and Technical Assistance 
1. 
Carrying out project management, financial management, contract management, 
supervision, monitoring and procurement  activities through the provision of technical 
advisory services to staff the Project Coordination Unit. 
2. 
Technical support to the Borrower’s municipalities participating in the MG in 
infrastructure engineering,  project financial management and procurement, through the 
provision of technical advisory services through  the Grants Unit of the Project Coordination 
Unit.   
Page  26
-
25 - 
Part D
:
Capacity Building
1. 
Establishment of a permanent unit for planning and management of training and 
technical assistance for the municipalities through the provision of technical advisory 
services financed by the NDF Credit Agreement. 
2. 
Implementation of training courses for municipal officials and staff in: (i) the 
functioning of the municipal government system; (ii) planning and management of basic 
public services and infrastructure; (iii) principles of financial planning and budgeting for 
municipalities; (iv) environmental management; (v) basic structure of municipal government 
in Mozambique; (vi) specialized courses in the duties and responsibilities of the selected 
posts; and (vii) municipal finance and delivery of basic services, through the provision of 
technical advisory services financed by the NDF Credit Agreement. 
3. 
Periodic reviews of needs and impacts of training and technical assistance by central 
and municipal authorities, through the provision of technical advisory services financed by 
the NDF Credit Agreement. 
4. 
Preparation of materials for courses to be offered at vocational school, university 
and graduate level to qualify candidates for management and technical staff positions in the 
municipalities, through the provision of technical advisory services financed by the NDF 
Credit Agreement. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by August 31, 2005. 
Page  27
-
26 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I
.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A
:
General
1. 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of 
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Association in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
2. 
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries”  and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for works and goods shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each. 
 (b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods and domestic contractors
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be 
carried out by domestic contractors. 
 (c) 
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost $500,000 
equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines. 
 
Page  28
-
27 - 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 and works estimated to cost less than 
$500,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 
equivalent for goods and $17,000,000 for works, may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2. 
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 3. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
Vehicles and office equipment may be procured from UN agencies in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
 4. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a 
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion 
date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where 
applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation 
for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to pre-qualify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1. 
Page  29
-
28 - 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 and $250,000 respectively or more; and (ii) all contracts for goods 
and works in the first year estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to the first two contracts in each MG Municipality for goods 
and works exceeding the equivalent of $30,000, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier under international or national 
shopping procedures, the Recipient shall provide to the Bank a 
report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or international or national shopping procedures, the 
Recipient shall provide to the Bank a copy of the specifications and 
the draft contract; and 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
1. 
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants 
by World Association Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule. 
2. 
In paragraphs 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the reference to “Bank member 
countries”  and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”. 
 
Page  30
-
29 - 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of th
is Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based 
selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short 
list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, 
may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Selected services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Single Source Selection
Services for selected contracts which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 3. 
Individual Consultants
Services for  selected contracts as needed that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.01 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan 
for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
Page  31
-
30 - 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 
1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms  
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of 
paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have 
been given. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  32
-
31 - 
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program 
1. The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish 
to the Association not later than sixty days after the end of each calendar  year of each year 
of Project implementation, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Project during the calendar year preceding the date of said report 
(provided, however, that the first report to be furnished to the Association shall cover the 
period from the date of effectiveness, through December 31, 2002), and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date;  
 
(c) 
review with the Association, within 30 days of submission, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of
 the said report and the Association’s views on the matter; and 
 
(d) 
establish a Steering Committee composed of representatives of entities, as 
agreed with the Association, to provide interagency coordination and guidance for the 
purposes of Part A of the Project. 
2. 
Implementation under Part B of the Project:
(a)  
establish a Grant Board composed of representatives of entities as agreed 
with the Association to: (i) perform quarterly and annual reviews of the MG; (ii) perform 
annual evaluation of the MG; and (iii) review and decide on eligibility and suspension of 
municipalities to participate in the MG
.
(b) PIM
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, each MG Municipality shall apply 
the procedures and guidelines set out in the PIM, and the Borrower shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive the PIM or any provision thereof which, in the opinion of the Association, 
will materially or adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
 
(c)     For each MG Municipality that participates in the MG, the Borrower shall 
enter into a Grant Participation Agreement with a MG Municipality legally constituted under 
Page  33
-
32 - 
Law 9/96 of November 22, 1996, Law 2/97  of February 18, 1997, and Law 7/97 of May 31, 
1997.  The terms and conditions of the Grant Participation Agreement shall include 
provisions pursuant to which: 
  (i)   
each MG Municipality shall be responsible for complying with the 
provisions of the Grant Participation Agreement; 
  (ii)  
each MG Municipality shall be responsible for implementing its 
Grant Participation Agreement in accordance with the provisions of 
the PIM, with due diligence and efficiency in accordance with 
sound technical, financial, environmental and managerial standards, 
and for maintaining adequate records; 
(iii)  
each MG Municipality shall have the obligation to report to the 
PCU of the MDP on a quarterly and annual basis on the financial 
status of the funds provided to it under the MG and the 
implementation of the  activities financed by such funds; 
(iv) 
each MG Municipality shall provide to the Association all 
 
information as it shall reasonably request regarding the 
Muncipality’s general finances and administration and its  use of the 
funds provided to it under the MG, and shall allow authorized 
representatives of the Association to inspect sub-projects financed 
by the MG and to have access to related facilities, records, and 
documents as well as information on the benefits to be derived from 
the activities funded by the MG; 
(v) 
the goods, civil works and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the MG shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;  
(vi)  
the MAE shall have the right to suspend or terminate the right of the 
MG Municipality to use the proceeds of the MG upon failure by any 
such MG Municipality to perform any of its respective obligations 
under the Grant Participation Agreement; and 
(vii) 
each MG Municipality shall maintain a team of officials and staff 
dedicated to the MDP, acceptable to the Association; and 
(viii) 
each MG Municipality shall fully cooperate with the annual audits 
of the MDP and make available all documents and data as the 
auditors may reasonably request. 
 
(d) 
Any MG Municipality which fails to meet the eligibility requirements, as 
specified in the PIM, for an initial or a subsequent 12-month allocation from the MG within 
the time stipulated, will be disqualified from participation in the MG during that cycle, and 
another MG Municipality or Municipalities will be invited to participate. 
Page  34
-
33 - 
3. Midterm 
Review
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators specified in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
carry out, jointly with the Association, not later than 24 months after the 
Effectiveness Date, a Midterm Review of the Project, which shall cover, inter alia: 
(i) 
progress made in meeting the Project’s objectives;  (ii) overall Project performance as 
measured against Performance Indicators; (iii) the adequacy of the institutional and 
management arrangements for the project and its components; and (iv) the operational 
efficiency and effectiveness of the Municipal Grants and the performance of the 
municipalities and their contractors under the MG; 
 
(c) 
at least three (3) weeks prior to the Midterm Review, furnish to the 
Association a report describing the status of the items listed in paragraph (a) above and of 
Project implementation generally; and 
 
(d) 
not later than four (4) weeks after the Midterm Review, prepare an action 
program, acceptable to the Association, for further implementation of the Project having 
regard to the findings of the Midterm Review and, thereafter, implement such action 
program. 
Page  35
-
34 - 
SCHEDULE 5 
Performance Indicators 
Legal and Institutional Reform Component
:
1.  Legal instruments elaborated and submitted for approval by the appropriate higher 
authorities concerning: (i) recruitment, management and mobility of municipal staff; (ii) 
municipal budgets, financial management, accounting, and auditing; (iii) municipal 
revenue collection; (iv) the transfer of responsibilities and resources (e.g. for primary 
education and primary health) to the municipalities; and (vi) private municipal service 
providers and municipal public enterprises. 
2. 
Studies undertaken and manuals prepared and disseminated for (i) recruitment, selection 
and employment of municipal staff (prepared in coordination with the Ministry of 
Planning and Finance); (ii) improving municipal financial management and revenue 
systems; (iii) preparation, supervision, and execution of municipal development plans 
and municipal annual action plans; and (iv) community participation in municipal 
decision-making. 
3. Long-term program of municipal development elaborated in collaboration with 
governmental, municipal, civil society, and donor stakeholders.   
Capacity-Building Component
:
1. 
GCM established in IMAP and plans in place for continued existence of GCM at project 
close. 
2.  Strategy for training for municipalities developed and under implementation with 
linkages to the Government’s public sector reform program and SIFAP. 
3. 
Target numbers of municipal elected and appointed officials and municipal staff trained 
(see detailed project description for exact targets). 
Municipal Grants
:
1.  Municipalities implement yearly investment activities (works, goods, consultancies) 
according to the guidelines of the MG, procuring civil works contractors (firms), 
suppliers for the purchase of equipment, and consultants for technical assistance. 
2.  MG mechanism is closely monitored quarterly and evaluated annually.  The MG is 
modified in a timely way to take account of ongoing lessons of experience. 
3. 
By the end of the project, a refined MG is available for replication and eventual 
“mainstreaming” within the Government’s institutional and fiscal framework.
Page  36
-
35 - 
 
