DoM     f of
The World Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
C64 /s>g-cs
RePut N.. P-3910-CHA
REPORT AND RECOMeNDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENIT OF TEE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOLMN ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED IDA CREDIT
OF SDR 82.1 bILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
March 20, 1985
I bh dcameNt bw a resicted disft9ihih mad my be wed by rechipents eily ini the peirfamnance of
dSind  m  lb it  tmt my nothermib db &lwsed widha Woud Bek auibo,eu.



CURRENC  EQUVAE
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
1984       January 1985 -
$1.00         =      Y 2.50           Y 2.80
Y 1.00         =      $0.40           $0.36
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AID MEASURES
cubic meter (cu m) or ton of water      =  264 US gallons
hectare (ha)                             =  10,000 square meters or 2.47 acres
Liter (1)                               =  0.26 US gallons
gram (g)                                =  0.002 US pounds
ACRONYMS
ABC    -  Agricultural Bank of China
CNTIC  -  China National Technical Import Corporation
CPHCC  -  Central Patriotic Health Campaign Committee
CPO    -  County Project Office
EEC    -  European Economic Community
.FRG    -  Federal Republic of Germany
DPO    -  National Project Office
PPO    -  Provincial Project Office
PEF    -  Provincial Revolving Fund
SAA   -  Srate Audit Administration
TAC    - Rural Water Supply and Sanitation TecLnical Advisory Center
(of the China Institute of Health in the China National Cencer
for Preventive Hedicine)
WFP    - World Food Program



FOR O *ICAL USE ONLY
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECI
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:         People's Republic of China
Amouat:           SDR 82.1 million ($80.0 million equivalent)
Terms:            Standard
Relending Terms: from the Government to provinces: Z5 years including 10
years of grace, and zero interest.
From province to villages: 10 to 15 years including two to
four years of grace, and zero interest.
Project
Description:   The objectives of the project are to build water supply
facilities and to- develop and strengthen systemc, insti-
tutions and technology for the implementation of China's
rural water supply program. The project would provide safe
drinking water to some six millior people in 4,650 villages
of 25 counties located in the provinces of Liaoning,
Sh7anxi, Sichuan and Ziejiang and the municipality of
Beijing. The beneficiary villages are selected because
their present water supply is inadequate, contaminated or
too distant. The types of water systems range from hand-
pumps and rainwater storage tanks to pumped and piped
systems (including some with treatment) with standpipes or
house connections, dependent upon environmental and economic
conditions. The institutional component of the project
includes: ti) the development of management and monitoring
systems and regulations for revolving funds, construction
and operations; Cii) the preparation of design, construction
and operation manuals; and (iii) a training program for
trainers, planners, engineers, technicians and operators at
the national, provincial, county and village levels.
Revclving funds would be established in the beneficiary
provinces which would be used to provide safe water in sther
villages, thereby more than doubling the initial number of
beneficiaries during che 25 year period that funds remain
with the provinces. The credit is consequently levered so
that $7 of credit funds provides safe water to one person.
Cofinancing by the Federal Republic of Germany will fund the
foreign cost of training ($1.5 million), and the World Food
Program is to provide food aid (equivalent to $10.5 million)
to the participating counties in the provinces of Liaoning
and Shaanxi. -
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their offici duties. Its contents may not oherwise be discksed without World Bank authoriation.



- ii -
The principal risk relates to the ability of the project
management organization, a new entity, to direct the project
appropriately. The risk is mitigated by the policies and
procedures developed during the preparation of the project,
the recent strengthening of project office staff, and the
good project implementation experience which exists at the
county level where the bulk of the implementation work will
be done.
Estimated Costs:                                    Local   Foreign      Total
($ million)
Civil Works                                      38.9       2.2       41.1
Materials and Equipment                          38.9      59.8        98.7
Trai g                                            1.6       1.1         2.7
Land Acquisition                                  9.3        -          9.3
Design, Supervision
and Management                                  8.0       0.4         8.4
Sub-total                                      96.7      63.5       160.2
Physical Contingencies                            9.6       6.4        16.0
Price Contingencies                              18.2      13.8        32.0
Subtotal/a                                    124.5      83.7      208.2
initial Working Capital                           2.0       0.0         2.0
Total Project Cost                              126.5      83.7       210.2
Financing Plan:                                     Local   Foreign      Total
- S million)
IDA                                                -       80.0       80.0
National Government                                1.2      0.5         1.7
Provincial Governments                            14.5      1.7        16.2
County Governments                                18.3       -         18.3
Villages and Individuals                          82.0       -         82.0
Federal Republic of Germany                         -       1.5         1.5
World Food Program                                10.5       -         10.5
Total                                       126.5     83.7      210.2
/a Project-financed goods are exempt from import duties and taxes.



Estimated Disbursemencs:
Bank FY                     1986   1987  1988  1989    1990
_______  -  ($ llion
A4nual                            4.0   20.0  32.0   22.0    2.0
Cumulative                        4.0   24.0  56.0   78.0  80.0
Rate of Return: N/A
;        Staff Appraisal Report: No. 5358-CHA, dated March 14, 1985.



REPORT AND RECOMHENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPHENT ASSOCIION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR A _VRAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
l.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed IDA
credit to the People's Republic of China to help finance a rural water supply
project.  The Credit, for SDR 82.1 million ($80 million equivalent), would be
*          on standard IDA terms.  The Government would onlend $79.5 million equivalent
to the participating provinces/municipality interest-free for a term of 25
years including 10 years of grace. Provinces would onlend part of such pro-
ceeds to counties/villages interest-free for a term of 10 to 15 years includ-
ing 2 to 4 years of grace. Service charges, however, would be borne by the
sub-project entities - counties or villages, townships or vater companies
within counties. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by the provinces or
municipality and would not be passed on to the counties or villages.
Cofinancing has been tentatively arranged tith the Federal Republic of Germany
($1.5 million grant) for training and the World Food Program ($10.5 millon
grant) for food aid.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A country economic memorandum, entitled "China:  Recent Economic
Trends and Policy Developmentst' (No. 4072-CHA), was distributed to the
Executive Directors on March 31, 1983. An economic mission that visited China
early in 1984 is currently preparing a report on long-term development issues
and options, which is expected to be submitted to the Executive Directors by
May 1985. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex 1.
Background
3.        To address problems of economic inefficiency and structural imbal-
ances, the Government initiated a program of reform and adjustment in 1979.
Reform implementation proceeded most rapidly in agriculture and culminated
with the introduction of the "producti=_ responsibility system" (in various
forms), which gave households and small groups autonomy in production and
investment decisions and ailowed them to keep most income earned after con-
tracted payments to the state and collective. By the early 1980s, the vast
majority of production teams in China had implemented such a system. Reform
of the urban economy started out much more slowly, but nevertheless signifi-
cant systemic changes occurred. including bonuses for individual workers;
profit retention by state-owned industrial enterprises (at first on an experi-
mental basis); fiscal decentralization measur2s,-which allowed provinces to
share in the benefits of increased revenues and gave them more freedom in
budgeting; and some decentralization of foreign trade authority. Adjustment
policies resulted in an increase in the share of consumption in CDP; a rise in
the share of light industry in total industrial output, substantial improve-
ments in living standards, rapid grovth of foreign trade (particularly



-2-
manufactured exports), and relatively modest (in relation to past trends) CDP
growth.
4,        A number of problems emerged in the process of reform and adjust-
ment, including large budget deficits in 1979 and 1980, a deterioration of the
external position and a significant current account deficit in 1980,
inflationary pressures and some overt price increases, and excessive invest-
ment demand resulting from decentralization of investment decision making and
financing.  In response to these difficulties the Government imposed a stabil-
izatioG program in early 1981, which relied mainly on administrative con-
trols. It resulted in a slowdown in growth, a reduction in price inflation
(to around 2X p.a.), a s-harp cutback in budget-Financed investment, a lower
budget deficit (1X of GDP ia 1981); and a currert account surplus of $1.5 bil-
Lion in 1981 and $5.6 billion in 1982.
Economic Performance, 1981-84
5.        Economic growth picked uo in 1982 with the resumption of rapid
growth of heavy industry and the rebound in investment. Overall performance
has continued to be strong since then, and real GDP growth averaged over 82
p.a. from 1981 to 1984. Shortages of energy, many producer goods, and con-
struction materials were exacerbated by the rapid growth of demand, yet price
increases were limited by further strengthening of administrative price
controls (particularly in 1983). Government budget revenue grew very slowly
in 1982 (1.3%) but much more rapidly in 1983 (7.9%) and 1984 (as much as 10%),
due to a new tax on enterprise retained funds and extrabudgetary incomes of
Government organizations. This permitted an increase in budget expenditures
on investment of 17Z in 1983 and a further rise in 1984, while maintaining a
relatively small budget deficit (less than 2% of GDP in 1983). Growth of
subsidies was largely stemmet by stopping increases in most of the agricul-
tural procurement prices.
6.        Gross industrial output value grew at over 102 p.a. between 1981 and
1984, with heavy industry growing somewhat faster than light industry (12Z vs.
9M)I a reversal of the 1978-81 pattern. The energy constraint on industrial
growth was eased by rising coal output (8X p.a. in 1981-84) and maintaining
annual crude oil output at over 100 miLlion tons, along with improvements in
the efficiency of energy utilization (primary commercial energy consumption
grew only 60% as fast as GDP in 1981-83). Agriculture has continued its very
strong performance, with gross agricultural output value rising at 9% p.a. in
1981-84 and grain output at 7% p.a. (reaching over 400 million tons in
1984). Cash crops and animal husbandry have also grown very rapidly, stimula-
ted by rising demand and attractive prices.
7.        There have been impressive increases in personal incomes throughout
the period 1978-83. Average per-capita income in rural areas rose by about
12% p.a. in real terms and urban incomes by about 5% p.a. Rural income growth
was mainly due to production increases, efficiency improvements, and growth of
employment in iDonagricultural activities, as well as substantial agricultural
procurement price increases (through 1981). Urban income growth, on the other
hand, can be attributed primarily to wage and benefit increases, which have
exceeded growth of labor productivity.



-3-
8.        Control of the aggregate level of investment and its composition has
continued to be a serious problem. Enterprise and local government investment
continued to increase sharply in 1982, far exceeding plan guidelines. In
1983, more stringent measures brought this part of investment under control
(though it still exceeded plan targets). But investment outside the rural
sector remains rather inefficient, and improvements in efficiency have been
hindered by administrative controls. Construction costs have risen
contiuaously (10  p.a. in 1978-83).
9.        China has maintained a strong external position.  The dollar value
of both exports and imports stagnated in 1981-83, but this masked considerable
increases in the volume of foreign trade.  Since 1983, imports have grown more
rapidly than exports, and in 1984, exports rose by an estimated 10Z and
imports by 25X. Manufactured export growth was slower in 1981-84 than in
1978-81, but it started from a much higher base and occurred in the face of
worsening world market conditions. Frreign debt and debt service ratios
remained at very low Levels ($6.4 billion and 5.5Z respectively in 1983);
China's foreign currency reserves (excluding gold) rose to $17 billion (over 7
months' imports) by mid 1984 and have stabilized at that level since then.
The value of the Chinese renminbi declined  y about 36Z against the SDR
between the end of 1981 and late 1984 (60X against the US dollar).
Recent Reforms
10.       Rural reforms have continued to progress more rapidly than reforms
elsewhere in the economy. A salient trend has been the spread of nonagri-
cultural activities like processing, transport, and commerce. "Specialized
households" (which concentrate ou one type of pursuit - often cash crops,
animal husbandry, or nonagricultural activities) and pooling of capital by
small groups of households in various types of ventures are becoming increas-
ingly common forms of economic organization in China's rural areas. Wholesale
markets for some agricultural products have emerged. To encourage investment
in land improvement and development, farming contracts between collectives and
peasant households (which typically had been fixed for no more than 3-5 years)
can now be extended to as long as 15-20 years. In early 1985, it was
announced that planned procurement quotas for agricultural conmnodities will be
abolished; more methods of financing investment in rural nonagricultural
activities will be permitted (including tax exemptions, local government
bonds, higher interest rates to attract more saving, etc.); and the growth of
the agricultural processing industry in coastal areas will be promoted.
11.       The momentum of urbax. reforms has revived, with significant progress
on a number of fronts. Since early 1984, a main focus has been further
broadening and clearer delineation of the decisionmaking authority of urban
enterprises. Profit retention now extends almost universally to state-owned
industrial enterprises and in nonindustrial ^ectors like transport, commerce,
construction, and other services. Urban collectives and individual enter-
prises as well as a variety of joint ventures between them and state enter-
prises have grown rapidly (the number employed in urban individual enterprises
rose from 150,000 in 1978 to 2.31 million in 1983).



-4-
12.       In financial reforms, the most important new development was the
implementation of a profit tax system to replace profit remittances to the
Government budget by state enterprises. Though most enterprises have switched
to this system, the benefits have been limited because of the application of a
different effective tax rate for each enterprise, to offset the impact of
distorted relative prices and other factors. Similar problems have resulted
in the abandonment of an attempt to impose a fee or charge on the fixed capi-
tal provided to state enterprises by the Government, and they have hindered
the shift from grant to loan financing of new fixed investment, despite strong
Government support. Financial discipline at the enterprise level remains
weak, in spite of efforts to strengthen accounting and auditing systems and
more strictly enforce existing financial regulations.
13.       In the crucial area of price reform, a major price adjustment for
textiles and textile raw materials occurred in early 1983; it helped balance
supply and demand, to a Large extent equalized profit rates for synthetic and
cotton textiles (which are close su.stitutes in production and consumption),
and drastically reduced subsidies for cotton procurement, with only a small
net effect on the Covernment budget. Prices of many "minor" consumer goods
(which individually do not have a significant impact on living standards) and
the majority of agricultural commodity prices have been decontrolled and are
nov set by negotiations between producers and commercial units. "Floating
prices" (up to 20% above or below official prices) are now allowed for many
industrial producer goods (either for all output or for output above the
mandatory plan target). Price adjustments for key energy products and raw
materials (which in many cases are severely underpriced) and for subsidized
basic consumer goods like grain and edible oil have proven more difficult to
implement, hindered by the potential impact of price changes on urban living
standards and on the finances of energy-using enterprises. Nevertheless, some
price rises have occurred (e.g. for coal and petroleum), and moreover the
share of free market transactions (at largely uncontrolled prices) has
increased in recent years.
14.       Reforms in the employment and wage system have made limited pro-
gress. The bulk of urban labor is still allocated administratively, and
transfers of workers or professionals among enterprises are heavily impeded.
Numerous attempts are being made to link individual performance more closely
with-rewards, including piece-rates, "floating wages," and various types of
contractual "responsibility systems." These have achieved some success, but
problems of egalitarian distribution of bonuses remain, and many enterprises
give out bonuses in kind or disguise them as allowances in order to evade
regulations.
15.       China's foreign exchange rate system has been unified with the
abolition of the "internal settlement rate" (Y 2.8 to $1) at the beginning of
1985. Direct foreign investment (which was first allowed in the late 1970s
but developed sLowly due to the lack of a legal framework) is being actively
encouraged and joint venture agreements have increased sharply. In addition
to four "special economic zones" open to foreign investment and subject to
more flexible policies, 14 coastal cities were recently opened up in the same
way.



16.       Significant steps have been taken to develop new tools of indirect
macroeconomic management. The central banking functions of the People's Bank
of China were separated from its commercial banking functions (which were
given to the newly established Industrial and Commercial Bank of China) at the
beginning of 1984. The centrql bank relies on redeposit requirements and a
discount window to influence the operations of specialized banks, and even-
tually may use discount rates and interest rates in general as a flexible tool
of macroeconomic management. Adjustments in indirect taxes may be used to
affect profitability and supply, in the absence of or as a supplement to price
reform. Scope for horizontal flows of investment funds is also being widened,
with enterprises investing in each other and in joint ventures and in some
cases individuals purchasing stocks.  Though restrictions on secondary trading
remain, Covernment bonds purchased by individuals now can be sold to banks or
used as collateral for loans.
Long-term Issues and Prospects
17.       The Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party issued a major
document on urban reforms in October 1984, which reaffirmed and consolidated
recent reforms and gives some general guidelines for the direction of future
reform. It emphasizes the need for breakthroughs in the following areas:
(a) enlivening and better motivating urban enterprises; (b) clearly separating
Government and enterprise functions (and limiting direct intervention by
Government organizations in enterprises' day-to-day operations); (c) reforming
the price system; (d) improving incentives in the wage and bonus system;
(e) establishing a planning system that is in harmony with greater reliance on
the market mechanism and developing indirect macroeconomic management; (f) up-
grading managerial personnel to meet the new demands on them in a reformed
economy; (g) removing obstacles to a unified national market and promoting
cooperation and technology transfer among regions; and (h) expanding utiliza-
tion of foreign capital and advanced technology. Among the main themes of the
document are the role of competition in promoting a more dynamic, flexible
economic system; the recognition that a certain degree of income inequality is
necessary to provide better incentives for economic development; the need for
clear responsibilities and appropriate incentives at all levels in the econ-
omy; and the recognition that thoroughgoing price reform must involve liber-
a'izing the mode of price determination, not just adjustments in administra-
tively set prices.  Managers of large state-owned enterprises, however, will
still be appointed by Government organizations; a few key products will remain
subject to mandatory planning and distribution by the Government; state
ownership and control over certain institutions like banks and railways will
not be relinquished; and establishment, relocation, changing product lines,
mergers, and shutdown of enterprises will still be subject to Government
approval.
18.       The Central Committee declaration represents a political commitment
to economic reform, which will help foster an environment in which fundamental
reforms can be gradually implemented in a coordinated way. But specific
policy measures will -take a considerable length of time to design and then to
implement. Many of the reforms required will be very difficult, particularly
since reforms in different areas are closely interrelated, and thus appropri-
ate sequencing and coordination become essential. For example, price reform



-6-
in the absence of improvements in enterprise financial discipline will have
Limited benefics, yet the more profit-oriented behavior that would result from
tighter financial discipline would exacerbate the adverse impact of distorted
prices. Similarly, reform of the labor allocation system will be incomplete
without eliminating many of the "social responsibilities" of enterprises
(which now provide housing, medical care, and pensions for their workers and
in many cases education and jobs for workers' children) and replacing them
with Government supported social service programs.
19.       China's objective of quadrupling the gross output value of industry
and agriculture between 1980 and 2000 (which means CDP growth of well over 6Z
p.a.) will require significant improvements i; efficiency as well as continued
high saving and investment rates.  There will be major structural changes in              s
the economy over the next two decades, including a reduction in the share of
agriculture, a rise in the share of industry and possibly in that of services
(which at present is unusually low), and substantial urbanization (in smaller
towns if not in large cities). There will also be a shift within agriculture,
away from grain and basic crops and into cash crops and animal husbandry.
20.       Certain physical/technical constraints will hinder the attempt to
achieve China's targets for the year 2000 and its longer-term goal of catching
up with the developed countries. Despite rapid growth and substantial
improvements in efficiency in recent years, agriculture may again become a
constraint on overaLl growth, since land in China is severely limited. In
energy, shortages of fuel (primarily coal) and electricity may continue to
constrain growth as they do now. Transport and commercial infrastructure will
become increasing drags on the economy without large new investments (as well
as improvements in efficiency). In mobilizing resources in all these areas,
China could profitably make use of foreign borrowing. Finally, the rising
share of the elderly in China's popuLation (related to the slowdown in popu-
lation growth) means that more resources will have to be devoted to main-
taining their consumption levels, especially in the docades after 2000.
21.       Poor motivation and inefficient utilization of labor in the state
sector of the economy are a major problem which can be solved only by coor-
dinated reforms in labor allocation, the wage system, enterprise management,
and social services, among other things. Reforms in the system of education
and training to develop China's "human capital" potential also are crucial.
Backward technology and inefficient utilization of existing technology must be
dealt with by a combination of reforms, appropriately directed investment, and
transfer of advanced foreign technology. Irrational location of factories,
suboptimal scale of many plants, and poor utilization of physical capital in
general are related problems.
22.       If reforms successfully transform the economic system, with a
beneficial impact on growth and efficiency, a new set of issues will come to
the fore. Management of a reformed economy with indirect fiscal, monetary,
and other instruments is one of the most important issues. In this context,
maintaining an adequate saving rate (if the Government no longer accounts for
the bulk of aggregate saving) and avoiding inflation (as well as deep cyclical
downturns) will be major goals. Assuring an adequate minimum standard of
living for the population and an appropriate level of social services will



-7-
become a major challenge as enterprise and rural communal responsibilities in
these areas are reduced. The problem of poor, backward rural areas in various
parts of the country will continue to require attention. Redistribution of
financial resources through the fiscal system, easing restrictions on migra-
tion out of the poorest areas. and Lower nonagricultural wages to make invest-
ment in them more attractive are among the options for alleviating poverty in
these areas.
23.       The Government is now in the process of finalizing its Seventh Five
Year Plan (covering the period 1986-90). The combination of potentially
fundamental refGrms and the urgent need for large investments in many parts of
the economy to build the foundation for further growth makes this task a
difficult one. In order to mobilize the investment resources needed for
rapid, sustained economic growth and development, China will need to rely in
part on foreign borrowing. This is recognized by the Government, which plans
to gradually draw down its substantial-foreign exchange reserves and hopes to
attract foreign capital through a variety of channels. China also has a claim
to concessionary lending because it is still one of the poorer countries of
the world   But its access to concessionary capital to finance its development
and modernization program is limited; apart from Bank Group funds, a
significant amount of concessionary capital is likely to come only from Japan
and a few other bilateral donors and will probably average no more than $500-
600 million p.a. during the rest of the 1980s.
PART II: BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
Z4.       For China to sustain rapid growth over the coming decades, with
increases in efficiency and innovation while maintaining equity in distribu-
tion, will require continuing and fundamental reforms. These challenges are
compounded by China's large investment requiremcats and the difficulties
associated with its efforts to open up to the rest of the world. In light of
this, there are several broad objectives for the Bank to pursue in its
relationship with China. First, the Bank can offer China its development
experience and institutional knowledge as well as the opportunity for inter-
action with the Bank's other member countries. Second, the Bank can assist
China in removing major constraints on development and in improving investment
planning and policy coordination in the priority sectors - particularly
-          energy, transport, other infrastructure, human development and industry.
Third, the Bank can assist the Covernment in its efforts to remove the
remaining pockets of poverty.
25.       The Bank Group's strategy to meet these objectives is formulated in
line with China's broad development priorities and related issues outlined in
Part I of this report. However, Bank Group lending can provide only a small
portion of overall resource needs. As a key element of the strategy, there-
fore, the Bank's lending operations will aim to create a substantial demon-
stration effect applicable to China's overall development efforts. For
example, projects involving new techniques for land development or for provi-
sion of social services have been designed so that they can be repeated by
local authorities within their existing resources. Some of the agriculture
projects and the rural health projects are examples of this approach. The
introduction of international competitive bidding through Bank projects (first



- ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     8
to finance goods, and later civil works) is nov being adopted by the
Government for most local purchases and many domestic construction projects.
26.       Bank assistance can help improve the efficiency of investment,
through introduction and dissemination of improved analytical techniques for
investment and project plannidR and through institution building. Preparation
of the project appraisal manuals for the China Investment Bank and the
Agricultural Bank of China, consultant assistance and the EDI-sponsored
programs, as well as specific sector work in transport, industry, health,
- education and other sectors have improved the quality and content of project
proposals. Assistance to Chinese enterprises and agencies through staff
training, consultant assistance, creation or reorganization of institutions,
-and improvement of costing and financial management has been included in a
number of projects ranging from the ports and railway projects to the several
education and petroleum projects. Specific sector work in enterprise manage-
ment, urban development, health and industry has also provided assistance for
ipo mt of investment efficiency.
27.       Humna resource constraints are a particularly serious problem for
China's deveLopment. There are severe scarcities of higher level trained
manpower. Substantial economic and sector work and technical assistance and
training components in most of the Bank projects are providing support. In
terms of poverty alleviation, the rural health project, proposed urban and
water supply projects and sector work on labor mobility and regional develop-
ment options address poverty, health and equity issues.
28.       Transfer of technoLogy in the broad sense is of fundamental impor-
tance in Chi;n's efforts to improve efficiency of the economy. Outmoded,
inefficient and costly industrial technologies are serious impediments to
development and are wasting valuable energy resources. Here, the Bank can
pLay the role of an intermediary. In transportation, energy, industry,
agriculture and even education, the Bank can finance transfer of technology
through equipment imports, provision of foreign consulting assistance,
sarragement of training and promotion of licensing and other agreements such
as are now being discussed in the railways and other projects. Long-term
investment for new technology will require increased foreign borrowing in the
future and the Bank can assist China through cofinancing. Progress is being
made in introducing co-financing under the first and second power projects,
coal, urban, and some agriculture projects, as well as the proposed project,
and the Bank will continue these efforts.
29.       For most of these elements of country strategy, however, progress
will be gradual and will require sustained Bank involvement over a series of
projects in various sectors.
Economic and Sector Work
30.       Economic and sector work in China was Lnitially designed in part as
a learning experience to provide the Bank with a basis of knowledge on the
development and functioning of the Chinese economy. It also introduced the
Government to alternative ways of economic analysis and views about its
achievements.



-9-
31.       In the last four years, the above approach has been well received
and has allowed economic and sector work to be particularly relevant to the
problems of adjustment and reform which have been in the forefront for the
Government. Followup to the first economic report emphasized technical
assistance and sector work for investment analysis and selection techniques
and enhanced sector pLanning. The content of the lending program has been
directly influenced as a result. The rural credit project, the China Invest-
ment Bank projects, and future regional industry projects are among examples
*         of the links between economic and sector work and the lending program.
*         32.       More fundamental research into the problems of enterprise management
is now nearing completion in collaboration with Chinese economic research
institutions. It has yielded insights into the thinking and reaction of
enterprise managers to system reform and led to better understanding of how
policy changes can improve planning, performance and management of
enterprises. In addition, there is a variety of project-related sector work
underway through studies included in the projects. These are expected to
produce the brasis for detailed discussion of development options and policies
in the various sectors.
33.       Current economic work focuses on future options and issues to the
year 2000 and a comprehensive report will be ready later this fiscal year. In
light of the experience of other countries in making the transition from 1G..'
to middle income levels, the report will pay special attention to inter-
sectoral linkages and economy-wide issues.
34.       Future economic and sector work will be based on the conclusions of
the economic report. It wi-ll continue to improve our knowledge of the economy
- its structure, the issues and cosztraints in key sectors, and the function-
ing of -he economic management system. Collaboraticn on issues of institu-
tional and policy change with Chinese research institutions will continue.
Review of the investment program in key sectors when the Seventh Five Year
Plan (1986-90) is finalized will help develop the next generation of projects
for the lending program.
Lending Operations
35.       Since China's change of representation in the Bank Group in
May 1980, 22 projects involving lending of $2.274 billion to China have been
approved. Annex II contains a summary statement on these loans and credits as
of September 30, 1984. For this fiscal year we hope to present a total of
twelve projects to the Board. These include the already approved Second
Agricultural Research Project, the Second Power Project, the Second University
Development Project, the Changcun (Luan) Coal Mining Project and the proposed
Rural Water Supply Project, as well as projects in seeds development, roads,
railways, fertilizer industry, gas engineering and Pishihang-Chaohu area
development.
36.       For FY86 and beyond, the China lending program should continue to
grow from current levels. Areas of emphasis would include development of
energy resources, transport infrastructure, skilled manpower and improved
*--    technology.  We will also investigate the feasibility of a regional approach
in a number of sectors and will take better account of intersectoral link&ges.



- 10 -
37.       In the energy sector, lending has included six projects, which have
emphasized increased energy output and technology transfer through financing
of equipment, technical studies, training and consultant assistance. The
Lubuge Hydropower Project has resulted-in the Government's extensive use of
competitive bidding for power projects. The Second Power Project placed
particular emphasis on better'systea planning. Fuel alternatives for
electricity generation, power plant location and interconnection of power
grids will be the subject of future work. For develonment of China's
petroleum and coal resources, Bank Group assistance will emphasize acquisition
of appropriate technologies, least -ost planning of investment and related
transport investment programs.
-38.       In the transport sector, railway, port and road capacity must be
substantially increased. So far, one project each in ports and railways has
focussed on increasing capacity, upgrading technology for lower cost opera-
tictns and establishing better costing systems. Expanding domestic capacity
to manufacture improved transport equi*ment will continue to be a theme in the
sector and this should provide scope for substantial foreign private sector
involvement. Improved management and information systems and analytical tech-
niques for better cost control will be encouraged under the projects, which,
once proven, wilL be suitable for wider use throughout transport enterprises.
Inter-modal coordination and planning and assessment of alternative investment
choices will have increasing prominence in both lending and sector work.
39.       In agriculture, seven projects have emphasized support services
through improved research and education, prod-uction increases through new land
development, reclamation, use of improved technologies and management, and
strengthening of the agricultural credit system. Future projects in seeds
development, forestry and agricultural credit will continue to strengthen sup-
port services and rural institutions. Land and area development projects will
endeavor to provide models of integrated regional development. Specialized
activity projects such as fisheries, livestock and agro-processing may also be
developed to support on-going structural transformation in agriculture.
40.       In the industrial sector, two projects have focused on establishing
and strengthening the China Investment Sank. Improved investment selection
criteria, incentives for more efficient management, technology transfer, and
energy conservation are priorities for future projects. Lending will have a
two-pronged approach - further strengthening of the China Investment Bank (and
perhaps other financial intermediaries) and financing large regional
production-oriented projects such as for fertilizer, machine tools, and
cement, to expand output and demonstrate the merits of improved subsector
analysis and planning.
41.       Further expansion of higher education and improvement of teaching,
curricula and graduate quality will be needed to the end of the century. Ihe
human resource constraints have already been addressed by four education
projects and a component of the Rural Realthl/edical Education Project.  The
value of international competitive bidding for equipment purchases and of
international advisory panels for educational policy and curriculum reform has
been demonstrated in the first projects. Improved university management is
being encouraged through establishment of quantitative targets for growth,



- 11 - 
been demonstrated in the first projects. Improved university management is
being encouraged through establishment of quantitative targets for growth,
student-teacher ratios, classroom utilization, laboratory experiments per-
formed, and other reforms (including development of evaluation and monitoring
procedures and greater decentralization). The proposed water supply project
and future projects in health, urban deveLopment and water supply will assist
the Government in addressing difficult poverty-linked questions of
affordability, cost recovery, and minimum standards with focus on particularly
impoverished regions.
42.       Implementation.   Project implementation is generally proceeding
(  well. While there were some initial delays in procurement because of the
Government's unfamiliarity with the concept of bidding, it has since estab-
lished a specialized central procurement agency and has largely overcome this
problem. Most project agencies, as well as the Ministry of Finance and the
State Planning Commission, have establisthed and staffed offices to handle Bank
Group projects. To support further expansion of the lending program,
accelerate project prerptration, improve project implementation, and facilitate
further economic and sector work, the Bank Group is planning to open a
resident office in China early in FY86.
PART III - THE WATEE SUPPLY SECTOR
Introduction
43.       The lives of China's 80C -aillion rural inhabitants have improved
markedly in modern times. There have been major gains in health, housing, and
agricultural productivity. Health improvements have resulted largely from
health education campaigas, improved nutrition and sanitation, better maternal
and child care, immunization, and modest improvements in drinking water
facilities. But about 40Z of the rural population - some 300 million people -
still have critical water supply needs: the supply for 45 million people has
excessive fluoride concentration; 63 million drink saline or alkaline water;
150 million use untreaLed surface water contaminated by domestic, industrial
or agrochemical wastes and 42 million live in water scarce areas.
44.       Traditionally rural water supply has been obtained from individual
or household systems such as bucket wells, hand pump wells, and rainwater
collection tanks, or fetched from rivers, springs or ponds. Most people are
still served in this manner. Drinking water is generally boiled and this
helps control bacterial infections, though it does not prevent illness caused
by chemical substances, found naturally or introduced by agricultural or
industrial discharges. With rising incomes, rural people are demanding and
can increasingly afford improvements in housing, education and public
services. Many have come to expect and are willing to pay for piped systems
purveying safe and convenient water, sometimes by public standpipes but more
commonly to the house or courtyard. Wastewater mibagement in rural areas is
generally not a problem. Flush toilets are not used. Excreta is collected,
frequently treated by digestion and used as fertilizer. Sullage water is used
to water animals or for irrigation, or allowed to drain avay in rainwater
channels or seepage pits.



- 12 -
Sector Organization
45.       The water supply sector is organized separately for urban and rural
areas. For both urban and rural, local initiatives and finance ar!,the prime
movers for development.  In urban areas, the municipal govetiments- are
largely responsible for financing, designing, and building wacer and waste
systems; this is usually done by the municipal finance, design, and construc-
tion bureaus. All urban water supply projects have to be reported to the
Ministry of Urban and Rural Construction and Environmental Protection but
approval is not needed unless the project has a capacity in excess of
100,000 tons per day or central government financial assistance is sought. If
a project extends beyond the city, such as the water supply for Tianjin City
which involves the diversion of a river, it is classified as a national
project and this may make it eligible for central government participation.
'here a project is estimated to cost more than Y 10 million, approval by the
State Planning Coruission is required.  For very large projecta costing over
Y 100 million and where foreign loans ire involved, further approval by the
State Council is necessary.
46.       For rural areas, China's policy of self reliance has resulted in the
villages being largely responsible for sector development and for providing
their own water supply. The initiative for planning, financing and operating
water systems originates at the village Level with a substantial part of the
funds - usually 90Z - coming from individuals and collectives. Plans for
waterworks are submitted fur approval ro the county, which helps to design and
purchase material, and decides on the need for subsidies. The provincial
government in turn compiles plans submitted by the counties and may provide
some financing. The central governmet has only recently become move active
in providing guidance and coordination, and provides financing only in
exceptional cases.
47.       Most waterworks in rural areas are owned, managed and operated by
the villages. But in some areas collectively owned water companies have been
established under the guidance of townships or counties, especially where
several villages can be served more efficiently by a common system. Water
companies are more likely to be found in industrialized provinces where there
is suitable managerial and technical expertise.
48.       Prior to China's endorsement of the UN Drinking Water and Sanitation
Decade Program in 1980, no single agency was responsible for the rural
sector. Planning and programming were done primarily at the local level. In
1981, the State Council designated the Central Patriotic Health Campaign
Committee (CPHCC) as the unit responsible for organizing Decade activities.
The Minister of Public Health, who is concurrently one of the deputy chairmen
of the CPNCC, was designated Chairman of the National Executive Committee for
11   Municipalities generally have populations in excess of 100,000; there are
289 in China. Towns have populations ranging upwards to 100,000, and
there are 3,200 in China. The 800 million rural Chinese live in some
718,000 villages.



- 13 -
Decade activities. The actual work was delegated to the CPICC's executive
office. CPHCC has thus become responsible for development of the ruraL water
supply sector, although its responsibilities are not confined to this
sector.  It has taken this assignment seriously and water supply improvement
has become one of its primarycurrent concerns.
49.       The CPHCC has as members senior officials from some thirty minis-
tries and agencies active in health, water and environmental matters incl-uding
a          the State Planning Commission and the Ministries of Public Health, Urban and
- Rural Construction and Environmental Protection, Finance, Water Conservancy
and Machine Building. The Committee's objectives are health promotion and
disease prevention (e.g., elimination of "the four pests") through education
and organized mass participation in health and environmental activities. The
membership structure of the committee is repeated at the provincial, county,
and village levels, that is, each has its health campaign committee which, in
turn, has as members the local health, finance, construction and water
conservancy bureaus. The local comuittees are responsible for implementing
the Central Committee's policies and priorities and their presence has
resulted in successful implementation of the Gentral Committee's objectives.
Many of China's rural health gains can be attributed to the work of this
Committee and its ability to command and coordinate the activities of its
members.
Rural Water Supply Program
50.       A national rural water supply program was initiated in 1981 in con-
junction with the UN Decade. Although some physical works have been con-
structed at local levels as Decade activities, to date the program has concen-
trated on information dissemination, training and project preparation. This
has been done by the CPHCC and its National Project Office (NPO), with the
technical assistance of UNDP, WHO, the Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) and
IDA. (IDA technical assistance, described more fully in para. 62, in
particular has been targeted at the NPO, which competently used and
disseminated it to other central agencies and the provinces, counties and
villages.) The project for which this credit is recommended is the first in
the rural water supply program which is coordinated, managed and partially
financed at national and provincial levels. National, prerincial and county
project offices have been established for the project and these will serve as
models for water supply improvement offices in nonproject provinces and
counties.
Sector Financing
51.       The virtual absence of central government financing for rural water
supply distinguishes China from most other developing countries. Local
governments, rural enterprises and individuals are expected to provide financ-
ing for capital costs and rural and urban consumers almost always pay the
recurrent costs. In villages householders share the costs with funds derived
from communal activities. Water charges normally cover the cost of operations
and maintenance, and occasionally some depreciation. Metering is increasingly
common in urban areas but in rural areas peer pressure is effective in
controlling wasteful consumption.



- 14 -
Sectoral Issues
52.       Water Supply Targets and Programs.  In 1981 China set a tentative
target to provide safe drinking water for all by 1990, the goal of the UN
Decade, but soon realized that this could not be achieved because of finan-
cial, organizational, and technical constraints. The current target is to
have 802 of the rural population adequately served by 1990. This would be
achieved largely by the villages constructing water systems under their own
initiatives, but with increasing guidance and support from the provinces and
counties. In general terms, the CPHCC has divided Decade activities into
three phases: 1981 - 83 for preparation; 1984 - 86 for popularization; 1987 -
90 for implementation on a national scale.  But there is no concrete national
plan, nor a compilation of provincial plans for rural water supply improve-
ments. During the current period of popularization, a major activity for the
CPHCC is to implement the proposed project so that it can serve as a model for
water supply improvements throughout China.
53.       Because of the size and relative autonomy of the provinces, rural
water supply and sanitation sector planning is best done at the provincial
level. A Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Technical Advisory Center (TAC)
has been established in the existing National Institute of Health, and this
center, with financial support from the NPO, is conducting a survey of rural
water conditions throughout China which will provide the basis for rational
sector planning. The NPO and TAC, with support from IDA, will assist the pro-
vinces in analyzing institutional and financial arrangements and developing
plans for the sector. Two or three provinces will be selected initially as
prototypes for this work.
54.       Financing Sources and Arrangements.  To meet rural water supply and
sanitation targets the Government estimates that about Y 15-20 billion would
be required. Although rural incomes have increased significantly in recent
years, without seed capital and appropriate financing mechanisms s-ctor
advancement will be slow. The Government will continue to require virtually
full cost recovery, but within that context it is considering options for
financing facilities and revolving funds. An assessment is needed of the
participation required of the village, county, province and central government
and of how revolving funds can best be set up and operated. The experience
gained while implementing the proposed project will help in this assessment
and in the development of policies.
55.       Institutional Framework.  The government policy of self reliance has
placed the responsibility for rural water development on the township and the
village.  These communities, however, often lack the administrative, financial
and technical skills required to plan, construct and maintain the more elabor-
ate piped and pumped water systems, especially where water treatment is
required. Assistance in these areas is sometimes provided by the county or
the province, but capabilities, methods and procedures vary from place to
place and are often ad-hoc. The Covernment is f6rming a structure and mechan-
ism under the direction of the CPHCC for providing technical assistance
nationwide, to county and provincial levels of government, to support the
villages. Through improved organization, standardized methods and better
staffing, the national and provincial project offices are also being streng-



- 15 -
thened in their abiLity to plan and organize sector programs and carry out
projects. And the CPHCC is designing, with FRG financing and technical
assistance, provincial and county-level training programs for planners,
designers, and water system managers and operators. IDA staff have been
assisting this effort and wouLd continue to do so under the project.
56.       Technical Considerations.  The technical capabilities of the
provinces and counties vary greatly across China, but generally are more
advanced in the industralized regions.  Poor capability in non-industrialized
areas is partly due to China's previous isolation, the setback in education in
*         the 1960s and poor communications among provinces.  As a result, designs are
c         sometimes inappropriate and inefficient.  Since subprojects are to be designed
in great numbers at the county level with only selective checking at the
provincial and central level, it is necessary to find some means to ensure
planning and design quality. To this end, as a part of the preparation of the
proposed project, a rural water supply planning manual was prepared and intro-
duced in 1984 under the direction of the CPHCC and with IDA assistance. The
manual, 19,000 copies of which have been distributed throughout China, guides
technicians through key planning steps such as comparing alternatives, select-
ing water sources, and laying out distribution systems. Provincial and county
staff are presently being trained in its use. Assurances have been obtained
that the manual would be updated in accordance with a timetable acceptable to
IDA (Section 3.04 and Schedule 4, para. l(b) of the draft Development Credit
-greement); an understanding was reached that this would be done by June
1987. Additional manuals will be prepared (with corresponding training
courses) for design, construction and operation and maintenance, thereby
increasing the productivity of technical and operations manpower.
57.       Water Pollution.  The growing population and industrialization of
China has caused widespread air, water and land pollution, often contaminating
drinking water supplies. In some regions more distant water sources must be
tapped, or, where chemical pollutants are involved, specialized (and costly)
treatment is required. In 1979, China enacted an environmental protection
law, and in 1984, a water pollution control law, but enforcement has been
difficult because of costs, the large number of old industrial, plants and
their importance to the economy. Current policy is to relocate waste-produc-
ing industries away from populated places, and to require that industries meet
prescribed effluent standards.  Old and inefficient industries are gradually
being shut down. In some places industries are charged or penalized for
discharging wastes, with funds so derived used for pollution abatement
*         measures or facilities.  The overall approach is sound but the process will
require time-and steady vigilance and funding. The Bank is providing some
assistance in this field through a proposed project to improve Shanghai's
environment.
Bank Group Role and Sector Lending Strategy
58.       IDA's experience with programs in other countries enables it to
assist China in many aspects of implementing a rural water supply and
sanitation program on a national scale. The more important of these as
related to the rural water supply sector and project development are: (a)
overall planning, to develop realistic service targets and programs to achieve
_ 



- 16 -
those targets; (b) organizational arrangements and institutional development,
to improve the capabilities at the national, provincial, county and village
level for project planning, implementation and operations; tc) staff
development; (d) financial anaiysis and funding arrangements for rural water
supply (suc!i as revolving funds, cost sharing, payback terms, cross subsidies
and afforda2iility); and (e) plannzing and design of projects and individual
subprojects to ensure that project organizations and resources are coordinated
and that subprojects are technically appropriate and cost effective. IDA will
also assist the NPO and TAC in guiding the provinces with developing sector
plans and strategies for rural water supply, and will guide preparation of
Euture rural water surply projects which could be supported by the Bank and
other donors.
59.       For the urban sector the Bank is involved in planning for Shanghai's
urban development under a cofinancing arrangement with Australia. This is a
consequence of the sank's 1982 urban sector memorandum on Shanghai which
recommended a coucentrated planning efEort in the areas of wastewater
management, housing, traffic and transport. Bank staff are presently
assisting Shanghai and Australian technical teams working on these plans, and
the effort is expected to lead to projects in environmental improvement and
housing upgrading. The Shanghai studies are being monitored by urban
development specialists in the central government and other major cities, and
may be used by them as a guide for their own planning.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Origin
60.       In 1981 a UN mission comprising representatives of UNDP, WHO and the
Bank Group visited China to survey the water supply and sanitation situation
there. Its report, while recognizing the significant strides made in the
sector since 1949, also drew attention to the large and urgent needs in water
supply in both urban and rural areas. Consequently, UNDP funded a water
supply and sanitation technical assistance project which was executed by WHO
and provided training, information exchange, specialist services and support
for the preparation of water supply projects. In 1983, China requested the
Bank Group to consider a rural water supply lending operation. A mission in
August 1983 identified a project and provided guidance for its preparation.
The Government initially proposed a project for 13 provinces covering 5,000
villages in 21 counties. Since much of the preparation and implementation is
done at the provincial level, and the provinces require guidance and
instruction, the number of provinces was reduced to four, plus the
Municipality of Beijing, to keep the project manageable and to ensure its
success. Rural water supply improveenwts in other provinces and counties are
proceeding in parallel with the work on this project, but with the traditional
arrangements for funding. The project was appraised in September 1984 and
negotiations were held in Washington from February 27 to March 4, 1985. The
Chinese delegation was headed by Mr. Ce Fucun of the Ministry of Finance. A
staff appraisal report (No. 5358-CHA, dated March 14, 1985) is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Supplementary project data
are provided in Annex III.
_ 



- 17 -
Objectives
61.       The physical objective of the project is to provide safe and ade-
quate potable water supply to some six million people who now are drinking
contaminated water, have an inadequate supply or must travel an excessive
distance to obtain it.  The iDstitutional objectives of the project are to
develop national and provincial planning capability, improve the cost-
effectiveness of and financial arrangements for projects, and ensure their
adequate operation.  The strategies to achieve these are to:  (i) improve the
organizational arrangements for preparing and .rsplementing broad-scoped
projects; (ii) introduce economic and affordability considerations in project
planning; (iii) improve design and equipment technology and improve construc-
tion quality; (iv) intLoduce revolving funds as new financing mechanisms;
(v) train manpower in planning, design, construction, management and operation
of water systems; and (vi) assist in developing sector plans and strategies.
Rationale for IDA Involvement
62.       The rationale for IDA involvement in the project is to:  (i) draw
upon the Association's experience with projects in other countries and thereby
to give advice and support in project planning and implementation; (ii) help
provinces and local governments establish facilities and management systems
needed to design, construct and maintain water systems; and (iii) to assist
provinces and local governments to build instirutions that will, in the longer
term, permit extension of water systems to other areas in the beneficiary
provinces and serve as models for programs in other provinces. In the prepar-
ation stage, IDA assisted the Government, provinces and sub-project entities
to prepare the project with minimal use of foreign consultants. IDA staff
provided advice on organizing the project, staffing, subproject planning and
design, managing revolving funds, regulating construction, and managing and
operating water systems. IDA also helped to arrange participation of foreign
donors. Consultants funded by the FRG have assisted in preparing the training
program (and the FRG is expected to fund the foreign costs of training) and
the World Food Program is expected to provide food aid for village labor in
two of the five beneficiary provinces. During implementation, IDA will
continue to assist with measures for ensuring project success: reviewing
subproject design; using competitive methods for procurement; controlling
quality of goods and construction; and preparing manuals for design,
construction and operations.
Scope and Planning
63.       The project, to be implemented durizg the period from 1985 to 1989,
would cover some 4,650 villages with 5.9 million people (as of 1982) in 25
counties of the provincef of Liaoning, Shaanxi, Sichuan and Zhejiang and the
municipality of Beijing-/ (herein referred to as the provinces). These
2/ Beijing is classified as a municipality but 3.6 million (40X) of its
9 million people live in suburban and rural areas. It enjoys the same
status as a province.



- 18 -
provinces have a total population of 213 million and a rural population of
172 million, uf which 117 million do not have safe water supply. The 25
counties included in the project have a rural pcpulation of 13.9 million,
almost 802 of which lack safe water. The villages were selected because:
(i) their present water supply is inadequate, unsafe or too distant; (ii) they
want and are willing to pay for improved water supply; (iii) they are geographi-
cally diverse and provide a variety of technical solutions for demonstration
purposes; and (iv) they are relatively poor. Fifty-two percent of the project
villages are presently using polluted and untreated water; for another 32X,
the water is scarce or too distant; 11 are using water with excessive
fluoride and 5X with excessive salinity. The proposed subprojects are planned
for a 15-year time horizon and in consultation with the villages by persons
trained in the use of the planning manual. Assurances were obtained that
subprojects would be planned in accordance with the manual (Section 3.04 and
Schedule 4, para. l(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement and Section
2.05 of the Project Agreement). The manual introduces, for the first time in
China, economic, financial and affordability criteria in the selection and
planning of waterworks. The types of waterworks would range from non-piped
individual systems such as rain water storage tanks and hand pumps (which
would serve 161 of the beneficiary population), to piped water systems with
ground water or surface water sources and with varying degrees of treatment.
(Physical, climatic and economic conditions vary widely; hence technical solu-
tions also vary.) The water produced would generally meet China's drinking
water standards, which are generally in line with WHO standards. About 80Z of
the services from piped systems would be by house connecticns, and the balance
by standpipes, with the type of service dependent upon climatic conditions,
the preference of the beneficiaries ,ad their ability to afford the service.
Household connections are not included because of the added capital and recur-
rent costs for metering, but some counties expressed interest to install
meters at a later date if needed to control uneconomic use. A summary design
report will be prepared for each subproject which, in addition to descriptive
information, would contain quantitative parameters, such as cost per capita,
to enable judgments to be made on the appropriateness of design and the
affordability of the scheme.
Institution Building and Training
64.       Project offices at the central, provincial and county levels have
been established and almost fully staffed to carry out the project. The
project includes continued assistance to these offices in developing proced-
ures for planning and impleaienting projects, monitoring progress, and training
staff.
65.       Durirg p'--    p;epirut'jn the NPO's training advisors and foreign
training speciaL         : ved ;y f'je FRG developed a training component which,
while initicaliv                     eneficiary provinces, sets the framework
for nationw-r-                      ..._g component would establish, equip and
staff traini?          -            ject offices fo administer the training
program and  _. _9.  Two national training centers will be
established in J*L             ing to train trainers and a core of about 15
experts to guide  ..          of the training system, develop training
materials and dissemaswe technology. In addition, two county-level practical



- 19 -
skills training sites wiLl be established in each project province for training
operators. Training would be for engineers, designers, accountants and water
system managers and operators. Under the program, the NPO would be responsible
for training policy and direction. Altogether 580 persons at the national
level, 1,174 at the provincial level ail 3,500 at the county and village
levels will be trained during the first two years of the program. The FRW is
expected to provide a $1.5 million grant to fqnd the foreign costs of the
training component. Understandings have been reached with the Covernment that
it would provide the funds to cover the costs of training should the proposed
finar.cial assistance by the FRG fail to materialize.
66.       In addition to the planning manual, a design manual has been drafted
and construction and operations manuals are planned. The manuals are prepared
by Chinese expert reams using local and international reference materials and
experts. The manuals will be printed and widely disseminated under the
project, to be used as media for training and for guiding practitioners. An
understanding was reached that the design manual would be finalized by June
1985 using the experiences of subprojects under design. Understandings have
also Seen reached on timetables for the construction and operations manuals.
Finaly, an understanding was reached that the NPO would finalize and issue
guideline regulations for waterworks operation, in order that county and
provincial regulations can be prepared using these guidelines and will be
ready when the subprojects come into operation.
Organization for Project Implementation
67.       The project has been prepared and will be managed by the NPO sup-
ported by the provincial and county project offices. Planning, design and
construction work will largely be doeie at the provincial, county and local
levels. The NP0, in consultation with the provinces, has prepared and issued
guidelines and regulations concerning financial accounting and organizational
arrangements, planning and design, project implementation and operations, and
training. The NPM, assisted by CNTIC, will be responsible for international
procurement. Provincial and county materials bureaus will do local procure-
ment and will arrange transport and distribution of goods to the ' tes.  The
provincial project offices (PPOs) are intermediaries for planning, training,
finance, and monitoring. County project offices (CPOs), by contracting to
experienced specialty bureaus and units will carry out subproject planning,
detailed design, civil works contracting, construction, construction quality
control, and operator training. The project offices are now almost fully
staffed and some crucial engineering positions at the NPO which were vacant
during appraisal have also been filled. Assurances were obtained that the
Government would maintain the NPO with competent staff in adequate numbers,
and with functions and responsibilities acceptable to IDA; and that the
provinces would maintain the PPOs and CPOs with functions and levels of staff
satisfactory to IDA, (Section 4.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement
and Section 4.02 of the draft Project Agreement).  Understandings have been
reached on levels of staffing, the continuation in service of the NPO's team
of water supply consultants, and arrangements and staffing at the CPOs for
adequate construction supervision.



- 20 -
Subproject Preparation, Review and Approval
68.       At the time of appraisal about 500 subprojects had been prepared, of
which 50 representative subprojects were reviewed by the appraisal mission and
subsequently revised. Because of the receptivity of the Chinese designers to
outside advice, the support given by earlier IDA missions and other technical
specialists, and the existence of the planning and design manuals, subproject
designs are expected to be of high quality. To ensure the continuation of
good practice, assurances have been obtained from the Government and the
provinces that the subprojects would be planned, designed, appraised and
approved in accordance with criteria acceptable to IDA (Section 3.04 and
Schedule 4 of the draft Development Credit Agreement and Section 2.05 of the
draft Project Agreement). To aid in the review of the numerous subproject
proposals, a procedure involving the submission of a suzmary design report for
each subproject outlining descriptive information, quantitative and cost data
and a system of selective review by various levels of project offices and IDA
has been established. Under the procedure, all subprojects would be reviewed
by the CPOs with criteria established that would trigger further review by the
PPOs, the NPO and IDA. These criteria include size of capital investment, per
capita capital costs and per capita recurrent costs as a percentage of net per
capita income. It is estimated that about 13X of the subproject proposals
would be reviewed at the provincial level and about 3Z, with a value of about
25% of the total construction cost, would be reviewed by the NPO and IDA.  The
NPO and IDA may also review any subproject at any time should they so wish.
The review and approvaL procedures were discussed and agreed at negotiations
and are included as Schedule 4 to the draft Development Credit Agreement.
Design of approved subprojects has commenced and all first-year subprojects
will have been designed by March 1985.
Project Monitoring
69.       Monthly project progress reports, originating at the subproject
sites, would be compiled by the CPOs and flow to the PPOs and thence to the
NPO. Each office would use the reports to monitor the areas of the project
under its jurisdiction, and the formats would become more condensed with each
step. The reports to IDA would be prepared by the NPO and would be semiannual
beginning August 31, 1985. The reports would contain information on
construction progress, status of procurement, institutional development and
training.  Understandings have been reached on the timing, format and content
of the reports.
Cost Estimates
70.       The project is estimated to cost $208.2 million of which some $83.7
million (40%) is foreign exchange. The base costs are in January 1985 prices
to which is added a physical contingency of 10%. Expected price increases
amount to 7.4Z of the base cost plus physical contingencies in yuan or 18.2%
of the corresponding costs in US dollars. For the calculation of price con-
tingencies, it is assumed that exchange rate adjustments will, on average, be
made to maintain "purchasing power parity" during the project implementation
period. On this basis, price escalation for both foreign and local costs:
(a) when expressed in US dollars, is based on expected international inflation



- 21 -
rates of 8X in 1985, 9X in 1986-88, and 7.5Z in 1989; (b) when expressed in
yuan, is based on expected domestic inflation of 3% p.a. in 1985-89. The
estimates are based on representative subproject designs and judgments as to
the numbers of each subproject type to be included in the project. Civil
works, labor and local materiqls costs are estimated at current domestic
prices; international prices are used to estimate the costs of materials which
are to be procured by international competitive bidding.
Financing Plan
71.       The total required financing of $210.2 million will be used to
C         defray the physical project costs ($208.2 million) plus $2.0 million for
initial working capital for the provincial revolving funds. IDA would finance
$80.0 million (38.1Z); the Government, $1.7 million (0.8%); the provinces,
$16.2 million (7.7M); the counties, $18.3 million (8.71), the villages, $46.4
million (22.1Z); and the individuals $35.6 million (16.9%). The IDA financing
would cover 96Z of the foreign exchange cost of $83.7 million. The Government
and the provinces would provide $2.2 million in foreign exchange costs. The
FRG would finance the foreign costs of training, equivalent to $1.5 million
(0.7%). The foreign exchange risk would be borne by the provinces/municipalities
and would not be passed on to the counties or villages. For local costs, the
World Food Program would contribute $10.5 million (5.0%) in the form of food
as payment to workers. IDA funds would be relent to the provinces through a
subsidiary loan agreement under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA,
including repayment in 25 years including ten years grace, at zero interest;
execution of the subsidiary loan agreement will be a condition of effective-
ness for the IDA credit (Sections 3.01(c) and 6.01(a) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). Assurances have been obtained that the provinces would
lend the funds to the subproject entities under sub-loan agreements on terms
and conditions acceptable to IDA, including a repayment period of 10 years and
not exceeding 15 years including 2-4 years grace, and zero interest (Section
2.06 of the draft Project Agreement). Service charges, however, would be
borne by the counties/villages. The interest-free loans to beneficiaries are
justified in view of the beneficiaries' limited ability to pay and the social
nature of the investments. Nevertheless, villagers will pay 802 to 902 of the
total cost which is highly unusual compared to most rural water supply systems
which are funded through outright grants.
World Food Program Participation
72.       The provinces of Liaoning and Shaanxi, who are net importers of
wheat, have requested World Food Program (WFP) participation in their
projects.  Under the program, WFP would provide food aid in the form of wheat
to partly pay villagers for their work on the project. The beneficiary
counties have reLatively low incomes and the food will help to reduce the
contributions by the villagers to the investment costs of the project. The
value of the food provided, at prevailing prices in the beneficiary provinces,
is $4.7 million for Liaoning and $5.8 million for Shaanxi. The grain will be
delivered to the nearest port and the provinces will arrange for off-loading,
storage and transportation to the project counties. The program will be
administered by the relevant project offices, the Ministry of Agriculture,
Animal Husbandary and Fishery, the Ministry of Forestry, and various food
_0



- 22 -
bureaus and food supply centers which have good experience with handling WFP
donations in oLher projects. Understandings have been reached with the
provinces of Liaoniog and Shaanzi that should the 1FP decide not to partici-
pate in the project, they, or their respective counties, collectives or
individuals, would provide financing equivalent to the amount of the 1FP food
aid.                         '   -
Tariffs, Cost Recovery and Ability to Pay
- 73.       Under the proposed financing arrangemnt, the villages and individuals
would pay about 40% of the capital cost before and during construction and
b         would receive as loan an additional 40Z (representing the proceeds of the IDA
-Credit) which would be repaid normally in ten years with two years grace. The
villages and individuals would also pay the full cost of operation and main-
tenance. Thus the high rate of cost recovery is feasible because of the
tradition in Chi-n of paying for water and because of the extensive cozrnity
involvement in pLanning of the subprojects, providing construction labor, and
operation of the systems. (In other villages of the project provinces, com-
munity members have demonstrated their willingness to pay by financing
virtually all costs of the improvements). To ensure that the proposed systems
are generally affordable, a simulation using realistic costs for typical sub-
projects was carried act which showed that villages at any income level would
be able to finance appropriate systems if they were to devote three to four
-percent of their incomes to water s-pply. Nonetheless because the cost of
each subproject is different, affordability tests would be applied as part of
the subproject approval process and if the ability to pay for a system or
level of service is in doubt, the system would be redesigned to a lower
service level or, in exceptional cases, the loan repayment period would be
extended as necessary from the normal period of 10 years, but not to exceed 15
years (Sectioz 2.06 of the draft Project Agreement). For the affordability
test, it is assumed that households are able to afford up to 4S of their
income for water supply. This is consistent with rural water supply projects
in other countries where 3X to 7Z of income is considered to be affordable.
The provinces gave assurances that water supply tariffs would cover operation
costs and maintenance and loan servicing and, after loans are repaid, opera-
tion, maintenance and depreciation of fixed assets (Section 4.03 of the draft
Project Agreement). These conditions would be incorporated in the sub-loan
agreements between the provinces and the subproject entities, and in the
regulations for the provincial revolving funds to be issued by the provinces.
Provincial Revolving Funds
74.       The difference in repayment periods between the subsidiary loan of
the Government to the provinces and the loans from the provinces to the sub-
project entities will build up funds for a Provincial Revolving Fund (PRF) in
each province which would be used to carry out further rural water supply and
sanitation improvements in the province (Section 3.02 of the draft Project
Agreement). The PEF would be administered by the PP0 but the disbursement and
collection of funds would be done by the Agricultural Bank of China. Subse-
quent subprojects to be financed by the PRFs would go throug the same review
-md approval process (but without IDA review) as those originally financed by
the credit. The procedure for the operation of the PUPs has been discussed



- 23 -
and agreed. Each province would issue PRF regulations acceptable to IDA and
establish its PRF as coL..itions of effectiveness (Section 6.01(c) of the draft
Development Credit Agreeaent) and maintain it thereafter (Section 3.01 of the
draft Project Agreement). Lending from the PRF would be on terms and condi-
tions acceptable to IDA and the provinceJmunicipality (Section 3.02 of the
draft Project Agreement); these would be the sam as the original subloans
under the project. Pro-forma projections of the PRF indicate that the repay-
ment from the beneficz-.-ies of the proposed project would generate sufficient
- funds to provide service to an additional 8.5 milLion peopLe in the 20-year
period that the PRF finances subproj%:ts. It is, of course, expected that the
Ccvernment would make additiraaL contributions to the PRF after the proposed
project is underway. Projections show that two additional inputs, each of the
same magnitude as this credit ($8) million), from the Covernment to the
beneficiary provinces, together with village and county inputs of the same
magnitude as in the period 1980-1984. would be sufficient to provide the
entire underserved rural population of these p:covinces (104 million people)
with safe potable water by the turn of the century.
Procurement
75.       International competitive bidding wilL be used for the procurement
of major materials and equipmnt totalLing $78.8 million in value (two
cont-acts for cement, steel reinforcement and steel for other structural use,
two contracts for steel and cast iron pipes, two contracts for plastic pipes,
and a contract each for water pumps, timber, power transformers and vehicles).
A margin of Dreference equal to 15% of the c.i_f. price or the prevailing
customs duties, whichever is less. will be al towed for domestic manufacturers
in bid evaLuation. Microcomputers and miscellaneous office and laboratory
equipment with a total value of about $0.7 million will be purchased through
shopping by inviting quotations f-om at least three eligible suppliers. Tech-
nical assistance totalling $0.5 million will be for individual experts hired
in accordance with IDA Guidelines as short-term consultants-for specific
tasks. Documents for all IDA-financed contracts estimated to be worth $i50,000
or more wilL be subject to prior review by the Association.
76.       The remaining materials, equipment ,id civil works will be procured
locaLly. Materials such as sand, gravel, stone and bricks (valued at $15.4
million) wiLl be procured from selected local suppliers or included as part of
civil works contracts. Several other kinds of materials and equipment which
are required in small quantities by each of the over 3,900 subprojects will be
procured at administered prices or through competitive bidding i_-der local
procedures at the county level. Civil works will be carried out by a combina-
tion of labor under force account where work does not exceed $200,000 in
value, and contracting by competitive bidding under local procedures for
larger civil works or works which require special construction skills. Land
will be provided by local governments. Procurement arrangements and their
estimated values are shown below.



- 24 -
Procurement Arrangements
Procurement Kethod            Total
Project Element                 ICE       LCB    Otber           Cost
Materials and                  78.8      19.0     16.1          113.9
equipment                      (78.8)             (0.7)         (79.5)
&         Civil works                              33.0      20.0           53.0
-Services
Engineering and
administration                                 9.1            9.1
Transportation                                  14.9           14.9
Sector development                               1.7            1.7
(0.5)          (0.5)
Training                                         3.6            3.6
Land                                              12.0           12.0
Total                                                         208.2
(80.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by the IDA
credit.
77.       IDA is providing ongoing assistance to China for the development of
competitive civil works procurement and this will be the first time that
competitive bidding will be used in some of the beneficiary counties for small
civil works. China is in the early stages of reforming practices for the
procurement of goods and civil works and the procedures to be used under the
project represent a marked advance toward increasing competition, reducing
costs and enhancing quality.
Disbursement
78.       Disbursements would be made on the basis of:  (a) 10OZ of foreign
expenditures for imported equipment and goods and 100% of local expenditures
for ex-factory costs of Locally manufactured equipment and goods procured
under ICB ($78.8 million) or prudent shopping ($0.7 million); and (b) 100% of
expenditures for technical assistance ($0.5 million). An IDA Special Account
with an authorized allocation of SDR $2.1 million would be established in US
dollars in the Bank of China to facilitate disbursements for the above
expenditures (Section 2.02(b) and Schedu'Le 5 of Ehe draft Development Credit
Agreement). Disbursements would normally be made against full documentation
except that, for contracts valued at less than $50,000, reimbursements would
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs) to be certified by
the NPO. Documents supporting the SOEs would be retained at the NPO and made



- 25 -
available for inspection by IDA supervision missions.  Because Bank Group
involvement in China is recent, a disbursement profile for China is not
available for reference. The proposed disbursement scheduLe is somewhat
shorter than the IDAIIBRD disbursement profile for water supply projects
elsewhere. This is reasonable,because IDA disbursement will be only for the
procurement of materials and equipment under ICB, which normally takes less
time than and must precede civil works. Also preparation of the procurement
documents is well advanced and CNTIC, the institution entrusted with ICB
prsocurement for the project, has experience with this line of work. The
credit closing date will be December 31, 1990.
Accounting and Auditing
79.       Assurances were obtained that procedures to account for project
expenditures and financing would be satisfactory to IDA, and that independent
auditors acceptable to IDA would audit the project accounts annually and
present the audit report (including a separate opinion on withdrawals
requested on the basis of statements of expenditure) to IDA within six months
of the end of each financial year (Section 4.01 of the draft DeveLopment
Credit Agreement and Section 4.01 of the draft Project Agreement). Accounting
for project funds and expenditures will be done for each subproject and con-
solidated successively at county, provincial and nationaL levels. The con-
solidated accounts of subprojects in a county would be certified by county
auditors, those in a province by provincial auditors, and the consoLidated
annual account of the entire project will then be audited by the State Audit
Administration (SAA), which has the status of a ministry and reports directly
to the State Council. An audit report would rhen be prepared by SAA and a
copy would be forwarded to IDA annually. Provincial audit reports would also
be subject to IDA review.
Justification
80.       While health, quality of life and other benefits from the project
are apparent, they cannot be directly quantified. Also, because of the
absence of metering, which is not economical in the context of rural China,
revenues from water cannot be used as an appropriate proxy for the measurement
of economic benefits. It is therefore not possible to compute a realistic
economic rate of return for the project. However, that the project will have
a positive impact is evident from the seriously inadequate state of the
present water supplies. Contaminated water has given rise to poor health
conditions; excessive fluoride content has caused skeletal deformities; and
difficulty of access is occupying free time and inflicting hardship on those
who must carry water over long distances, especially women and children and in
areas where winters are severe. The desire to have better water supply is
demonstrated by the villagers' support of the project and in their willingness
to contribute financially to meet its costs. The project will in addition
provide water of improved quality for rural communities and individuals to
engage in growing cash crops, raising Livestock and undertaking industrial
activities promoted under the "production responsibility system." This is
particularly important because about 60Z of the beneficiaries had incomes in
1982 below the rural poverty threshold.  The planning and design process
adopted for individual subprojects would ensure that the systems proposed are



- 26 -
least cost and within the villagers' ability to pay. The institutional
development and project implementation measures used in this project will
benefit futrre projects in this sector. In particular the revolving fund
mechanism developed in the project can be emulated in other projects to help
extend the reach of scarce financial resources.
Bisk
81.       Although the project is not technically complex, the number and dis-
persion of subprojects, and the involvement of numerous provinces and counties
will impose a heavy burden on the newly formed project management organiza-
tion.  In anticipation of this the NPO has developed appropriate monitoring           --
and management systems, has strengthened its staff with qualified personnel
and will continue to draw on the services of consultants as advisors. Since
the capacities of the project offices have not been tested on a major project,
there is the risk that project implementation will be sLower than anticipated
and that this will delay project completion. But the following factors
mitigate this risk: design and construction will be managed by PPOs and CPOs
wiho have experienced staff; steps have been taken to ensure that the project
offices will be staffed adequately and this will be monitored by IDA; and the
design, construction and operation manuals will be prepared in a timely manner
to allow them to be used in the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
82.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of China and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Associa-
tion and the Provinces of Liaoning, Shaanxi, Sichuan and Zhejiang and Nunici-
paLity of Beijing, and the Recommendation of the Statutory Committee provided
for in Article V, Section ltd) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
83.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Special conditions of effectiveness are that China's State Council shall
have approved the Development Credit Agreement and Project Agreement; a satis-
factory subsidiary Loan agreement shall have been signed between the
Government and the four provinces and the Municipality of Beijing; and each
province and the Municipality of Beijing shall have issued regulations for,
and established, its revolving fund (draft Development Credit Agreement
Section 6.01).
84.       } am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association._
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
85.       I recomumend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 20, 1985                      -
Washington, D.C.



-          - - 27-                                              AN       I.
Page 1 of 6
=130.~ SUffEZS 31. OF - SOCaL             amING31135
mri. r gs m     3?. OW or    -   mm U~ CG15 (ozSuI   3385 la
am5?                 OSS? RNEW  IS2ZMZ) lb
Ali&o-                                                                          w -   -
TOZL                                95.m                                3A0 S? L-0 .                       -
10131.                              3501X.0     350803501.
U L    ~~~~~~35.0                       082.0       333.               . 
a nm   CM)                         40.0 IC       0.         310.0          V78.0          lO S          2
CRLGMS Or OIL   1v*LU)               11.0        250.0        43o            27.o                      Sc-3
10U83-  no v=L  so. Ucg
1WW.UI0EJ~D-U*K ()OSAmmS   667800..    30570.0   100S175.
w_ orwovaT    CZ or 1 .)             1              ..         20.0           21.7                     34.7
ATI  Z- MM 2000 (ll)                                       1130.3
4                         fs_A?ZOSE? NworuIO  SMLL)                                   141.0
.i&W- Mas                                                     1.7
MM So. DL                          71.9         8.5         103.8          160.0                    261S3
M 5Q. U.  a1.. LAW                211.1        217.9        25.8           363.5                    1733.1
IOWMUA?AIZ  SIUhCK CZ)
0-16 I                             35.3        37.T         30.9           35.8                      39.0
LS-" I                             50.3         ST.2    a     3.3           59T8                     57.0
65 AMD ANI                          4.8          5.1          5.5            4.3                      3.3
POOX7m   cac     u    (I)
1TOML                                1.3         2.1          1.5            1.3                       2.3
mawU                                 ..           ..           ..            *.1                       4.3
m  =            (18 CM 073)          33.2/.       34.0         18.5           27.7                      311
C    3341 3A   CU OIIS)              23.5 7       10.1          0.6           10-1                      3.5
C-W         cTIi  3*10                2.8 1        2.3          1.2                                     2.0
AC     S. AInAL C D                   ..-
S    CZ Or KAMD U                    ..           ..         11.G :f          ..                     52.7
iosr -   c
CX9ff-71-0                             ..        1o0.O        124.0          112.                    13.0
MM  AZ      11 OF
CDZnRn CZ or 3ZQUUNE )            93.0         8s.0        107.0           37.7                     114.4
mU1m   C(8S*5  M DM)               56.0         53.0     66.0               56.                      57.0
C-F R1= ASL  -ND PS               10.0        10.0         17.0            10.9                     14.1
CD  (AGES 1-4) DUZX UT               24.0         14.0          7.0            9.8                      7.2
NLV8
LM  ZZMM. AZ 3= CIUt       )         4L.0 lb      52.3         00.5           g0.0                     00.4
3AW i1. amE (PM 1508u)              165.0 7;    109.0          67.0           83.8                     6.3
=SS TO051n VA=n (130?)
TOM*1.                                ..          ..        40              32.9                      37.0
ix"AS                                ''                     IL"             70.9                     54.8
sum                                  ..M.3Q-O                               ZZ.I                     26.4
CA OF 101018     DIPO)
k                       1013.....                                                      ..            1s.1                     41.3
gang lSE^                            .._..                     ..72.8                                47.4
-                       tCUL                                  ..           ..           ..             .                      33.3
IO2OLr?10u PM fl?SCIAS             8390.0 fl   3830.0 /It    110.0 it       34.2                     7769.4
10p. HZD    1 15C OI               4050.0       2370.0       17Y.0          4793.1                   2460.4
*                      10?P HE LWs1IA  NM
SUXAL                             1060.0       760.0        *90.0         100S.5                    1044.2
DU"*5                             210.0           ..        160.0          2W8.0                    651.2
HEAL                            10140.0           _.       1020.0         5934                     2594.6
ASSI   MM   SXZ D                      _. ..                     ..             ..                     2.0
A18c68 sIZ OF  OSzNOW
c"                                   ..           ..          4.2
303*1.                               ''           --          5.5
m                                    ..           ..or
T~ O   UC. X01LZLIL
101*1.                      ..          ..           .               ..
A                                    ..           ..           .. OF                                   ..



ANNEX I
28                                        Page 2 of 6
*,ok.       131eu      ulw.k          M1  A 1oc15            "LA a  mAne
-~ ~~~~L -   bTIU>*ZCZ                                                                   S^S
M&I. ..                                              13.01.                                    0.
131                        ..L                     106.0          83.?                      98.2
uu05u.zv &                          U a         23.0         ".o as.o                                 4.0
MALI                       ..           ..         52.0           ".S                       4.7
nmliLl                     ..           ..       f35.0             8.3                      434.
O1A?ZOAL Co ICIUAR)                     ..          ..          La              La                      17.5
PUfM-UACU RATIO
PRO=                                         ~~~~      ~    ~~~~~24.0  3m.s            31.8
hZ~T  ..    ..        h17.0            18.7                     23.5
AUZX L     SAa  U ( CZ                43.0a          ..        ".0                4                     72.9
P*i    caSlUua    w                     ..          ..          0.2             0.9                     10.
RADO %nlIlbO/M 3  O                     ..        14.2        13.3            L12.1                    11.8
s!    rVEUSIUoOSA43 POP                 ..        70.4         2.4             15.7                     3
inuv.um CuazJ. CC.3Az.
INEX' C URCDT
PZ  wUSAID 1O        a                ..          ..           ..            15.2                     59
CUU& AL ZZlmW                a          .. ..                    ..             3.4                      LA
02.U 1AcK IOCZ CUOW)              32144.0    M305.0    47344.0
S  rCPZ )                    38.3        33.0         37.2            33.3                     33.5
L      0Zm  CPziR=                    ..          ..         i.9             4-i                        2.2
14303105 (IUCUE?)                     ..           .         13.7            15.8                     179
__mm am Ci')
L                                   4.          4*5.0        47.0            42.6                     38.7
FALL                                55.         54.5         57.2            54.7                     50.0
PUShZ                               37.0        35.0          3.0            29.3                     28.
=c       e    o UDEIw    RATnO         0.9         1.0          0.8             1.0                      L1
_u
PUW?Fr  o sDIVAIK Va
05052USD or
-IDE? 5S OF ,,U0EZD                       ,    ,..                             .2.
IDS? z2  or  D       S                ..          ..         3w,j              ..                     4.
1taM    205 F   OSZS                  ,,          ,,          4.              .,.
iOS 405 ODS -0 13                   *..       U    .         184j              ..           U3.5
-N-Sm D amorU        m     zw
LamRI (an5 PU caIA)r
aims                                  ..          ..           ..           133.9                     .0
MAL                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~111.5      1.0
LzIU  CTs PU Cam)
nu"45                                 ..          ..           ..             .'                     177.9
.nA                                ..           ..           ..             ..                     141.
7Wl      lmL tt
ZnnmI= ow. Mmow AISOLUIM
10105? ZMe03 LEMa CZ) 
au"5.....                                                                    43.8                - 23.4
3055L                                 ..          ..           ..            5L.7                     37.7
am mPLICILi
Mama srp averaes for eaci lodlct.r we popeAtlOu-we4gbte  agitb5t1c earns. COvrage of co_strINa am_n  UW
indicators deada an WSifbLUty og data   d tomg umi ore.
/b  IJa oteiwim voted. -d,   far 190~ refer to am  year betwem 1959 ad t961: 3C       ea for 1970- beIe      f a1d
I9n; a" data for Ibet _ACeg zkasata  batw.m 138o a"e 198U.
Ic  lntersolatad 1357-J  data; /d 1964; /a 1955-1365 average:  If Percents" of a1 married  _m  of child beaziag
ag  praccticng cotracaprio; /e 1977; lb 1955-4  avrag;  It Sunor doctor of emate= medicine;
Dibactom of pople raalmd7by boeae_id  par caita Lace.. 1979 data.
*A  pmoLatu and .ltal stascaUs ar. Bank esaciaes which differ fm  Chins offial stAticles.
Foml educatleo  only: noa.f sel earoLjast is ubstcatll.
Bauinitisa and Cverage dlff f roe tbOhe of QISet CeflcIAl *t&tiagICa.
Jll, 1984



-                                                        ~~~~~~~~ANNEX I
29-                                                                                  Page 3 of 6
oomfmsm_ w o4L 1Um
on-44. afr.6m t.4de 416  .0.4       - .44044   0.44491  Jell  aftaRR 40 40441444           44144_3     -.3.444604.1.              ..   444.4. 444_.1 1*
4.4*404.1  R-  1,ek   4404 4            lmm - -  44.44.44   4444444-2.     t 04 .- *.9- 4-4444.        o da-W
.0444- -    -  (42 11 -     4-e1   444r-     -M...444  4-444         Cal (2    4w 44n  444* 4=4   b.0- 4-44-                    4* -        4 .4a
.0nt40  4 34434444444444  -    t04-44   --        & - 44*.. 64444**  41  4*.344-.4.b.... - .4              - - 44...   . _s...  ,as-           
. .~~~.e  . ~   ~      n ,".--W.3                                            fr -t f.  Io 1.mLq.-G!2is4a   - 14-314 9.1. 444-4.1_     -e 4.431
39164- 4944 40..                                                      444s34- ..4t4-M  . - .1.7044-1-4 -1 -  4.tlk. 4~4. 4- 4! -tb -4444 a44  (41
44410.0 b-.t     47 34444-  4.0k- 4-4 - t 044i4
- 4-re  144334.   - 4.44.ln*   44...8 "Ok                                -&t   .0 FR4-  -t-   a-& .4.4          1.0  44.   4
3460  394 i34   44.                                                                     .-3.4   34                43443  4   ..44              ...d.4   ~..4i
r  p4_IL._L  t...---..                                       400    .4144444..44.44441..441*  4
d                         -           4144 444 0pt4~~~1  - 4.4.41  Sea .044 .4. aW-s4190                          4-Ia3g               4 1        1440.-~43. 44*043
41.0. C4- 34-        4 SW.                                                              404.44 R..            4.M. 0 - .44 4-Z. -0  4.,3.-4 4.. -03-d
salf.  lnz 4-                                                                                                        -1-1-127~~~~~4..0*44   44.  v 1  034.4*44
7.4.  44  -.            - 16.41.17 4; 454- -494.-I- 3443f.  .)wa                                                   i   Ipl
-0 .44.                      "f- fe   W--R                   O.   vn                             Sawd! ... .0..........  r-444.                      -  44*4
sile. -0- -  .44  4444134,40...0  *C4.414       *44       93..-     .--4    .II.4
41444. 44444410 444-W44444444444   4444 44444                                  444-4414 44444.            tp,-
1.4.3. aI    34.414444. URI4   1.444443   411 a-my4 P.                    R44440444*  (444        .33 ) -  -I44.  -44.40 4s 
444- .4    41144 4- 44411447 44.01.4  4444434.-d--*                               ..fr- 444-.444
164444   R.144.1 "     4- R4      4-..-. W 4.4443   444177444 -                               0-443a414*44.    44441. 3                             1
44-  44-4 R 444   4  344 4.344 M.44*. at-   44443                                                P".14  ..14  -44-~   4  44444434  444444-4444
W34   44141..3  44-4-44044 4.414   14".41 4.4                               4444al*.w   ..4  4 --3    44   ..m3, 24
44444444 4344.144444R 444  414   414-44444ew                14.444                         --1   .*144 .446.4..44.
.03444 16 *4J.4.4  *4444444444 .1A.F 40444 -    41, 1-                                        a] 443-444 R -  ..    ..-4.44-..0   444t
*4.  * 444441444444414~4444  414-441                                         U404   4444-4144 4-14444 444444444?1444414
744141 e -44  -a  IIt44.474.44344 -443444 I.-I             444                       44.4444444444  444-4   Le.     ....*4 441..1  143-       4.-
44.  -.43c*44-4e44.444 c41t.       44-4140444.                                    4141  4444
4-4.44 3444 41*        344-4  444441*4441344   443444444444   44444     4444443-44,44
.34344 44414-  4444414  M434 4444414   131    4j.444                          4444  444444.  40.a -1. 44444   144-h.4444 4-4
Ge.44   .4.d%-                                    1 .                      444R4*7*44  -                    m.0.4.04-   T44V 44. 4444444444 
444  4. 4. 444414 44444 44  -44  43-44  4 A.M.444-414-L-  44444444-443441
44141 4160. 4444.0416-4 0.44.11   L
44411444444*444 1.4-44 a-M4443- 4-44f4-4R444-414430.                                                                            --.1444 4443-4
r-.4  -0 943    -L-490.-- 416-44. 4409-.62                                          441  1641 -4 444*4a4 ::,.I 144 1-433% 4p44    -d4.           4  744401
04441 4444164.  .44 4.44 - 4.4444444 444*4444444 .410-            4444- 4.4.    4d.41   4W   44 4444- ,. 444.4*4  4444-               -
444 4144-4 R44. 9-1. 4-3442   I-44                                                    4-434 4433460,344.4.1
4744 *44*164  (44. 444443 -4  4444    404444-47*4...1444-144                                                W444 - 14t n.f              te   44 R44
-4z4    40   4944 .4.4nw  44.                                                    444*  -I  p44.440              3444;44,0441344R    444444
04   14444444444- ~44  44       .      Be.    433*4   .4    f3    01444-444444411   44-4444
*44.4443 44440444344444.444- ~41  44444  o-444444.4c44  041444  .1  444   444434  -4    4644
44431444444;4-1? 44-447  444444.4444  .  -d0  -40   -444344  4  44R44-14440  4447   4I404  94014
Alk                                 f-  JR U                                                                     4*444.44444   41443,1444014as"*  4 f44                           444
4.404 44-I  - 4444444  164*3  44-043- 4-   4-.4  444144414 4 4444   4144044 4  3444 40  4 4.4
40 4444444.4 0444  7  -440,4  441-ft W3       A 44.444                    44   444410444   4444444-4444  f  
441444    4-. 44   44414 4.4. 41.49. MO34-14 J".4   .46 4,4. 44. W-4 -                                                           R444443444  444-.  4334  44
4441444444444444-474.444444.47.444444                                                                      44444        4444   .04.44.4444
t.- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~..3. 4*30.1444.  4   44-4-44   4.
Ie444414                                                                            0..14   14 34444   44
3.4.4   444444.34   -4.44  (16-144)- 3404.4  44  4.44.-443   .6   444   4440.   4444444
444144-14  4 .1  4-    414.  4.444  *14    4.40444444.444441- .*4 44t 1   4444w44444..0444
R44-44   44(44         l,.441.    -44444   404444  40                              441  444444434344474;34*44.414-



*30-                                                  AhllI
r.peatiO      i 1.0111 wAlliUm  (mid-1932)
P per Capital USS1O  (1t2)
mII&L - zcmoprc zmzcaTouus
Indicator                                  1937-70   1970-77  1978       142v            CW,tUU Prim44                        -T
(e.tiimte)
Production
Iros output
Ajtriculur                                2.2       5.4       0.0      3.4       3.9      6.4       11.01     0.5
Uixt lndu.tzy                            3.3       7.8      In..      9.6      13.4      14.1       5.7       3.7        .
Rea4vy Industry                          11.4      0*3      15.4      7.7       1.4      -.4.7      0*9      12.4
liet material Product CNN?)                 5.2      4.3      12.4      7.0       6.1       4.3       7.4       0.1
1957     14970     1977      1973      41079     1930      19311     1932      1033
Prices
Betail Price Index (1970.100)  92.2    100.0    102.7    103.3    105.6    111.7    114.4           116.&    11R.3/11
NMg deflator       (1970-100)  90.7    100.0       0991     100.5    104.5    103.4    110.5    1101.0    iii.dM71
Exchange rate     (713)          2.44     2.46       13        1.8        .5      150       1.71      1.9        .UTj
Amount                                                         Average Annul I~-udtb
1932                Shares of GDP M2                          2 at Co.stazc 'rices
Ilational Accounts        Ts-b-In)    1957    1970    1932       1935    1900      2057-7f   1970-79   1979-82   19112-901
GDP                        264.5      100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0            T.'3                5.1       4.5
Agriculture               4175          *. 32.S    36.0    34.0    29.4             1.4       3.2       5.1       3.2
Industry                 107.0          . 4-1.5    40.4    43.0    45S.7           12.1       3.9       7.4       3.2
Other                      60.0         *.    4.0    22.7    23.0    24.9           3.5       4.3       0.3       7.3
Conump~tion                134.4       76.4   63.4    69.7    701.0    71.0           2.7       5.4       5.1       4.3
Iuyeatinet                  76.0       23.2   32.5    23.7    30.1    29.3            9.3       4.3       0.9       7.0
Exoorts CGM                 23.5         3.7/b   4.0     3.9      0.0      9.6        1.6/h     3.0/"    10.0       7.5;
Import. CMP                 19.4         3.17W  6.3      7.1      0*3     10.4        2.1T%-    9.47r-   7.7       11.1
National savinpl            110.1      23.4/c  31.9    30.3    3n.0    29.0            .
Am C  Or OP
Public Fl7aces                                                   1957           1970           1431           1031
Current ravenue. (excluding foreign Norrowing1                 23.7           14.5           31.9           20.1
Current expenditures                                           14.1           22.3           23.3           21.1
Surplus C.) or deficit C-                                     .2.4           +11.7           .3.6          4&7.3
C        epital expen.iture3 11.9                                             1114 0.9                       9.4
Podre    lborruii1. /d                                          0.7            0.9            1.61           0.7.
other nicatore                                                 1957-79        1979-32        12.4..0
GDP grmilkh rate (Z)                                                           5.1            4.5
GPDP per caplta growth rate CZ)                                 3.3            3.9            5.1
Enrwy couwf tiou growtb rate (2)                                3.5            1.9
ILCON                                                           5.4
marxinga savings rate                                           0.42
I-port elasticity                                               1.6            1.5
fs VW? basaia.
W Goods onay.
Tc- cDs.
Tdt crosts.
1U   SWre- 0f IDw tS)             (t) *t 4tzrc l'ric~~~~
llbCtot t-   (S bln)    1   1g7e    19X2    198S    l9iin    les7-7n   19J0_79   1972   l9Rt-qn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



- X1-                                  Y~~~~~~~~q    5 of 6
Populatio     : 1,008 millIon (mid-1982)
CNP per capita: US$310 (1982)
CIA - EXTERRAL TRADE
_amt
(MiLLIC. USS at              An_ul  arwth rates C?) (at coeatat 1980 prices)
current prLese)                   etual                              Projected
LIdicator                           1983        1980       1981       1982       1983      1984        1985        1986
ternal Tade
Nerchandise enport- 22.223                      17        16          6          10       14           5             5
Energr                         4.466
Other primary                  4,947
_onuffatur s                   12.557         ..        ..         ..
Other                             253        ..         ..         ..         ..
marchandlse Laporte              18.970        1;          9         10         29        30           8            8
Food                            2.735         ..        ..         ..         ..
Energy                            99         ..         ..         ..          ..
Machinery and equlpamnt         3.537                   ..               ..         ..         .     ..
Other                          12.599        ..         ..         ..         ..
Prices
Export price Index (1980-100)       ..        zoo        103         99         89        86          90           95
Import price index (1980-100)       ..        100        105         91         79        76          S0           85
Term of trade indez (1980-100)      ..        100         98         108        113      113          112          112
Coqposition of merchandise trade (Z)                 Average a_al increase (2)
(at current pr   )                               (at cotanc prices)
1980     1981    1982    1983    1985       1990     19S7-570  1970-79  1979-82  1982-65  1985-90
Exports                100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0        100      100        1.6      8.0     12.9      9.6        4
Energy               25.1    22.9    23.8    20.1          11        0         ..       ..
Other prfmary         28.4    24.1     22.8    22.3        24       24         ..       ..
Manufactures         46.5    47.8    50.5    56.5          60       71         ..       ..
Other                 0.0       5.2     2.9       1.1       5        5         ..       ..
Imports               100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0         100      100        2.3      9.4      5.4     21.9        7
Food                   ..      19.6    22.5    14.4        16       17         ..       ..
Energy                0.0      0.0      0.0      0.5        0        8         ..       ..
Machinery and
equipment           27.5    24.2      19.1    18.7       24       25         ..       ..
other  -.                     56.2    58.5    66.4         60       50         ..       ..
Sare of trade with         Share of trae with        See of trade with c,untriAs with
industral _-ut'1as CZ)    developin  countrles (Z)   ctr ally plnned econoe (Z) /
1978    1981    1983       1978    1981    1983            1978      1981      1983
Direction of Ted. A
Exporbt                      37.3   45.9   42.1         51.6   50.2   53.1              11.1       3.9       4.7
Imports                     73.3   76.8   68.1          17.5    18.7   24.2              9.2       4.5       6.4
/a  rncludes the Soviet Union, Eastern Europe, Cuba. North Korea ad Mongolia.
lb  Based on IMF: 'Mina - Recent Economic Developments," October 1984, p. 90b.



33                           ~~~~~~MIUI I
- 32 -a p-   if 6
lpulation    I 1,008 st1lo(mid-1982)
0GN per capitl I13310  tl192)
CURLr  -         07 7A    , ITUW  WTAL AnD DM
(MU1IGNs e UN at current price. I
4Actua                                 tre ed
Indicator                                         1979      1980      1981      1982      1983      19U       19U       1990
blaneo of lawats
ralopoF1imsMdand services                     15,351    20,901    23,157    23.989    26,389    29,060    32,000    33,300
Of whicht lhrchaatl    f.o.b.               13,658    18,492    22,027    22,476    22,223    24,450    27,000    4,700
XMports of goDds and services                 18,204    24,732    24,380    20,793    22,"4    28,060    31,900    62,600
Of which: lhrch.dieo f.o.b.                 16,212    22,049    21,047    17,830    18,970    23,710    26,900    32,600
met transfers                                    596       500       680       412       511       600       700       800
arrent accon nt balanc                       -2,257    -3,351      1,457     5,608     4,442     1,600       800    -8,500
Foreign direct neeoteent (not)                     -        57       265       359       478       670       800     1.500
IL! Loans (not)                                  800     1,130       416       *26       839     1,000     1,200     4,000
Official                                       350       446       479       557       789
private                                        450       684       -63     -131        110
Other capital                                  2,054     2,555       365      -102   -2,481    -1,070    -1,300      1,000
Qange in nt reserves  "-" - incree)            -597      -391   -2,503    -6,291    -3,338    -2,200    -1,500       2,000
international reserves                         7,274     7,665    10,168    16,459    19,797    22,000    23,500
of which: gold                               5,12a    5,120      5.120     5,120     5.120
leasr. as months imports                         4.8       3.7       5.0       9.4      10.6       9.4       8.8
-xerel Caital md Debt
Grown dlburceto.                                            .        ..
couesulonal Loas                                  ..        ..        ..
MC                                              ..        ..        .          .        .
OPEC                                            ..        ..
IDA                                              .        .         .          .        .
other                                           ..        .         ..        ..
_oncoeaaial  a                                    ..        .. ....
Officlial export credits                        ..        ..        ..
IBiD      -..                                             ..        .          .        .
Other sultilateral                              ..        ..        ..        ..
Prvate                                          ..                  .
Externl debt
Debt outtandig & dieburead                      ..     5,433     5,785     6,058     6,397
Official                                       .
Private
uDdiuburrd debt                                 ..        ..        ..        ..
Debt service
Total service pyment                            .         ..        .
Intreot .e rne
Paymentc aS 1 export. CNPS                       .       5         88.6/    10.9/a     5.5/a
Average interat rate on new loa (s)               .. CZ)
Average maturity of new lo     (ya)               ..             ..        ..        ..
/a Including soe early repaymen of principal.
&k
I



AIIIOC II
- 33 -
STATUS OF NMAh GROUP OPI!LUIONS IN THE PEOPLE'S REPLIC OF CHINA
A. STATEMNT OF RA  LOANS AND IDA CEDmS
(as of September 30. 1984)
Loan or                                                                                   US$ million
Credit                                                                             Amount (less cancellation)
Number     Year    Borrower                     Purpose                            Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
2021/1167  1981    People's Raliublic of China  University Development             100.0    100.0       84.9
1261    1982    People's Republic of China  Agricultural Development              -       60.0       33.9
2207    1982    People's Republic of China  Ports                               69.0        -        65.1
1297    1982    People's Republic of China  Agric. Education I Research           -       75.4       40.2
2226/1313  1982    People's Republic of China  Industrial Credit                    40.6     30.0       64.3
2231    1983    People's Republic of Chins Daqing Petroleum                     162.4               155.4
2252    1983    People's Republic of China  Zhongyuan Petroleum                 100.8       -       100.0
2261/1347  1983    People's Republic of China  Heiloagjiaug Land Reclamtion         35.3     45.0       51.0
1411    1983    People's Republic of China  Polytechnic/TV University             -       85.0       79.5
1412    1983    People's Republic of ChLina  Technical Cooperation                -       10.0        8.9
1417    1984    People's Republic of China  Rubber Development                    -      100.0       89.3
2382    1984    People's Republic of China  Lubuge Hydroelectric                145.4       -       142.7
2394    1984    People's Republic of Chins  Railwy I                           220.0        -       219.5
1462    1984    People's Republic of Cofin   Rural Credit                         -       50.0       47.2
1472    1984    People's Republic of Chins  Rural Bealth & Medical Educ.          -       85.0       78.3
2426    1984/a  People's RepubLic of Cins  Karamy Petroleum                     100.3       -       100.3
2434/1491  19847i; People's Republic of Coins  Indutrial Credit II                 105.0     70.0      170.8
2444/1500  19847g People's Republic of Coina  Second Agricultural Education        45.3      23.5       68.8
1516    19857i People's Republic of Coina  Second Agricultural Research           -       25.0       25.0
Total                                                        1,124.1    758.9    1,625.1
Total now Held by Bank and IDA                               1,124.1    758.9
Total Undisbursed                                            1,087.8    537.3
B.  STATEMN    OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of September 30, 1984)
Sone
/a Became effective on October 9, 1984.
7F Became effective on October 9, 1984.
7& Becume effective on October 17, 1984.
7T[ Signed on December 3, 1984; not yet effective.
!,1    Notes:  (1)  Lans of S117 million (Second Pover Project) and $126 million (Changeun Coal Mining Project)
*                   and a credit of $148 million (Second University Development Project) were approved subsequent
to the above date of Statement A.
(2) The status of the projects listed in Part A is described In a separate report on all Bank/IDA
r                   financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated to the Executive
Directors on April 30 and October 31.



AM=S III
CHINA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project       12 months
(b)  Project prepared by:                    The Government and the Association
(c) First presentation to IDA and
first mission:                          August 1983
(d)  Departure of Appraisal mission:         August 1984
'e)  Completion of negotiations:             March 1985
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:          August 1985
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
Credit effectiveness:
(a) State Council approval of the Development Credit Agreement and the
Project Agreement (para. 83).
(b) Signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government and
the provinces (paras. 71 and 83).
(c) Issuance of regulations for, and establishment of, the provincial
revolving fund in each project province (paras. 74 and 83).
Other special conditions:
The Government and provinces would:                                          ;
(a) maintain adequate staffing levels of their project offices
(para. 67);
(b) plan, design, review and approve subprojects in accordance with
criteria and procedures acceptable to IDA (para. 68); and
(c) ensure that water supply tariffs would cover operation and main-
tenance and loan repayment and, after loans are repaid, operations,
maintenance and depreciation of fixed assets (para. 73).



S O  V  I E T            U  N   I  O    N
'S~~~~'
J ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~, *'-                   i
M O   N  G  t
/._                             g                               m.jAP
.   /                           X t .V ' S XL N~~~~~~~~~~~ I G       ,_
AFGHANISTAN                                                                                            AF F '
+, N                                                  t    A          N F t~~~~~~~~~~N 
7& ft COWW       of ft                                                                                   4,- --   r
\                    '    >~~~~~~~~~~-
Th IUB,. aa z*v_                                       e'                                  JCinji
aredms _d is ockbu* fo u.t
r    dmW cmof Th WV'idBa*                                                                            GANSJ
Corporabu. The dui^wu
used ad fte bourmdWui Mau.um
on smp b        . a NW
po of The Vtbfd Be* ma 'W
bonsFCliat                                    -  ~~_            r --'    Y,,
ant jd \ a -St Cff UAe He .M-,'
ho~~~~~~~~~; w *W. M:
of NW Denifuy W'aY/
CHINA
_.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~a                                                                           -2.E aS  .'1 
-                                                                                                             r .i"
PROJECT PROVI ' ES                        1-           I
o       PROJECT COUNTIES
*       PROVINCIAL CAPITALS                                          p'ANr
-  -  -  - PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES                                      I) *ik. >
SURMA
INTERNATIOIAL BOUNDARIES                              LAO PEOPLE5
r._ ,.--vDEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC S
THAILAND  ktENTIME-.



IBRD 1849
G    O    L   I   A                                                         r. 
, t-. XiA ~DFACMA
A:r E  . voG:5             0   _\- c                                  OFIkEA                         */4V 
r -                        - dnti  P" G -eYA",_/
> ~ ~~~~~~~s                                               6Zdm f-|     ~ E Z-EY{C,bEPUBLI6    Kn    
f ;   /< E - z #';  S ~~~P   ;, !   ';sS SFr.- 
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e af  
>_   5[- t;  ' _ r   ~~~  s  ; '  8 $   ,~~~>      -          P h, /    c     n 4e
LE                                S   t_        r .a  ,. ,^   
IC V                                     e ai o
X _ \  1  <M-    -   -- - - .    -   -            ~~~PHILIPPINES
NOVEMBER 1 984






