Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo. 11251
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1578-CHA)
SEPTEMBER 30, 1992
Environment, Human Resources and
Urban Development Operations Division
Country Department II (China and Mongolia)
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Renminbi (RMB) Yuan (Y) 1.00 = 100 fen
At Appraisal   At Closing
US$1.00 =      Y 2.50          Y 5.40
US$1.00 =   SDR 1.03         SDR 1.36
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
lpcd                                   =     liters per capita per day
cubic meter (m3) or ton of water    =        284 US gallons
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CPO          -     County Project Office
ICB         -      International Competitive Bidding
LCB          -     Local Competitive Bidding
MOF          -     Ministry of Finance
MOPH         -     Ministry of Public Health
NPHCC        -     National Patriotic Health Campaign Committee
NPHCCO       -     Executive Office of the NPHCC
NPO          -     National Project Office
PPO          -     Provincial Project Office
WFP          -     World Food Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
September 30, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:     Project Completion Report on China
Rural Water Supply Project (Credit 1578-CHA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on China - Rural Water Supply Project (Credit 1578-CHA)"
prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office. No audit of this project
has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perormance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Credit 1578-CHA)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface  .           ..............................................................   i
Evaluation  Summary  ....................................................  ii
PART  I.   PROJECT  REVIEW  FROM  IDA'S  PERSPECTIVE  ........................   1
A.  Project  Identity  .................................................   1
B.  Project  Background  ...............................................   1
C.  Project  Objectives  and  Description  ...............................   2
D.  Project  Design  and  Organization  ..................................   2
E.  Project  Implementation  ...........................................   3
F.  Project  Results  ..................................................   4
G.  Project  Sustainability  ...........................................   9
H.  IDA  Performance  ..................................................  10
I.  Borrower  Performance  .............................................  10
J.  Project  Relationship  .............................................  10
K.  Lessons  Learned  ..................................................  10
L.  Project  Documentation  and  Data  ...................................  12
PART   II.  PROJECT  REVIEW  FROM  BORROWER'S  PERSPECTIVE  .................. 13
A.  Comments  on  Part  I  ...............................................  13
B.  Adequacy  and  Accuracy  of  Factual  Information  in  Part  III  ...                           ...... 15
C.  Evaluation  of  IDA's  Performance  ..................................  15
D.  Evaluation  of  Borrower's  Own  Performance  .........................  16
E.  Project  Relationship  .............................................  16
F.  Evaluation  of  Co-financiers'  Performance  .........................  16
G.  Lessons  Learned  ..................................................  16
PART   III.  STATISTICAL  INFORMATION  ....................................  18
A.  Related  IDA  Credit  ...............................................  18
B.  Project  Timetable  .................................................  18
C.  Credit  Disbursements  .............................................  19
D.  Project  Implementation  ...........................................  19
E.  Project  Costs  and  Financing  ......................................  20
F.  Project  Results  ..................................................  22
G.  Status  of  Covenants  ..............................................  23
H.  Use  of  IDA  Resources  ............................................. 24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS Cont.
ANNEXES
1. Physical Project Results ......................................... 26
2. Staffing of Project Offices ...................................... 27
3. ICB and LCB Procurement Goods and Civil Works .................... 28
4. Review and Approval of Sub-project Design Reports ....                ............ 31
5. Project Coverage ................................................. 32
6. Training Program and Results ..................................... 33
7. Financial Statements of Number Two Waterworks, Cixi, Zhejiang ....  34



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Credit 1578-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Rural Water
Supply Project in China, for which Credit 1578-CHA in the amount of SDR 82.1
million was approved on April 11, 1985. The credit was closed on December 31,
1991, one year behind schedule. It was fully disbursed and the last
disbursement was on April 23, 1992.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Environment, Human Resources
and Urban Development Operations Division, China and Mongolia Department of
the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts
I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of the PCR was started during the Association's final
supervision mission of the project in March, 1992, and is based, inter alia,
on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Development Credit and Project Agreements;
supervision reports; correspondence between the Association and the Borrower;
and internal IDA memoranda.






ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Credit 1578-CHA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.          The physical objective of the project was to provide safe and
adequate water supply to some six million people who were drinking sub-standard
water or had inadequate supply. The institutional objectives of the project were
to develop national and provincial planning capabilities, improve the cost-
effectiveness of and financial arrangements for projects, and ensure adequate
operation and maintenance of completed systems.
Implementation Experience
2.          The most critical variances between planned and actual project
implementation include project coverage, costs and timetable. The performance
of the implementing agency at the national level (NPO) also had notable effects
on project implementation. The actual numbers of beneficiary were about 5,730
villages or 7.4 million persons, 24% and 27% higher than those estimated at
appraisal respectively. Increase in per capita construction and operation costs
of sub-projects, particularly those constructed after 1987, constituted another
variance.   A one year delay in physical construction was experienced.   As a
result, IDA agreed to extend the project closing date by one year to December 31,
1991. (Paras. 1.10-1.14)
Results
3.          The project was largely successful in achieving its major objectives.
Its coverage targets were exceeded. About 90% of beneficiaries received piped
water of acceptable quality. The target for household connection has also been
exceeded by about 15% to allow over 90% of piped water users enjoy maximum time
savings and health benefits. At the end of full implementation, an additional
2.9 million persons is expected to be served with the use of provincial revolving
funds established under the project. Quality of construction and water plant
equipment installed appeared to be generally in accordance with the approved
design reports. Most systems were designed for a 15-year horizon in contrast to
the 10-year period stipulated in the Planning Manual. Periodic water quality
testing and surveillance are generally being performed and are adequate. In most
cases, waterworks are run independently, with user charges covering at least full
recurrent  costs  and some depreciation  and/or debt  service.    Billing and
collection are generally effectively handled. Project construction accounts are
in good order. These accounts were audited regularly. Consolidated accounts
prepared by the PPOs and NPO were audited annually by the provincial and state



iii
audit authorities. The quality and contents of operating accounts vary. (Paras.
1.15-1.16, 1.18-1.34).
4.          The institutional objectives of the project were largely met with:
(a) establishment of national, provincial and county level offices to oversee and
provide general guidance; (b) introduction of systematic approach to selection
of alternatives; (c) preparation and dissemination of manuals, guidelines and
establishment of review, approval and supervision procedures; (d) introduction
of provincial revolving funds as a new financing mechanism; (e) provision of
technical assistance and training; and (f) completion of a sector survey as a
first step to developing sector plans and strategies. (Para. 1.17).
5.          Major project impact has several sources.  From the institutional
development perspective, technological and management skills in design,
construction, operations and maintenance of waterworks and financial planning
were enhanced. Experience with ICB and LCB procurement had also been gained.
From the beneficiaries perspective, time savings are substantial in poorer and
resource short regions where households did not have dug-wells, rainwater
collectors and other relatively safer water sources prior to the project.
Empirical evidence on health impact, where available, is strong. The project's
major contribution was to the growth of town and village based enterprises and
to the development of income-generating activities at the household level. For
the poor families, the wage employment provided in civil works constituted an
important motivation for participation in the project. The procurement of local
materials through ICB and LCB was an added benefit of the project for the local
economies.
Sustainabilitv
6.          The project is likely to maintain an acceptable level of net benefits
throughout its economic life because of the following: (a) responsive
organization at the county and township levels; (b) a majority of financially
viable operations through effective collection of adequate water tariffs from
users and profit generating side businesses; (c) the current process of
establishing permanent county and township water supply management offices after
completion of the project; and (d) formulation of guidelines and regulations on
financial and technical aspects of operations and maintenance, and training.
Findinas and Lessons Learned
7.          Many valuable lessons can be drawn from the project.   They are
related to: integration of water supply with health education, sanitation and
drainage; institutional development including ICB and LCB procurement, and
financial management; closer IDA and central level supervision at early stages;
inflation-adjusted thresholds for review and approval of sub-project design
reports; maintenance of provincial and county offices on a more permanent basis;
need to deal with unaccounted-for-water; need for an appropriate set of quality
standards; watershed management; community involvement; and use of time saving
for local economic development. (Para. 1.42).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Credit 1578-CHA)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Project Identity
1.1       Project Name:  Rural Water Supply Project
Credit Number: 1578-CHA
RVP Unit:       East Asia and Pacific Region
Country:        China
Sector:         Rural water supply
B. Project Background
1.2       In 1983, when the project was first conceived, about 40 percent of
China's 800 million rural population -- some 300 million people -- still had
critical water supply needs. Traditionally, water has been obtained from
community or household systems such as bucket wells, hand pump wells,
rainwater collection tanks, or is fetched from rivers, springs or ponds. With
rising income, many rural families have come to expect and are willing to pay
for piped systems providing safe and convenient water, sometimes by public
standpipes but more commonly connected to the house or courtyard. Improved
water supply is also seen to be an important stimulant for development of
township and rural industries and services.
1.3       Prior to China's endorsement of the United Nations Drinking Water
and Sanitation Decade Program in 1980, rural water supply improvement was
carried out through mobilizing the masses by local Patriotic Health Campaign
Committees, but this work lacked integrated planning. In 1981, the State
Council designated the National Patriotic Health Campaign Committee (NPHCC) as
the organization responsible for the Decade activities. Sector issues
identified at appraisal were: (a) the absence of a concrete national plan and
a compilation of provincial plans; (b) little seed capital and no appropriate
financing mechanisms; (c) weak institutional framework at local levels to
plan, construct and maintain the more elaborate piped and pumped water
systems; (d) wide variation of technical capabilities across regions with
limited dissemination and guidance provided at the center; and (e) widespread
pollution in some regions requiring specialized water treatment methods which
are costly and controversial.
1.4       The strategic objectives of the project were to: (a) improve the
organizational arrangements for preparing and implementing broad-scope
projects; (b) introduce economic and affordability considerations in project
planning; (c) improve design and equipment technology and improve construction
quality; (d) introduce revolving funds as new financing mechanisms; (e) train
personnel in planning, design, construction, management and operation of water
systems; and (f) assist in developing sector plans and strategies.



2
C. Proiect Obiectives and Description
Pro-ect Obiectives
1.5       The physical objective of the project was to provide safe and
adequate water supply to some six million people who were drinking sub-
standard water or had inadequate supply. The institutional objectives of the
project were to develop national and provincial planning capabilities, improve
the cost-effectiveness of and financial arrangements for projects, and ensure
adequate operation and maintenance of completed systems.
Project Description
1.6       At appraisal, the project was expected to cover 4,650 villages in
25 counties of the provinces of Liaoning, Shaanxi, Sichuan and Zhejiang and
the municipality of Beijing. The provinces had a total population of 213
million and a rural population of 172 million. The 25 counties (five in each
province) included in the project had a rural population of about 14 million,
almost 80 percent of whom lacked adequate safe drinking water. The types of
water supply provided by the project would range from non-piped individual
systems such as rainwater storage tanks and handpumps (for 16 percent of the
beneficiary population), to piped water systems with groundwater or surface
water sources and with varying degrees of treatment. About 80 percent of the
services from piped systems would be by house connections.
1.7       The institutional development component of the project comprised:
(a) preparation of design, construction and operations manuals; (b) provision
of training and technical assistance at national, provincial, county and
village levels; and (c) establishment and operation of provincial revolving
funds to provide financing for construction of water supply systems in other
non-project villages.
D. Proiect Desiqn and Oraanization
1.8       As designed, the scope and scale of the project was appropriate,
implementation was properly timed and was responsive to a dire need. Although
sanitation and health and hygiene education are recognized as important
complementary components of any water supply project, the project, as the
IDA's first undertaking in the sector in China, focussed only on the water
supply side. A second project (Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project,
Credit 2336-CHA approved in FY92) was designed to integrate all three
elements.
1.9       Relevant parties such as the National Project Office (NPO),
provincial project offices (PPOs), county project offices (CPOs) and the
cooperating agencies clearly understood the project design. The success of
the project was the result of the following factors: (a) systematic project
development; (b) organizational set-up from national to sub-project level
(subsequently the process to establish management offices during operation);
(c) beneficiary participation, especially on up-front cash and labor
contributions; (d) preparation and utilization of technical manuals; and (e)
the adherence to formulated operational regulations.



3
E. Prolect Implementation
1.10      The most critical variances between planned and actual project
implementation include project coverage, costs and timetable. The performance
of the implementing agency at the national level (NPO), particularly after
changes in its organizational linkages in of 1989 also had notable effects on
project implementation (paras. 1.13-1.14). Project risks were appropriately
identified during project preparation. However, the projection of local
inflation at 3% p.a. was much below the actual double-digit annual inflation
experienced in several years during the project implementation period.
Project Coverage and Costs
1.11      The project benefitted about 5,730 villages and 7.4 million
persons, about 24% and 27% higher than the respective appraisal estimates.
Increase in per capita construction and operation costs of sub-projects,
particularly those constructed after 1987, constituted another variance. High
local inflation reflected in the cost of labor and materials, and provision of
higher level of services (household connections in stead of standposts) were
the key reasons. The higher costs were met by: (a) lower than expected ICB
prices; (b) amendment of the Development Credit Agreement to allow the use of
cost savings to finance local civil works (March 22, 1988); (c) increased
contributions by beneficiaries; and (d) construction of more cost effective
combined systems to achieve economy of scale.
Implementation Delays
1.12      Delays in physical constructions were experienced and the main
reasons were: (a) delays of up to eight months in ICB procurement and delivery
of construction materials and equipment; (b) slow review and approval of sub-
project design reports by NPO, with many design taking 3-4 months to process;
and (c) management problems in some provinces in early years of project
implementation. Due to paper shortage and inefficient distribution
arrangements, the preparation and dissemination of manuals were also delayed
(Table 3.3). As a result, IDA agreed to extend the project closing date by
one year to December 31, 1991.
The National Prolect Office
1.13      The NPO has the overall responsibility for project implementation.
At the start of the project, NPO was under the Executive Office of the
National Patriotic Health Campaign Committee (NPHCCO). As a result of the
government's reorganization in 1989, the Foreign Loan Office (FLO) under the
Ministry of Public Health (MOPH) was designated NPO, taking over project
implementation responsibilities at the national level. Three officers (out of
a total of about 15) from the former office were transferred to FLO which had
a staff of over 20 at the time. FLO had been handling World Bank health
projects and was familiar with Bank procedures on matters such as loan
processing and procurement. Agreement was reached between NPHCCO and FLO that
technical matters would continue to be handled by NPHCCO while coordinating
functions would be assumed by the new NPO.



4
1.14      Although the agreement appeared straight forward, actual execution
and collaboration between the two agencies proved difficult at times. The new
NPO, with only one full-time and nine part-time officers (and consultants) on
the job, and no water supply expertise of its own was not able to provide the
required technical guidance and supervision adequately. The existing problem
of insufficient prior review and approval of large sub-project designs with
about 60% completion in 1985-86 dwindled to 12% in 1990-91. So far, little
effort has been made to inspect completed large sub-projects (some operational
since 1987) and to provide the necessary acceptance documents to the PPOs to
enable formal transfers of fixed asset accounts from construction units to
operating units. At appraisal, it was estimated that a Btaff of 24 including
an advisory team of six technical experts would be needed at the national
level. Actual staffing turned out to be much lower than expected and the
project, as a result, suffered from insufficient supervision and monitoring by
the NPO (para. 3.7).
F. Project Results
1.15      There was high variability in project design, financing and
implementation owing to significant differences in local conditions.
Therefore, it must be noted that any generalization made on project results
and impacts does not fully reflect the valuable lessons to be learned from
less typical situations.
Proiect Achievements
1.16      The project was largely successful in achieving its major
objectives. Its village and population coverage targets were exceeded by 24%
and 27% respectively with about 5,750 villages and 7.5 million people served.
About 90% of beneficiaries received piped water of acceptable quality. The
target for household connection has also been exceeded by about 15% to allow
over 90% of piped water users enjoy maximum time savings and health benefits.
At the end of full implementation, an additional 2.9 million persons is
expected to be served with the use of provincial revolving funds established
under the project (para. 1.25). In addition, the success of the project and
lessons learned motivated the central authorities to ask for a second project,
this time in poor areas with special emphasis on sanitation and health
education. The second project is expected to serve a rural population of
about nine million (para. 3.1).
1.17      The institutional objectives of the project were largely met with:
(a) establishment of national, provincial and county level offices to oversee
and provide general guidance to construction and operations of water systems;
(b) introduction of systematic approach to selection of alternatives based on
economic and affordability considerations during sup-project planning; (c)
preparation and dissemination of manuals, guidelines and establishment of
review, approval and supervision procedures to upgrade technology and improve
construction quality; (d) introduction of provincial revolving funds (by
allowing funds to build up because of differences in repayment terms of
provincial loans to villages and Government loans to provinces) as a new
financing mechanism (para. 1.25); (e) provision of technical assistance and
training, including seminars conducted by international and national experts,



5
study tours and workshops (paras. 3.16 and 3.18); and (f) completion of a
sector survey study in 1990 in collaboration with consultants funded by EEC as
a first step to developing sector plans and strategies.
Ouality of Physical Work
1.18      Design reports reviewed by supervision missions appeared to conform
with standard requirements. Feasibility studies, including an analysis of
alternative technologies, preliminary designs and details drawings, were
prepared. However, due to the NPO's slow review process and the PPOs' desire
to expedite implementation, many design reports were not reviewed by NPO as
agreed during appraisal. Quality of construction and water plant equipment
installed appeared to be generally in accordance with the approved design
reports (by NPO, PPO or CPO, depending on size) and shop drawings. Periodic
water quality testing and surveillance are generally being performed
periodically and are adequate.
1.19      Most systems were designed for a 15-year horizon in contrast to the
10-year period stipulated in the Planning Manual. Water production and demand
varied from province to province: Shaanxi and Sichuan have very large surplus
capacity while Zhejiang is just coping with its current production level,
primarily due to the increasing demand of new rural industrial users. For the
project as a whole, the average water consumption for domestic use is 40 lpcd.
This include drinking for domestic animals and gardening.
Reliabilitv
1.20      Intermittent water supply is frequent, but many systems provide 24
hour service. Power cuts are unavoidable causes of unreliability of water
supply. Other causes of intermittency include management decisions to save
energy costs of pumping and to ration supply when connections are not metered.
In the case of systems with public connections, to minimize payment to
caretakers and relevant management difficulties, supply is also limited to
several hours of the day. On the whole, the higher the level of household
connections and the share of enterprises among consumers, the longer is the
daily supply period and the higher is the reliability. In non-piped systems,
less is known about reliability characteristics. Seasonal fluctuations in
rain-water systems is high and household reliance on vendors and on polluted
sources increase during dry seasons.
Proiect Finances and Accounting
1.21      Many of the larger waterworks in operation are run as autonomous
enterprises with independent accounts and well-defined loan repayment
responsibilities. Water charges generally cover the full operation and
maintenance cost, depreciation and/or debt service. Some, on the other hand,
are managed by township/village governments along with all other businesses
owned by them. Though full-cost recovery is the aim, there has been frequent
cross subsidization, and it is not possible to clearly segregate the finances
of the water industry from the rest. An example of financial statements
(income statement and balance sheet) prepared by the former type of waterworks
is given in Annex 7. Financial statements of medium sized waterworks are



6
similar in nature but generally simpler. Small water plants also prepare
financial statements, but they are usually very simple with only a few lines
entries in each.
1.22      In most cases, waterworks are run independently, with user charges
covering at least full recurrent costs (Y.30-.75/ton) and some depreciation
and/or debt service. The balance of loan repayment is met by village funds
and/or users. Though the willingness to pay is high, and affordability is not
a problem (paras. 1.37-1.38), water prices are under the control of local
price bureaus. As a result, small isolated waterworks, serving up to 20% of
total beneficiaries, sometimes cannot meet their full costs when operating
costs are high. These waterworks have to rely on subsidies from their local
governments.
1.23      Billing and collection of water charges are generally effectively
handled by the village level collectors, and collections are made monthly, bi-
monthly or quarterly. Except in Liaoning, most household connections are
metered. Domestic users pay Y.30-Y1.00 for each ton of water used, industrial
and commercial rates are up to 50% higher. There is little bad debt, however,
due to seasonal fluctuation of agricultural income, accounts receivable
sometimes are as high as 20% of total revenue. Non-revenue water is low as
line losses are often spread among users, either in the calculation of unit
rates or in the form of a surcharge to each household.
1.24      Overall, project construction accounts were found to be in good
order. They were prepared in accordance to guidelines and regulations issued
by NPO. These accounts were audited regularly by the county audit
authorities. Consolidated accounts prepared by the PPOs and NPO were in turn
audited annually by the provincial and state audit authorities. The quality
and contents of operating accounts vary. Certain large regional waterworks
prepare detailed income statements and balance sheets similar to those
prepared by urban water companies.  At the other extreme, some small village
systems lack basic data such as sales volume and unit rates in their simple
books.
Provincial Revolving Funds
1.25      During appraisal, it was expected that the difference in repayment
terms of provincial loans to villages (10-12 years with 2-4 years grace) and
Government loans to provinces (25 years with 10 years grace) would allow
substantial funds to build up in provincial revolving funds. These funds
would then be used to finance other sub-projects in project as well as non-
project counties. However, due to implementation delays and sometimes late
debt repayments (particularly in Shaanxi), the expected additional benefits
(1.4 time the initial coverage amounting to about 8.5 million persons) would
not be fully realized. Currently, revised estimates show an overall
additional coverage of 2.89 million persons, with individual provincial
increases in millions of population estimated as follows: Beijing 0.40,
Liaoning 0.70, Shaanxi 0.40, Sichuan 0.72, and Zhejiang 0.67.



7
Proiect Justification
1.26      Water is an essential element for life and is indispensable for
economic and social development. It is not, however, an expected practice to
estimate the internal economic rate of return for water supply projects as
benefits are not easily quantifiable. The importance of the project can be
demonstrated by the users' support during construction, and their willingness
to pay for services provided.
Project Impact
1.27      Major project impact has several sources.  From the institutional
development perspective, technological and management skills in design,
construction, operations and maintenance of waterworks and financial planning
were enhanced. Experience with ICB and LCB procurement had also been gained
(para. 1.17).
1.28      From the beneficiaries perspective, time savings, although variable
by region, are substantial in water scarce regions. Prior to the project,
distances walked were long, heights climbed were tiring and queuing time was
extensive. Empirical evidence on health impact, where available, is strong.
Moreover, hygiene practices have improved in many areas.  Sharp declines in
morbidity of dental fluorosis among children, in dysentery and water-borne
diseases were reported everywhere. Substantial savings in medical
expenditures incurred by households were also noted. As anticipated at
appraisal, both the households and enterprises continue to use existing water
sources for non-potable purposes. This makes the full realization of time
savings and health benefits difficult and, in some counties, reduces the
actual consumption to 25-30% of the planned levels, thus creating problems of
excess capacity.
1.29       One of the project's major contributions was to the growth of town
and village based enterprises and to the development of income-generating
activities at the household level. Besides households, small and medium scale
enterprises are key consumers of water supply in many project counties. Their
share in consumption is highly variable, ranging from 10-40%. Their
activities ranged from family run restaurants, food processing shops, light
industries, to auto-parts production, water bottling, fisheries and other
agro-industries. Both the employment and the local/regional development
effects of these appeared large but inadequately documented. Of direct and
substantial benefit to households were their ability to use water from the
project to start or augment economic activities such as pig raising, poultry,
horticulture, vegetable gardening and green house agriculture. A household
could as much as double its income by starting a small green house. From
part-time bean-curd preparation, a household could make as much money as from
rice growing. Even when households shifted from use of hand-pumps to tap
water, quality and volume produced of vegetables, bean-curd, etc., increased
substantially. The use of water for these purposes also contributed to cost
recovery of the project.
1.30      In addition to the employment impact mentioned above, about 15-20%
of total project costs was spent on wages for local people. For the poor



8
families, the wage employment provided in civil works constituted an important
motivation for participation in the project. Additional employment was also
generated from the operation and management of the water systems. The supply
of local materials through ICB and LCB procurement was an added benefit of the
project for the local economies.
1.31      The evidence of significant economic and social benefits from the
project can also be inferred from the pressure villages, left outside the
planned scope of the project, brought upon the administration, high
willingness to pay for investment and operating costs, and their expressed
desire to have household connections as a key investment for their children.
Women in Development (WID) Effects
1.32      Some of the health effects are particularly strong for women.
Because many women continue to wash raw food, dishes and laundry in polluted
traditional sources, they are less able to enjoy time savings from the
project. However, rapid changes are visible in those rural households which
participate in industry, construction and service sector employment; in some
regions, 20-45% of households belong to this category. Among these, higher
income and high value attached to female labor encourage broader use of tap
water and stimulate investments in sanitation infrastructure. At the same
time, food, textile and other industries facilitated by improved water supply
create jobs for women who enjoy the convenience of tap water.
1.33      The project's direct employment effects on women are not easily
measurable. Women appear to have constituted from 15-35% of the construction
labor force in different counties. Their share in project staff range from
10-35% and their participation in water plants and among technical specialist
is below 10%. Gender differences in fields of academic studies appear as the
main cause of lower level of female participation in water supply sector
employment. Women's participation in training activities averaged 15% of the
total provided under the project.
Poverty Effects
1.34      Time savings of the project is particularly strong in poorer and
resource short regions where households did not have dug-wells, rainwater
collectors and other relatively safer water sources prior to the project.
Poorer households, if connected to pipe water, are also able to make a
relatively larger difference in their income by using their water for home
based income generating activities. Health impact was also stronger for the
poor who were the least able to get health care. However, in order to cover
cost of care-taking arrangements, standpost users usually pay 40-65% more for
less convenient and intermittent services as compared to those with household
connections, and are unable to fully enjoy the time saving and income effects
of the project. To avoid this situation, the government is encouraging
household connections in poorer regions as well. While the imposition of
minimum level for water consumption may help enhance health and time savings
effects in most areas as well as allow a better use of the water supply
capacity, it may force the poorest of the poor to spend 5-6% of their



9
household income on water. However, only a very small fraction of households
appear to be in this category in the project areas.
G. Prolect Sustainability
1.35      The project is likely to maintain an acceptable level of net
benefits throughout its economic life because of the following: (a) responsive
organization at the county and township levels; (b) a majority of financially
viable operations through effective collection of adequate water tariffs from
users and profit generating side businesses; (c) the current process of
establishing permanent county and township water supply management offices
after completion of the project; and (d) formulation of guidelines and
regulations on financial and technical aspects of operations and maintenance,
and training.
1.36      Risk factors relating to project sustainability include: (a)
unregulated water consumption by households with no meters; (b) uncontrolled
leakages and other unaccounted-for-water; and (c) non-responsive water tariff,
particularly of small plants with high operating costs, resulting in
inadequate funds for repairs and maintenance. These risks can be mitigated by
improvements in waterworks management.
Affordability
1.37      The affordability of capital costs of the project was enhanced by
relatively high incomes prevalent in many counties and the existence of
village and/or town administration funds. The presence of profitable
collectives reduced direct burdens to households as much as 100% and provided
the incentive for individual households to contribute. When village funds
were lacking, households assumed up to 55% of the up-front costs of the
project. More typically, household contributions range from 20-25% and
constituted 3-12% of their annual income and within the limits of a year's
savings. In some cases, village collectives also facilitated the
participation of the poorest in the project by subsidizing their fixed and/or
running expenses. The flexibility provided to poor households to make part of
their contributions in materials and labor also increased affordability. The
World Food Program (WFP) assistance provided in two provinces further reduced
the up-front contributions of households. Except in extreme cases (para.
1.33), water charges are generally affordable, ranging from 0.3% to 1.2% of
gross household income, and the willingness to pay higher charges is
manifested especially in areas without alternative sources of water such as
handpumps and rainwater collectors.
1.38      The community participation in assessment of needs, service levels
and affordability has been high. In accordance with the project appraisal,
affordability has been considered at the sub-project level, and villagers, PPO
and NPO have been consulted when project costs were high. Often, smaller sub-
projects have been combined into larger schemes to enhance affordability.



10
H. IDA Performance
1.39      IDA performance throughout the project has been satisfactory.  The
project offices at the provincial and county levels could have benefitted from
the establishment of more direct relationships with IDA and from more in-depth
and more frequent supervision missions in the field.
I. Borrower Performance
1.40      The main strengths of the borrower lie with the local project
offices and the supporting agencies in the provinces. They have had a sincere
commitment to project objectives, and were very diligent in carrying them out.
However, due to management and staffing problems, the NPO was unable to carry
out its responsibilities to their fullest (paras. 1.13-1.14).
J. Prolect Relationship
1.41      The Bank has developed good relationships with both national and
local level implementing agencies. The Bank and borrower relationships with
other relevant parties including WFP and GTZ of Germany has also been
satisfactory. Because the project provided the first experience for the
implementing agencies, closer supervision of implementation would have
enhanced its institution building and technology development impacts.
K. Lessons Learned
1.42      Many valuable lessons can be drawn from the project.  Preliminary
lessons learned were incorporated into the design of the Rural Water Supply
and Sanitation Project approved in February 1992 (para. 3.1) and would
continue to facilitate implementation of the new project. Main lessons are
summarized as follows:
(a)  integration of water supply with health education, sanitation and
drainage would be desirable in order to fully realize the health
and time savings benefits;
(b)  institutional development including ICB and LCB procurement, and
financial management were crucial to the success of the project.
Its sustainability also depends on further strengthening of
institutions with a focus on management, operations and maintenance
of water plants;
(c)  early preparation of ICB procurement, use of LCB for items readily
available in China and for which no foreign firm would have a
competitive advantage, and periodic adjustments of sub-project
review thresholds would avoid unnecessary delays in implementation;
(d)  local level flexibility in the design, finance and implementation
of the project had allowed appropriate response to demand. To
accommodate this flexibility requires, inter alia, a closer IDA
supervision at early stages of implementation, and a direct
dialogue between IDA and provincial and county level institutions.



11
A strong national institutional capacity for project review and
monitoring is also essential;
(e) thresholds for review and approval of sub-project designs by NPO
should be adjusted periodically to avoid overloading the office,
consequently causing implementation delays and/or non-compliance
with agreed procedures;
(f) it is crucial to retain the provincial and county offices on a more
permanent basis to ensure sustainability and replicability;
(g) the cost of unaccounted-for-water, conservatively estimated at 15-
20%, is absorbed by the users, but not systematically recorded.
Since leakage is likely to be its major cause, water quality and
health benefits will be affected. To avoid this, the issue needs
to be recognized and appropriate measures adopted;
(h) while women have participated in sector employment and human
resources development, the variability in achievements suggests
fruitfulness of the adoption of policies to secure a more equitable
place for them in training and staffing;
(i) while quality control is undertaken, an appropriate set of
standards still needs to be developed to ensure sustainability of
project benefits. Effective watershed management would also
contribute to sustainability;
(j) piped-systems with standposts, rainwater collectors and wells with
handpumps are low-cost water supply options which are appropriate
in many regions;
(k) there was substantiated community involvement in project design,
finance and implementation. However, some of the current operation
and maintenance decisions such as intermittency of services to save
cost may have been taken without full consultation with users.
Users may benefit from continued involvement in relevant decisions;
(1) income generating impacts of the project are major and directly
contribute to cost recovery for the water plants and affordability
of users. At the household level, the use of tap water for green-
houses, animal raising also increases income without requiring
excessive consumption. Higher income, in turn, augments sanitary
practices and health benefits. Employment benefits of these and
larger village/town based enterprises are considerable. These
findings give full support to the appropriateness of the project
design and illustrate how time savings can be put to use for local
and regional economic development; and
(m)  the lack of quality systematic data made evaluation and monitoring
of project results difficult. Future projects could benefit from
baseline and periodic data on project results and impacts.



12
L. Proiect Documentation and Data
1.43      The legal agreements for this project was amended twice.  The first
time was to allow use of cost savings for disbursement against 26% local civil
works to ease counterpart funding problems due to high local inflation (1988).
The second time was for extension of closing dates, increase thresholds for
review of design reports by NPO, and change of implementation agency at the
center (1989).
1.44      The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) which was also translated into
Chinese provided a useful framework for IDA and the project offices during
project implementation. Data relevant to the preparation of this report was
not always readily available but were provided to IDA upon request within a
reasonable time frame and of acceptable quality.



13
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Credit 1578-CHA)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
2.1       China Rural Water Supply Project supported by the IDA Credit has
now been completed. The great success of this project is reflected mainly in
the following aspects:
(a) about 7.43 million rural traditionally underprivileged population
has now had access to safe and adequate water supply. The improved
water supply has also greatly benefitted the economic development
in the project areas;
(b) the institutional build-up and training of engineering and
managerial staff at all levels help to develop a good mechanism to
provide effective leadership and guidance to the rural water supply
system;
(c) the formulation of series of rules and regulations for the project
management will definitely upgrade the nationwide management of the
rural water supply; and
(d) the technical manuals and guidelines for rural water supply
produced under the project will provide an important tool of
technical assistance in the improvement of the rural water supply
throughout China.
2.2       The experience and lessons learned from this project which are of
great benefit to the designs and implementation of the future rural water
supply projects, ought to be further carefully reviewed, analyzed, and
summarized after the completion of the project.
A. Comments on Part I
2.3       In Part I, the basic information of the project is given.  The
analysis and evaluation of the project results are accurate. However, some
descriptions of the "project implementation" contained in Part I seem not
fully consistent with the actual situation.
Proiect Coverage and Cost (Para. 1.111
2.4       During the implementation, by using the increased value of IDA due
to the depreciation of US Dollar and additional counterpart funds, the Project
Provinces carried out the project plans revised to benefit more villages and
people using fewer systems of larger sizes which was agreed by Bank 1988
supervision mission. Therefore, by the completion of the project, the number



14
of the project beneficiaries is 5,730 villages and 7.43 million persons, about
24% and 27% higher than the respective appraised estimates, but the per capita
construction kept the same as what estimated at appraisal. In other hand,
because of the larger size of water supply systems and the strength of
management, the quality of water supply by the project was more reliable.
Prolect Extension (Para 1.12)
2.5       The delay in the first ICB procurement and management problems
experienced in some Project Provinces constituted the main reasons for the
consequent extension of the project rather than the slow review and approval
of sub-project designs by NPO and delayed dissemination of the manuals. The
time needed to process the review and approval of the sub-project designs by
NPO varies from 15-30 days to 3-4 months, but according to the record no
construction of sub-projects were delayed due to the slow review and approval.
Although the manuals for design was not published until the end of 1988, the
main contents contained in the manuals had, in fact, already been disseminated
and used as guide to the project design in various ways prior to its official
publication. For example, the "Design Manual for Water Supply & Waste Water
Disposal in China" and the " Atlas for Standardized Construction of Rural
Water Supply Facilities" were provided in the initial operation of the
project. In addition, training materials on the engineering design of water
supply were produced, and training courses, one-month for each term, were
conducted in 1987 and 1988 for the engineering designers from provincial and
county project offices. These efforts had resulted in the smooth
implementation of the project. Therefore, the delayed dissemination of the
manuals itself should not be considered a factor for the delay in project
implementation.
The National Prolect Office (Para 1.13-1.14)
2.6       The NPO recognizes its insufficient guidance and supervision
provided to the project. However, the description of the staffing in the PCR
is not accurate. The actual number of NPO's staff under NPHCC were 7-8
(including employed workers). The NPO when transferred from NPHCC to FLO of
MOPH in mid-1989 had four full-time staff, in addition to the Division Chief
and other part-time supporting staff working for the project. Of which three
were transferred to FLO from NPHCC in charge of project management and
accounting and one of the FLO staff was assigned for project procurement.
Although FLO itself has no experts in water supply, the expertise from NPHCC
assumed the responsibility for continued to provide technical expertise in the
project supervision. In addition, since the training program was almost
implemented by the end of 1990, the officer in charge of the training program
was transferred to the second water supply project. With the project
approaching to its end and the completion of the procurement tasks, the
procurement officer moved to procurement activities of other projects.
Therefore, even at the final stage of the project, there were still two
full-time staff responsible for the project management. So, in the PCR, the
statement that the new NPO only has one full-time and seven part-time staff is
not correct.



15
2.7       The relationship between FLO and NPHCC was satisfactory during the
implementation of this project, although there were rooms for improvement.
NPHCC, responsible for rural water supply at national level and technical
assistance to this project, had been invited and participated in important
activities of the project and provided expertise for the review and approval
of large sub-project designs, whenever requested by NPO. No difficulty was
experienced in this regard.
Review and Approval of Larae Sub-prolect Desians (Para 1.14)
2.8       It is true that NPO's effort in review and approval of large
sub-project designs was insufficient. In the PCR, two sets of data were
simply presented to demonstrate the extent of the insufficiency: about 60%
completion in 1985-1986, while less than 5% completion in 1990-1991. We think
these figures do not fully reflect the actual completion rate. At appraisal,
it was decided that a sub-project should be considered as large sub-project if
its capital cost exceeded RMB Y 500,000 or RMB Y 100 per beneficiary person,
therefore it should be subject to the approval by NPO. But in the subsequent
years of the project implementation, some sub-projects which originally were
not required to be subject to reviewed and approval by NPO exceeded the
thresholds due to the high local inflation. This was one of the reason for
which some sub-projects designs were not submitted by the Project Provinces to
NPO for review and approval. If the inflation-attributable increase in the
number of review and approval of sub-project designs by NPO is excluded from
the current calculation, or the threshold was timely adjusted, the completion
rate of NPO's review could be higher.
B. Adecruacv and Accuracy of Factual Information in Part III
2.9       The data and analysis contained in Part III are considered accurate
and reasonable.
C. Evaluation of IDA's Performance
2.10      IDA performance had been, in general, satisfactory during the
project implementation period. However, the project would have benefitted
more from IDA if the following weakness mostly appeared in the later period of
the implementation had been timely overcome:
(a) the supervision and guidance to the project were weakened with the
supervision period being shortened and misslon members reduced;
(b) financial analysis was prioritized during the supervision and
engineering aspects were not given enough attention;
(c) the in-depth and field supervision were inadequate; and
(d) some of the problems were not timely identified and brought to the
attention of NPO, such as the staffing problem of NPO and the
insufficient prior review and approval of large sub-project designs
[according to the para. 3.(3), Schedule 4, Development Credit
Agreement, each sub-project should be subject to the approval(s) of



16
the NPO and the Association if it exceeded the threshold. Before
1987, the NPO and the IDA did review these sub-projects, but after
1987, no review activity was undertaken on the IDA side, or NPO was
reminded to do so]. The project might not have suffered from those
problems if they were timely addressed by the supervision missions.
D. Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance
2.11      In addition to the diligence of the local project offices and
supporting agencies, the NPO's endeavor in formulating rules and regulations
for management purpose, conducting training courses, providing technical
assistance, and procuring materials for the project had also contributed to
the success of the project. Nevertheless, for lack of experience and
management and staffing problems in this first water supply project, some
deviations have occurred during the project implementation.
E. Proiect Relationship
2.12      Good relationship had been developed with all the relevant parties
and had greatly facilitated the project implementation.
F. Evaluation of Co-financiers' Performance
2.13      The hardworking and high efficient performance of WFP and GTZ in
fulfilling their role as co-financiers had added to the success of the
project.
G. Lessons Learned
2.14      The following comments should be added to the paragraph of Lessons
Learned (para. 1.42):
(a) one important feature of this project was that it consisted of
several thousands of sub-projects. As the appraisal was based on
the typical designs other than the feasibility study of all the
sub-projects, consequently, procurement process took precedence
over project designs. This arrangement caused a big problem that
the materials procured could not fully meet the actual needs of the
project. It is recommended that the project design go first and
procurement second in planning future projects. For example, the
designs of sub-projects could be started soon after appraisal, and
the procurement plan be made in accordance of the actual needs of
the designs. To adopt this approach, financial support will be
needed by the Project Provinces for making designs before the
project funds is available. TCC and other resources should be
explored in seeking such support;
(b) in order to make the procurement through ICB fully satisfy the
implementation of the project, ICB procurement should be made in
small packages;



17
(c) while low-cost water supply facilities suitable to the local
conditions should be developed, town/township based water supply
systems should be encouraged in the regions where conditions are
permitted in order to achieve economy of scale and to avoid some
management problems; and
(d) enough contingencies of counterpart funds should be emphasized to
ensure that project implementation will not suffer from the
inflation.






18
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Credit 1578-CHA)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
A. Related IDA Credit
3.1       The Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project (Cr. 2336-CHA) for
SDR78.9 million (US$110.0 million equivalent) to serve about nine million
rural inhabitants of 75 poor and water-scarce counties in six under-developed
inland provinces was approved on February 11, 1992. The main lessons learned
from the completed project had been integrated into the design of the new
project.
B. Project Timetable
3.2       The planned, revised and actual dates of key project processing and
implementation events are summarized in Table 3.1:
Table 3.1: Proiect Timetable
Date            Date            Date
Item                      Planned         Revised         Actual
Identification            ---             ---              08/83
Pre-appraisal             ---             ---              02/84
Appraisal Mission         ---             ---               09/84
Negotiations              ---             ---               03/85
Board Approval            ---             ---             04/11/85
Credit Signature          ---             ---             05/09/85
Credit Effectiveness      ---             ---              11/13/85
Project Completion        06/30/90        06/30/91        06/30/91
Credit Closing            12/31/90        12/31/91         12/31/91
3.3       The entire project, after the extension of one year, was supposed
to be completed by June 30, 1991. Actual completion dates for each province
were: Beijing - June 1991; Liaoning - June 1991; Shaanxi - October 1991;
Sichuan - November 1991; and Zhejiang - December 1991.



19
C. Credit Disbursements
3.4       The cumulative estimated and actual disbursements of the credit are
given in Table 3.2. The credit was practically fully disbursed by Dec 31,
1991. A small balance of SDR 124 was disbursed in April 1992. Due to the
appreciation of the SDR against the US Dollar (SDR 1.03 per US$1.00 at
appraisal vs SDR 0.73 per US$1.00 at closing), the credit of SDR 82.1 million
provided a total of US$104.6 million to the project, against an appraisal
estimate of US$80.0 million. This represented a 31% increase in terms of US$.
Table 3.2: Credit Disbursement
(USS Million)
IDA Fiscal Year                 1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
Appraisal Estimate               4.0   24.0   56.0   78.0   80.0    n/a    n/a
Cumulative as % of Total           5      30      70     98    100
Actual Disbursement             15.3a/ 25.8   38.1   64.4   95.8  103.6  104.6
Cumulative as % of Total          15      25      36     62      92     99    100
Actual as % of Estimate          382    108       68     83    120    130    131
a/   First year disbursement included an initial allocation of SDR 2.1
million to the Special Account.
D. Prolect Implementation
3.5       At appraisal, key performance indicators were defined, and they
were monitored throughout the period of implementation. The following Table
3.3 is a summary of actual results as compared to appraisal estimates. More
detailed tables on physical results; staffing; ICB and LCB procurement of
goods and civil works; preparation, review and approval of sub-project design
reports are presented in Annexes 1-4.



20
Table 3.3: Implementation Performance
Indicators                              Appraisal Estimate  Actual/PCR Estimate
Sub-projects (Piped/Non-piped)          3,144/758            2,699/131
Date (month-year) of distribution of
design/construction/O&M manuals       06-85/12-85/06-86   08-88/03-90/02-89
Staffing of NPO, PPOs and CPOs          24/87/378            10/82/515
ICB/LCB goods procurement (US$ mln)   78.8/52.0              65.9/81.8
Civil works contracts (No./Y mln)       4,395/307.1          3,448/616.7
Designs reviewed by NPO/PPOs            578/529              71/992
3.6       During project implementation, the project offices recognized that
in order to achieve economies of scale, single village systems should be
combined into larger regional systems wherever possible. This was discussed
and endorsed by IDA. As a result, there was a dramatic reduction in the
number of sub-projects. The appraisal figure of 3,144 systems was revised to
2,255 systems. A total of 2,699 sub-projects were eventually completed,
representing a 27% extension of original population coverage plans.
3.7       During implementation, the NPO and PPOs opted to reduce their size
at more manageable numbers while the CPOs increased in size chiefly because
the bulk of project activities were done at that level. A critical variance
is the disproportionate number of part-time staff and consultant at the NPO.
3.8       ICB procurement of goods was carried out in three batches in 1986,
1987 and 1989. Total cost of ICB goods was about 16% lower than expected,
mainly due to more competitive prices offered by Chinese suppliers. Actual
cost of LCB goods was about 60% higher than projected, resulting from higher
prices as well as increased quantities procured. Except for Zhejiang, many
sub-projects were divided into different civil works contracts (such as
source, water tank, pipelines and buildings) as opposed to the original plan
of a single civil works contract per sub-project. The total contract amount
also increased as there was a general trend to expand coverage.
3.9       Of a total of 578 reviews and approval of design reports required
of NPO, only 71 or 12% were actually performed. This was cited as one short-
coming of project implementation and is reflected in lessons learned (paras.
1.13 and 1.39).
E. Project Costs and Financina
3.10      A comparison of actual project costs (1991) and those estimated at
the time of appraisal (1984) and after the mid-term review (1987) are given in
Table 3.4:



21
Table 3.4: Prolect Costs
(US$ Million)
Appraisal Estimate    Revised Estimate               Actual
Component        Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total
Civil Works       38.9   2.2    41.1   70.9    --    70.9   80.0    --    80.0
Materials/Equip  38.9  59.8    98.7   57.3  60.2   117.5   93.4  62.9   156.3
Training           1.6   1.1      2.7   13.2   0.1    13.3    2.1   0.5         2.6
Land               9.3    --       9.3    8.9    --      8.9   11.1    --    11.1
Spvn. & Mgmt.      8.0   0.4      8.4    7.2   0.3       7.5   14.2   3.4    17.6
Subtotal    96.7  63.5   160.2  157.5  60.6   218.1  200.8  66.8   267.6
Physical Cont.    9.6   6.4    16.0   12.7   0.9    13.6          --    --       --
Price Cont.       18.2  13.8    32.0    6.6   0.7        7.3            --       --
Total       124.5  83.7   208.2  176.8  62.2   239.0  200.8  66.8   267.6
Working Capital   2.0    --       2.0    4.0    --       4.0      --    --       --
Total Project   126.5  83.7   210.2  180.8  62.2   243.0  200.8  66.8   267.6
3.11      Actual project cost, when expressed in US Dollars, was about 27%
over the appraisal estimates and 10% over the revised estimates. The increase
in the proportion of local cost expenditures in the civil works and goods
categories reflect high local inflation during the implementation period. Per
capita cost remained about the same as 27% more villagers were served under
the project. In terms of RMB, however, actual project cost was almost 120%
higher than that estimated at appraisal. The main reason for such a variance
is the one-way movement of exchange rates. At appraisal, the RMB/US$ exchange
rate was Y2.50 per US$1.00. At credit closing, it was about Y5.40 per
US$1.00.
3.12      A comparison of actual project financing with financing plans at
appraisal is given in the following Table 3.5. Again, due to changes in
exchange rates over the implementation period, actual performance as compared
to estimates are quite different when expressed in different currencies.



22
Table 3.5: Proiect Financina
Appraisal      Actual       Appraisal       Actual
Amount  %    Amount  %      Amount  %    Amount  %
Source                       ---- (USS Million)           --- (RMB Y Million) --
National Government             1.7   1      1.1   -        3.5   1       4.2   -
Provincial Governments        16.2   8      11.4   4       34.0   7      44.4   4
County Governments            18.3   9      11.6   5       38.5   8      56.8   6
Villages and Individuals      82.0  39    127.2  48       172.2  36    496.5  48
IDA                           80.0  38    104.6  40       200.0  42    408.2  39
Federal Republic of Germany   1.5   1        0.6   -        3.7   1       1.6   -
World Food Program            10.5   5       6.8   3       26.3   5      26.3   3
Total                   210.2 100    263.1 100       478.2 100  1.038.1 10
3.13      Overall contribution by national, provincial and county governments
dropped by 34% in US$ but increased by about 39% when expressed in RMB.
Still, the increase in absolute amount was not able to keep pace with price
hikes which resulted in more than doubling of total project cost. Final
participation by government was 10% vs. an appraisal estimate of 16%.
3.14      The bulk of project cost overruns were shouldered by two sources:
participation of villages and individuals increased from 36% to 48%, in terms
of contribution in RMB it almost tripled the amount estimated at appraisal;
IDA participation remained unchanged in percentage terms, but more than 30%
higher in absolute amount (in USS). This was possible due to the appreciation
of the SDR against the US$ (para. 3.4).
3.15      Participation by the Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) appeared to
be lower than estimated as the actual figures only represent FRG's
contribution to equipment. NPO was not able to keep track of direct payments
by FRG to consultants for provision of technical assistance and training. The
World Food Program's actual participation was the same as projected.
F. Prolect Results
3.16      The following Table 3.6 summarizes the main indicators on project
achievements estimated at appraisal, at credit closing and at full development
of the project (i.e. after full utilization of provincial revolving funds
established under the project). More detailed tables on beneficiaries and
training are included in Annexes 5 and 6.



23
Table 3.6: Direct Benefits
Appraisal        Estimated at    Estimated at
Indicators                       Estimate         Closing Date    Full Dev't
Number of Beneficiaries           5.93 million    7.43 million    10.41 million
Number of Villages                4,650            5,730            7,960
Courses at NPO/PPO/CPO levels   56/142/492         18/133/3350      --
Trainees at NPO/PPO/CPO levels 1480/3893/11300 778/4033/23790 --
3.17      The number of beneficiary villages and persons served by the
project increased by 24% and 27% respectively over the appraisal estimates,
mainly because of the extension of the project into new areas. This situation
is very favorable to the project.
3.18      There were fewer number of courses conducted at the national and
provincial levels than planned, but more courses were offered at the county
level. The average number of trainees per course was higher than envisioned.
The number of trainees for technical courses offered by NPO and PPOs was far
lower than expected. This can be attributed to the fact that several
technical activities such as design and construction work were contracted out
to other work units.
G. Status of Covenants
3.19      Major covenants monitored during project implementation and the
borrower's compliance performance are summarized in the following Table 3.7.
Other than insufficient sub-project design reviews (para. 3.9), and staffing
at the NPO (para. 3.7), the borrower had been in compliance with the
covenants. Annual audited project accounts prepared by the State Audit
Administration were of reasonable quality and included separate statements on
the Special Account and Statement of Expenditures (SOEs).



24  .
Table 3.7: Covenant Comyliance
Covenant            Subject                      Deadline        Status
Credit Agreement
Section 4.01(b)    Submission of audited         June 30 of      Complied with
(1) and (2)         NPO accounts to IDA          each year
Section 4.02        Maintenance of NPO with    On-going          Partially
competent staff in          basis            complied with
adequate numbers
Schedule 4          Approval of sub-projects   As required    Partially
Section 3(a)(3)    by IDA and NPO                                complied with
Prolect Agreement
Section 4.01(b)    Submission of audited         June 30 of      Complied with,
(1) and (2)         PPO accounts to IDA          each year       part of NPO audit
Section 4.02        Maintenance of PPOs/CPOs   On-going          Largely complied
(a) and (b)         with functions & staffing  basis             with
satisfactory to IDA
Section 4.03        Adequate tariff to cover   As required    Largely complied
full cost (para. 1.20)                      with
H. Use of IDA Resources
3.20      The use of IDA resources from project identification to completion
in staff weeks (including consultants) and particulars of each IDA mission are
summarized in the following Table 3.8 and Table 3.9.
Table 3.8: Staff Input
(Staff-weeks)
Stage of Project Cycle         Planned   Final  Comments
Through Appraisal                n.a.       72   Actual input are extracted from
Appraisal to Board Approval    n.a.         55   MIS data base, supervision input
Supervision (1985-1992)        11/year    110   includes estimated time required
for preparation of PCR
Totall



25
Table 3.9: IDA Missions
Stage of               Number of    Speciali-  Performance Rating and Type of
Project Cycle  MM/YY Persons Days  zation a/  Problems
Identification 08/83    3       21   EG,FA
Prep. review   12/83    1        5   EG
Pre-appraisal  02/84    3       24   EG,FA
Prep. review   07/84    1        3   LO
Appraisal       09/84    6      25   EG,FA,LO
LG,TR
Supervision    05/85    1        7   EG         1, no major problems
09/85    1      17   EG         1, anomalies in construction
supervision
06/86    3      13   EG,FA      1, weak Sichuan project offices
01/87    1      18   EG         1, inadequate county engineering
staff, slight delays
(Mid-term)   04/87    3       24   EG,FA      1, construction supervision
engineering and management
need strengthening
09/87    2      11   EG,FA      1, cost overruns
03/88    1       4   EG         1, delays in Sichuan and Zhejiang
11/88    2      17   EG         1-2, material delivery delays
further delays in Zhejiang
04/89    1       4   FA         1, possible closing extension
09/89    1       3   FA         no rating, procurement and
delivery delays, closing date
extension
need for credit reallocation
04/90    3       2   EG,FA      1, no new major problems
09/90    3       8   EG,FA      1-2, insufficient NPO review of
sub-project designs
02/91    1       2   FA         no rating, non-compliance with
design review agreement
(Final/PCR)  03/92    3       17   EG,FA,SC
a/   EG - Engineer,        FA = Financial Analyst,  LG = Legal Counsel,
LO - Loan Officer,  SC = Sociologist,           TR = Training Specialist



26
ANNEX 1
CHINA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Credit 1578-CHA)
Physical Project Results
Appraisal Estimates               Revised Estimates                        Actual
Province/      Piped-  Non-Piped Total No. of   Piped-  Non-Piped    Total No. of   Piped-  Non-Piped    Total No. of
Municipality   System    System   Sub-Projects  System    System      Sub-Projects  System    System      Sub-Projects
Beijing           665          -          665       524          -            524       736          -            736
Liaoning          597          -          597       435          -            435       608          -            608
Shaanxi           501        175          676       343       121 a/          464       351        121 a/         472
Sichuan           474       479           953       571        43             614       605         9             614
Zhejiang          907        104        1,011       382         1 b/          383       399          1 b/         400
Total    3,144       758         3,902     2,255       165           2,420     2,699       131           2,830
a/ 120 cisterns and I well equipped with handpump
b/ Includes 59,095 rainwater collectors



27
ANNEX 2
CHINA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Credit 1578-CHA)
Staffing of Proiect Offices
Beijing       Liaoning      Shanxi        Sichuan        Zhejiang       Total
NPO  PPO  CPO  PPO  CPO  PPO  CPO  PPO  CPO  PPO  CPO  PPO  CPO
Manamement
Planned                   2         2     10      2     10      2      10      2     10      I     10      9     50
Actual                    2         3      7      4     25      3    21        3     14      1     18     14    85
of which female        -         -      -      1     4       -      -      -      -       -      -      1     4
Enuineerina
Planned                   9         6    28       5    22       5    27        4     23      5    20      25    120
Actual                    2         2     16      S     23      4    44        2    46       5     25     18   154
of which female                 1      2       -     4       -      3      -      4       -     2       1     15
Administrativo/Accountina
Planned                   3         2     10      2     10      3      10      2     10      2     10    11    50
Actual                    2         2     19      3     15      3      17      2     35      3     20     13   106
of which fenale        -        I      S       1     8       2      8      -    19       2     12      6     52
Sunoort Staff
Planned                   3         2      5      3      5      2      5       2      5      2      5     11     25
Actual                    2         4      -      3      5      3      8      2      35      2     12     14    60
of which female                 I       -             -      -      3      -    19       -       -      1    22
Planned                   7         5    25       8     30      6     30      5      30      5    24      29    139
Actual                    2        10    28       3     16      4     S0      2       0      2     16    21    110
of which female        -        -      9      1      7       1     12      1      0      1      6      4     34
Planned                  24        17    78      20     77     18    82       15    78      15    69      85    384
Actual                   10 a/   21       70     18    84      17   140       11    130     13    91      80   515
of which female        -        3     16      3    23        3    26       1    42       3    20      13   127
a/ Of which 9 are part-time staff or consultant



28
ANNEX 3
Page 1
CHINA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Credit 1578-CHA)
ICB & LCB Procurement
Table 1: Procurement of ICB Goods
First ICB Batch (1986)] Second ICB Batch (1987)  Third ICB Batch (1989)     Total
Quantity  RMB  USD  Quantity  RMB  USD  Quantity  RMB  USD  Quantity  RMB   USD
(ton)   (min) (min)   (ton)   (miln) (min)   (ton)   (mln) (mtn)   (ton)   (min)  (min)
Stwel bars and Wircs   32,927  26.4   8.0   32,622  32.1   8.4   11,822   18.7   3.9   77,372   77.3   20.3
Sted angle and flatu    3,265    3.1   0.9    4,677   4.9   1.3          -            -    7,942    7.9    2.3
Stod pipes             20,597  30.4   8.6   35,233  52.0  14.0    2,499    6.4   1.4   58,328   88.7   24.0
Iron pipes              9,684   5.3   1.4   18,446  10.6   2.8              -         -   28,130    15.9    4.3
Plasticpipes            2,873   10.9   3.4    3,739   19.9   5.3    1,750    11   2.3    8,363   41.7   11.1
Timber                 10,211    2.8   0.9        -      -     -      450   0.3   0.1   10,661       3.1    0.9
Water pumps              962    1.9   0.5       588    1.8   0.5         -            -    1,550    3.7    1.0
Power transformers       114   0.2       -      126   0.2   0.1                       -      240    0.3    0.1
Vehicles                  91    1.3   0.4        57   2.3   0.6                              148    3.6    1.0
Sted platea              279   0.3   0.1        499   0.6   0.2                              778    0.8    0.2
Galvanized steel sheet   293   0.5   0.1          -      -     -                             293    0.5    0.1
Aluminum cable.             -     -      -      650   2.8   0.8                -             650    2.8    0.8
Totial          82.9  24.3            127.0  33.9             36.4   7.6            246.3   65.9
Note: Figure. may not total exactly due to rounding.



29
ANNEX 3
Page 2
CHINA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Credit 1578-CHA)
ICB & LCB Procurement
Table 2: Procurement of LCB Goods
RMB (mnn)                                    USD (mln)
Beijing Liaoning Shaanxi Sichuan Zhejiang Total  Beijing Liaoning Shaanxi Sichuan Zhejiang Total
Pipeline and plumbing fittings  18.2   55.6   13.1   31.7   51.1  169.8    4.6   14.3    3.5    7.9   11.7  42.1
Water plant control equipment  2.7    9.6    1.4    3.6    3.6   20.9    0.7    2.5    0.4    0.9    1.0   5.4
Pressure filters               3.8    0.1    0.5        -       -    4.4    1.0        -    0.1       -       -   1.1
Pressure vessels                 -       -    0.3    0.1    0.4    0.7         -            0.1       -    0.1   0.2
Pressure pipelines             3.5       -   20.7       -   27.6   51.9    0.9         -    5.6       -    7.4  13.9
Laboratory equipment           0.1    1.7    0.7    1.5    0.4    4.3          -    0.4    0.2    0.4    0.1   1.1
Office equipment                 -       -    0.5    0.4    0.7    1.6         -       -    0.1    0.1    0.2   0.4
Electrical supplies            0.6    2.5    1.6    2.8    2.1    9.6    0.2    0.7    0.4    0.7    0.5   2.5
Transmission line poles        0.3    0.6    0.9    1.2    1.2    4.2    0.1    0.2    0.2    0.3    0.3   1.1
Hand pump                        -       -    0.1    0.3        -    0.4       -       -       -    0.1       -   0.1
Miscellaneous building supplies    6.9    3.3    8.5   17.4    9.0   45.0    1.7    0.9    2.3    4.5    1.6  10.9
Cement                         1.1    5.1    5.4        -       -   11.5    0.3    1.3    1.4         -       -   3.0
Total   37.3   78.4   53.6   59.1   96.0  324.4    9.4   20.1   14.4   14.9   22.9  81.8
Notc: Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.



30
ANNEX 3
Page 3
CHINA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Credit 1578-CHA)
ICB & LCB Procurement
Table 3: Procurement of LCB Civil Works
Province/                    No. of Contracts                      Contract Amount (in RMB miln)
Municipality        Estimated       Actual         Variance     Estimated       Actual         Variance
Beijing                665            736             71           15.5           29.6           14.1
Liaoning               597          1,233           636           40.1          233.5           193.4
Shaanxi                676            464          (212)           37.3           78.4           41.1
Sichuan                953            614          (339)           30.9          169.3          138.4
Zhejiang             1,011           401           (610)          25.0           106.0           81.0
Total     3,902          3,448           (454)         148.8          616.7          467.9
Note: Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.






31
ANNEX 4
CHINA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Credit 1578-CHA)
Review and Approval of Sub-proiect Desinm ReportS
Province/                       by NPO                       by PPO
Municipality            Planned        Actual        Planned        Actual
Beijing                     0            29              -            137
Lioning                   180             14           238           404
Shaanxi                     8             8             54            80
Sichuan                    30             2            200           328
Zhejiang                   23             18            37            43
Total      241            71            529           992



32
ANNEX 5
CHINA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Credit 1578-CHA)
Proiect Coverage
[11           121               [31
Appraisal     Estimated at   Estimate at Full    [2] as %
Estimate     Closing Date     Development         of [1]
Vilaaes Covered
Beijing                   665              843            1,243            127
Liaoning                  719            1,010            1,423            140
Shaanxi                   863              983            1,353            114
Sichuan                   953            1,047            1,487            110
Zhejiang                 1,450           1,847           2,454             127
Total    4,650           5,730            7,960             123
Population Served ('000)
Beijing                   658              924            1,324            140
Liaoning                 1,252           1,710           2,410             137
Shaanxi                  1,368           1,490            1,890            109
Sichuan                  1,480           1,559           2,279             105
Zhejiang                 1,175           1,744           2,511             148
Total    5,933            7,427          10,414             125



33
ANNEX 6
CHINA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Credit 1578-CHA)
Training Program and Results
Beijing       Liaoning        Shaanxi        Sichuan        Zhejiang          Total
NPO   PPO   CPO   PPO    CPO   PPO    CPO    PPO    CPO    PPO    CPO    PPO    CPO
Manatement
Course Planned                 II       I             7       35     2        -       4      10      6              20      45
Actual                  5      3              7      35      8      23       3       18      3              24      76
Trainee Planned               210      10           210   1,050    38         -      80    720    165              503   1,770
Actual                142   109             224   1,080    124    667       73   1,732    94               624   3,479
of which female    21       -             14      60    27       38      21     346     16              78    444
Entineerins
Course Planneod                42       1             19      80     5       2       12       4     13              50      86
Actual                 11      6              19     81      9       19       3      4       6              43     104
Trainee Planned              1,120     15           570   2,400    100      40     260       80   330            1,275   2,520
Actual                474    46             680   2,550   339      375      95      60    190        -   1,350   2,985
of which female     58      7             20    450    28        82      10      10    33               98    542
Finance
Coures Planned                  3       1              8     42       I       -       6      35      6              22      77
Actual                  2      3              9      42      6       13      2      69      3               23     124
Trainee Planned               150    15             240   1,260    15         -    130   1,040    165        -    565   2,300
Actual                162    40        -    306   1,310    96    537        53     832    94               589   2,679
of which female     64    22       -    200    610    31        181      38      86     16             307    877
Water Oualitv
Courses Planned                  -     I              4      20      9       7        1       2      -              15      29
Actual                         I              4       19     2      26        1      2                       8      47
Trainee Planned                        10            120    600    180      145     40       60              .    350      805
Actual                        21            136    910    28    455         50      65                     235   1,430
of which female            15             66    600    20    211         31       5                    132    816
Water System Operation
Courses Planned                         -    22       12     72       -     28        1       9                     13    131
Actual                               30      12      73      3      34       4       15                     19    152
Trainee Planned                         -   665     360   2,190       -    560     320    420                      680   3,835
Actual                              785    420   1,874    124   1,168      149    947                      693   4,774
of which female                  50       60      64    22       33       0       0                     82     147
Other
Courses Planned                                -       -       -      -       -      13      20      9     106      22     126
Actual                                                                       3      32      13     115      16    147
Trainee Planned                                                                    260    570   260   2,255        520   2,825
Actual                                                                      78   2,512   464   3,097       542   5,609
of which female                                                           0     n.a    32      n.a      32      n.a
Total
Courses Planned                56      4     22      50    249       17      37      37      80     34     106     142    494
Actual                 18    13    30        51     250    28       115      16    140    25       115     133    650
Trainee Planned              1,480    50   665   1,500   7,500   333    745   1,090   2,890   920   2,255   3,893  14,055
Actual                778   216   785   1,766   7,724   711   3,202    498   6,148    842   3,097   4,033  20,956
of which female    143    44     50     360   1,784    128    545       100    447    97         0     729   2,826






34
ANNEX 7
Pap 1 of 2
CHINA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Credit 1578-CHA)
Number Two Waterworkm a/
Cixi County, Zhejiang
Income Statement (1991)
(Yuan '000)
Wer Sales (mJ m3)                       4.31 of which 1.70 to indutry, 2.61 to houehold
Overadna Revenue
Water Sales                        1,731
Installation                          17
Materils ales                      7,029
Non-operating revenue                      9
Total Revenue              8 786
Overatine Coat
Water resources                      355
Maintenance                           29
Chemicals                             13
Energy and ful                       3SS
Depreciation                         363
Salaries                              63
Administration                       146
Other                                 45
Miaterials                         6,406
Sales tax                            125
Total Oleratint Coa              7930
Non-operating Cost                       48
Net Income                1
Disbution of Net Income
Loa Repayment                       275
Enterprise Income Tax                1I
Production Expansion Fund            257
Staff Bonus Fund                     129
Staff Benefit Fund                   103
Remi,ted to Health Bureau              3
Manager' Fund                         23
Neat Income                1
a/ Subproject designed by North China Urban Des  Institut (surfce war with resevoir,
intake and tratment plant).
Construction commencod in July 36, complded in July U8.
Totsl investmn  Y23.9 mli, of which Y6.1 finaced by IDA.
System serves 15 township. including 197 admiaitrsva  village wih bouWd ecouneto
for a totel popultc of about 250,000.



35
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
CHINA
RURAL WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
(Credit 1578-CHA)
Number Two Waterworks
Cixi County, Zhejiang
Balance Sheet
(as of Dec. 31, 1991)
(Yuan '000)
Assets
Cash, Bank and Bonds                           589
Inventory                                       47
Accounts Receivable - Water Sales              145
- Other                    2,803
Prepaid Expenses                             4,651
Total Current Assets             8,235
Fixed Assets                                23,835
less depreciation                           364
Net Fixed Asset                             23,471
Total Assets            31,706
Liabilities
Accounts Payable                             2,891
Due to Government                               65
Current Maturity                             4,649
Total Current Liabilities           7,605
Governrment Funds                           23,471
Production Expansion Fund                      317
Staff Benefit Fund                             111
Staff Bonus Fund                               179
Manager's Fund                                  23
Total Liabilities          31,706



