Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 24979
CHINA
REVIEW OF THE BANK'S ASSISTANCE TO THE
URBAN WATER SUPPLY AND WASTEWATER SECTOR
October 16, 2002
Operations Evaluation Department
Sector and Thematic Evaluation Group



Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
Currency Unit  Yuan (19
1986                       US$1.00                           Y 3.46
1987-89                    US$1.00                          Y 3.73
1990                       US$1.00                          Y 4.86
1991                       US$1.00                           Y S.36
1992                       US$1.00                           Y 5.49
1993                       US$1.00                           Y S.75
1994                       US$1.00                          Y 8.62
1995                       US$1.00                           Y 8.35
1996                       US$1.00                           Y 8.31
1997-2000                  US$1.00                           Y 8.28
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AIC       Average incremental cost
BOOT      Build-own-operate-transfer
CWSA      China Water Supply Association
FY        Fiscal year
GDP       Gross domestic product
IDA       International Development Association
OED       Operations Evaluation Department
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
PMO       Project Management Office
SEPA      State Environmental Protection Agency
Fiscal Year
Government:         January I - December 31
Director-General, Operations Evaluation           Mr. Gregory K. Ingram
Acting Director, Operations Evaluation Department  Mr. Nils Fostvedt
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation         : Mr. Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                      Mr. Klas Ringskog



The World Bank
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.SA.
Office of the Director-General
Operations Evaluation
October 16, 2002
MEMORANDUM TO TBIE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:      China: Review Of The Bank's Assistance To The
Urban Water Supply And Wastewater Sector
China's water supply and wastewater sector investments have amounted to around US$1.7
billion per annum in the last decade of which the World Bank has financed about 8 percent. Since its first
loan in 1985 the Bank has committed US$2.2 billion under 22 projects with a total project cost of US$7.7
billion. Eighteen projects have been for urban water supply and wastewater and four projects for rural
water supplies. US$0.7 billion (32 percent) of the Bank financial support has been for water supply and
US$1.5 billion (68 percent) for wastewater.
Over the period 1986-98 China made great strides in coverage and quality of water supply
service, as shown in the table. Bank assistance has primarily improved the quality of service rather than
coverage. The Bank's decision to
gradually focus its assistance on the                     National Urban  Bank-assisted Utilities
wastewater sector is validated by the fact  Households      Average
that urban sanitary sewerage levels of 65  1"9                      .--6 1998  198-iss6  1998
percent in 1998 lagged the national water  Piped public  82%       95%      92%       93%
supply coverage of 95 percent, and that  water
only about 28 percent of wastewater     Service 24-hours  90%      99%      85%       96%
received any form of treatment.         Disinfected water  99%     99%      99%      100%
In this sector assistance review,
OED evaluation criteria are used to assess the outcome, sustainability, and institutional development
impact of the Bank's assistance to the urban water supply and wastewater sector and the performance of
the Bank and of its borrowers. A special effort is also made to track the impact of Bank lending and non-
lending in the areas of (i) financing reform; (ii) regulatory reforms, including tariff regulation; (iii)
institutional reforms; and (iv) reforms to promote private service provision.
OED rates the outcome of the Bank's assistance moderately satisfactory. This outcome rating
is the composite of the individual ratings for the program's relevance, efficacy and efficiency. The
program relevance is rated modest although the poverty reduction focus has improved over time. The
program efficacy is rated substantial because the conservative project objectives have largely been
achieved. In contrast, the program efficiency is rated modest because program objectives have paid
insufficient attention to demand management, which could have balanced supply and demand at a lower
cost than the financed increases in supply.
OED rates the sustainability of the Bank's assistance likely because of strong government
support, evident in the provision of sufficient financing at all times. The rating is tempered by the fact
that pursued tariff and financing policies have not produced financial autonomy for water supply and
wastewater utilities. The sector-wide financial working ratio (cash operating costs as a percentage of cash
operating revenue) is reported to have worsened from 77 percent in 1986 to 102 percent in 1998 for
Bank-assisted utilities, in line with the nationwide change from 78 percent to 101 percent. In contrast and



2
on the positive side, environmental sustainability, as measured by the share of wastewater receiving some
level of treatment, rose from 10 percent in 1986 to 38 percent in 1998 for Bank-financed wastewater
projects, compared to a sector-wide increase from 17 percent to 28 percent.
OED rates the institutional development impact of the Bank assistance modest, in line with its
previous performance ratings of individual projects. The focus of the Bank's institutional assistance
seems to have been on project implementation units or project management offices rather than on the
utilities. However, Bank projects have paid increasing attention to the establishment of autonomous
wastewater utilities. Unaccounted water, a common proxy of operational efficiency and institutional
development, is reported to have risen both for Bank-financed projects and sector-wide, from 8 percent in
1986 to around 15 percent in 1998. These levels may be underestimating actual unaccounted water by 20
percentage points, indicating the potential benefits of demand management. Over the same period staff
productivity is estimated to have decreased: the number of staff per thousand served households rose
from 4.9 to 5.7 for Bank-assisted projects compared to the nationwide rise from 5.1 to 5.4. While private
sector participation has arrived in China, no signed contract has resulted from Bank assistance.
OED rates both Bank performance and borrower performance satisfactory. Bank
performance has been particularly strong in the technical preparation and supervision of projects and in
the improvement of procurement and project management procedures. Borrower performance has been
characterized by strong project ownership and by satisfactory ratings of completed projects of 83 percent,
compared to the Bank-wide average of 55 percent. Similarly, the ratings of the likely achievement of
development objectives (akin to the outcome rating for completed projects) are satisfactory for 94
percent of the active projects. These high ratings, however, have to been in the context of the modest
policy reform content of Bank projects.
Lessons Learned and Recommendations
Recommendation One: Demand management should always precede supply increases and investments
in wastewater treatment.
The OED review confirms the findings of repeated studies that many urban areas have
unsustainable water consumption patterns. Demand management should always precede supply
increases, inter-basin transfers, and wastewater investments. Experience from other countries indicates
that demand management may save water at a cost of around 5 percent of the cost of bringing additional
supplies on line. Two recently appraised Bank projects forecast per capita consumption rising further
from already internationally high levels. This is unsustainable, and alternative ways of balancing demand
and supply should be pursued. In particular, treated wastewater and recycling are likely competitive in
price and quality with additional future supplies. It is recommended that, as a minimum, the least-cost
analysis offuture Bank-financed projects always include improved incentives and support for demand
management.schemes.
Recommendation Two: Set tariffs to reflect future total costs and create incentives for billing and
collecting those higher tariffs.
The OED review estimates that urban water and wastewater tariffs continue to lag future costs by
a substantial margin. Urban water tariffs should be allowed to rise gradually in real terms to approach the
full cost of water as measured by average incremental costs (AIC) of future supplies, including the cost
of both water supply and wastewater. As it is, tariffs are may often be as low as 10 percent of the
complete water supply and wastewater costs of additional supplies. It is recommended that tariffs of
future Bank-financed projects be guided by the level of average incremental costs, which signalfuture
costs.



3
Recommendation Three: Build and support autonomous utilities.
With proper incentives Chinese utility performance should improve rapidly. At present, water
supply services are organized as separate companies, but they are not yet financially and institutionally
autonomous. There are only a few separate wastewater companies, and accountability and authority for
wastewater services are typically fragmented over several municipal bureaus. The country's water supply
and wastewater services might better be managed as share corporations with incentives and rights to
charge and collect publicly regulated tariffs and obligations to pay for capital and current costs out of
surpluses from their operations. Share corporations would initially be publicly owned, but minority
shares could later be sold to outside investors and generate significant revenue for local governments. It
is recommended that the recent policy of conditioning future Bank financing on the establishment of
autonomous wastewater companies be continued It is further recommended thatfuture Bankfinancing
of urban water supplies focus on providing greater autonomy and incentives for borrowing water
companies than in the past.
Recommendation Four: Enhance the level of self-financing.
Bank projects have financed about 44 percent of project investments, a share that has remained
constant over the 1985-2000 period. Internal cash generation has been negligible as a financing source.
The implementation of higher efficiency through demand management and the success of institutional
reform would be facilitated if utilities were required to finance a share of sector investments from
internal cash generated from operations. It is recommended thatfuture Bankfinancing give priority to
cities and provinces that are willing to contribute a larger share ofplanned investments from internal
cash generation.
Recommendation Five: Mitigate risk and improve efficiency through regulation
Bank assistance has not actively promoted sector regulation to help utilities improve efficiency
and to introduce predictable tariffs. It is recommended that regulatory agencies be created to initially
focus on comparative regulation of service coverage, quality, efficiency, and tariffs. There should be no
difference in regulatory requirements between public and private service providers. Tariffs should be
authorized subject to compliance with efficiency improvements to match best utility practice in China
and internationally. As a first step, it is recommended that the Bank finance a study on how comparative
yardstick regulation could be introduced in the sector. It is recommended that the terms of reference for
such a regulatory study and its implementation be managed in close coordination with the Water Supply
and Wastewater Division in the Ministry of Construction
Recommendation Six: Enable greater private sector participation.
Wider and deeper private sector participation offers the quickest way of improving performance
through the competition it would offer publicly managed companies. It could also provide financing
without public guarantees. However, future private sector participation would need to be better prepared,
competitively contracted, and regulated. Private service providers should be required to assume those
risks which they are best able to control to achieve the full efficiency gains. It is recommended that the
next generation of Bank sector projects include private sector participation where there is political
support in favor ofprivate sector participation.
Attachment






Contents
1.  Sector Background and Study Objectives .................................................................. 1l
Bank Group Loan Commitments .         .................................................................I
Objectives and Components of Bank Water Supply and Wastewater Projects .....2
Conditionalities of Bank Water Supply and Wastewater Projects .........................3
2.  Outcome of Bank Sector Assistance ...................................................................3
Relevance of the Bank Sector Assistance Strategy ............ ........................................... 3
Poverty Focus of Past Projects ...................................3
Efficacy of the Sector Assistance ..................................4
Efficacy Indicators of the Average Urban Water Supply Companies ...................5
Efficacy Indicators of Bank-Assisted Utilities ......................................................5
Efficiency of World Bank Assistance ........................................................5
Operating Efficiency Indicator ........................................................6
Investment Efficiency Indicators .........................................................6
OED Rating of the Outcome of the Bank's Sector Assistance Strategy ................7
Sustainability of the Bank Assistance ...............     .........................................7
Financial Resilience/Sustainability ........................................................7
Supporting Financing Reforms under Bank Projects ...............................8
Regulatory and Tariff Reforms ........................................................ 8
Environmental Resilience/Sustainability .......................................................   10
Application of the Bank's Safeguard Policies ..................................................... 11
Rating of the Sustainability of the Bank Sector Assistance .................................1 1
Institutional Development Impact of Bank Assistance ...................................................... 11
Institutional Reforms .......................................................     12
Private Sector Participation .......................................................  12
Bank Performance ................................                                         14
Borrower Performance ................................                                     14
3.  Lessons Learned and Recommendations ................................                           14
Annex A. OED Project Evaluation Criteria ................................                          19
Annex B. World Bank Lending for Water Supply and Wastewater, 1985-2000 ................... 25
Annex C. Project Objectives, Components, Covenants, and Ratings ..................................... 27
Annex D. Coverage and Quality of Service, 1986 and 1998 ..................................................... 55
Annex E. Efficiency of Service, 1986 and 1998 ...........................................................  59
Annex F. Sustainability of Service, 1986 and 1998 ...........................................................   63



ii
Annex G. Funding Sources for Water Supply and Wastewater Projects ............................... 67
Annex H. Cumulative Bank Lending Per Capita by Province/City ........................................ 69
MAP .....................................................                                                       71



1
1.     Sector Background and Study Objectives
1.1    China's annual water supply and wastewater sector investment level of US$1.7 billion
over the 1990-98 period amounted to about 0.2 percent of its gross national product. Sector
investments in the 1990-98 period were an estimated US$9.5 billion (61 percent) for water
supply and US$6.0 billion (39 percent) for wastewater. Over the 1985-2000 period the World
Bank Group committed US$2.2 billion for 22 sector projects, which accounts for about 8 percent
of the annual investment rate. Eighteen projects were for urban water supply and wastewater and
four projects for rural water supplies. After receiving its first Bank-financed water supply project
in 1985 China has evolved into the largest recipient of Bank financing for water supply and
wastewater, representing about 15 percent of the Bank Group's commitments in the sector.
1.2    Demand for financing of water supply and wastewater works will likely continue to be
strong, driven by the country's economic growth, rapid urbanization, and the need to redress
environmental imbalances. China's population was estimated at 1,265 million in 2000 and
although total growth has moderated to 1.1 percent per annum, urban growth rates remain high at
4 percent per annum. As a result, the urban share of the total population, which was 32 percent in
1999, is projected to reach 50 percent in 2015. The strain on cities to provide municipal services
will be commensurate. However, the task has been helped by the rapid growth of financing of
municipal investments, made possible by GDP growth of 10 percent per annum over the 1980-99
period.
1.3    This review uses OED's evaluation criteria to assess the outcome, sustainability, and
institutional development impact of the Bank's assistance. (Annex A provides the definitions of
OED's evaluation criteria.)
1.4    Besides tracking the effect of the Bank assistance the review discusses in greater detail
the impact of Bank financial and technical assistance on reform in four cross-cutting areas:
a) Financing reforms to increase the contribution to the sector's current and capital costs
from operational surpluses and from municipal and provincial financing in order to make
available Bank financing go further.
b) Regulatory reform, including tariff regulation, under which user charges would
gradually approach benchmark costs of the most efficient service providers. Correct
pricing is necessary to make consumers and service providers aware of the high costs of
wastage and excess consumption and enable demand management.
c) Institutional reforms to give autonomy and incentives to publicly owned water supply
and wastewater service providers to make both operations and investments more efficient
and make them accountable to consumers for providing quality service.
d) Reforms to promote private provision of water supply and wastewater services as a tool
for raising operating efficiency, attract private funding of investments, and disseminate
best international utility practice.
Bank Group Loan Commitments
1.5    Water supply and wastewater lending has been driven by the rapidly growing demand for
municipal environmental services. Annual Bank Group commitments to the sector are listed in



2
Annex B. Over the 1985-2000 period total commitments were US$2,219 million of which one-
third was for water supply and two-thirds for wastewater. High water supply service levels and
growing municipal demand for environmental protection have prompted the Bank to shift its
attention to wastewater, which complements the Asian Development Bank's focus on financing
water supply.
Objectives and Components of Bank Water Supply and Wastewater Projects
1.6    Broadly speaking, Bank Group lending has been shaped by the borrowers' preference for
financing of civil works and equipment primarily used in supplying treated water and in
collecting, treating, and disposing of wastewater. Annex Cl provides details on the objectives of
the 22 (18 urban and 4 rural) Bank Group credit and loan agreements of water supply and
wastewater projects. The objectives can conveniently be grouped under five headings:
e      Physical investments to improve environmental protection
e      Creating or improving institutional capacity and policies
*      Physical investments to provide more and safer potable water
*      Improving financing policies
*      Improving pricing policies
For analysis purposes, the objectives of each of the 18 urban water supply and/or wastewater
projects were classified into five groups. For projects with multiple objectives, the three most
important ones were classified. The table
shows the frequency of objectives. The    Type of Objectve             Relative Occurrence
relative occurrence of objectives attests to a  Environmental protection works  94%
conservative assistance strategy that    Insttubonal policies and strengthening  67%
emphasizes physical investments and is                                       39%
only modestly ambitious as far as financial  Water pply works
and pricing policies are concerned.       Ficial policy reform                6%
Institutional policies and strengthening are  g P                            6%
prominent, but often limited to providing
technical assistance to the existing institutional framework without changing the incentive
framework and autonomy.
1.7    The modest level of reform pursued under Bank-financed projects is also clear if the four
leitmotifs of this review are analyzed in comparison to urban water supply and sanitation projects
funded by the     Type of Objective      Relative occurrence In China  Relative occurrence elsewhere of
World Bank in                             of urban water &sanitation  urban water & sanitation
projects                poet
other countries   Sector financial policy reform  6%                     65%
than China.       Regulatory reforms              0%
Financial,        Institutional reforms           67%                     78%
regulatory and    Private sector participation    0%                      36%
PSP reforms are
particularly under-represented in the China urban water supply and sanitation projects compared
to the practice elsewhere in the world where the Bank has financed sector investments.



3
Conditionalities of Bank Water Supply and Wastewater Projects
1.8    The conditionalities of Bank Group-financed projects have been analyzed in an
analogous fashion. There are two main types of covenants: those related to the institutional
strengthening and those related to better financing policies, notably through higher cost recovery
from user charges. The occurrence of each of the
types of covenants is shown in the table. The
conditionalities invariably encompass financial and            China Urban WSS ProJects
institutional improvements. All project include  Financial            1ect
financial covenants to recover a greater share of  Inancoal           89%
costs from user charges which is somewhat      Institutional          89%
surprising given the few times that stronger
financing policies are mentioned as a project objective.
2.     Outcome of Bank Sector Assistance
2.1    OED rates a project's outcome as a composite of the sub-ratings for relevance at the time
of the evaluation; efficacy, or whether the operation has achieved or is expected to achieve its
stated goals; and efficiency, or the relation of benefits to costs. The exact ratings are defined and
listed in Annex A.
2.2    Annex C2 provides the OED ratings of completed projects and the supervision ratings for
ongoing projects. OED rated five of the six completed projects satisfactory or moderately
satisfactory, or an average 83 percent satisfactory rating. This compares favorably with
worldwide satisfactory ratings of completed water supply and sanitation projects of around 55
percent in the 1999-2000 period.
2.3    For ongoing projects the ratings of Achievement of Development Objectives, provided in
the semi-annual Project Status Reports, are analogous to the outcome rating of completed
projects. PSRs for the second half of 1999 reported a 94 percent satisfactory rating, testimony that
the projects are estimated to be achieving their objectives as stated. A closer analysis of the
outcome ratings requires scrutiny of the three components of the composite rating: the individual
ratings for the projects' relevance, efficacy, and efficiency.
RELEVANCE OF THE BANK SECTOR ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
2.4    Successive Bank Country Assistance Strategies' have identified five priorities: (a)
macroeconomic growth and stability; (b) infrastructure; (c) human development, comprising
poverty alleviation, health, education, and social protection; (d) agriculture and rural
development; and (e) environmental protection. The Bank's water supply and wastewater
assistance has explicitly addressed all but the first of these objectives.
Poverty Focus of Past Projects
2.5    Until recently, poverty focus was not a central objective of urban water supply and
wastewater projects. However, past projects may have helped poverty in a number of ways. Most
1. Country Assistance Strategies of the World Bank Group for the People's Republic of China, dated May 4, 1995, and
February 25, 1997, respectively.



4
immediately, the geographical distribution of investments matters. Annex H shows regional per
capita gross domestic product (GDP) in cities or provinces that received Bank financing plotted
against cumulative per capita Bank financing over the 1985-2000 period . The Metropolitan Area
of Shanghai has received the highest relative investment with a cumulative US$68 per capita,
while Tianjin has received the least with a cumulative US$9 per capita, both in 1998 prices. At
first sight, the data do not support the hypothesis that the Bank's urban water supply and
wastewater projects have had a clear geographical poverty alleviation focus since the wealthiest
city, Shanghai, has actually received more than poorer cities such as those in Liaoning. This high
share may reflect the importance that the central government attaches to testing and
demonstrating the success of its policies in Shanghai before disseminating them elsewhere. If the
Shanghai data are excluded, the data for the remaining project cities and provinces show a trend
of higher per capita lending in poorer provinces and cities. (See Annex H.)
2.6    A second poverty focus of past investments might be lending more per capita to those
cities with lower service coverage or lower service quality. This has not been applicable,
however, since most of the cities have close to 100 percent water supply coverage-yet they have
received substantial Bank financing. The explanation is that some two-thirds of the entire sector
lending has been for wastewater and not for water supply. In later years the lending projects have
been almost exclusively for wastewater investments. Lack of data do not permit a similar cross-
referencing of per capita wastewater investments versus sewerage coverage.
2.7    Although there has been close conformity of project objectives with Country Assistance
Strategies and a growing emphasis on lending relatively more to poorer cities and provinces,
OED rates the relevance of the Bank strategy in the urban water supply and wastewater sector
as modest since it feels that the strategy should have pursued demand management and utility
reform more proactively. However, the Bank's concentration on lending for environmental
wastewater projects bolsters the relevance rating because sewerage and wastewater treatment
service coverage lag substantially behind water supply service coverage.
EFFICACY OF THE SECTOR ASSISTANCE
2.8    OED's ratings of the efficacy of the six completed projects are subsumed within the
outcome ratings, which rely on the secondary data in the Implementation Completion Reports and
not on primary data. In order to validate these outcome/efficacy ratings, the sector assistance
review mission collected data on efficacy indicators for service coverage and quality. The China
Water Supply Association (CWSA) collects data and calculates and disseminates them annually.
The data are for all provinces and provincial capitals, and for cities with Bank Group financing of
water supply and wastewater investments. For reasons of budget and time limitations the review
could not validate the CWSA data, nor was it possible to visit all of the cities and regions where
the Bank has financed water supply and sanitation works. However, the data are likely to give a
relatively correct picture of overall service quality and efficiency. The monitoring indicators for
Bank-financed water supply companies can be analyzed to identify the impact of Bank financing.
The key results are summarized in the table below for the year 1986, the approximate year when
Bank assistance began and for the year 1998, the latest year with available data at the time of the
mission.



5
Efficacy Indicators of the
Average Urban Water Supply
Companies                       Households Wlt  Natonal Urban Average Bank-assisted Utflities
1986      1998     1986     1998
2.9    Over the 1986-98 period  Piped public water  82%   95%      92%      93%
the national average of urban   Service 24-hours  90%     99%      85%       96%
households connected to water   Disinfected water  99%    99%      99%      100%
supply rose from 82 to 95 percent,
a significant accomplishment. The
improvement in service quality was also considerable: the share of urban households with
continuous, 24-hour water service rose from 90 to 99 percent. The share of urban households
supplied with bacteriologically safe, disinfected water remained constant at a high 99 percent.
Efficacy Indicators of Bank-Assisted Utilities
2.10   The CWSA data indicate that the share of urban population with house connections in
Bank-financed companies was 92 percent in 1986 and had risen slightly to 93 percent in 1998.
The increase in coverage under Bank-assisted water supply companies is less than the increase in
the national average connection rate. On average, Bank-financed water supply projects tended to
be in cities somewhat better served than the national average of 82 percent in 1986.
2.11   There could be several explanations why Bank-assisted companies lagged behind the
national increase in connection rates. The Bank has generally financed production and
transmission works rather than house connections, which would not necessarily result in higher
service coverage. This interpretation is supported by the substantial rise in the continuity of
service (the share of households with 24-hour service) for project cities with Bank water supply
financing from 85 percent in 1986 to 96 percent in 1998. The improvement of 11 percentage
points is close to the national increase of 9 percent in the share of the urban population with
continuous water service. In conclusion: Bank-financed water supplyprojects do not seem to
have resulted in more rapid increases in the quality and coverage of water supply than the
national average.
2.12   It is not possible to make a similar comparison between sewerage coverage in 1986 and
in 1998 since no city-specific data for sewerage coverage are available for the year 1986. Data for
1998 indicate sewerage coverage of 65 percent for urban provinces compared to national water
supply connection rates of 95 percent. The lag in sewerage coverage validates the Bank's
decision to concentrate on wastewater rather than on water supply.
2.13   In summary, OED rates the efficacy of the Bank assistance substantial because the
modest objectives (see Annex Cl) have generally been met, or are expected to be met, with only
minor shortcomings. In general, for lack of data it did not prove possible to compare project-
specific changes in service coverage and quality before and after the Bank-financed projects.
EFFICIENCY OF WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE
2.14   The OED definition of project efficiency is provided in Annex A. However, both
cost/benefit analysis and least-cost analysis are contingent on correct and effective pricing of
services at cost, since tariffs influence both the level of consumption and the level of benefits in
the cost/benefit calculations. And correct pricing of water supply and wastewater services is
lagging in China. For the most part, tariffs do not directly affect consumers since individual



6
households are generally un-metered. Water consumption is mostly metered for entire districts or
for major industries from which large numbers of individual consumers are supplied. Under such
conditions, demand management and price elasticity do not apply. Thus standard economic
analysis provides limited insight into the efficiency of Bank-funded water supply projects in
China.
Operating Efficiency Indicator
2.15   As a second best, the efficiency of Bank assistance can be assessed through tracking
indicators of operating and investment efficiency. The most common indicator of operating
efficiency is unaccounted water, which is calculated as the percentage of produced water that is
unaccounted or "lost." This indicator is listed in Annex E. The national average level of
unaccounted water was 8 percent in 1986, rising to 13 percent in 1998. By comparison, the
percentage of unaccounted water under Bank-financed water supply projects rose from 8 percent
to 15 percent. Bank-financed water supply projects, therefore, seem to have produced roughly
the same incremental efficiency gains as the national average utility. Bank Group projects in
China focused neither on reducing the percentage of unaccounted water nor on providing
incentives for the water supply companies to reduce losses. ( This is in contrast to Bank-funded
urban water supply and sanitation projects elsewhere in the world where roughly one third
included among their objectives measures to conserve water, and/or reduce losses and
unaccounted water.) The reported reduction in efficiency of service in China strains belief and is
probably due to more truthful reporting in 1998. Informed observers have long argued that the
levels of unaccounted water in China understate the true level substantially. During the sector
assistance review the percentage of unaccounted water for one project city was estimated at 30
percent, compared to the 10 percent level that had been reported to the China Water Supply
Association. The difference of 20 percentage points is explained by the substantial commercial
and technical losses that occur on the sometimes extensive consumer premises, but which are
unrecorded in the absence of household meters.
Investment Efficiency Indicators
2.16   Capacity utilization could be monitored to assess the investment efficiency of Bank-
financed works. Unfortunately, these data are not readily available by component. However,
based on visits to water supply works visited during the OED review mission it appears that a
number of water supply production facilities are operating well below installed capacity. The
implication is that under some Bank projects capacity may have overshot demand since the Bank-
financed facilities would, as a rule, provide the last increment to production capacity. Idle
production facilities illustrate the risks of investing in the face of unrealistically high consumption
levels that result from under-priced water and weak demand management. In such cases, demand
management would likely have been the less costly alternative than capacity increases to balance
consumption and production. Experience from other countries shows that effective metering and
reducing excess consumption often costs as little as 5 percent of the cost of producing more water
and then collecting, treating, and disposing of the wastewater. One relevant experience is Gdansk,
Poland, where the per capita consumption was reduced from about 208 liters per capita and day
(lcd) to 118 lcd over the 1990-2000 period as a result of demand management, instituted after the
transition to a market economy by an experienced private operator with an incentive to reduce
wastage and unaccounted water.
2.17   The risks of overshooting demand through undue increases in water production capacity
is probably part of the reason why the Bank has concentrated its sector assistance on wastewater



7
projects. But just like water supply, wastewater must be correctly priced. Wastewater user
charges in some instances are reported to be much below the running costs of constructed
wastewater treatment plants and the operating departmnents prefer to idle existing treatment plants
rather than lose money by operating them. In such cases, environmental damage continues
unabated.
2.18   In summary, OED rates the efficiency of the Bank sector assistance as modest. The
projects probably have not often represented the least-cost solution because both water supply
and wastewater services have been priced below economic costs and because the earlier
investment projects focused more on increasing supply capacity than on demand management.
OED Rating of the Outcome of the Bank's Sector Assistance Strategy
2.19   The composite rating of the Bank-financed water supply and wastewater assistance is
moderately satisfactory with relevance, and efficacy rated as substantial and efficiency rated as
modest. (Annex A provides the exact definition of the rating.)
SUSTAINABILrfY OF THE BANK ASSISTANCE
2.20   OED defines sustainability as "the resilience to risk of net benefit flows over time.
Assessments of sustainability take into account nine factors, including technical, financial and
economic resilience" Rating the resilience in future years is difficult, but two monitoring
indicators provide guidance: one on financial resilience/sustainability, and the other on
environmental resilience/sustainability. The two are shown in Annex F and use data from the
China Water Supply Association in the case of water supply and from a survey conducted by the
Ministry of Construction in the case of wastewater.
Financial Resilience/Sustainability
2.21   The working ratio of water supply operations has been selected as the proxy forfinancial
sustainability of the projects. The working ratio measures the ratio between cash operating
expenditure (without depreciation) and cash operating income. The working ratio is available
only for water supply companies since both data and responsibility of wastewater operations are
fragmented over various municipal bureaus. Annex F shows the national average working ratio of
water supply operations to have risen from 0.78 in 1986 to 1.01 in 1998. The rise implies
deteriorating sector finances with slight operating deficits. The sustainability of the benefits from
sector investments will depend on timely outside financing of current and capital costs from
borrowings or equity contributions.
2.22 A sample of 16 water supply utilities in cities or provinces with Bank-financing reported
average working ratios deteriorating from 0.77 in 1986 to 1.02 in 1998. This means that utilities
in Bank-assisted cities or provinces have improved theirfinancial working ratios at the same
pace as the average Chinese water supply utility. The comparability between the 1986 and 1998
working ratios might be influenced to a minor degree by the 1993 accounting standards reform,
but the fact remains: in the aggregate cash operating revenue do not cover cash operating costs.
The situation is likely to be worse for wastewater. The financial situation would be still worse if
the water supply and wastewater operations were to spend more in maintenance of fixed assets as
recommended by some informed observers.



8
Supporting Financing Reforms under Bank Projects
2.23   The financing pattern of past Bank urban water supply and wastewater projects is shown
in Annex G. Investments have been financed in roughly equal parts from the Bank (including
some IDA funding in the early years of the 1985-2000 period) and from contributions of
provincial, county, and municipal governments. Excluding non-water supply and wastewater
works (such as district heating under a few joint projects), the Bank Group has financed about 44
percent of the urban investment program. This percentage has held fairly constant over the 1987-
2000 period. Contributions to urban investments from internal cash generation are conspicuous
by their absence, which is explained by high working ratios. The fact that the sector's operational
surpluses do not contribute to investments separates Chinese financing practices from the practice
of sophisticated municipal borrowers.
2.24   It would be reasonable to expect the share of Bank financing to decrease over time in
China, and certainly for repeat borrowers. It would also be reasonable to expect internal cash
generation to contribute an increasingly larger share of investment financing. But this has not
happened. In contrast, under the four rural water supply and sanitation projects in China
communities and individuals have contributed 28 percent of total investment. The constant share
of Bank financing for urban water supply and wastewater over time suggests that Bank funds
have, in the main, substituted for domestic financing from provincial, county, or city
governments. Bank financing clearly is not needed to offset a high foreign exchange component
of the investment programs since Chinese domestic contractors and equipment manufacturers are
so competitive that the foreign exchange component is likely well below 5 percent.
Regulatory and Tariff Reforms
2.25   The modemization of China's water supply and wastewater sector will require
accelerated regulatory forms, including tariff regulation. Modern water supply and wastewater
sector regulation is of two kinds: (1) quality regulation of the quality and costs of service and (2)
economic regulation of the tariffs that consumers pay. Neither type of regulation is well
developed in China and Bank projects do not appear to have promoted either type of regulation.
In truth, local governments control water tariffs in Shanghai, Shenzhen, Hebei province, and
Dalian, but this tariff "regulation" does not apply tariffs on the basis of agreed and explicit
pricing policies which link authorized tariff levels to the future cost and to the quality of service.
Considering the strong command economy tradition of data collection and planning, it is
surprising that yardstick regulation has not developed further to enable comparisons of operating
and investment efficiencies of different companies. Sector statistics are collected and
disseminated under the auspices of the China Water Supply Association, but much greater use
could be made of these valuable data to encourage companies to learn from and adopt best
practice of investment and operations.
2.26   In contrast with the situation at the beginning of China's borrowing for water supply and
wastewater investments in 1985 the principle of charging consumers for both water supply and
wastewater services has become firmly established. The World Bank water supply and
wastewater assistance has helped achieve these reforms: 17 out of 18 urban water supply and
wastewater projects have explicit tariff and revenue covenants in their credit or loan agreements.
An important piece of Bank economic and sector work,2 argues forcefully in favor of higher water
2. China-Urban Environmental Service Management, December 31, 1994 (Report No. 13073-CHA).



9
supply and wastewater tariffs to raise operating and investrnent efficiency and to help stop the
present, environmentally unsustainable consumption patterns in water-scarce areas.
2.27   Two important central government circulars spell out the principles for urban water
supply and wastewater tariffs. Water supply tariff policies are described in the 1998 "Regulation
on Management of Urban Water Supply Price." The urban water tariff policies specify that all
water consumption should be metered in order to promote efficient use of water; that charges
should be mainly volumetric; that the number of separate categories should be limited to five
(domestic and industrial being the most important); and that the full cost of service should be
recovered through the tariff. Cross-subsidies between different consumer categories are limited
and the tariffs are easily understood. The regulation stipulates that water tariffs should cover all
operating and maintenance costs, depreciation, and interest charges on debt and between 8-10
percent of the net value of fixed assets, allowing for system expansion.
2.28   However, in an effort to mitigate price inflation in the early part of the 1990s, Chinese
authorities allowed the stated objective of full cost recovery to slip. Over the 1986-96 period
water supply tariffs increases of about 16 percent per annum outpaced consumer price inflation of
11 percent per annum, but this proved insufficient to allow cash operating revenue to cover cash
operating expenditure. Either water supply operating costs increased even faster than general
consumer price inflation or tariffs were not effectively collected. Given the high collection rates
(at least in the systems visited by OED) it seems that water supply operating costs increased faster
than tariffs, that is, more than 5 percent annually in real terms. The failure to control production
costs and to charge consumers the real costs of their water consumption has perpetuated
unsustainable consumption patterns and forced suppliers to invest in additional transmission and
production schemes where demand management would likely have been cheaper, including
environmentally cheaper.
2.29   Wastewater tariff policies are prescribed in Circular No 1192 of 1999. The circular
specifies that wastewater tariffs should cover "operation and maintenance costs," including an
allowance for depreciation. The Circular does not seem to have been fully implemented.
Wastewater tariffs are charged as a percentage of water supply tariffs and have lagged costs. In
the first place, the exact level of wastewater costs is difficult to calculate given the fragmented
institutional arrangements for collecting, treating, and disposing of wastewater. The dialogue
between the Bank and the Chinese authorities during the preparation and implementation of
wastewater projects has helped shape and accelerate the promulgation of the wastewater tariff
legislation.
2.30   The present tariff policies suffer from the difficulty that tariffs are based mainly on
historicalflnancial costs. Such calculations pay insufficient attention to the growing water crisis
in China where future economic costs are much higher than past financial costs. At present, there
is no transparent nationwide monitoring of the rising costs, which makes it difficult to redress
inefficient water resources development and consumption patterns. The calculation of future costs
of water usage in the form of average incremental costs (AIC) has been done under most Bank
projects but their use as a guide to efficient tariff levels seems to have been forgotten. This is
particularly true for those areas with acute water scarcities and where reuse of treated wastewater
to replace agricultural and industrial use of high-quality raw water represents the least-cost
solution. The AIC calculation might be made over a 20-year time horizon and comprise both
water supply and wastewater costs since the latter are a consequence of water consumption. The
total AIC comprises:
The scarcity value of water itself



10
*      The cost of capturing, storing, treating and distributing it
*      The cost of collecting, treating, and safely disposing of wastewater.
Present water supply and wastewater tariffs may at times be as low as 10 percent of the total costs
and in extreme cases even less. An example would be the discussed South-North conveyor that
would bring water from the wetter southern regions to the dry north-eastern region. Its cost has
reportedly been estimated at around 4-5 yuan per cubic meter of raw water supply. This cost is
just the beginning, however. After adding the costs of treatment, distribution and an allowance of
say 30% for unaccounted water the cost per cubic meter of potable water consuptiond would
easily reach 14 yuan per cubic meter ( allowing for 40% of the total cost for bulk water and 60%
for treatment and distribution). Such a cost of marginal water should be compared to the present
consumption tariffs that averaged in the order of 0.92 yuan in they year 1998. The discrepancy
between incremental costs of water and the prevailing consumption tariffs would widen still more
if the full costs of collecting, treating and disposing of the resulting wastewater were included.
The present patterns of supply and consumption are clearly unsustainable in large tracts in China
and the lagging tariff policies have been one of the contributing factors to this insatisfactory
situation.
Environmental Resilience/Sustainability
2.31   The environmental sustainability of the water supply and wastewater sector could be
measured by the share of wastewater that receives some level of treatment. Judging from a
sample of seven Bank-financed project cities, the share of domestic and industrial wastewater
treated rose from about 10 percent in 1986 to 38 percent in 1998. Judging from a larger, national
sample of 21 provinces, the share of wastewater treated rose from 17 percent in 1986 to 28
percent in 1998. The latter estimate is close to the State Environmental Protection Agency
(SEPA) estimate of 30 percent of urban wastewater receiving some level of treatment. The
comparison between the Bank-financed sample and the much larger provincial samples confirms
that Bank financing of wastewater investments has increased the share of wastewater treated.
2.32   The level of water consumption under water supply and wastewater projects plays a
central role for the environmental sustainability in the water-scarce regions in China. In large
regions of northeast China marginal demand can only be met by the unsustainable practice of
mining groundwater. As an alternative, Bank sector work3 has highlighted demand management
as the highest priority. Studies from Shanghai demonstrate a price elasticity of demand of -0.38
and an income elasticity of demand of 0.22. Both values are in line with international experience.
Over the 1986-98 period tariffs rose in real terms 5 percent per annum while per capita income
grew at 7 percent per annum. The two have roughly offset each other. The lack of effective
demand management has actually resulted in domestic consumption reaching 196 liters per capita
and day (lcd) and a national total municipal water consumption reaching 390 lcd.4 These levels
are high compared to most other countries. For instance, Belgium and Germany have domestic
consumption levels around 130 lcd. Successive Bank missions have invariably requested Bank-
financed projects to be designed to lower per capita consumption levels. However, in the end,
Bank projects have concentrated on additional water production and wastewater management and
have not financed the implementation of demand management. Symptomatically, only 2 out of
3. Ibid.
4. People's Republic of China, "Water Supply Tariff Study" Final Report, May 1999, by The S.M. Group International
Inc., submitted to the Asian Development Bank.



11
the 18 urban water supply and wastewater projects had covenants on the improvement of
metering, billing, and collection. (See Annex C2.)
Application of the Bank's Safeguard Policies
2.33   All Bank-financed urban water supply and wastewater projects have produced timely
environmental impact assessments and all but two have had resettlement plans prepared. The
PMOs and PIUs have amended, where so required, their own government-mandated safeguard
policies to meet any additional demands of Bank safeguard policies. As a result, the Bank project
supervision reports (PSR) rated the application of Bank safeguard policies as satisfactory or
highly satisfactory for all but one of the 18 urban water supply and wastewater projects
Rating of the Sustainability of the Bank Sector Assistance
2.34   The OED sector assistance review might rate the sustainability of the water supply and
wastewater strategy as unlikely given that sector investments depend on budgetary transfers, that
operating subsidies are periodically required, and given the present levels of mining of
groundwater and aquifer degradation in large areas of China. On the strength of past practice,
however, it is likely that budget transfers will continue to be made available to support such a
vital sector with sufficient funding. The overallfinancial sustainability of the Bank-financed
project should therefore be rated likely. In contrast, the environmental sustainability of a number
of Bank-financed projects in water-scarce regions is unlikely.
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT IMPACT OF BANK ASSISTANCE
2.35   Annex A describes the criteria for rating institutional development impact. The OED
ratings of institutional development impact of the six completed urban water supply and
wastewater projects have included two satisfactory, three modest, and one negligible ratings (see
Annex C2). Yet, 12 of the 18 urban water supply and wastewater projects included institutional
strengthening components. The explanation is likely the absence of incentives and correct pricing,
which slows institutional development. Based on interviews conducted for this review and on the
lack of improvement in key operating indicators (such as unaccounted water and staff
productivity), the OED sector assistance review confirms a rating of modest for institutional
development impact.
2.36   A measure of the slow institutional reform progress is the falling staff productivity in
water supply utilities. Staff productivity is commonly measured by the number of employees per
thousand households served with water supply and wastewater. The CWSA statistics (see Annex
E) show that sector-wide the number of employees rose from 5.1 per thousand households in the
year 1986 to 5.4 in 1998. These are somewhat high ratios. No comparable data exist for
employees in the wastewater sector, possibly because of the institutional fragmentation in that
area. The performance of Bank-financed water supply utilities does not seem to have increased
staffproductivity either: the staffper thousand households served rosefrom 4.9 to 5.4for
sample of 17 Bank-financed water supply project cities. In comparison, including employees in
the wastewater area, the best-managed public water supply companies in Latin America have less
than 2.0 staff per thousand households served with water supply. The best Latin America water
supply and sewerage companies have a ratio of around 1.0 staff per thousand households
connected to public water supply and sewerage. The considerable excess sector employment is
recognized in China and will require innovative solutions when institutional reform gets
underway. Bank borrowers such as the Shanghai Water Authority are exploring ways of creating



12
outside subsidiaries to provide employment for some of its staff. Again, the recognition of the
problem is not an issue but rather the incentives and speed with which it could be resolved.
2.37   As noted, Bank project institutional support has been focused on municipal and
provincial project management offices (PMOs) or project implementation units (PIUs). These
offices have performed well. Loan covenants have required the establishment of PMOs or PIUs
under 13 out of 18 urban projects (see Annex C2) and the bulk of the Bank's institutional
development support has been aimed at underpinning efficient project implementation. The
results have been positive: the project management under all but one project was rated
satisfactory or highly satisfactory and implementation progress was rated satisfactory under all
but two.
Institutional Reforms
2.38   In most countries, institutional arrangements in the water supply and wastewater sector
start out with municipal administrations operating both services initially, usually with a combined
sanitary and rainwater sewerage. Later, water supply services gain autonomy and are incorporated
and even partially sold off to outside investors. At some stage sewerage (the collection of sanitary
wastewater) is added to the duties of the water supply company in order to gain efficiency in
investment and operations and for the government to raise revenue.
2.39   China has long-established separate water supply companies, but these have limited
autonomy given that municipal or central government pricing bureaus closely control their tariffs
and budgets. Wastewater services, until quite recently, have been managed as municipal
departments where functions such as planning, financing, project implementation, and operations
are fragmented over several municipal bureaus.
2.40   The Bank has promoted a growing autonomy of both water supply and wastewater
operations and the speed of reform has accelerated under recent projects. The three loans
approved in fiscal year 2000 for Beijing, Chongqing, and five cities in the Hebei province were
based on nominally autonomous wastewater companies that either existed or were established
during project preparation. Analogously, Shanghai has established a separate wastewater
company under Bank-financed projects. Institutional reform in the direction of separate,
autonomous water supply and wastewater companies does not seem to be in contention but the
speed of reform is at issue. However, based on the fact that financial autonomy ( considering the
full costs of service ) remains a distant goal, true institutional autonomy remain distant.
Private Sector Participation
2.41   The worldwide trend towards greater private sector participation (PSP) has reached China
as well. The opening toward private operators and investors has been cautious and focused on
management contracts of existing assets or on build-own-operate-transfer (BOOT) schemes.
However, with the exception of one seminar, sponsored by the World Bank Institute, the World
Bank Group has not included components to prepare or support private sector participation
under its loans or technical assistance. With the exception of one concession in Tanzhou
(Guangdong Province), private firms have been limited to the production and transmission of
potable water or in one city (Harbin), to wastewater treatment. Private operators are specifically
excluded from the distribution of potable water and collection of wastewater which is where the
greatest gains towards greater efficiency in supply and consumption might come about. Instead,
private operators have signed contracts with municipalities or municipal water supply or



13
wastewater companies directly to provide more bulk or treated water or to treat wastewater
generated.
2.42   The experience from private sector participation is limited: about 24 projects were
completed over the 1990-98 period. The total commitment (but not necessarily executed) value
of these contracts is estimated to be less than US$600 million, which amounts to about 4 percent
of total investments in the water supply and wastewater sector over the same period. A few
conclusions are already emerging from these early PSP contracts. First, private financing and
operations appear to be an expensive way of financing investment. The private investors and
operators are not obliged to assume the collections risk they would incur if they were allowed a
direct contractual relationship with consumers. Instead, they will typically build and operate a
facility, such as a treatment plant, for a number of years and be paid either by the municipal water
or wastewater utility or by the city or province itself. For their services the early private investors
were guaranteed a 15 percent return on equity, which is high considering that their main risk is on
the municipalities' creditworthiness. This risk is low since it is most unlikely that important
municipalities such as Chongqing, Shanghai, and Shenyang would fail to honor such an
agreement with a private operator and investor. Second, the transparency of some of the PSP
contracting is low since the directly negotiated contracts have been the result of unsolicited offers
from private firms, not the result of competitive and transparent public bidding.
2.43   Despite its pitfalls and the need to manage it more tightly, private sector participation
offers considerable potential for China since it could accelerate the modernization of utility
management. For this to happen, however, public-private contracts must be better prepared,
implemented, and regulated to produce cost-efficient sustainable partnerships. The first step to
mitigate risks would be tariffs that would reflect the future cost of service. Rules for the setting of
future tariffs would mitigate one of the highest risks for private operators and could be expected
to result in lower and more attractive proposals from operators. Regulation would also have to
apply to quality of service.
2.44   The second step to improve on private sector participation would be to improve the
procedures for bidding and contracting with private operators to make them more competitive and
transparent. The costs of preparing standard procedures and bidding documents could be spread
over the large number of cities in China that are potentially interested in private sector
participation. Bidding documents and model contracts would have to pay special attention to the
allocation of risk between private firms and the government. Without requiring private operators
to assume more risk-and particularly the risk of not collecting bills directly from consumers-
and without providing private operators with the means to manage risk the efficiency gains from
greater private sector participation may well be limited.
2.45   The third step would be to carefully prepare for the expected impact on employment from
more efficient operations and deeper private sector participation. Some cities, such as Shanghai,
are actively exploring ways to provide alternative employment for surplus employees. Out-
placement of excess employees would have to be expanded and be resolved before PSP contracts
are bid.
2.46   In summary, the World Bank could provide valuable experience to prospective Chinese
borrowers that wish to contract with private operators. The Bank's experience could be
particularly valuable in the analysis and allocation of risk between the government clients and
prospective private operators. One of the main advantages of private sector participation is the
necessity to identify, assess, and allocate such risks that are often forgotten and ignored when the
government is provider and regulator. Another potential Bank contribution to more efficient and



14
equitable PSP would be in the bidding process where greater competition and transparency would
likely result in lower prices and better service as compared to unsolicited and directly negotiated
contracts. The absence of PSP under Bank operations is a lost opportunity given the considerable
interest within municipal governments to attempt some form of PSP.
BANK PERFORMANCE
2.47   OED's rating of the Bank's performance is defined in Annex A. Under this definition
OED rated Bank performance of one of the five completed urban water supply and wastewater
projects as highly satisfactory, three as satisfactory, and one as unsatisfactory. On the basis of
feedback from the borrowing clients and on the basis of a number of projects recently prepared,
the OED sector assistance review confirms an overall rating of satisfactory for the Bank's
performance in the Chinese water supply and wastewater sector. The Bank's performance has
been particularly strong in the technical preparation of the projects for which relatively large
sums have been spent, both from the Bank's own budget and from trust funds. A recently
approved project (Hebei Urban Environment) spent US$0.5 million of the Bank budget and
another US$1.7 million of trust funds, or a total of US$2.2 million to bring a US$293 million
project to the Board. Excluding the Borrower's costs the relative preparation cost of 0.8 percent is
in line with international experience for well-prepared projects.
2.48   The financial and institutional aspects of projects have been the weakest part of the Bank
performance, but may partly reflect the Chinese clients' preference for gradual and steady reform
in these areas. In contrast, the technical Bank supervision deserves high marks and is invariably
praised by clients. The situation may well change with the shrnking supervision budgets. The
most recent supervision budgets have now dropped to US$63,000 per year, which makes
adequate supervision difficult. This level of supervision budget represents an annual 0.01 percent
of the average total project cost of the three fiscal year 2000 projects. At such low budgets, Bank
supervision is likely to focus on statutory supervision requirements, including procurement
supervision. Much of the developmental value of supervision may be forgone as a result.
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
2.49   The definition of OED's rating of borrower performance is provided in Annex A. Out of
the five completed urban projects OED rated borrower performance as satisfactory for three
projects and as unsatisfactory for two projects.
2.50   Based on the sample of borrowers visited for this review and on the earlier OED ratings
of completed projects OED rates borrower performance as satisfactory overaUl. The ownership
of the projects and compliance with statutory requirements and loan covenants are both high, with
the exception of financial covenants, the weakest aspect of borrower performance ( see Annex C
and paragraph 2.22 and 2.33)
3.     Lessons Learned and Recommendations
3.1    This review points to an apparent disconnect between the Bank's portfolio performance
and the evolution of overall sector performance indicators. On one hand, 94 percent of the
projects in the active portfolio are rated satisfactory on their achievement of development
objectives (which is the closest to the outcome rating of completed projects) and the outcome of
83 percent of closed projects is rated satisfactory by OED. On the other hand, based on



15
performance indicators, the incremental value of Bank-financing is not immediately apparent
since Bank-financed projects and regions have not performed much differently from the
nationwide average.
3.2    The disconnect between the evolution of the performance indicators and the quite
satisfactory ratings of closed and active Bank projects could have a number of explanations. The
first is that "rising waters raise all boats," which in this context has enabled Bank projects to
profit from China's proficiency in implementing project investments. Under this interpretation,
the value of added Bank assistance would have been limited and mainly restricted to the
provision of attractively priced financing and foreign exchange to cover what has mainly been
local expenditure. China's competitive advantage is such that even foreign equipment is likely to
be produced by foreign-owned, China-based subsidiaries. Civil works contracts have always been
awarded to domestic contractors, given their formidable competitive advantage.
3.3    A second explanation is that Bank assistance has concentrated on preparing and financing
the implementation of physical works and paid less attention to financial, institutional, and
regulatory reforms that would have a positive impact on efficacy, efficiency, and sustainability
indicators. ( Invariably, borrowers point to the Bank's contribution toward improving their
procurement and project management capacity as the primary measure of its impact.)
3.4    While both factors are likely at play, they suspect that future Bank assistance should
focus in the following areas:
Recommendation One: Demand management shouldprecede supply increases and investments
in wastewater treatment.
3.5    Many urban areas have unsustainable water consumption patterns with consumption
exceeding sustainable supplies. While it is tempting to try to balance supply and demand by
increasing supply, in reality, supply increases and interbasin transfers should always follow
demand management. Water has to be considered an economic, scarce good, which implies that
its consumption should be metered and charged at the cost of alternative future supplies. It is
already clear that the cost of future supplies for northern China will be much higher than
historical costs. For instance, the average cost of raw water supplied by the planned South-North
Interbasin Transfer Scheme has been estimated at around 5 yuan per cubic meter, which may
imply costs in excess of 14 yuan per cubic meter when distribution costs (including losses) and
wastewater costs of additional supplies are added. These costs are more than 10 times present
water supply and wastewater tariffs. Who will subsidize those costs? As an alternative to
interbasin transfers, demand management could free water for future consumption at a fraction of
the cost of additional supplies. Experience from other countries indicates that demand
management may provide additional water through savings at a cost of around 5 percent of the
cost of bringing additional supplies on line. In particular, treated wastewater will likely become
competitive in price and quality with additional future supplies, and recycling could be expected
to rise rapidly. It is recommended that, as a minimum, the least-cost analysis offuture Bank-
financed projects be based on project alternatives that include demand management and/or
measures to increase the capacity of supply and wastewater collection and treatment.
Recommendation Two: Set tariffs to reflect future total costs and create incentives for billing
and collecting those higher tariffs.
3.6    Urban water tariffs should be allowed to rise gradually in real terms to approach the full
cost of water as measured by the average incremental cost of future supplies, including the cost of



16
raw water, its transmission over ever-longer distances, its ever-costlier treatment due to the
degradation of both surface water and groundwater, its distribution, its administration, and the
subsequent collection, treatment, and environmentally safe disposal. Successful demand
management requires three conditions: (1) tariffs that reach the cost of providing water and
collecting/treating and disposing of it; (2) hardware and software to be able to effectively
administer the tariff and provide consumers with the correct price signals; and (3) incentives for
consumers to reduce excess consumption. It is recommended that tariffs offuture Bank-financed
projects be guided by the level of average incremental costs, which signal the average cost of
incremental_future supplies. It is also recommended that a proper analysis be made of the ability
of service providers to administer the tariffs and ensure that consumers have the proper
incentives to adjust their consumption levels to the price signals they receive.
Recommendation Three: Build and support autonomous utilities.
3.7    There is little doubt that Chinese water supply and wastewater utilities would be able to
improve sector performance rapidly if given proper incentives. To this end, the country's water
supply and wastewater services would best be constituted as share corporations with a board
accountable to the owners of the shares. Presumably, the shares would initially be publicly owned
but a portion could be sold to strategic investors and operators with a long-term interest in the
sector. The share sales would allow the public owners, such as municipalities to realize the value
contained in the fixed assets and in the right to manage the services. The share value would
depend on the efficiency of operations and on the level of tariffs decided according to the tariff
regulation. The share corporations should have the full autonomy to charge and collect publicly
regulated tariffs but should also be held accountable to reach targeted service coverage, quality
and efficiency. In particular, the share corporations should be required to finance operating and
investment costs from their sales revenue. It is recommended that the recent policy of
conditioning future Bankfinancing on the establishment of autonomous wastewater companies be
continued. It is further recommended that the Bankfinancing of urban water supplies be based on
ensuring sufficient autonomy and incentives for the water supply utilities to favor demand
management and the generation and retention of operational cash surpluses.
Recommendation Four: Enhance the level of self-financing.
3.8    The implementation of higher efficiency through demand management and the success of
institutional reform will be facilitated through gradually requiring sector investments to be
financed from the internal cash generated from operations. It is recommended that future Bank
financing give priority to cities and provinces that are willing to contribute a larger share of
planned investments from internal cash generation.
Recommendation Five: Mitigate risk and improve efficiency through regulation.
3.9    The performance of water supply and wastewater companies should be regulated by
provincial government regulatory agencies on the basis of compliance with contractual service
standards. It is recommended that regulatory agencies be created to initially focus on yardstick
regulation of service coverage, quality, and tariffs. There should be no difference in regulatory
requirements between public and private service providers. Tariffs should be authorized subject
to compliance with efficiency improvements based on yardstick regulation with the most efficient
companies in China and internationally. As a first step, it is recommended that the Bank finance a
study on howyardstick regulation might be introduced in the sector. It is recommended that the
terms of reference for such a regulatory study and its implementation be managed in close
coordination with the Water Supply and Wastewater Division in the Ministry of Construction.



17
Recommendation Six: Enable greater private sector participation.
3.10   Wider and deeper private sector participation offers the quickest way of improving
performance in the urban water supply and wastewater sector through the competition it would
offer publicly managed companies. It could also provide financing without public guarantees,
provided that tariff and employment policies permitted operating surpluses. However, future
private sector participation would need to be better prepared, competitively contracted, and
regulated. Private service providers should be required to assume those risks which they are best
able to control since otherwise the full efficiency gains would not result. It is recommended that
the next generation of Bank sector projects include private sector participation for those project
cities where there is political support in favor ofprivate sector participation. Although such a
component might be limited initially, its possible importance would be much greater since it
would involve the preparation of bidding and contract documents that might be used in many
cities and provinces.






19                                Annex A
Annex A. OED Project Evaluation Criteria
Definitions of Eight Key Criteria
1.     Relevance Of Objectives
Definition: the extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's current
development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and
corporate goals (expressed in PRSPs, CASs, SSPs, OPs)
Ratings
(i)    Each type of objective will be rated as follows:
High            Project objectives of this type play a key role in the country's current
development priorities and the Bank's current country assistance strategy, and
are fully consistent with the Bank's current sectoral assistance strategy and
corporate goals and policies
Substantial    Project objectives of this type are mostly consistent (minor shortcomings only)
with the country's current development priorities, the Bank's current country
and sectoral assistance strategies, and the Bank's current corporate goals and
policies
Modest          Project objectives of this type have one or more significant inconsistencies with
the country's current development priorities, the Bank's current country and
sectoral assistance strategies, or the Bank's current corporate goals and policies
Negligible      Project objectives of this type are mostly inconsistent with, and possibly
counterproductive to, the country's current development priorities, the Bank's
current country and sectoral assistance strategies, or the Bank's current
corporate goals and policies
(ii)   Overal relevance will be rated as follows:
High           Most of the major objectives were highly relevant
Substantial    Most of the major objectives were at least substantially relevant
Modest          Most of the major objectives were not highly or substantially relevant
Negligible      Most of the major objectives were irrelevant or negligibly relevant
2.     Efficacy
Definition: the extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be
achieved, taking into account their relative importance
Ratings
(i)    Each type of objective will be rated as follows:



20                                Annex A
Eigh           Objectives of this type were fully met, or expected to be fully met, with no
shortcomings
Substantial    Objectives of this type generally were met, or expected to be met, with only
minor shortcomings
Modest          Objectives of this type were met, or expected to be met, but with significant
shortcomings
Negligible     Objectives of this type were not met, or expected not to be met, due to major
shortcomings
(ii)   Overall efficacy will be rated as follows:
High           Major objectives were fully met, or expected to be fully met, with no
shortcomings
Substantial    Major objectives were met, or expected to be met, with only minor
shortcomings
Modest         Major objectives were met, or expected to be met, but with significant
shortcomings
Negligible     Most objectives were not met, or expected not to be met, due to major
shortcomings
3.     Efficiency
Definition: the extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher
than the opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives
Ratings
High           Project represents sector/industry best practice in terms of cost effectiveness,
and economic returns (if estimates are available) greatly exceed the opportunity
cost of capital
Substantial    Project meets sector/industry standards in terms of cost effectiveness, and
economic returns (if estimates are available) exceed the opportunity cost of
capital
Modest         Project fails to meet sector/industry standards in terms of cost effectiveness,
and economic returns (if estimates are available) are near the opportunity cost
of capital
Negligible     Project is well below sector/industry standards in terns of cost effectiveness,
and economic returns (if estimates are available) are significantly below the
opportunity cost of capital
4.     Sustainability
Definition: the resilience to risk of net benefitsflows over time. Assessments of sustainability take
into account nine factors, including technical, financial, and economic:
* Technical resilience



21                                 Annex A
* Financial resilience (including policies on cost recovery)
* Economic resilience
* Social support (including conditions subject to Safeguard Policies)
* Environmental resilience
* Government ownership (including by central governments and agencies, and
availability of O&M funds)
* Other stakeholder ownership (including local participation, beneficiary incentives,
civil society/NGOs, private sector)
* Institutional support (including supportive legal/regulatory framework, and
organizational and management effectiveness)
* Resilience to exogenous influences (including terms of trade, economic shocks,
regional political and security situations)
Ratings
(i)    Each factor will be rated as follows:
High            The factor clearly is currently met and highly likely to continue, contributing to
sustainability of net benefits
Substantial     The factor is currently met and likely to continue, contributing to sustainability
of net benefits
Modest          The factor may currently be met, but it seems unlikely to continue, to the
detriment of sustainability of net benefits
Negligible      The factor is currently not met and is highly unlikely to be met, to the
detriment of sustainability of net benefits
(ii)   Overall sustainability will be rated as follows:
Highly Likely      Project net benefits flow meets most of the relevant factors determining
overall resilience at the "high level", with all others rated at the
"substantial" level
Likely             Project net benefits flow meets all relevant factors determining overall
resilience at the "substantial" level
Unlikely           Project net benefits flow meets some but not all relevant factors
determining overall resilience at the "substantial" level
Highly Unlikely    Project net benefits flow meets few of the relevant factors determining
overall resilience at the "substantial" level
Not Evaluable      Insufficient information available to make a judgment
5.     Institutional Development Impact (DI)
Definition: the extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region to make more
efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through.
(a) better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional
arrangements and/or (b) better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its



22                                  Annex A
mandate, which derives from these institutional arrangements. IDI includes both intended and
unintended effects of a project.
Ratings
(i) Each objective type will be rated as follows:
High            Project objectives of this type made, or are expected to make, a critical
contribution to the country's/region's ability to effectively use human,
financial, and natural resources
Substantial     Project objectives of this type made, or are expected to make, a significant
contribution to the country's/region's ability to effectively use human,
financial, and natural resources
Modest          Project objectives of this type increased, or are expected to increase, to a
limited extent the country's/region's ability to effectively use human, financial,
and natural resources
Negligible      Project objectives of this type made, or are expected to make, little or no
contribution to the country's/region's ability to effectively use human,
financial, and natural resources
(ii) Overall institutional development impact will be rated as follows:
High           Project as a whole made, or is expected to make, a critical contribution to the
country's/region's ability to effectively use human, financial, and natural
resources, either through the achievement of the project's stated ID objectives
or through unintended effects
Substantial     Project as a whole made, or is expected to make, a significant contribution to
the country's/region's ability to effectively use human, financial, and natural
resources, either through the achievement of the project's stated ID objectives
or through unintended effects
Modest          Project as a whole increased, or is expected to increase, to a limited extent the
country's/region's ability to effectively use human, financial, and natural
resources, either through the achievement of the project's stated ID objectives
or through unintended effects
Negligible      Project as a whole made, or is expected to make, little or no contribution to the
country's/region's ability to effectively use human, financial, and natural
resources, either through the achievement of the project's stated ID objectives
or through unintended effects
6.     Outcome
Definition: the extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are
expected to be achieved, efficiently. The outcome criterion takes into account relevance at the
time of the evaluation: whether the operation's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies
and corporate goals; efficacy: whether the operation is expected to achieve its stated goals; and
efficiency: the relation of results to costs.



23                                Annex A
Ratings
Highly Satisfactory       Project achieved or exceeded, or is expected to achieve or exceed,
all its major relevant objectives efficiently without major
shortcomings
Satisfactory              Project achieved, or is expected to achieve, most of its major
relevant objectives efficiently with only minor shortcomings
Moderately Satisfactory   Project achieved, or is expected to achieve, most of its major
relevant objectives efficiently but with either significant
shortcomings or modest overall relevance
Moderately Unsatisfactory  Project is expected to achieve its major relevant objectives with
major shortcomings or is expected to achieve only some of its
major relevant objectives, yet achieve positive efficiency
Unsatisfactory            Project has failed to achieve, and is not expected to achieve, most
of its major relevant objectives with only minor development
benefits
Highly Unsatisfactory     Project has failed to achieve, and is not expected to achieve, any of
its major relevant objectives with no worthwhile development
benefits
7.     Bank Performance
Definition: the extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of the project)
Ratings
Highly Satisfactory  Bank performance was rated as Highly Satisfactory on both quality at
entry and supervision, or Highly Satisfactory on the one dimension with
significantly higher impact on project performance and at least
Satisfactory on the other
Satisfactory        Bank performance was rated at least Satisfactory on both quality at entry
and supervision, or Satisfactory on the one dimension with significantly
higher impact on project performance and no less than Unsatisfactory on
the other
Unsatisfactory      Bank performance was not rated at least Satisfactory on both quality at
entry and supervision, or Unsatisfactory on the one dimension with
significantly higher impact on project performance and no higher than
Satisfactory on the other
Highly Unsatisfactory Bank performance was rated as Highly Unsatisfactory on both quality at
entry and supervision, or Highly Unsatisfactory on the one dimension
with significantly higher impact on project perfornance and no higher
than Unsatisfactory on the other



24                                Annex A
8.     Borrower Performance
Definition: the extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality ofpreparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements,
towards the achievement of development objectives and sustainability
Ratings
Highly Satisfactory     Borrower performance was rated Highly Satisfactory on at least two
of the three performance factors
Satisfactory            Borrower perforrnance was rated at least Satisfactory on two of the
three factors
Unsatisfactory          Borrower performance was not rated at least Satisfactory on two of
the three factors
Highly Unsatisfactory   Borrower performance was rated Highly Unsatisfactory on at least
two of the three factors



25                                           Annex B
Annex B. World Bank Lending for Water Supply and
Wastewater, 1985-2000
World Bank Lending                Share of Water
Total_           __  _ __  _  __ _  __  _ __  _     Supply and
po   Project Name      FY      TtlWastewater of Total
ID                              Financing          Water   Wastewater Water Supply       Bank Lending
Total supyand                                     (%J6
Supply          ~~Waste water
3438 Rural Water           1985     210       80      80                      80               100
3449 Shanghai Sewerage     1987     373       145               145           145              100
3460 Liaoning Urban        1991     129       78      54                      54                69
Infrastructure
3564 Beijing Environment   1992     305       125                50            50               40
3568 Tianjin Urban Dev. &  1992     195       100                38            38               38
Environment.          92      15       103                               83
3587 Rural Water Supply    19       189       110     83         4             88               80
and Sanitabon
3580 Southenm Jiangsu      1993     588       250                43            43               17
350Environment
3473 Zhejiang Multicities  1993     231       110     61         3             63               58
Changchun Water
3509 Supply and            1993     266       120     72         48           120              100
Environmental Project
3586 Shanghai              1994     457       160     105        40           145               90
Environment
3598  Liaoning Urban       1995     351       110      6         50            56               51
Environment
3599 Yunnan Environment    1996     320       150     24         71            95               63
3602 Hubel Environment     1996     385       150               150           150              100
Project
3648 Seoond Shanghai       1996     668       250               250           250              100
Sewerage
3637 National Rural Water  1997                                                56               81
367III                  19        3         0      5                         68
36414 G    nEvironment      1998     175       92                 54           54                59
40185 Shandong              1998     218       95      24         20           44                46
Environment
43933 Sichuan Urban         1999     347      152      60         87           147               97
Environment
57352 Fourth Rural Water    1999      92       46      41         5            46               100
supply
42109 Beijing Environment II 2000    1255     349                177           177               51
49436 Chongqing Urban       2000     536      200      10        161           171               85
Environment
45910 Hebei Urban           2000     293       150     49         99           149               99
TOTAL                         7718     3092     718       1500          2219              72






27                                                                                          Annex C
Annex C. Project Objectives, Components, Covenants, and Ratings
A. Project Objectives and Components, 1985-2000
World
Bank
Project Components                             Covenants                                                           Lending Populaton PSR Date Lenming
mJ         n Project                           -toutcore                                                                                     lnsntutnai: Le                    Sewed                (USS    FY     Sector
ID      Name       ObeIie                                                                                                                            iUSpact                                                       secto
Million                      mlin
Physical      Busdin       Financial  Strategy/Polcy   nsftutfonal    Covenants                                                            Million   (Most Cuffent PSR)
BuildingCoeat                                            Conns
3438  Rural Water, -Providesafe  (a) non-piped  -Improve      -Introduction  -Assist in developing sector plans -Water  - SATISFACTORY    SUBSTANTIAL         1.33    106                 NA        80      1985 Water
FY85         and adequate  individual    organizatonal of provindal  and strategies                charges would  _ The project was  - The insttional                                                      Supply &
potable vater; systenns such  arrangements revolving fund                             cover O       iM    sanitavon
as rainwater  for preparing  as a new                                   costs, and debt largely successapu in objecrtves of theS                                                    t
- Develop     storage lanks  and          finandng                                    service and   achieving its rmjor  proect ware largely
nabonal and   and            irnplerening  rrechanism.                                after the loan is objectives. Its  ret wrth:
provincal     handpumps;     broad based                                              repaid, O&M   cv      eetes      (a) estabtlshment of
planning                                 I- ntrodure                                  repad         were exceedted.            ,
capability in the (b) piped   o            ecoreomic anu                              coats and       eorney erin
eoDnoMc and                     ~~~~~depreciaton of Abu 90% of   ntoa,poirs
sector        systenm        - Manpower   affordablity                                net fixed     beneficiares       and county tevel
-I-rv  .(inducing    training In   considerations                              nsets.e        eoie pie P       'P1ra  t ) oversee and
-          Improve cost- somewiAth  plantning,  in project                            assets.       water of accepble         general
effectiveness Of treatment) vith design and  pianning.                                              quality, The brget
and finandal  standpipes or  construction                                                           for household     (b) introduction of
arrangements   house         and water                                                              connection         systerraUc approach
for projects;  connectons.   system                                                                 exceeded by about to selecton of
- Ensure                     management                                                              is.               altemabves:
snooth project              and operabon.                                                            1c) alerative                  an
imp~lenmentation.                                                                                                      (c) reparationan
i mpl e menS t on .   - Ptreparab on                                                                            d isseni nat on of
of design.                                                                                manuals, guidelines
construction                                                                              and establishnment of
and operabon.                                                                             review, approval and
nmanuals.                                                                                 supervision
- Upgrade                                                                                 procedures:
design and                                                                                (d) introduction of
equipment                                                                                 provindal revolving
technology and                                                                            funds as a new
Improve                                                                                   finandng mechanism:
construction                                                                              (e) completon of a
quality.                                                                                  sector survey as a first
step to developing
sector plans and
strategies
3449  Shanghai      -Removal and -Build         -A           - Sewerage tariff study.    -A menagerment -Nolaterthan    SATISFACTORY      - MODEST            1.19    172                 NA        145     1987 Urban
Sewerage,    disposal of   Sewerage      cormprehensive                            and organization  January 1.                                                                                            Development
FY87         wastewater;   faclibtes for  training     - Establish appropriate     sr              1993          - All phyical      Institutional
removal and   program for   sewerage tariff policies.   completed no    revenues      objectivesofte    arnmnsfu
- Set up      disposal of    SSC and                                  later than      should at least ProJect ware    liquid waste
appropiate    waste waler.   Shanghai                                 Decetpro 31.    cover Its O&M  achieved. Essental  mnagemnt were in
Insatfutonal                  verwage                                 11988.          and the larger  wastewater services piace by the end of the
frarnewior     - Study to    Project                                                  of !elte        aepvre      o    poet
enconvassing  exarnine                                                -the proposed                 mweette nevieds to pr1



28                                                                                    Annex C
Wodd
Project Components                           Covenants                                                      Lending Population PSR Date   Bankin
2i      Name      Objectves                                                                                         Outcome          nstitutFionl   Deflator 2000    Served             (US S   Fd      Sector
ID                                                                                                                  Outcom       Development impact          US$                         (US    PY      ecto
Institution  Institutional  Financial~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~  ~~~       ~~~~~~~milio
Physical      snanual                StrategyPIy    MnS    ona      Rnanil                                                            illion  (Most Cuweni PSR)
Building     Fnna      SraeyPky         Covenants     Covenants
organizatonal, econonic ways Constructon                          training program  depreciabon or 2.5 million urban  - An ments for
financial,    of rehabilitating Company                            would be      total debt    residents.       charging for
technicai. and  the existing  (SSPCC)                              implemented by  service                      wastewater services
legisiaUve    conbined                                             SSCC and SSC                                  ere Introduced  r
matters for  sewer system  - Managenment                           and    and SSC                               the fire Int e In
management of              and                                     no iater than  charges                       Shanghai.
liquid waste,              organizabrs n                           December 31    agreed with
- Establish self-          deternine the                           1g8             ontBnue to be
financing                  staffing needs                                         inmplenmnted
sewerage                   for Shanghai                                           for commercial
company:                   Sewerage                                               and industrial
- Improve water            Company.                                               consumers
quality.                   - Develop                                              - Sewerage
effident, Self-                                       tariff study
financing                                              would be
sewerage                                               completed no
entiy - fte                                            later than
Shanghai                                               Decentmer 31.
Sewerage                                               1988 and
Corvany.                                               irmplenmented
no later than
June 30,1989.
3460  Uaoning     - lnIprove   -Construction  - Tralning and  - Establish  - Set up appropriate water sector  - SWSC.  - SATISFACTORY  - NEGLIGIBLE  1.07    83      14.5      NA        78      1991 Water
Urban       water supply in 277 km of  TA for local  water supply  policies and regulatons.   FWSC and                                                                                          Supply &
Infrastructure, Shenyang.  water mains;  water      pricing plicy.                            YWSC would   -Al physi                                                                            Sanitaton
FY 91       Yingkou and   water intake  conpanies.               - PPrmote measures for water  take measures objectves for water ifiplemenfation of
Fuxin (three  treatnent                              conservaton.                 including but  supply were    instittinal
cites with acute fadlities, and  - Improve                                        not timted b  achieved. An    developmrent of water
water shortage) pumping    water                                                 tarif         additonal 108kmof suppycompanes.
statons.     operatng                                               adjustment, to water mains were  there were delays and
pradices.                                              ensure that  constructed (beyond quality prblnems were
their operatng the orignal target)  encountered in water
revenues are  utlizing some of the resource pricing and
sufficienlto  cost savings;   urban water tariff
meet the     - Conputerized   studies.
aggregate of  water billing system  - The achievements
their totli   was established;  were limited to:
operatng
expenses and  - Leak detection  (i) establshing
Financial    prorarm were     conputerized water
obligations.  ptoted in the three  bitling systerm and
cities.          pilotng leak detecion
-Carry out                   progranme In all three
action plan for - In water pollution  cities end
the          abatemrent pollubton
improvemrent  nionitoring provided (ifi) organizing staff
of their     necessary        training on water
rnetering and  infonitaon for the  proJect managenrrint
system       preparaton of a  and supervision.
leakage.     follow-on
environmental
project.



29                                                                                      Annex C
Wodd
Bank
PkiJecl Components                           Covenants                                                        Lending Population PSR Date Lending
iD      Poe         Objectives                                                                                         Outcome          lns5 bntIal     Donato   USS     Ser00d              (US $   FY     Sector
million                     ml-
Physia   itutioAn   Rnncai     SfaigyPolc      cv    nant     Covtants
Phsea  ul/ding  Rnanebl  StrateloPolky  CnstIuonasl    Cownans                                                           Million  (Most Cufnenf PSR)
3564 Bejing       -Assist the   -Constructin  - Set up autonomous       -Studies to  -Studies to      -Commencing - MODERATELY      -MODEST             1.06    132     5.4       7/2N1999   125    1992 Environment
Environmnent. Beijing     of sewer      sewerage cornpany to better  develop long-  develop an  January 1,   SATISFACTORY
FY92        Munidpal      systemre to   manage liquid wastes.    term integrated integrated    1993, BDHC                      TheBeijingDrainage
Govremment to coltect       - Train s  e      in      environmental  envionmental  wouid generate - The Beijing   Convrtny was
improveIts  watewate  - Tran staf engagd In  ser pla to ffanageseweragedensystemag        cosvertenvetfrofrmaaBBM
environmental  polluting   wasewater operatons        propose least  plan and      resources to  was expanded by  division to a state
planning and  southem urban                           cost strategies  environnental  crover O&M,  25.3 Idlometers of  enterprise that
management    areas.                                  (physical,   strategies will be working capital trunk sewers and  operates part of the
capabithtes   -                                       financial, legal  conducted  Increases and  Interceptors.   sewerage system.
and to plan and - Consction                           and          findings would be debt service
cany out      of wasteiaer                          tnstuttuonat) for reviewed vnth
speduc        treatmnt.                               air quality,  Bank and       Jau-  ,I
poliution     plant.                                  water quality  recomnwendatlons January 1
abatement                                             and solid waste acceptable to  1995 ensure
invesbtmnts.                                          management.   Bank would be  that the sum of
implemented.    Its intemnal
- Stregthen                                                                        cash
the policy and                                                     - Establish     generation and
institutional                                                      autononrous     the contibution
framework,                                                         sewer oropany. from
consumers.
less O&M.
increases in
workiring capital
and debt
service, would
cover at least
20% of the
average caPital
expenditures
nfade in a
three year
period.
3568 Tanjn Urban -The project   -Provialon of  -TA and      -TA and training to strengthen  -Tainjin  -Carry out   PSR Rating for    -PSR Ratng for     1.06    106     4.2       6/20/2000  100     1992 Urban
Dev. &      wit heip TMG  drainage and  training for  Finandal accountng and    Munidpal       steps to      Achievement of    Finanda Covenants -                                                  Development
Envirnnment, inprove its  sewerage      planning     management of Drainage     Govemment to   impnove the   Development       SATISFACTORY
FY 92       planning and  collection    maintenance  Division particuarlty revenue  carry out action  finances and  Objectives -
management of systems.      and          and billing system         plan to trmprove  nuanagement  HIGHLY
infrastructure             rehabiltaton of -                        infrastructure  of the       SATISFACTORY
and           - tr ovent Sewerage           rease the efidency and  planning and   sewerage
enIn natural        lies andge        tbliyo Swrg
environment                milnesand     accountabinyofSewerage     management with operatons.
so as to      drainage      puMps.       Servioes                  the assistance of - TMG vAll
enhance Its   dhannels.     -Ehcequalified
responsiveness              -Enhance                               consultants     establish an
to divemee and              Ttaniln                                                accounting
changing                    Environmental                           - Establish    system which
dehands and                 Protecton                              insitubonal     wtv, anmng
constraints;                Bureau (EPB)                            development plan other things.
capacity to                            to transfer all or  distnguish
- help finance a            nonitor                                 part of the    sewerage
set of high                 pollution at                           sewerage        operabons
priorty                    source and                               operabons to an  from drainage.
investments to             strnOthen Its                           autononmous



30                                                                                      Annex C
Wbrld
Blank
PJOect Conr"one-ts                            Covenants                                                       Lending FPopial to  PSR Date Lending
rD       Name        <es                                                                                               Outcome      D   nvtupmen        Deflator  20     Swved               (US $   FY    Secto
ID   me          *tle                                                                                                          DeveIop-     bnat              S ,iin
Mlilon                     mlin
Physkal     Bintul  n     Rnandal Strtegy            l   tulonat     Rnancial                                                          Mtillon  (Most Current PSR)
sFfnolinal       SSategyCovenan
rnediurm-terrn             regulatory                               entity
needs in                   enforcement.
environmental
sanitaion,
urban transport
and industrta-
polluton
control.
3587  Rural Water  -hnrease     -tncrease water - Estabttsh and faintain  - Develop long-term sectoral and  - Water  -SATISFACTORY  -SUBSTANTIAL        1.06    116                12117l1998 110    1992 Water
Supply and  coverage in   supply        properly staffed insUttutions.  sub-sectoral strategies to prioritize charges for all                                                                       Supply &
Sanitation,  water supply  roverage                               investments at the country level.  sub-projects                         ctor                                                      Sanitaton
FY 92       and santabon. ttugh         - TA and tnig t u                                       would cover  water supply and  strategies to prilontizA
consruction or adoption, InWremnntabon n                              O&M plus the  sanitaton projet  investments at the
- develop long- water supply  operation of investrrent                                plusrte    represents a maer county level were
termands a    systems.      program                                                portion of the  departure from the  developed through a
and sub-                                                                           a~t~          first rural wiater  targeting effort.
sectoral to   - Construction                                                       repald by the  project that Invested  Final  on
prioitize     of sanitation                                                        rproidc by th  projertyM Invlarger
Investments at raciDtles                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~provnce to the prlrimarly In [arer  - ni dU sion   on
tnvestwnts at facitties.                                                           borrower, and  water system.a that  genduontslt
ev country    -Povision of                                                         O      and    ohen srved towr   v     the water
lwd;  water qwUty                                          deprodabon   ~~~~~~~~~rathe than villages,  vre  h w iastno
- expwore and  tesung                                                              after the debt  - Coverage In water dedded by the rime
develop       equaTient.                                                           has been      supply Inoreased by the project dosed.
appropriate                                                                        amortized.    8.9 rrniion      Three options for
low-cost                                                                                        Inhabitants (99% of institutional
alternatives as                                                                                  the target) at the  arrangements were
well as                                                                                          dosing date.     identified.
fordable and                                                                                     - The sanitation
sustainabie                                                                                      program achieved
programris for                                                                                  pIts tare only
water supply.                                                                                    partiaty due to
affordabtity
- establish and                                                                                  concems and
maintain                                                                                        farmer's strong
property staffed                                                                                 preference to use
Institutons and                                                                                  nightscil to fertilie
provide TA and                                                                                   aops. The project
training                                                                                         also attenpted to
Increase                                                                                         develop and
coverage In                                                                                      effectively
water supply                                                                                     rost technlogies
and sanitation                                                                                   represented a major
- enhance                                                                                        advance over the
repliceblity of                                                                                  first project.
acavities
through
developmrent of
models,
standards and
ffeanuats as



31                                                                                      Annex C
World
Bank
Pr   co,e    , Co , nnn Covslujis                                                                             Lending PoPulatfon PSR Date Lending
P           e       ObJectives                                                                                        Outcoe            nstutonal      Deflator  2000    Servd               n(US l  F     Sector
Physical     unsding        nancfai  StrafegyfiWiy Instuutnonal     Rnancial                                                          Million  (Most Current PSR)
Building                                covenants      Covenants
weil as
dissermnabon
ot experience
and lessons
learned
3560 Southern     -Reduce the   -Construction  lrorve      - Establish sound cost recovery -Carry out  -Carry out  PSR Rabng for     - PSR Ratng for    1.05    263     12.5      611612000  250    1993 Environment
Jiangsu     widening gap  of funicdpal  nmunicipal   policy.               .    traning in     tariff studies for Acrhivement of  Tectrdcal
Environrnent. between     fadhllbes for  wastewater                             accordanoe with sewerage     Development      Assistance(Training
FY93        econorric     urban         nanagement                              a program agreed operations  ObjecUves -      Corrponent -
developffent  wastewater   through                                 with the Bank.               SATISFACTORY      SATISFACTORY
and           managernient In estabDshment                                         - establish angd
environmental Wuw,         of appropriate                                          operate                         PSR Rating tar
protection In  Changzhou   Institutiornal                                          ernvrlrnfental                 Financia Covenants
Southem       and Zhenjiang.  amework.evolving fund                                                               SATISFACTORY
Jiangsu In an                                                                       n aedere
e    nldn  and lan                                                             rceue
eflective     large scale                                                          agreed with the
rrfenner     irndusbilal                                                           Bank,
manner.       pollution
- Improvement controi sub-
of mnirtdpal  pnrects.
wastewater
management
through
provision of
sewerage
fadlities and
the
estabilshmwnt
of approprtate
Institutiw
franework and
a sound cost
recovery poilcy
- strengthening
the
envIronrnent
ptanring and
management
capabilIties of
the entites
responsible for
environmental
protecton.
3473 Zhqiang      -Strengthen   -Purrpng      -Establish   -Waterconpanlestoincaease  -Trainingofstaff -Operating  PSRRatingfor     -PSRRatingfor       1.05    116     6.0       2114Q2000  110     1993 Urban
Multildties.  planning and  station, water  appropriate  their finanodi independence  at al levels and  revenues of  Achievement of  Finandal Covenants -                                          Development
FY 93       delivery of   treatment     Insttutionad  frorn ruridpaUtles and provide for revIew af  water    Development       SATISFACTORY
urban services plant, dear  frmewerk     effident and high quality service tarifs and other  companies  Objectives -
and to support water       needed to    that is affordable to the   sources of furds should cover  SATISFACTORY
envtronmental  tranlasalon  enhancethe   popuation;                wIll be carried out operating costs



32                                                                                      Annex C
Worfd
Bank
PheJect C-ponema Covenants                                                                                    Lending PoPulation PSR Date Lending
Prt>.   Praep       Weed-                                                                                              Outcome      D     nsttnan      Dfao      2000    Served              (US $   FY    Sector
ID  Name                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Development hmpact  US$         milin
million                     mlin
Physcal      rauli,un,    Rnanchl    Stratogy/Po"ky      Monan       C  nantl                                                          hillion  (Most Currefnt PSR)
Building      naia      SbtQPolY         Covenants     Covenants
policies and  main and      etfidency Of  - Establishment of an    in accordance   before
progranas.    tunnel, booster ffunirdpaaies  environmental fund to help  with the program  depredation as
- Improve     purring      to provide    finance Industrial pollubon  acceptable to  well as
station, and  water supply.  coto u-qcs               IDA.            increases in
provision of  extenson of                                                         woridng
urban services, waten         Training and  - pdluton levies for poltutant         capital, debt
in particular  distibuton   study visits will discharges                           service and
water supply  network       be undertaken                                          33% of the
and land                   In China and                                            three year
devetopment                 overseas, and                                          average
and establish              technicians will                                        lnvestffents.
appropriate                 receive on-the-
Institutional              job traning In
franmework                  maintenance
needed to                   and operaton.
enhance the
efficiency of the
cmrnlcipalties in
provision of
these services.
- upgrade
overcrowded
and poorly
serviced areas
In dty center of
Ningbo,
Induding the
proviaion of
sewage
Interceptors
and wastewater
treabnnent.
- lrpnrove the
Institutional
strength of
munidpat
authwrites
overseeing
urban service
delivery and
pollution
abatefent and
enhance
rrlanagernent
and finandal
performance of
the uUlities.
3509 Changchun    -Improvewater -Construction  -Reinforce   -Establish  Promote       -CWSCwIl        -Changchun   .                 -MODEST            1.05    126     1.8       ti1711998  120     1993 Water
Water       supply to meet of raw water  Changdhun   appropriate  measures for  adopt a new     Munidpality  UNSATISFACTORY    Theintended                                                          Supplya &
Supply, FY  urban domestic trananissbon  Water Supply  pndng      water         organizabon and  win cause                as insUtuoonbuilding
93          needs and to  lines and     Company and  policies.    conservaton.  responsbillbes by CWSC and   Water supply wa   intutionobuild
support       pumping       develop                                 Decenber 31,   CSC to       inproved both for  targets were not fuly



33                                                                                          Annex C
Wodd
Bank
Prolect Components                             Covenants                                                           Lervngetp               Date Lening
thol.   tWOi a      ObjEtecdives                                                                                           Outcorno        e    n  t tns naa Def"      2Woo     Sered               (US $   FY      Sector
ID      Naame      Oetvs                                                                                                                Developmnt9 impct            Musio                        -Milio)
Physkal     Buldting     Rnancdal   Skrategy/Polcy    CoItIt         Rnnta                                                                Mlliton  (Most Cumuet PSR)
industrial    stations.     Changchun                                 1994.           IroplenmenL by  domestic and     met.
grW    - Expansion      mpy                                    - CWSC and      194     a     cnuesThe planned
-Reduce     and                                                     CSC   Itl contract            copnsumentrsno
pormfr coverage rose fro  dovlmestiwastewater
industrial and  inr rvefent of TA tor design                          consultants by  cotrerlzed    90% to 97% and     daiTtfaic wsteoa tr
domestic water urban water  and                                       Decrnber 31.    plaeing,      rat9oning was     tariffs iled t
pollution.    treabnlnt     oonstruction                              1993 to assist in  blting and  ended:            matenatize.
fadlities.    suipervision                              Iroproving the  foeasig a
- Expansion of - TA hr                                  nanagentent and MIS wlth      - Only the trunk
water         nmaefetoeao                                         sCo    rotl an     nteceto was built
disteriuo     support to fth                            CPWSC and CSC. i0nfor    bo   while tehPesewvage
systenm        water and                                CM wIll by      water deffmnd  treat.ent plant
sewerage                                  Decanfter 31.  revenues and   rransunllrrished.
- Construction  corpanles.                              1993. transfer  cost:         follovnng t-he
ofia trundnrsipofal                                                                   cancedlation of the
interceptor and - Staff training.                       ownershp oi atl~   CM will cause intended IDA
intercptor ad  Staf trairlng.public sewer                 bot CWSC      finandng.
sewefage      - Pronote                                 assets owned by and CSC to
treatment     measures for                              Changchun to    generate      - The sewage
plant.        water                                     CSC.            suffident     treatrnrtnt Is delayed
conservation.                                             resources to  at least four years
coDver O&M    wh,ich fray well
costs excluding have caused the
Interest, plus  environmnental
depredation or situation in the
debt servce,  receiving waters to
wthichrever is  deteriorate because
higher.       of the higher
consumption evel.
3586  Shanghai      -provide sate  - Construction  -TAto     -            -TA for preparation Shanghai   - SMWC would PSR Rating for      - PSR Rating for    1.05    169      8.5       5/22/2000  160     1994 Environment
Environernt drInking water; o a major raw  strengthen  Strengthernig Water Supply Mtaster Plan.   generate      Achievefnent of    Insitutional
FY 94                      water supply  water supply  financial                                   revenues from  Development      Stn3ngthenngtTraining
- identify and  system hr SM  and         management.                                 its water     Objectves -        Component -
con      sources indudng intake wastewater                                            supply        HIGHLY             SATISFACTORY
of pdlution:  on the         nanagement                                               operation to  SATISFACTORY       _PSR Rating for
expand water Huangpu River   Gnha oCeer O-                                                                                      nant h
quality       at Da Qaso;     Gegrphic                                                idcvr                          FinM,i CoSATIS aCtORY
ntrrnitoring:  - construcOon  systemd                                                      dint
- Improve     of wastewater  devebpmnent In                                           - Increase in
ntunidpal,    conveyance     support of                                               SMWC tarifs
environmental  systems In    planning and                                             to level would
and utiUlty   Wupng and     the Shanghai                                              perrrit It to
management    Minhang        Econonric                                               nmeet its 1994
and finances;  neighborhoods. Reform Master                                           finandal
Plan;                                                     covenants.
-support 
traning.                     - tnsUttJonal
feasibility                 strengthening
studies, and                 of Shanghai
future                       Environmental
investment                   Sanitation
project                     Adnrinistrabon
preparaton.                  Bureau.



34                                                                                      Annex C
Wtod
Prol    PribSct    ObjectSw                      Prfject Components                            Covenants                                                       Lnding POpuaion PSR Date      BandkS
P-1                                                                                                                   Outcome                          DelVsalornal200  Served
ID  Afa        bjecties                                                                                                       D.eIODonpatt              r     $(US $                           FY     Sector
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   million)US $  all-
Instit mffutio      Fiaca        aeiymly       Insthittonal    Finandialmilo
r.ysi                   Financial  Strate  olly     Covenant      Co        Mnal                                                     kilion  (Most Curent PSR)
3598  Liaoning    -Protect mrEln  - Construction  - TA for  -Creabing an  *Establish  -ANGANG would - LPG to       PSR Rating for    - PSR RaUng for    1.05    116     14.5     6S2000     110     1995 Environrment
Urban       water         of water riaIns, insitubonal  environrrent  appropnate  inmlement tme  Introduce   Achievement of   Finandal Covenants -
Environment resources in  water Intake,  development in fund to   pndng polices  bound water    wastewater   Development      UNSATISFACTORY
FY 95       Uaoning       pnmrry and    water supply  support    for wastewater conservabon     tarifs no later  Objectives -
Province      secondary    and          industrial                  action plan;   than FY 97:   SATISFACTORY
Induding Hun- wastewater   wastewater    wastewater
Taizi River   treatmnent    treatnment   treatment
Basin to allow  faclibes, and            faciltbes,
their sustained  effluent reuse          process
econonic and  facilibes.                 modernizabon
safe use for                             and dean
drining.                                technology;
industrial and
agricultural
purposes:
3599 Yunnan        - Strengthen  - Investments  - Strengthen  - Strengthen  -TA to    -YP would       - Kunrng     PSR Rabng for     - PSR Rating for   1.0S    159     2.7       3/29/2000  150     1996 Environment
Environment. pofides,     in water     the executing  the Financial  strengthen  Implement the  Water Supply  Achievement of  Institubonal
FY 96       regulabons and pipelne and  organizatons  management polides and    Instituional    Company and  Development       Strengthening(Tralning
insttubonal   distibuton   in insttutional for water and  regulabons for  Developnment and Qujing water  Objectives -  Component -
arrangements  system        managemnent  wastewaler.  frmunicdpal water. Traindng   supply entty  SATISFACTORY    UNSATISFACTORY
for pollubon  connections,  for water and                           component In   would produce
control.                   wastewater.   - iffrove cost             accordance with  revenues                     - PSR Ratng hr
wasitewater,  - Water                    recovery                   aschedule      suffcient to                   Financial Coveniants -
soiid waste and treatment   - Operational                           acceptabie to  cover at least                 SATISFACTORY
nightsol      plant.       efliciency                               Bank/lDA and   O&M:
management:   - Storage     inprovenen                              discuss and     - Wastewater



35                                                                                          Annex C
Bank
Project Components                             Covenants                                                           Lending PoPulation PSR Date Lending
ProJ.   Project     Objec                                                                                                  Oucon         Developmnthimpat         tor  2000     Served              (US $    FY     Sector
ID      Nan,.                  _______________________rr____________________                                                                                          usOE                        million)
Mafllon
Physkal      lnsdnttbn     Rnancial    State   ~Jcy    Inst itutIonal   Financial                                                           MiUlon   (Most Cutrent PSR)
Insiting      CnovenantsegyPolc                          Covenants
- wuppott     reservotr.                                              agree any       entities of
irprovernent in . Sewerage                                            revislons with  Ge*iu. Kunrring
the lakes      rehabitation                                           BankitDA.       and Cujing to
eDnvironmnent In rhbtan.produce
Gel.lu and                                                                            revenues from
Kunring in                                                                            their
order to atiow                                                                        wastewater
waters tg be                                                                          operations to
used for                                                                             rcover O&M
potable  pPly.                                                                        (Induding
indIusty or                                                                          odepreiation)
agrlrnture;                                                                           and the
-                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~amount by
- fadlitate                                                                           whidh denbt
roernentary                                                                           service
sustbnable                                                                            requ
Invesbtents In                                                                        exceed the
pollubon control                                                                      provision of
and                                                                                   depredation;
fnunindpaily-
povided wban
environnentad                                                                         Irrgeffentation
servioes;                                                                             of a
wastewater
- Introduce a                                                                         tartff of rno less
conrprehensive                                                                        than Y
approadh to                                                                           0.35/cubic
planning,                                                                             meter by KDC.
pioritization,
ffenagenient
and financdng of
urban services.
3602  Hubei        - Put in place  -Wastewater  -Strengthen   -Trainng of staft of wastewater -Huangshi.  -InViement   PSR RaUng for      -PSR Rabng for      1.06    159      9.0       331/2000   150     1996 Urban
Environment Institutions and managernent  sector       and sanirtaon entities in   Wuhan and       wastewater    Adievement of      Institional                                                            Development
Project, FY  poiides able to comnping of  Institutions  finandct fenagemret and    Xiangfan        tariff YV0.1/ Devloprent         StrengthenlngfTrairing
96           sustain       sewer systems. through      accounting systeis Induding  tnlndpatities to  cubic nater  ObjecUves-       Cnpwonent -
progress on the purnp stations  training,  nanagemteni nfornation     develop and     applicable to  UNSATtSFACTORY SATiSFACTORY
provindcal plan  and         feasibility   system and pridng porides..  iniemnt time-  all n       sPRentfo
for            wastewater    studies and                              bound acion plan and                             FinandgP Covenants
envonmnental   treatment    future project                            for the connecion nonresidentiFa                 UNSATISFACTORY
invrovement;  facdties.      prepatation.                             to their nnunidpal producers
- Improve                              .................. sewerage systen within the
- lrrprove                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~of all wasteavter source areas
colletiona                                                            dischargefron   of HMDC,
collecOon and                                       ~~~~~~~~~buLlricngs and  WMWE and
treattnent,                            .................. septic tanks                 XMSC.
- inprove waste                                                       located wtiWn
management to                                                         100 neters of the -wastewater
protect water                                                         system.         utilIies,
cormnecing
quality,                                                                               FY 96 would
- identify                                                                            generate
highest-lnpact                                                                        revenues from
inetitrl wntr                                                                         their



36                                                                                    Annex C
Wbrld
Bank
PFsject Component                            Covents                                    o           Deflato Lending Populatfon PSR Date Lending
pIOl   Nanret     Objectve                                                                                          Outcome         Ins    onl      Deflator    SS                       (US $  FY     Sector
ID  Name                                                                                                                     Developentd Impact          mS -ilion)
Phyalcal     faviktfonf  Rfnandal    Sfrategyr'Poicy  Insttutional  Financial                                                        df.in     (Mo  f v     PSR)
Building                     ~~~~covenants  covenantsMiio                                                             (ot untPR
industrial water                                                                  wastewater
polluters and                                                                     operabons
significanfy                                                                      suffident to
reduce                                                                            cover O&M
poiluton.                                                                         (Indudfing
depredabon),
and the
anmount by
which debt
servioe
requirements
exceed
provision of
depredaton;
- prepare
annual
forecasts and
adjust tariffs if
the forecasts
do not meet
the covenanted
revenue
requirefents.
3648 Second       - Enhance     - Sewerage   * Assist in  - Improve    -Enhance     - SMG would     - SMG would. PSR Rabng for    - PSR Rating for   1.06    264     8.5       5/912000  250     1996 Urban
Shanghai    wastewater and and sanitaUon  reorganizaton wastewater  policy     cause SMSC to  commnencing  Achievement of   Institutonal                                                        Development
Sewerage.   stonnwater   irprovements. and          utility financial fomnulalion In  inrrenment the  FY 97 would  Development  StrengtheningrTraining
FY96        marnagement                Institutional  management- wastewater and Institutional  generate   Objectives-      Conponent -
through       - Wastewater  strengthening  accounUng  pollubon     Developmfent and revenues from  HIGHLY       SATISFACTORY
expanding     treatment and  of Shanghai  and        control;      Training Action  its sewerage  SATISFACTORY   PSR RatIng for
wastewater     spysai      Municpality  managemrent                Plan, revise the  operabons                  Finanal Coveants -
cotledbon,    s            Sewerage     Infonabion   - Provide TA for plan as     sufficient to                 SATISFACTORY
pretreabment               Company,     system.        dies,       necessary,     cover O&M
and dtspesai                                        induding       discuss any    f,before
capadty and                - Strengthen              sewerage      revisions with  depredaton),
stonnvwater                i sector                  master plan.  Bank, and      inoeases In
drainage                  Instions                                Implement any   worxing capital
faciltibes:                taugh                                   sudh agreed    and debt
ramnirg,                              revisions.      servioe,. and
- reduce urban             feasibility                                            speified
polluton                   studies and                                            average capii b
Ipedt:                     future project                                         expenditcites.
- Irnprove                 preparaton.                                            - SMG would
wastewater                                                                        prepare annual
utility financial                                                                 forecasts and
and operabtona                                                                    adjust tariffs if
management;                                                                      the forecasts
- s  gthen                                                                        do not meet
secftor                                                                          the covenanted
instituions.                                                                      revenue
requirerments.



37                                                                                          Annex C
Lending Populaion PSRBDa      Lending
PD.     Proame      Objev                                                                                                  Outcome          vpmen      mpact Deflator  US S                         mY             Sector
Million                      mlin
Ptiysical    hsdhnfon      Rnancial    SrateWyPoiky     CSOdOt          R    fFnandael                                                      Million  (Mtad Curfent PSR)
Building                                         Covenantsaoesf
3637  Naiional     - Provide     - Provision of  -Training In  - Achieving full recovery of system costs through  - Commrendng PSR Rabng for  - PSR Rating for  1.06  74                 6114/2000  70      1997 Water
Rural Water  access to safe, safe water,  Project      the water charges;                          not later than  Achieverment of  Financial Covenants -                                                  Supply &
III, FY 97   convenienty   sustinably    Management,                                              the seoond fut Developrnent      SATISFACTORY                                                            Sanitation
located water to financed to  procurement                                             fiscal year of  Objectives -
4.6 mnlIon poor poor        water supply                                              operatlons,   SATISFACTORY
rural peopie In  communities.  techndogies,                                           water charges
Hebei, Hubei,               and water                                                vwi be
Jiangid, and                 quatity                                                  established
Yunan                       protecton.                                                and collected
provinces, and                                                                        annuaiiy at a
to improve                                                                            level sufficient
related water                                                                         to cover O&M,
and sanitaton                                                                         adrnintstrative
practires;                                                                            costs, taxes
and greater of
(i) Interest
charges and
depredaton,
or (il) debt
service
reqiremnst.
36414 Guangxi      -The project  - investments  - Improve    -Inprowefienancial          -NMtocarryout - Sewerage      PSR RaUng for      -PSR Rating for     1.05    96       4.0       3/31/2000  92      1998 Environment
Urban        would help    to Improve    technical and  management.               Institutional    charges In    Achlevefent of    Insttutional
Development, Improve the   quality of    management                                development     Nanning and   Development       StrengtheningtTrairnng
FY 98        envnment of surface and     capabilities of                           program for     GuiUin to be  Objectives -      Comrponent -
Nanning and   ground water. sewerage and                              effectve        adjusted from  SATISFACTORY      UNSATtSFACTORY
Guilin, In      8ldi     d  drainage                                  mnragement of Utie to tnme to                    - P    R     for
suppotaial of    rv  mgeiin    nageffent                              sewerage        allow                            Financial Covenants.-
sustafina     ane seroingar isinIstiutiorns.                          services:       generation of                    UNSATISFACTORY
gnowth    and   sec nda                                               - GM wit        operating
grwhad drains,                                                 establish       revftenueso
poverty        uogatnmules
allvation.    prln                                                         oes        cover atles
stataons,                                               Sewerage        adequate OBM
sewerage                                                Comnany with    artd debt
treatment                                               charter and     service
plants.                                                 revenue base by
Decetber 31,
1998 and will
cause the
canpany to carry
out Institutional
development
program
satisfatomry to the
Bank.
40185 Shandong     - Stengthen    - Investments  -Strengthen  -Strengthen   TA to        - SP would      - Jinan Water  PSR Rating for    -PSR Rating for     1.05    99       11.3       611312000  95     1998 Environment
Environment, polides,      for surface   the executing  the Finandal strengthen   im,plement the   Supply        Achievement of    Institutional
FY 98        regulatons and water storage, organizabons  management policies and    nsiUtutonal    Company,      Development        Strengthening/Training



38                                                                                      Annex C
Bank
Peject Col"ponents                           Cfoenant                                                         Lending POpuItfOn PSR Date Lending
iD       I        Oma                                                                                                 OutbJ comite                  d Deflafor  2000   Served
ID  Monte                                                                                                                                                  (US~~~~~~~~~~~~eelpen  npc   U  $  FY  sector
D kllion                    millIon)
Phsa   ,Istitutilon  InnilSraoyi          k     nst t ubtf anl Fnandial
Physical                 RnDdl    i Strute    Y     Covenarts fCoeantn                                                                Million  (Most Cunewf PSR)
Institutonai  purping.     in Institutional for water and  regulations for  Development and Jinan  Objectives -   Conoonent -
arrangements  bansrnission  manageffent  wastewater.  nujnicdpal water. Training   Munidpal      SATISFACTORY     UNSATISFACTORY
for rruniipae  and dcistibution for water and                       conponentin    Drainage
water.        fadlites to   wastewater.  - inprove cost             acoordancevrwth  Conany will                  *PSR Rating ftr
wastewater,   augment and                 rovery                    a schedule     produce                        SIACvenants
and vi    rol terv     g-    ei d  oen al                           acceptable to  revenues                       SATiSFACTORY
env   mental term reabilty  effdenc y                               BanktiDA and   sufficent to
pollution     of water supply invrvement.                           discuss and    cover at least
prevention and systanmis.                                           agree any      OS
conboi;       - Investments                                         revisions with  - The water
-expand      in wastewater                                          Bank/tiDA.     supply and
surface water  collection and                                                      wastewater
supply to Jinan punoing                                                            utility
to prevent    systenm.                                                             companies
frther-                                                                            would review
depletion of                                                                       whether they
groundwater                                                                        woutld nmet the
aquifers;                                                                          covertanted
revenue
- fadlitate                                                                        requtreffents
sustainable                                                                        if they do not
investments In                                                                      meet the
pollution                                                                          requementih
control:                                                                           then would
- arrange for                                                                      take ail
updating the                                                                       necessary
infofnftion                                                                        measures,
database with                                                                      IndudUng tariff
respect to                                                                         adjustment.
water quality
and
nanagement In
Xlaoqing R ver
Basin.
43933 Sichuan      -rmplenment  -Providesafe  -TAfor       -TAfor       -TAbto        *tn'pemfentor   -Waterand    PSRRatngfor       -PSRRatingfor      1.03    156     6.4       618t2000   152     1999 Environment
Urban       the first phase  water through  inproving  inproving  strengthen    cause to be     wastewater   Achievement of   Insttutional
Environment. of a long-term  expanding and water supply  finandal  sector polices. implemented the utililieswilt  Development  Strengthening/Training
FY 99       urban         building new  and          management                 Instiutional    produce      Objectives -     Component -
environmental capadty for   wastewater   and cost                   Development and revenues     SATISFACTORY     SATISFACTORY
services      water supply  utilities    recovery.                  Training       sufNident to                   - PSR Rating for
improvement   and           operabonal                              component in   cover at least                 Financial Covenants -
program;      wastewater    efridency.                              accordance with  OWM:                         SATISFACTORY
treatment.    pianning and                            a schedule
- provide an               future pr-oect                           acceptable to   - The water
adequate                    preparabon.                             Bank/IDA and   supply and
supply of safe                                                      discuss and    wastewater
water;                                                              agree any      utility
- maintain                                                          revisions with the companies
wtrquality at                                                     Bai   ru,      would review
wtevri                                                              Biank Group:   whether they
levels                                                              - Carry out or  would mreet the
coptieble with                                                           to te     covenanted
the needs ofca                                                               .



39                                                                                    Annex C
Projct ComPainants                           Covenan                                                        Lindfng Popubaio   PSR Date Ladng
D    v.eraia  nDtu f lator    S 20  Sered               (    US       Sector
ID     AUme       OiVSCtoutcom                                                                                                  Deveaopnent Imact           Milliouns                   iMon
Physical    Bhattuton      n            Shf            sitofonas    Rnandal                                                         motllion  (most Cunwet PSR)
Building                               Covenants      Covenants
the basins of                                                     canred out     revenue
the Ltin and                                                      Industrtal     requlrements.
Tuo rivers;                                                       Pollutlon Action  If they do not
Plan for the Mn  meet the
- potect water                                                    art    riover  requdrerrent.
Yangze RFier.                                                      acesorne vAth  bke awl
the schedule   necessary
acceptable to the measures,
Bank and discuss Indudtng trtifl
and agree any  adjustment.
reviskons with the
Bank Group.
57352 Fourth Rural  Provide     - Provide safe -Training for  -Achieving fu revery dfsystem costs though  -Commencing PSRRatingfor  PSR Rating for   1.03    47                6114n2000  46     1999 Water
Water       aocess to safe, water to poor  water system  the water charges.                  no later than  Achievenent of  Finanmal Covenants -                                                Suppiy &
Supply, FY  convenienty  commrUnitles  managers                                              the second fuU Development     SATISFACTORY                                                        Sanitation
99          located water to through pied  operators and                                     fiscel year of  Objectives -
3.1 nllfon poor phusehold  accountants.                                          operations.   SATISFACTORY
rural people in  connections                                                     water diarges
Anhul, Fujan, and convrunity                                                      wil be
Guizhou, and  standpFpes)                                                         established
Halnan        and non-piped                                                      and collected
provinces, and (handpuffps                                                       annually at a
to Imoprove   and rain                                                           level sufficient
related water  catchments)                                                       to cover O&M.
and sanitaton  systerrse.                                                        adritnistrative
pracroes;                                                                        costs, taxee
and the greater
- provide water                                                                  of (a) Interest
at the lowest                                                                     chares end
poasible cost                                                                     depredation,
and to ensure                                                                     or ( debt
Its sustainabitty                                                                service
through good                                                                     nsquinsment.
maintenance
and accounting
Padices
42109 BelJing     - The project  - Camplete the -TA to assist  -Raise taifs -TA to enhance -Carry out  - BDC to  PSR Rating for   -PSR Rating for    1.00    349     5.4       8130t2000  349    2000 Environment
Environment aims at a     trunk sewer  BeiJing      to cover futil  water and  Institutional  generate     Adcievernent of  Finandat Covenants -
It, FY00    visible and   network and  Drainage     costs.      wastewater    development plan revenues from  Development   SATISFACTORY
sustained     provde       Company                  policies.     to corstitute BOC wastewater  Objectves -
alleviation of  secondary  reform process                         as an           and drainage  SATISFACTORY
water pollution  sewerage for  - futi finandial                   autonomous      operations
In BeIiJng by:  Uangshtd iFver and                                enterprise with  suficdent to
sub-basin.   manageraft                             the govemance   cover current
(a) corrstiucting          autonomy, new                          strture as     opermtionat
key wastewter - Construcion  corporate                            specified In the  expenses and
and trunk     of key       strcture,                              Conpany Law,   depredation
interceptas   wastewater   autonomous                             the hi autonomry diarges or
andassodiated  trunk       Board and                              to retain and   debtservice
fratriwits    intersscptors  authrty to                           dispose of alt  payments,
fadlitles'    and assoieated retain and                           sewerge tarifs, whichever is
tneatment 



40                                                                                      Annex C
Wo,fd
Bank
ProJect Componenfs                            Covenants                                                       Lending Population PSR Date Lending
ID      Nanme     Oetvs                                                                                                                               Deflator     $                        (US $   FY    Sector
____________________________________________________________________D_ve_om__t                                                      miactllion)liftn
s ouilin
Physical     hFltudon     Rnancial   Strategy/Polky   Co             Cowrnaf                                                           MIlln    (Most Curreat PSR)
Building                                 Cvenants      cvln                                                                ilo        Ms  ufWPR
(b)           fadlities.    manage all                              ownership of end greater.
stenngthening              tariff revenues.                         responsibihty for
environmental                                                       all sewerage and
managentent                                                         drainage faalites
institutions of                                                    In Beijing urban
Beljing.                                                            districts, and
begin
implementing the
plan by
Decenber 31.
2001.
49436 Chongqing    - Intplement  - Expansion of - TA for   - Irprove    - Develop Long- - Intplement the  - CMDC, FDC, PSR RaUng for  - PSR Rating for  1.00    200     2.3       8/4/2000   200    2000 Water
Urban       the first phase  supply cof safe  irmproving  accounting,  term water  InsUtutional  and WWSC to Achievenient of   Finandal Covenants -                                                 Supply &
Environment of a long-termn  water to meet  water supply  MIS and cost qualty   Development and produce      Development      SATISFACTORY                                                          Sanitabon
FY00        urban         urban defand. and          recovery.    monitoring    Training        revenues     Objectives -
environmental              wastewater                 strategy.     component in   suffident to  SATISFACTORY
services      - Itniove     utilities                               accordance wilh  cover at least
irproveffent  wastewater    operationai                             a schedute      O&M;
program to    mnagemen      eflieny.                                aceptabie to
recover from                                                        Bank and discuss - CMDC, FDC,
environmental                                                       and agree any   and WWSC to
degradation of                                                      revisions with the review whether
its water and                                                       Bank:          they would
land resources;                                                                     mieet the
- arrange for each covenanted
- provide an                                                        project dty to  revenue
adequate                                                            carry out its t me- reqisrements.
supply of safe                                                      bound Investment If they do not
water;                                                              program to      meet the
- maintain                                                          strengthen its  requirement,
water quality at                                                    water supply   then would
leveis that are                                                     distributon    take all
erompatiblewith                                                     system and      necessary
then"beed oft                                                       wastewater      rreasures,
the needs of                                                        cotlection      indudrig tariff
Yangtze er                                                          systeff with   adjustment.
Basn.tz R  rrespect to project
Basin.                                                              investment.
45910 Hebei Urban  - Impplefienta  - Upgrading  -TAto      -TA to       -iDevelop long- - Impieement the  -Water and  PSR Rating for  -PSR Rating for   1.00    150     5.7       8/25/2000  150     2000 Water
Environment, long-tern urban and expansion enhance   support water term water   Institubonal    wastewater   Achievenwent of   Flnandat Covenants -                                                 Suppty&
FY00        environnental of water      operatornal  ublibes to   resources     Development and utiliteswill  Developrrent     SATISFACTORY                                                         Sanitaton
services      supply.       management. continue tariff strategy.   Training        produce      Objectives -
improvement                              reforns.                   conmponent In   revenues     SATISFACTORY
program to    - Implement   - Capaaby                               accordance with  sufricent to
recover from  water quality  building of                            a schedule     cover at least
environmental  strategy     wastewater                              acceptable to   O&M;
degradation of through      copamnies.                              Bank/IDA and
water and land expansion of                                         discuss and     - The water
resources::   wastewater                                            agree any       supply and
collecton and                                         revisions with  wastewater
- provide an  treatment                                             BanktlDA.       utility
adequate      facilibes.                                                            cormpanies
suply of safe                                                                       would review



41                                                                                        Annex C
Wtdd
Bank
Proj0ect Co' wn-t                                                                                               Landing POpUbIfOn PSR Date Lening
PreiD  Project          4jec&-                                                                                         outcome          k        bipa   Dfaw      USSM   mSllSon)                            Sector
Physic       b    A        Rnancial   StnitegyPk                                                                                          Mnhion Rnana  (most cun   PSR
ikuHdlng                      ~~~~~Covenants Coeat
water                                                                                whethw they
would nmeet the
- ernsure                                                                            covenanted
stslinabitlty o                                                                      revenue
delivery                                                                             rquirenients.
through                                                                              f t" do not
institutonal and                                                                     meet the
financial                                                                            reuireffnen
reforms of the                                                                       then would
setwce utblites.                                                                     take all
necessary
measures,
induding tarff
adustwient.
Numberof    22             22           22            20           14                                          22                22                          3259
Projects With
Covenants
Share of Projects wAth
Covenants



42                                                                                        Annex C
B. Project Covenants and Ratings, 1985-2000
Wofld
Bank
Covenants                                                                                              Londing Population  PSRDate    Lending
Pro/.   Project Nam                                                            Outcome                Institutonal Development Impact   Deflator 2000 US  Served                (US $    FY     sector
Million  Million               milion)
institusonal       Fnancial Covenants                                                                                                    (Most Current PSR)
3438  Rural Water. FY85                     - Water diarges would cover -SATISFACTORY               SUBSTANTiAL                          1.33    106               NA          80        1985 Water Supply
service, and after tde loan is -The project was largely successful - The institubonal objectives of the project                                   8 Sanitafon
repaid, O&M costs and    in achieving its najr objectives. Its were largely rret vith:
depredabon of net fixed  coverage targets were exceeded  (a) estabishment of natonai prWial and
assets.           ~~~About 90% of benetdcanies    ()etblhwlo        ainl rvna      n
assets.                  received piped water of acceptable county level offices to oversee and prowde
quality. The target for household  general guidance;
connecton exceeded by about 15. (b) introducton of systerrotbc approach to
selection of alternatves;
(c) preparabon and disserrinabon of
manuals. guidelines and establshmrent of
review, approval and supervisron
procedures;
(d) introduction of provindal revoving funds
as a new finandng nechanism:
(e) complebon of a sector survey as a first
step to developing sector plans and
strategies
3449  Shanghai          -A management and   - No later than January 1,  SATISFACTORY                -MODEST                              1.19    172               NA          145       1987 Urban
Sewerage, FY 87  organizabon study    1993, SSC revenues should                                                                                                                        Development
would be completed  at least cover its O&M and  - All physical objectves of the  - nsttutonal arrangements for liquid waste
no tater than       the larger of either     proiect were achieved. Essental  management were In place by the end of
December 31 1988.   depredabon or total debt  wastewater services were provided the project.
tbhe proposed training                    nto meet the needsof2.5 lion   - Arrangements for charging for wastewater
-ptherproposed tr n  -sewrie                  urban residents,              services were introduced for the first time in
program woutd be    - Sewerage charges agreedShnai
implemented by      with Bank would Conbnue to                              Shanghai.
SSPCC and SSC and   be irrpiefented for
con-Ieted no later  comrercial and industrial
than Decentber 31,  consumrers
1998.               - Sewerage tarff study would
be corpleted no blter than
December 31, 1988 and
implemented no later than
June30, 1989.
3460  LiaoningUrbanInfrastructure, FY91     - SWSC, FWSC and YWSC    -SATISFACTORY                  - NEGLIGIBLE                         1.07    83      14.5      NA          78        1991 Water Supply
would take measures,                             ae       nteipeetto         fisiuoa                                                              & Sanitation
including but not limited to  - All physical objectives for water  - In the irpienwnttion of insutional
tariff adjustments, to ensure  supply were achieved. An  development of water supply companies.
ftht thelr operating revenues additional 109 kmn of water mains  there wvere delays and quality problems
arre suffidepnt rt8o mgeete hes were constructed (beyond the  were encountered in water resource pridng
aggregate of bhelr tobtl  original target) utliztng some of the and urban water tariff studies.
operabng expenses and    cost savings:                  - The achievements were lirrited 1o:
Finandal obligabions.    - Computerized water billing system (i) establishing conqputerized water billing
- Carry out acton plan for the was established;         systemr7s and titobno leak detecton



43                                                                                      Annex C
Worfd
Bank
Covenants                                                                                            Lending popuaton    PSR Date   Lending
Project Name                                                         Outcome                instituftonal Development kmpact  Defiator 2000 US  Served              (US $    FY      Sector
Minion   Million              mlion)
Instuthonal        Rnanclal Covenants                                                                                                 (most current PSR)
infrovemenrrt of their   - Leak detection programs were  programr in ail three dties, and
metering and system      piloted in the three cties.  (iii) organizing staff training on water
- In water potilution abatement  project nranageffent and supervision.
pollution rnonitoring provided
necessary inforrmation for the
preparation of a follow-on
environmental project.
3564  Beijing          - Studies to develop  - Commendng January1  - MODERATELY SATISFACTORY     - MODEST                             1.06   132      5.4       7/211999   125       1992 Environment
Environment FY   an integrated       1993, BDHC would generate
92               environmental       sufficient resources to cover - The Beijing sewerage system was - The Beljrng Drainage Comnpany was
narnagement plan and O&M, woridng aptai     expanded by 25.3 kdlometers of  converted fom a BMG division to a state
environmental      increases and debt service  trunk sewers and Interceptors.  enteprise that operates part of the
strategies will be                                                        sewerage system.
conducted, findings  - Comenr ing anuarym1o
would be reviewed   1995 ensurethatthesumrf
With Bank and       its interai cash generation
recommearndatUons   and the contributon from
acceptabeto Bank      nmers, less O&M.
would be            Increases in woridng capital
impie               and debt service, would
Implemented,   cover at least 20% of the
- Establish         average capital expenditures
autonomous sewer    made in a three year period.
conpany.
3568 Tianjin Urban Dev. -Tainjin Munidpal  - Carry out steps to improve  PSRRatingforAchievenment of  - PSR Rabng for Financal Covenants-  1.06  106  4.2       6/20/2000  100       1992 Urban
& Environrent FY Govemment to carry  the finances and         Developmfent Objectives - HIGHLY SATISFACTORY                                                                         Development
92               out action plan to  management of the        SATiSFACTORY
Improve infrastructure sewerage operations.
planning and
nmnagement with the  - TMG will establish an
assistance of qualified accounting system whiclh
consultants         wil among other things,
* Establish Institubional operatons from drainage.
deveoprient ptan to
transfer at or part of
the sewerage
operations to an
autonomous entiy
3587  RuralWaterSupplyandSanitation, FY92  - Water charges for al sub-  - SATISFACTORY           -SUBSTANTiAL                         1.06    116               12/17/1998 110       1992 Water Supply
projects would cover O&M                                                                                                                       & Sanitation
plus the pro-ated portion cyf -The second rural water supply  - Long-term sectoral strategies to prioritize
the amount to be repaid by  and sanitabon project represents a investments at the county level were
the province to the bomnoer major departure from the first rurau  developed through a targeting effort.
and OSM and depreaiabon  iWarte  r   syes that ete pritly - Final decision on insttutional
afte thedebthas een served tovwns rathe than villages,  arrangements to oversee the waler
anwUzed.                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~systeffrs was not decided by the time the
* Coverage in water supply    project ciosed. Three optons for
inareased by 8.9 million inhabitants insttubonal arrangements were idenUfied.
(99% of the target) at the dosing
date.



44                                                                                    Annex C
World
Bank
Covenants                                                                                          Lending Population PSR Date   Lending
PFtJ.   Project Name                                                        Outcome                Institutonal Development Impact  Deflator 2000 US  Served             (US $    FY     Sector
Mfillion  Allilion   -         ifln
institutional ninancial Covenants                                                                                                  (Most CurMint PSR)
- The sanitaton program achieved
its targets only partially due to
affordability concems and farmers
strong preference to use nightsoil
to fertilize crops. The project also
attenpted to develop and
effectively implement lower-cost
techndogies represented a major
advance over the first project.
3580  Southem Jiangsu  -Carry out training in  -Carry out tariff studies for  PSR Rating for Achievement of  -PSR Rabng for Technical  1.05  263   12.5      @16/2000   250       1993 Environment
Environmentl FY  accordance with a  sewerage operabons      Developmient Objecbves -      Assistance/Training Comiponent-
93               program agreed with      .                 SATISFACTORY                  SATISFACTORY
the Bank.          envistnabshndl revopang fund                          - PSR Rating for Financial Covenants -
under procedures agreed                               SATISFACTORY
with the Bank.
3473  Zhejang          - Training of staff at all -Operabng revenues of  PSR Rating for Achievement of  - PSR Rabng for Financial Covenants -  1.05  116  6.0  2/14/2000  110     1993 Urban
Multicie, FY 93  levels and for review  water conopanies should  Development Objectives -  SATISFACTORY                                                                         Development
of tarifs and other  cover operating costs before SATISFACTORY
sources of funds wIll  depreciabon as well as
be carred out in   increases in woridng capital,
accordancewitohthe  debtserviceand 33%oSthe
program acceptable to three year average
IDA.               Investments.
3509  Changchun Water - CWSC will adopt a  - Changchun Municipality vill - UNSATISFACTORY       - MODEST                           1.05    126     1.8       8/17/1998  120       1993 Water Supply
Supply, FY 93    new organization and  cause CWSC and CSC to                                                                                                                    & Sanitation
responsibiliibes by  irOpiement, by December 31, Water supply was improved both  - The Intended institubon bulding targets
Decenber 31, 1994.  1994, a program for     for domestic and industriai  were not fuily met.
CWSC an  ~  willconmputerized planrdng,  contsumers - coverage rose from  - The planned irrplemrentation of domestic
cWntrand CSC*vAll btling and forecasting, a MIS 90% to 97% and ratoning was  wastewater tanfft failed to nateridtize.
contract consuLtants  with nfmnthly infornitbon on  ened:
by Decenter 31. 1993 water demand, revenues and - Only the trunk interceptor was
to assist in I amp ng  cosd                 built while the sewage treatment
operations of CWSC  - CM will cause both CWSC  plant remains unfinished, following
and CSC.           and CSC to generate     the cancelaston of the intended IDA
suffident resources to cover financing.
CM will by Decenter  O&M costs exciuding    - The sewage treat/ent is delayed
31. 1993. transfer  Interest plus depredabon or at least four years which may well
ownershlp of alt public debt service, whichever is  have caused the envtronmental
sewer assets owned  higher.                 situaion In the receNing waters to
by Changchun to                             deterorate because of the higher
CSC.                                        consumpton level.
3586  Shanghai Environnient FY94          -SMWC would generate     PSR Rating for Achievenment of  - PSR Rating for lnstitutonal    1.05   169     8.5        5/22/2000  160      1994 Environment
revenues from its water  Development Objectives - HIGHLY  Strengthening/Training Component -
supply operaton to cover  SATISFACTORY                SATISFACTORY
O&M, induing depredaton;                              - PSR Rating for Financial Covenants -
- Increase in SMWC tarffs to                          UNSATISFACTORY
level vould pernit it to rneet
its 1994 finandal covenants.



45                                                                                      Annex C
Wodd
Bank
Covernat                                                                                             Lending Poputiahfn  PSR Date  Lending
o    Project Namn                                                         DOteome tor                                                          USntinpect  tiWa 200 US  SeOred  (US J  FY  Setor
ID                                                                    oucolm                  mdinnalitut lanai     npac                $ meatsn
Million  Millo'n             riRo,n)
C    n            ttenblCovenans                                                                                                      ItdCrrtPR
3598  Uaoning Urban    - ANGANG woutd     - LPGto lntroduce        PSR Rating for Achievement of  - PSR Rating for Finandal Covenants-  1.05  116    14.5      6/682000   110       1995 Environntent
Environment. FY  implement Umie bound wastewater tariffs no later  Developmfent Objectves -  UNSATISFACTORY
95               water conservabon   than FY 97;             SATISFACTORY
action plan;        - Jlnzhou Water Supply
- LP would caffy out  Compoany to generate
instubonal          revenues to cover OSM
development and    (bore depredation):
training In accordance inreases in waMnig capItal,
vwth time-bound acUon debt service, and 30% of
plan;               three years average
investrnet;
-Wastewater coropardes of
Anshan. Bend. Dalian and
Fushun to generate
revenues to cover operating
expenses (Induding
depredatIon) and the
arnount by whidh debt
servic requirements exceed
the provision for
depredation.
3599  Yunnan           - YP would inplement - Kunrring Water Supply  PSR Ratng for Ahievementf -oPSR Rating for Institutional         1.06    159     2.7       3/29Y2000  150       1996 Environment
Environnent FY   the Institutonal    Company and Ck4ing water  Development Objectives -    StrengtheningtTrainrng Comoonent -
96               Developntent and    supply entity woutd produce  SATISFACTORY             UNSATISFACTORY      -
Training corDponent In revenues suffident to cover
accordance wAth a   at least O&M;                                         - PSR Rating for Finanal Covenants -
schedute acceptable                                                       SATISFACTORY
to Bank/iDA and     - Wasteater enibes of
discuss end agee any GSjU, Kunnfing and Qupng
revisions vAth     to produce revenues from
Bank/IDA           their wastewater operationsr
to cover O&M Iniduding
depredabon) and the
arnmunt by which debt
servioe reqmnrements exceed
the prvIsion of depreciation:
- ImpolenwentaUon of a
wastewater tariff of no less
than Y 0.35/oubic meter by
KDC.
3602  Hubei Environnment - Huangshi Wuhan  - Implenment wastewater  PSR Rabng for Achievennent of  - PSR Rating for lnstitutional     1.06    159     9.0       3/31/2000  150       1996 Urban
Project, FY 96   and Xianglan       tariff of Y 0.181 ctcbic mfeter  Developfment Objectives -  StrengtheningfTrarning Conm nent -                                                  Development
rminiipallibes to   applicable to all residential  UNSATISFACTORY         SATISFACTORY
develop and         and nonresidental producers
irrplement time-bound vwithin the source areas of                         - PSR Rating htr Finanal Covenants -
action plan for the  HMDC, WMWE and XMSC.                                 UNSATISFACTORY
connection to their
munidipal sewerage  - wastewater utlities,
systern of all     contnencing FY 96 would
wastewater discharge generate revenues from their
from buildings and  vastewater operabons



46                                                                                    Annex C
Worfd
Bank
Covenants                                                                                           Lesnding Populaeon PSR Date  Lending
PrJ'    PIrtoct Nameo                                                       Outcome               Insuto,Dnai Develpment hnpact    Denator 2000 US  Sarvod               (US S    FY     Sector
filion   Million             millon)
ItiOlonal         Financial Covenants                                                                                              (Most Cu-ene PSA)
septic tanks located  suffident to cover O&M
within 100i meters of  (Incuding depredation), and
the systerm        the anwunt by whidch debt
service reqtirements exceed
provision of depreciaton:
- prepare annual forecasts
and adjust tariffs If the
forecasts do not meet the
covenanted revenue
requfrenments.
3648  Second Shanghai  - SMG would cause   - SMG would, conmencing  PSR Rabng for Achievement of  - PSR Rating for Institubonal    1.06    264     8.5       5/9/2000   250      1996 Urban
Sewerage, FY 96  SMSC to iffplement  FY 97 would generate   Developmfent ObjecUves - HIGHLY StrengtheningiTraining Component -                                                  Deveiopwnent
the Insutibonal    revenues from Its sewerage  SATISFACTORY              SATISFACTORY
Development and    operatons suffident to cover
Training Acton Plan,  O&M (before depredation).                          - PSR Rating for Finandai Coenants -
revise the plan as  Increases In woridng capital                         SATISFACTORY
necessary, discuss  and debt service, and
any revisions with  specified average capitae
Bant, and Implement  expenditures.
any sioursr        - SMG would prepare annual
reeforsts and adjust tariffs if
the forecsts do not meet the
covenanted revenue
requirerments.
3837  NationallRuralWaterIll,FY97         - Convnendng not later tan PSR Rating for Achievemnent of  - PSR Ratng for Fnancial Covenants -  1.06  74          6/14/2000  70        1997 Water Supply
the second fuil fiscal year of Developmnent Objectves -  SATISFACTORY                                                                       & Sanitation
operabons, water charges  SATISFACTORY
will be established and
coilected annually at a level
suffident to cover O&M,
adrtdnrstratve costs, taxes
and greater of f) interest
charges and depredatbon, or
(ii) debt service
requtremmnts.



47                                                                                        Annex C
World
Lending Populatbon  PSR Date   Lenading
PiopctCNanat                                                           Outcome                instutional Developmen im-pact    Deflator 2000 US  Served                (US S   FY      Sector
Protect~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IIo Name                                                               $                           million)
iD                                                                                                                                      Allilion MInsitutbna
insttutonal        Rnanclal Covenants                                                                                                   (Most Current PSR)
36414 Guangal Urban     - NM to carry out  -Sewerage charges In      PSR Rating for Achievement of  - PSR Rafing for lnsitutional       1.05    98      4.0        3/31/2000  92        1998 Environment
Development FY   institutonal        Nanning and Guilin to be  Develop,ment Objectives -     Strengtheningrnairing Conponent -
98               developnent program  adjusted from time to time to SATISFACTORY             UNSATISFACTORY
for efledive        allow genertin of operating
managerrent of      revenues suhfident to cover
sewerage servces;   at least adequate O&M and
debt service;
40185 Shandong          - SP woulddinplement -Jinan Water Supply     PSR Rating for Achievement of  -PSR Rating for Institubonal        1.05    99       11.3      6/13/2000  95        1998 Environment
Environment. FY  the Institutional   Comrpany. Jinan Munidpal  Devdopmfent ObjecUves -       StrengthenlngrTranrdng Conponent -
98               Developffent and    Drainage Conpany will     SATISFACTORY                  UNSATISFACTORY
Trainng conVonent in produce revenues rftIdent                               PSR Ratng for Financal Covenants -
accorance with a    to oover at least O&M                                   SATISFACTORY
schedule acceptable                                                         SAThO water spply and
to BankIDA and
dsss and agree any wastewater utility conwares
eisions with        would review whether they
Bank/iDA.           would meet the covenanted
revenue requirements. If
they do not meet the
requirement thien wouid take
all necessary mnasures,
indudrng tariffadjustment.



48                                                                                   Annex C
Worfd
Bank
Covenmnts                                                                                         Lending Populatin PSR Date   Lending
hvJ.   Project Name                                                        outcome               Instftutional OavelopnmM Inpact  DefaIor 2000 US  Served             (US $   FY     Sector
ID                                                                                                                                        $                           ilin
Million  Milion              milion)
lnsotb"           Rnanchal Covenanis                                                                                             (Most Curnen PSRJ
43933 Sichuan Urban   - lmnplernnt or cause  - Water and wastewater  PSR Rating for Achievement of  - PSR RaUng for Institutionai  1.03  156    6.4       68/82000   152      1999 Environrrent
Environment. FY  to be InVemented the utilities will produce  Developffent Objectives -  StrengttiersngfTraining Com-ponent -
99              lnsftuifonaE       revenues suffident to cover SATISFACTORY             SATISFACTORY
Development and    at least O&M:
Traning conponent In
accordance with a
schedLde acceptable
to Bank/IDA and
discuss and agree any
revisions with the
Bank Group:
57352 Fourth Rural Water Supply. FY99    - Connenclng no later than  PSR Rating for Achievement of  - PSR Rating for Finandal Covenants -  1.03  47       6/14/2000  46       1999 Water Supply
the second fuD fiscal year of Develoment Objectives -  SATISFACTORY                                                                       & Sanitation
operatons, water dcarges  SATISFACTORY
wiv be established and
coDUected annually at a level
sutfident to cover O&M,
adrninlstrative costs, taxes,
arnd the greater of (a) interest
charges and depredation, or
(b) debt servlce requirement.



49                                                                                      Annex C
World
Con3nants                                                                                            Lending Populton   PSR Date   Lending
P   .   PoJect Names                                                          Outcome               nstitutonal Development hrpwct   Deflatcr   S US     Served             (US S    FY     S    r
MID/ion  Mmlllon              mnllion)
hitItonal         Finandial Covenants                                                                                                 (Most Current PSR)
Covenants
42109 Beipng            - Carry out        - BDC to generate rvenues  PSR Ratng for Achievement of  - PSR Ratng for Finandat Covenants -  100  349    5.4      av30/2000   349      2000 Environment
Environment tI, FY  insttutonal     from wastewater and      Development Objectives -      SATISFACTORY
00               devetopfrment plan to  drainage operabons   SATISFACTORY
consttute BDC as an  suffident to cover current
autonomous          operational exenses and
enterprise wivth te  depredaton charges or debt
governance structure  service payments, wtildcever
as spedtied in the  is greater.
ConVany Low, the full
autonorny to retain
and dispose of all
sewerage tarifs,
ownership of and
responsibilty for al
sewerage and
drainage fadlities in
Beifing urban cdstricts,
and begin
implentnbng the ptan
by Deceniber 31,
2001.
49436 Chongo,ing Urban  - Impiement the    - CMDC, FDC, and WWSC    PSR RaFtng for Achievement of  - PSR Ratng for Flnandat Covenants -  1.00  200    2.3       814/2000   200       2000 Water Supply
Environment. FY  Institutonal       to produce revenues      Development Objectives -      SATISFACTORY                                                                            & Sanitation
00               Developrnent and    suffident to cover at least  SATISFACTORY
Training coffWonent in O&M;
accodance wAth a
scheduAe acceptabie  - CUDC, FDC. andAWWSC
to Bank and discuss  mo evet the o theyawtud
and agee any       ffeet re covenanted
revAsions wth the  reenue requtents N
Bank;               they do not nmet the
requirement, then would take
- arfange for each  at necessary measures.
project dty to carry out indudng tariff adjustment.
its rmne-bound
investment program to
stngen its water
supply cdstribubon
system and
wastewater collection
systems with respect
to project investment.



50                                                                                      Annex C
Word
Bank
Covenants                                                                                            Lending Populin     PSR Date   Lending
mw-     Pr,Jeci Nan"e                                                         Outcane                nsfdonl Dwbpmeni impact         Defatt  20   US   Served               (US S    FY      Sector
Million  Million              Million)
nmdtstfml          Financial Coznants                                                                                                 (most Cunent PSR)
45910 Hebel UJrban      Implement the      - Water and wastewater   PSR Ratng for Achievement of  - PSR Rating for Finandal Covenants -  1.00  150    5.7       8J/25/2000  150      2000 Water Supply
Environment, FY  tnstibtonal         utlities will produce    Development Objectives -      SATISFACTORY                                                                            & Sanitaton
00               Developnment and    revenues suflicent to cover  SATISFACTORY
Trairing cDnxponent in at least O&M;
accordance seth a
schedule acceptable
to Bank/tDA and
discuss and agree any
revisions vith
BanWIDA.
Note: Project Status Ratings (PSR) are used as a proxy for Outcomre and Institutional Devetopment Ratings for ongoing projects.



51                                                                     Annex C
C. Performance Ratings and Conditionality, 1985-2000
{f~~~~~~~~~~                          f           r ;l  gWp 
IrI I
ot ~     ~ it  1!                   XX           p        X   ' 
Rural Water 1985 Water Supply 80  C  NA  S       |   Subrstanbal y  y  y  y         NA NA Likely  iNR lY                                   NR '1.33 10fi  NA
a Sanitation                       I                                                                             I 
Shanghai  19S87 Urban  145    C   NA      S          Modest  y   y   y  y           NA NA Likely iy   y                     S              S  j1.19 172   NA
Se"rrage      Development 
Liaoning  1991 Water Supply 78  C  NA    S           Negligible y  y            y   NA NA Uncertain|y  y                    HS IY          U   1l07 83  14.5 NA
Urban         & Sanitetion 
Infrastlructure
Beijing   1992 Environment 125  C  S     Moderaely y  Modest  y  y   y  y           S  S   Likely IY  y      NR S    S   S S   y   S   S   S  '1.06 132 5.4 7t2t19S99
Environment                              S                                                                                     !;
TianjinUrban 1992 Urban  100  A  |HS                                                S   HS 0y                S   HS HS S       IY  s   s       1.06 106 4.2 6/20000
Dev. S        Development                        jI
Environment.,I 
Rural Water 1992 WaterSupply 110  C  Is  S           Subrstanal y  y   y            U  S   Likely            S   NR HS NR S    ly  S   S   S  11.06 116   12t17/1998
Supply and    & Sanitabon.
Sanitation               a                                              ,                                                      i              :
Southem   1993 Environment 250  A  S              Y                                 S  S          jy  y      U   S   S   U     ,      S S      .05 263 12.5 6t16t2000
Jiarngsu:
Ermironment                                                                                                                    i
Zhqiang   1993 Urban   110    A  IS *y                                  y           S   S             y       NR NR  S       NR   y  S  S     105 116 60 2tt4t2000
Multiabmes    Development        I                                                                                a . 
ChangWhun  1993 WaterSupply 120  C  Au   U            uY Mbdest ly  y  y  y     y   U  S   Uncertainly  y    NR NR S     NR U  y   U      U  U  M.05 126 1.8 NA17/1998
Shagha  .97ra           14    C   NA     S.          Moet    y   y   y  yN              ALkl                                                    112       N



PSR Dabe        (Most Current PSR)                 8    8           8
Population Served         Million         rc          N    0      In                    _
Lending 2000 US S       
Million          o    _                                       8    E
Denator                                                 0      0 S8
-     OED Ratings ".
BORROWER                    ~~~~~~~~Project Management  U)  It             U)
BOR                                 I   x    z      U)   cn     1:~   ~~~~~~ U)  co  U)   In
PERFORMANCE           PSR Ratings          Implementaton      Z    Z      rn   Ur
Progress         0     )      In  to      I      U)     U)     D    U
Covenants             PM'VPIU
OED RatRngs                 n
Enviranmental PlUan
AeEnvironmentran
Con PSR Rangs             Resettlement
SAFEGAURDS L  j             Resettlemcet   I   r~~~    ~~~n (n  rn  a)  0)    In     cn      D    U
BANK                                  Monftorlng and           a
PERFORMANCE      j                           vlua0 n          z     z      (n    )     U)    In      w      rn   r
.              ~~~~Assessment/Manage               : 
Covenants           Resettlement                                              :           :
Audits
OED Ratings 4         Sustalnabillty
PS RatiCounterpart Funds                                     co U) 0 
PSR Ratings                               "   "      "                                  "    '
Financial Covenants |
Improve metering,
FINANCIAL                              bililng & collection
SUSTAINABILfrY                            TariAdjustment
Debt Service
Tarif Covenants5,                                     U     ,     U       ,~             ,   U
Depreciation
Maintenance
i                          Operatinns
INSTITUTIONAL        OED Ra0ngs
DEvELOPMENT I
IMPACT
Institutional
Covenants                  .        .               U,          U,             U      U,   U,
OED Ratingsm
OUTCOME       I
PSR Ratings RoI
Achievement of
Development
Objectives      _         .   _      _r     rn      w                  w U  U  U      U)   U)
Status                                                 <      <
Worid Bank Lending
(US $ mllion)                           eO                             0 u            U)   U
E  E                           E~~~~  E    F
Sector
U)  ui t                             -a  -w      -U
FY                                  sr    0     r5
P  it E                       VD          cj e     2O02
Project Name                         U) oo                                      _      A
(W fW )-W  IW    . U)U))Z, n            OW   U



53                                                                                      Annex C
Z                        rn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
'                         oo  a        .                                                                   '5||i
2a  -m                                                                                                                        f . I*  2 2  I
Water Supply     S Sanitation                                                                                                                                                  :
Seijirng    2000 Envinonment 349     A    S                  Y             y    y   y    y             S    S           IY    y   y    S   S    S    S      ly   S    S        11.00 349 5.4  8/AMt000
Envirnrnment|i
Chongqing   2000 Water Suppty 200    A    S                  |      IY        Y   Y    Y   Y           S S              | Y   y   y    s   B    s    s      |Y   s    s         . 00 200 2.3  8/4/200
Urban            & Sanilation                                                                                                                                                  ;
Envinrori
Hebei Urban 2000 WaterSupply 150     A    S                  |Y            Y    Y   Y    Y    Y        S    S           !y    y   y    s   s    s    s      |    s    s        !1.0   1o r  5.7  MM=/00
Environment      & Sanitation                                                                                                                           ni
Number of                                                    12            20   19   14  1 7  10  2                     jig   1 8  7                         116                    3259
Projects withj
Covenwants 
Share of                                 '155%                             i91% 86S% 64% 77% 45% 9%                     j86% 82% 32%                        173S
Projects vKith                                                                                                          j
CoJvenants,j!I
Ratings are from lup test Projen Status Repor
b Ratings given by Operatio Ebo   n Department of the Bank Annnex                                      S prSvides the definib.on of ratin3s.
A = Active; C = Completed.
HS = Highly Satisfadory; S = Safisfactory;, U = Unsatisfactory
NA = Not Available; NR = Not Rated
y = Covenant discussed in the Project Appraisal Document.
PMO/PIU = Prnet  Manageient Oftfice/ Projent Implementabon UnA
Total number of Projects = 22






55                                                                  Annex D
Annex D. Coverage and Quality of Service, 1986 and 1998
Water Supply     Sewerage  Continuous Water      DShIsfected
Bank Rnancing           Coverage       Coverage      Service (           sWanted      Populatfon   Total Urban
Province    PROVlNCElClty                                 (Y.)           (%A)           (%Y)              (%)        Served with   Population
WS (millions)  (millions)
Water    Wastevater   1986      1998      1989      1986      1998     1986     1998
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ s upply_                              _  _  _ _  _ _  _  _ _ _  _ _  _
Beijing n                      WW         87       100        86        100      100      100      100        5.4          5.4
Tianjin "                      WW         100       100       67        NA       100       99       99        4.2          4.2
Hebei        HEBEI                                      85       89         83        NA       NA       NA       NA         5.7          6.4
Hebei        Shljiazhuang                    WW        100       100        98        71       NA       100      100        1.3          1.3
Hebei        Handan              WS          WW         87       97                   98       97       100      100        0.8          0.8
Hebel        Tangshan            WS          WW        100       73                   82       100      100      100        0.7          1.0
Shanxi        SHANXI                                    93       84         74        NA       NA       NA       NA         4.7          5.6
Shanxi       Taiyuan                                    90       96         75        90       99       99       100        1.5          1.6
Inner Mongolia INNER MONGOLIA                           54       59         32        NA       NA       NA       NA         1.4          2.4
Inner Mongolia Hohhot                                   78        9         87        97       NA       98       100        0.6          6.2
Uaoning       LIAONING                                  81       90         63        NA       NA       NA       NA        14.5         16.1
Uaoning      Shenyang            WS                    100       100        85        58       62       100      100        3.6          3.6
Liaoning     Dalian                          WW         98       100                  89       99       100      100        2.2          2.2
Uaoning      Anshan                          WW         96       99                   84       99       100      100        1.3          1.3
Uaoning       Fushun                         WW         96       98                   100      100      99       100        1.3          1.3
Uaoning      Benxi                           WW         88       90                   96       97       99       100        0.7          0.8
Uaoning      Jinzhou             WS          WW        100       100        60        82       96       100      100        0.7          0.7
Uaoning      Yingkou             WS                    100       100                  65       96       100      100        0.6          0.6
Uaoning       Fuxin               WS                    96       98                   80       96       99       99         0.6          0.6
Jilin        JILIN                                      67       NA         43        NA       NA       NA       NA         5.3          5.3
Jilin         Changchun           WS         WW         84       NA         84        78       99       94       100        1.8          1.8
Heilongjiang  HEILONGJIANG                              62       81         44        NA       NA       NA       NA         6.4          7.9
Heilongjiang  Harbin                                    81       84         62        80       97       100      100        2.3          2.7
Shanghai      SHANGHAI            WS                   100       100                  86       99       99       100        8.5          8.5



56                                                                 Annex D
Water Supply     Sewerage Contfnuous Water       Share of
Bank Financing          Coverage       Coverage      Service lb)        Wate C)      Population   Total Urban
Province    PRO VINCEICity                               (%)            ()            (%)                          Served with  Population
Water                                                                                WS (millions)  (millions)
SupWey   Wastewater    1986     1998       1989     1986     1998     1986     1998
Shanghai     SHANGHAI                       WW                             64                                             8.5          8.5
Jiangsu      JIANGSU                                   98        98        71        NA       NA       NA      NA         12.5         12.8
Jiangsu      Zhenjiang                      WW         92       100        56        96      100      100      100        0.5          0.5
Jiangsu      Changzhou                      WW         64        97        85        93      100      100      100        0.8          0.9
Jiangsu      Wuxd                           WW         97       100                  88       99      100      100        1.1          1.1
Zhejiang     ZHEJIANG                                  89       100                  NA       NA       NA      NA         6.0          6.0
Zhejiang     Hangzhou            WS                    99       100                  86      100      100      100        1.6          1.6
Zhejiang     Ningbo              WS                    97       100                  98      100      100      100        0.6          0.6
Zhejiang     Wenzhou             WS                    97        NA                  92       NA      100      NA
Zhejiang     Shaoxing                                  81       100                  98      100      100      100        0.2          0.2
Anhui        ANHUI                                     83        96        69        NA       NA       NA      NA         5.9          6.1
Anhui        Hefei                                     95       100        67        89      100      100      100        1.2          1.2
Fujian       FUJIAN                                    91        96        66        NA      NA        NA      NA         4.6          4.8
Fujian       Fuzhou                                    NA        99        46        NA       98      100      100        1.3          1.3
Jiangxi      JIANGXI                                   88        93        63        NA       NA       NA      NA         4.2          4.5
Jiangxi      Nanchang                                  98       100        50        95       99      100      100        1.5          1.5
Shandong     SHANDONG                                  89        96        58        NA       NA       NA      NA         11.3         11.8
Shandong     Jinan               WS         WW         97       100        80        96       98      100      100        1.7          1.7
Shandong     Yantai                                    100      100                  NA      100       97      100        0.7          0.7
Shandong     Weihai                                    98        99                 100      100       99      100        0.3          0.3
Henan        HENAN                                     95        86        50        NA       NA       NA      NA         8.9          10.3
Henan        Luoyang             WS         WW         96        97                  96      100      100      100        0.9          0.9
Henan        Zhengzhou                                 100      100        47        90      100       99      100        1.3          1.3
Hubei        HUBEI                                     80        96        61        NA       NA       NA      NA         9.0          9.4
Hubei        Jinzhou             WS         WW         NA       100                  NA       99       NA      100        0.3          0.3
Hubel        Wuhan                          WW         98       100        45        99       98       88      100        3.1          3.1
Hubei        Huangshi                       WW         84        93                  NA       98       97      100        0.6          0.6



57                                                                Annex D
Bank Rnanclng    Water Supply    Sewerage Conffnuous Water       Share of
Bank Financing         Coverage      Coverage      Service            Wantect      Populaton   Total Urban
Province   PRO VINCEICIty                              (Y.)           (%/.)        (%(6)                         Served with  Populadion
WS (millions)  (millions)
sWappy   Wastewater   1986     1998      1989      1986     1998    1986     1998
Hubei        Shashi             WS         WW        NA       100                 NA       98      100      100       0.4          0.4
Hubei        Yichang                       WW        NA       100                 100      NA      100      100       0.4          0.4
Hubei        Xiangfan                      WW        82        97                 78       99      100      100       0.5          0.6
Hunan        HUNAN                                   92        98        59       NA       NA       NA      NA        5.7          5.8
Hunan        Changsha                                96       100        54       85       99      100      100       1.5          1.5
Guangdong    GUANGDONG                               89        97        83       NA       NA       NA      NA        18.2         18.8
Guangdong    Guangzhou                               100       99       100       75       100     100      100        3.7         3.7
Guangxi      GUANGXI                                 97        91        52       NA       NA       NA      NA        4.0          4.4
Guangxi      Nanning                       WW        99       100        44       95       100      98      100        1.0         1.0
Guangxi      Guilin                        WW        NA        99                 NA       100      99      100       0.4          0.5
Hainan       HAINAN                                  NA        94        48       NA       NA       NA      NA         1.3         1.4
Hainan       Haikou                                  NA       100        73       NA       98      100      100        0.6         0.6
Chongqing    CHONGQING          WS         WW        73        62        60       NA       99      100      100        2.3         3.7
Sichuan      SICHUAN                                 57        93        72       NA       NA       NA      NA         6.4         6.9
Sichuan      Zigong             WS         WW                  99                                                      0.4         0.4
Sichuan      Chengdu                       WW        NA        99        99       NA       99      100      100       2.1          2.1
Sichuan      Luzhou             WS                   52        74                 NA       100      99      100        0.2         0.3
Sichuan      Leshan             WS         WW        85        96                 NA       99      100      100       0.2          0.2
Sichuan      Deyang             WS                            100                                                      0.1         0.1
Guizhou      GUIZHOU                                 78        89        35       NA       NA       NA      NA         2.2         2.4
Guizhou      Guiyang                                 98        96        38       NA       NA      100      100        1.0         1.1
Yunnan       YUNNAN                                  90        92        43       NA       NA       NA      NA         2.7         2.9
Yunnan       Gejiu                         WW                 100                                                      0.2         0.2
Yunnan       Kunming            WS         WW        91        91        40       99       100      99      100        1.2         1.4
Yunnan       Quijing            WS         WW                 100                                                      0.3         0.3
Xizang       XIZANG                                  NA        NA        78       NA       NA       NA      NA
Xizang       Lazha                                   NA        NA        80       NA       NA       NA      NA



58                                                               Annex D
Share of
Water Supply    Sewerage Contfnuous Water     Disinfected
Bank Financing         Coverage       Coverage     Service l'         Waterl')     PopulaHon     Total Urban
Province   PROVINCEICIty                                (M) (%)                     ()             Wate)        Served with    Populalon
WS (millions)  (millions)
SWuappy  Wastewater   1986     1998      1989      1986     1998    1986     1998
Shaanxi      SHAANXI                                  85       95        62       NA       NA       NA      NA         4.2         4.4
Shaanxi      Sian                                    95        98        72       80       98       100     100       2.1          2.2
Gansu        GANSU                                   85        99        48       NA       NA       NA      NA         2.4         2.4
Gansu        Lanzhou                                 99        99        40       62       100      99      100        1.4         1.4
Qinghai      QINGHAI                                  95       85        28       NA       NA       NA      NA         0.6         0.7
Qinghai      Xining                                   95       85        35       100      NA       97      NA         0.6         0.7
Ningxia      NINGXIA                                 68        74        46       NA       NA       NA      NA         0.7         1.0
Ningxia      Yinchuan                                87        96        38       100      100      99      100        0.4         0.4
Xinjiang     XINJIANG                                 30       84        50       NA       NA       NA      NA         3.4         4.0
Xinjiang     Ulumuqi                                 NA        90        63       NA       100      99      100        1.6         1.7
National Average/                        82       95        65        90      99       99       99
Median
(a) Data for 1995 shown in 1998 column.
(b) Compliance with water service pressure standards.
(c) Compliance with bacteriological standards.
NA = Not Available



59                                      Annex E
Annex E. Efficiency of Service, 1986 and 1998
Unaccounted-   water Supply
Bank Financing   for Water     Hous peh o     Populafton   Total Urban
Province   PRO VINCEI                       (%         Hosehoeds      Served with  Population
City                                     Served m     WS (millions)  (millions)
Water Waste-   1986   1998   1986    1998
_________ _________ Supply  water
Beijing (a)            WW       8     8      3.6     3.2        5.4          5.4
Tianjin '8              WW      5     18     4.2     3.1        4.2          4.2
Hebei      HEBEI                          7      10     4.7     6.1        5.7          6.4
Hebei      Shijiazhuang           WW      6      10     4.5     6.2        1.3          1.3
Hebei      Handan          WS     WW      4      8      3.1     3.9        0.8          0.8
Hebei      Tangshan        WS     WW      7      8      5.3     5.8        0.7          1.0
Shanxi     SHANXI                         4      7      4.2     5.3        4.7          5.6
Shanxi     Taiyuan                        3      5      3.6     3.7        1.5          1.6
Mongolia   MONGOLIA                       6      10     5.7     10.7       1.4          2.4
Inner      Hohhot                         5      9      4.7     16.0       0.6          6.2
Mongolia
Uaoning    LIAONING                       10     16     8.2     7.9       14.5          16.1
Liaoning   Shenyang        WS             9      15     8.1     7.2        3.6          3.6
Liaoning   Dalian                 WW      13     21     8.6     5.5        2.2          2.2
Uaoning    Anshan                 WW      10     12     8.1     7.7        1.3          1.3
Liaoning   Fushun                 WW      7     NA      7.9     6.4        1.3          1.3
Liaoning   Benxi                  WW      7      11     7.1     7.1        0.7          0.8
Liaoning   Jinzhou         WS     WW      13     10     8.1     9.9        0.7          0.7
Uaoning    Yingkou         WS             9      22     6.2     5.7        0.6          0.6
Liaoning   Fuxin           WS             11     17     9.6     9.9        0.6          0.6
Jilin     JILIN                           14     27     6.2     8.5        5.3          5.3
Jilin      Changchun       WS     WW      13     24     5.3     6.1        1.8          1.8
Heilongjiang HEILONGJIANG                 10     14     8.0     7.4        6.4          7.9
Heilongliang Harbin                       8      27     7.5     4.0        2.3          2.7
Shanghai   SHANGHAI        WS             10     18     3.1     3.0        8.5          8.5
Shanghai   SHANGHAI               WW                            1.4        8.5          8.5
Jiangsu    JIANGSU                        9      12     4.7     4.3        12.5         12.8
Jiangsu    Zhenjiang              WW      6      12     5.7     3.6        0.5          0.5
Jiangsu    Changzhou              WW      6      9      6.1     3.3        0.8          0.9
Jiangsu    Wuxi                   WW      6      8      3.1     2.8        1.1          1.1
Zhejiang   ZHEJIANG                       7      19     3.9     4.1        6.0          6.0
Zhejiang   Hangzhou        WS             5      19     4.9     3.4        1.6          1.6
Zhejiang   Ningbo          WS             10     22     1.9     5.1        0.6          0.6
Zhejiang   Wenzhou         WS             10     NA     1.0     NA
Zhejiang   Shaoxing                       9      13     4.5     6.7        0.2          0.2
Anhui      ANHUI                          6      10     4.1     2.9        5.9          6.1
Anhui      Hefei                           5     8      4.5     2.8        1.2           1.2
Fujian     FUJIAN                         6      NA     5.6     5.4        4.6          4.8
Fujian     Fuzhou                         10     19     4.6     4.0        1.3          1.3



60                                      Annex E
Unaccounted-   Water Supply
Bank Flnancing   for Water    staff per 1000   Pplto         oa   ra
Prownce  PRO VINCEI   Bal   nn    g      (YO)        HCouseholds    Population   Total Urban
Province    PRVNE                                        oshls         Served with   Population
cityd WS (millions)  (millions)
Water Waste-   1986   1998    1986    1998
_____ ____ ____ ____ supply   water
Jiangxi    JIANGXI                         5      18     3.9     4.9        4.2          4.5
Jiangxi    Nanchang                        5      12     3.4     3.4        1.5          1.5
Shandong   SHANDONG                        7      14     6.2     6.4        11.3         11.8
Shandong   Jinan           WS      WW      9      8      4.0     5.9        1.7          1.7
Shandong   Yantai                          7     21      7.7     6.2        0.7          0.7
Shandong   Weihai                          1      5     10.6     5.4        0.3          0.3
Henan      HENAN                           7      16     5.0     7.5        8.9          10.3
Henan      Luoyang         WS      WW      6      11     4.4     5.2        0.9          0.9
Henan      Zhengzhou                       5     15      6.2     8.2        1.3          1.3
Hubei      HUBEI                           6      15     5.2     5.8        9.0          9.4
Hubei      Jinzhou         WS      WW     NA      7      NA      2.9        0.3          0.3
Hubei      Wuhan                   WW      5      17     4.0     5.5        3.1          3.1
Hubei      Huangshi                WW      7     20      7.0     3.5        0.6          0.6
Hubei      Shashi          WS      WW      6     20      5.4     6.8        0.4          0.4
Hubei      Yichang                 WW      7      14     NA      6.1        0.4           0.4
Hubei      Xiangfan                WW      5      7      5.8     8.6        0.5           0.6
Hunan      HUNAN                           8      16     4.8     5.3        5.7           5.8
Hunan      Changsha                        10     19     2.7     2.7        1.5           1.5
Guangdong GUANGDONG                        6      12     4.4     4.2        18.2         18.8
Guangdong Guangzhou                        4      11     4.3     3.9        3.7           3.7
Guangxi    GUANGXI                         9      7      3.9     5.5        4.0           4.4
Guangxi    Nanning                 WW      11     8      4.5     4.6        1.0           1.0
Guangxi    Guilin                  WW      6      8      3.9     3.6        0.4           0.5
Hainan     HAINAN                         NA      22     NA      10.2       1.3           1.4
Hainan     Haikou                          11     26     5.0     6.8        0.6           0.6
Chongqing  CHONGQING       WS       WW     10     9      4.7     4.0        2.3           3.7
Sichuan    SICHUAN                         8      16     5.8     4.3        6.4           6.9
Sichuan    Zigong          WS      WW                                       0.4           0.4
Sichuan    Chengdu                 WW      8      19     NA      2.9        2.1           2.1
Sichuan    Luzhou          WS              7      10     3.9     3.1        0.2           0.3
Sichuan    Leshan          WS      WW      4      26     3.3     6.7        0.2           0.2
Sichuan    Deyang          WS                                               0.1           0.1
Guizhou    GUIZHOU                         19     7      2.8     3.9        2.2           2.4
Guizhou    Guiyang                         22     2      2.4     3.0        1.0           1.1
Yunnan     YUNNAN                          6      12     2.6     3.6        2.7           2.9
Yunnan     Gejiu                   WW                                       0.2           0.2
Yunnan     Kunming         WS      WW      7      15     2.4     4.2        1.2           1.4
Yunnan     Quijing         WS      WW                                       0.3           0.3
)Xzang     XIZANG                         NA     NA      NA      NA
Xizang     Lazha                          NA     NA      NA      NA
Shaanxi    SHAANXI                         8      10     3.9     4.7        4.2           4.4
Shaanxi    Sian                            9      9      3.6     4.0        2.1           2.2
Gansu      GANSU                           4      4      7.8     7.8        2.4           2.4
Gansu      Lanzhou                         5      4      7.6     6.4        1.4           1.4



61                                      Annex E
Unaccounted-    Water Supply
Bank Financing   for Water    Staff per 1000  Populaon      Tol Urban
Province       City                         (v/)         Served 9h)    Served with  Population
city                        Served M    ~~~~~~~~~WS (millions)  (millions)
Water Waste-   1986   1998    1986    1998
_____ ____ ____ ____ Supply   water
Qinghai    QINGHAI                         5      8      3.2     4.8        0.6          0.7
Qinghai    Xining                          5      8      3.2     4.8        0.6          0.7
Ningxia    NINGXIA                        13     18      3.9     8.1        0.7          1.0
Ningxia    Yinchuan                        8     15      3.1     6.0        0.4          0.4
Xinjiang   XINJIANG                        3      4     10.9     3.7        3.4          4.0
Xinjiang   Ulumuqi                        NA     NA      NA      1.6        1.6          1.7
National Average/           8             5.1     5.4
Median
(a) Data for 1995 shown in 1998 column.
(b) The staff productivity indudes water supply staff and no sewerage staff.
NA = Not Available






63                                       Annex F
Annex F. Sustainability of Service, 1986 and 1998
RNANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL
Bank Rnancing    Workin   Share of Wastewater  Population   Total Urban
Province  PRO VNCEICIty                    Ratio        Treated (%)     Served with   Population
Water  Waste- 1986 1998     1989     1998    WS (millions)  (milions)
Supply   water 1986_t998_1989         1998
Beijing (a)            WW      0.90  1.23  13      22        5.4          5.4
Tianjin "              WW      NA    1.16  19      59        4.2          4.2
Hebei      HEBEI                          0.78  0.98  4        31       5.7           6.4
Hebei      Shqlazhuang            WW      0.60  NA   2        20        1.3           1.3
Hebei      Handan         WS      WW      0.91  1.06                    0.8          0.8
Hebel      Tangshan       WS      WW      0.60  0.99                    0.7           1.0
Shanxi     SHANXI                         0.89  0.93  20       32       4.7           5.6
Shanxi     Taiyuan                        0.81  0.87  32       37       1.5           1.6
Inner      INNER                          0.90  1.01  34       19       1.4           2.4
Mongolia   MONGOLIA
Inner      Hohhot                         0.86  0.98  35      37        0.6           6.2
Mongolia
Liaoning   LIAONING                       0.86  1.01  14       16       14.5          16.1
Liaoning   Shenyang       WS              0.58  1.00  NA       15       3.6           3.6
Liaoning   Dalian                 WW      1.62  1.04                    2.2           2.2
Liaoning   Anshan                 WW      1.13  1.02                    1.3           1.3
Uaoning    Fushun                 WW      0.86  0.90                    1.3           1.3
Liaoning   Benxi                  WW      0.83  1.00                    0.7           0.8
Liaoning   Jinzhou        WS      WW      0.85  0.98  NA       28       0.7           0.7
Uaoning    Yingkou        WS              0.89  1.02                    0.6           0.6
Liaoning   Fuxin          WS              0.74  1.01                    0.6           0.6
Jilin      JILIN                          0.94  1.11  5        6        5.3           5.3
Jilin      Changchun      WS      WW      0.99  1.20  NA       4        1.8           1.8
Heilongjlang HEILONGJIANG                 0.89  0.95  55       33       6.4           7.9
Hellongjiang Harbin                       0.85  1.17  3        NA       2.3           2.7
Shanghai   SHANGHAI       WS              0.71  1.01                    8.5           8.5
Shanghai   SHANGHAI               WW      1.00  0.81  63       77       8.5           8.5
Jiangsu    JIANGSU                        0.70  0.99  23       47       12.5          12.8
Jiangsu    Zhenjiang              WW      0.66  1.00  8        34       0.5           0.5
Jiangsu    Changzhou              WW      0.78  1.00                    0.8           0.9
Jiangsu    Wuxi                   WW      0.70  1.03                    1.1           1.1
Zhejiang   ZHEJIANG                       0.79  1.02                    6.0           6.0
Zhejiang   Hangzhou       WS              0.95  0.98  26       68       1.6           1.6
Zhejiang   Ningbo         WS              0.80  1.23                    0.6           0.6
Zhejiang   Wenzhou        WS              0.86  NA
Zhejiang   Shaoxing                       0.70  1.00                    0.2           0.2
Anhui      ANHUI                          0.72  1.08  NA       41       5.9           6.1
Anhui      Hefei                          0.73  1.01  NA       93       1.2           1.2
Fujian     FUJIAN                         0.79  0.95  3        20       4.6           4.8
Fujian     Fuzhou                         0.78  0.86  1        20       1.3           1.3
Jiangxi    JIANGXI                        0.59  0.95  NA       9        4.2           4.5



64                                       Annex F
FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL
Bank Financing   Working  Share of Wastewater  Populaton   Total Urban
Province  PROVINCEICIty                   Rato (bF     Treated (%)     Served with   Population
Water  Waste-                               WS (millions)  (millions)
Suppy   water  1986 1998    1989     1998
Jiangxi    Nanchang                      0.51  0.96  NA       NA       1.5           1.5
Shandong   SHANDONG                      0.73  0.87  2        21       11.3          11.8
Shandong   Jinan          WS      WW     0.73  NA    NA       30       1.7           1.7
Shandong   Yantai                        0.77  0.99                    0.7          0.7
Shandong   Weihai                        0.88  0.98                    0.3          0.3
Henan      HENAN                         0.92  1.02  9        12       8.9           10.3
Henan      Luoyang        WS      WW     0.61  0.91                    0.9          0.9
Henan      Zhengzhou                     0.98  1.06  10       1        1.3           1.3
Hubei      HUBEI                         0.68  1.02  6        29       9.0          9.4
Hubei      Jinzhou        WS      WW     NA    0.91                    0.3          0.3
Hubei      Wuhan                  WW     0.65  1.00  10       25       3.1          3.1
Hubel      Huangshi               WW     0.81  1.00                    0.6          0.6
Hubei      Shashi         WS      WW     0.76  1.00                    0.4          0.4
Hubei      Yichang                 WW    0.70  0.81                    0.4           0.4
Hubei      Xiangfan               WW     0.62  0.97                    0.5           0.6
Hunan      HUNAN                         0.50  1.07  3        20       5.7           5.8
Hunan      Changsha                      0.67  1.19  14       24       1.5           1.5
Guangdong GUANGDONG                       0.65  0.98  6       19       18.2          18.8
Guangdong Guangzhou                      0.63  0.97. NA       22       3.7           3.7
Guangxi    GUANGXI                       0.49  0.92  19       37       4.0           4.4
Guangxi    Nanning                WW     0.46  0.85  16       27       1.0           1.0
Guangxi    Guilin                 WW     0.54  0.93                    0.4           0.5
Hainan     HAINAN                         NA   1.15  NA       24       1.3           1.4
Hainan     Haikou                        0.54  1.04  NA       29       0.6           0.6
Chongqing  CHONGQING      WS      WW      1.02  0.93  NA      44       2.3           3.7
Sichuan    SICHUAN                       0.80  1.05  0        10       6.4           6.9
Sichuan    Zigong         WS      WW                                   0.4           0.4
Sichuan    Chengdu                WW     0.66  0.99  NA       19       2.1           2.1
Sichuan    Luzhou         WS              0.72  1.07                   0.2           0.3
Sichuan    Leshan         WS      WW     0.61  0.87                    0.2           0.2
Sichuan    Deyang         WS                                           0.1           0.1
Gulzhou    GUIZHOU                       0.77  1.06  5        2        2.2           2.4
Guizhou    Guiyang                       0.77  1.13  7        1        1.0           1.1
Yunnan     YUNNAN                         0.64  1.00  NA      39       2.7           2.9
Yunnan     Gejiu                  WW                                   0.2           0.2
Yunnan     Kunming        WS      WW     0.63  1.09  NA       65       1.2           1.4
Yunnan     Quijing        WS      WW                                   0.3           0.3
Xizang     XIZANG                         NA   NA    NA       NA
Xizang     Lazha                          NA   NA    NA       NA
Shaanxi    SHAANXI                        0.78  1.05  12      12       4.2           4.4
Shaanxi    Sian                          0.75  1.07  22       22       2.1           2.2
Gansu      GANSU                          0.74  0.93  48      22       2.4           2.4
Gansu      Lanzhou                        0.69  0.90  19      20       1.4           1.4
Qinghai    QINGHAI                        0.60  0.87  NA      NA       0.6           0.7



65                                      Annex F
FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL
Bank FInancing  Workin   Share of Wastewater  Population  Total Urban
Province  PROV7NCEICity                  Ratio (bf    Treated ()     Served with   Populaffon
Water  Waste-  ,.6 1998    1989     1998    WS (millions)  (millions)
Watery  waste- 1986 1998   1989     1998
Supply water
Qinghai    Xining                        0.60  0.87  NA      NA       0.6          0.7
Ningxia    NINGXIA                       0.70  0.98  NA      18       0.7          1.0
Ningxia    Yinchuan                      0.67  0.95  NA      26       0.4          0.4
Xinjiang   XINJIANG                      0.93  1.16 22       60       3.4          4.0
Xinjiang   Ulumuqi                       0.83  1.00  NA      67       1.6          1.7
National Average/             0.78  1.01  16      28
Median
(a) Data for 1995 shown in 1998 column.
(b) Cash operating Expenditure/Cash Operating Revenue.
NA = Not Available






67                                                               Annex G
Annex G. Funding Sources for Water Supply and Wastewater Projects
Funding Sources (US$ million)                                   Funding Sources (%/.)
IDj    Project Name    FY            Total                Pr-ovincial,        CmuiesWrdProvincial,
I/rDl  Project Name   FY    Total   Wortd   Other National County &  Industrial Communides Bank   Other National County &  Industrial Communities
Financing  Bank Donors Govt     Municipal Enterprises andividuals L  ding Donors Govt  Municipal Enterprises  and
Lending                  Govt.             Individuals Lending                  Govt              Individuals
3438 Rural Water       1985   210      80      12     2        35                   82        38      6       1       16        0          39
3449 Shanghai Sewerage 1987   373      145                    228                             39      0       0       61        0           0
3460 Uaoning Urban     1991   129      78                      51                             60      0       0       40        0           0
Infrastructure
3564 Beijing Environment 1992  305     125     2              124        54                   41      1      0        41        18          0
3568 Tianjin Urban Dev.  1992  195     100                     78        17                   51      0       0       40         9          0
& Environment.
3587 RuraiWaterSupply 1992     189     110                     42                   37        58      0       0       22         0         20
and Sanitation
3580 Southem Jiangsu   1993   588      250                     56       282                   43      0       0       10        48          0
Environment
3473 Zhejiang Mulbcities 1993  231     110                    121                             48      0       0       52         0          0
3509 Changchun Water   1993
Supplyand                266     120            31      116                             45      0      11       43         0          0
Environmental
Project
3586 Shanghai          1994   457      160                    297                             35      0       0       65         0          0
Environment
3598 Uaonling Urban    1995   351      110                    241                             31      0       0       69         0          0
Environment
3599 Yunnan            1996   320      150                    166        4                    47      0       0       52         1          0
Environment
3602 Hubei Environment 1996   385      150                    150        86                   39      0       0       39        22          0
Project
3648 Second Shanghai   1996   668      250                    418                             37      0       0       63         0          0
Sewerage



68                                                             Annex F
Funding Sources (US$ million)                                 Funding Sources (X)
Proj.  Project Name    FY            Total               Provincial,Prvnil
0D                          Total  World   Other National County &  Industrial Communities World  Other Naffonal County   Industrial Communitfes
Rnancing  Bank   Donors Govt. Munkipal Enterprises Individuals Land   Donors Govt    Municipal Enterprises Indiduand
Lending                 Govt.              niiul         edn                  Govt.              niiul
3637 Natonal Rural    1997    137     70                     33                   33        51     0       0       24        0          24
Water III
36414 Guangxi Urban   1998    175     92                     76         3          4        53     0       0       44        2          2
Environment
40185 Shandong        1998    218     95                     123                            44     0       0       56        0          0
Environment
43933 Sichuan Urban   1999    347     152                    195                            44     0       0       56        0          0
Environment
57352 Fourth RuralWater 1999  92      46                     23                   23        50     0       0       25        0          25
Supply
42109 Beijing Environment 2000  1255  349     25    186      157       183        356       28     2      15       13        15         28
II
49436 Chongqing Urban  2000   536     200                    336                            37     0       0       63        0          0
Environment
45910 Hebei Urban     2000    293     150                    143                            51     0       0       49        0          0
Environment
TOTAL                   7718    3092    39     218     3206      628        535       40      1      3       42         8          7



69                                          Annex H
Annex H. Cumulative Bank Lending Per Capita by
Province/City
GDP Per Capita    Per capita lending
1998
Chongqing                    714                44
Guangxi                      963                36
Sichuan                     1068                46
Changchun                   1073                67
Hebei                       1126                46
Yunnan                      1389                51
Hubel                       1422                29
Llaoning                    1499                 10
Shandong                    1779                26
Tianjin                     1788                 9
Beijing                     1991                41
Zhejiang                    2180                 23
Jiangsu                     2303                 17
Shanghai                    3411                66
The data is for Water Supply and Wastewater
Population figures are for only cties/municipalities served by the
project






IBRD 32118
70'           80'                       IS0          110-          lOY           130-
-.                     RUSSIAN FEDERATION             et
>_ >                                sj\                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~50'
KAZAKHSTAN                                                              2 ,  -0,
F*  -      .             _               '    _--, I 
r '-. S                                          Xt .1        HEILONGJJAJ4O  5
. '  "_...     ;                          M O N G O L I A            rj 
K  KYRGYZ  -. J
- R  REPUBLIC  '  r                                                 /     1          l   Io
9t       XJ"J181,XG~~~~~~X  Nw Jt - lA, N/C,ING                                              40-
0   e         (; A N 5 U                  >     ,</        X   S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E P.  Japaon
1bs map wns pnodlld                              / f t -> j5HXEIX               MK~~~6ANSUOREA1
.i,Z  .,  i4 .1 V                    j                                   w.  H tgSJNO;- I 
hEYN- -XI                            N       JIAN U
. ~~~~~X I z A  11;.-^ ANHIt GEosS 0
LIAONING  DEM.   0,_
XI0IA                                                            USioNEOP     o e s oI
CHINA           8 <          b      8~~~~~~~~~~~~SCHA  HUNANgW
SED REVIEW OF-WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE  1  \  (<auizHoue    4    i     c2
rUSs 291 ROVINCE R CtTY IN1 99S USPRICES   POVINCE bONDARIES   st  G U  N G X | V  G UAC hG  i a a
E~~~~OE
_-IB00            t t   tv s >    47          <   [ HO~~~~NG KN
CHINoDArA                .                      tHAILAN U \ 0 aAINAHN HINAN
FUJIAN
TO THE WATER SUPPLY AND WASTEWATER SECTOR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANYAD30
-1200  CIEINA
OED REVIEW OF WORLD BANK ASSISTANCE                                             by~~~~~t OM. EP.iNA
TO THE WATERN SUPPYAANTWASEWATRDSETORC
t                                                              10, 11 50            22
1200~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OTBR20



