 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14852

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                      Date Posted: 12/16/2015

              Country: Bosnia and Herzegovina
            Project ID: P088663                                                   Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Health Sector          Project Costs (US$M):                           43.8                  n/a
                        Enhancement Project
  L/C Number:                                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                      17.0                23.43
      Sector Board:       Health, Nutrition and      Cofinancing (US$M):                      14.0                  n/a
                          Population
          Cofinanciers: Council of Europe          Board Approval Date :                               03/31/2005
                        Development Bank                  Closing Date:             12/15/2010         12/31/2014
                        (CEB)
         Sector(s):     Health (55%); Central government administration (20%); Tertiary education (20%); Other
                        social services (5%)
         Theme(s):      Health system performance (100%)


Prepared by:              Reviewed by:             ICR Review               Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Judyth L. Twigg           Robert Mark Lacey       Joy Behrens               IEGHD

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The project's original objectives, as stated in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA, p. 19), were "to enhance
    health system efficiency by expanding and enhancing the family medicine model of primary health care, building
    management capacity in the sector, and strengthening the policy making process through the development and
    implementation of a system for monitoring and evaluating sector performance and addressing inefficiencies of
    the sector."

    The Project Appraisal Document (p. 6) states the objectives somewhat differently: "to improve overall results for
    non-communicable diseases as measured by proxy indicators and: (i) enhance health system efficiency through
    restructuring and strengthening of primary health care along the family medicine model; and (ii) strengthen the
    policy making process through the development and implementation of a system for monitoring and evaluating
    health sector performance.

    Per OPCS guidelines, this review will verify achievement of the original objectives as stated in the DCA,
    acknowledging enhancing health system efficiency as the primary objective and the other elements as
    intermediate objectives.

    At an Additional Financing (AF) approved in March 2011, the objectives were revised: "to (i) expand and enhance
    the family medicine model of primary health care; (ii) build management capacity in the sector; and (iii)
    strengthen the policy making process through the development and implementation of a system for monitoring
    and evaluating sector performance." This revision eliminated the primary original objective to enhance overall
    health system efficiency and elevated the original intermediate objectives to primary objectives. At the AF, US$
    15.36 million, or 65.6% of total Bank financing, had been disbursed.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
Date of Board Approval: 03/22/2011

c. Components:

   The project contained three components (only IDA financing is shown at both appraisal and closure, as the
   project continues with Council of Europe Development Bank (CEB) and government financing):

   1. Primary Health Care Restructuring (appraisal: US$ 29.29 million, of which IDA Credit US$ 10.86 million; AF:
   US$ 5.49 million; actual: US$ 10.79 million from the original Credit and US$ 6.78 million from the AF, for a total
   IDA disbursement of US$ 17.57 million). This component aimed at restructuring primary health care to address
   sectoral inefficiencies and prepare the sector to cope with the growing burden of non-communicable diseases
   and other core health issues in a cost-effective manner. It was intended to restructure specialist-based primary
   care into family medicine units, reducing the unnecessarily high rate of cases treated at hospitals. Activities were
   to include training programs in family medicine for doctors and nurses; training of faculty of the Family Medicine
   Cathedras in universities; refurbishing and equipping of family medicine facilities; communication activities to
   inform policy makers, providers, and the public about the reform; and introduction of new performance-based
   payment mechanisms for primary health care (developed under a prior Basic Health Project).

   2. Improvement of Health Sector Management Capacity (appraisal: US$ 2.37 million, of which IDA Credit US$
   1.81 million; AF: US$ 1.14 million; actual: US$ 1.39 million from the original Credit and US$ 0.72 million from the
   AF, for a total IDA disbursement of US$ 2.11 million). This component was to support ongoing efforts in the
   sector to build capacity for managing and implementing changes in service delivery at various levels.
   Professional development programs were to include training in management and oversight for hospital managers
   and board members, and health center managers; change management training for family medicine teams;
   academic degree training for faculty of health management; and development of purchasing and contracting skills
   for staff of health insurance funds. Technical assistance was to be provided to carry out an accounting and
   internal control review of Health Insurance Funds, and for hospital restructuring.

   3. Health Policy Formulation and Project Support (appraisal: US$ 8.00 million, of which IDA Credit US$ 4.33
   million; AF: US$ 2.87 million; actual: US$ 2.29 million from the original Credit and US$ 1.46 from the AF, for a
   total IDA disbursement of US$ 3.75 million). This component was to strengthen capacity for data collection and
   analysis in support of sectoral policy formulation and to guide priority setting and resource allocation. Activities
   were to include introduction of regular sectoral performance reviews; M&E activities including definition of a list of
   sector-wide indicators and the organization of surveys and studies on key issues, and the organization of "health
   summits" at which the results of the performance reviews would be discussed; the introduction of health
   innovation funds, with grants made available on a competitive basis to support jump-starting of hospital sector
   restructuring, improvements in the continuum of care, and innovative public health interventions from
   non-governmental and youth organizations; and technical assistance, training, limited office equipment, and
   recurrent costs.

   Although the ICR is not clear on this point, the PAD (p. 11) states that the project was implemented by two
   separate entities, the Ministries of Health of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (FBiH) and of the
   Republika Srpska (RS), which are the two autonomous entities comprising Bosnia and Herzegovina.

   At the Additional Financing, revisions were made to the components:

   1. Primary Health Care Restructuring: Scaling up of activities related to training programs in family medicine,
   development of additional clinical guidelines for family medicine practitioners, increasing the number of
   rehabilitated family medicine offices, and communication efforts focused on preventive programs. New activities
   related to supporting the Institute of Public Health to develop programs and monitoring tools for
   non-communicable disease prevention, piloting incentive-based payments for provision of preventive services,
   training of community nurses, and supporting accreditation processes for family medicine teams.

   2. Improvement of Health Sector Management Capacity: Scaling up of activities related to training of hospital and
   health center managers, change management training for family medicine teams, and academic training for
   health management faculty. New activities related to institutionalization of Health Management Centers.

   3. Health Policy Formulation and Project Support: Continued support for monitoring and evaluation activities and
   project implementation.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
   Project Cost, Financing, and Borrower Contribution: Planned financing included a US$ 17.0 million IDA Credit,
   US$ 14.0 million from the Council of Europe Development Bank (CEB), and US$ 8.9 million from the
   government. This left a US$ 3.9 million financing gap for the project, which was anticipated to be filled by the
   Government of Japan (for medical equipment for family medicine clinics). The ICR does not provide information
   on eventual financing from Japan. Additional financing was approved in March 2011 in the amount of US$ 10.00
   million from the Council of Europe Development Bank and US$ 9.5 million from IDA, to allow scaling up of key
   original project activities and to add several new activities. The Bank actually contributed US$ 23.43 million (US$
   14.47 million of the original Credit, and US$ 8.96 million of the AF). The ICR does not provide actual financing
   amounts for the Council of Europe Development Bank, as project implementation is continuing with its financing
   (with scheduled closure on December 31, 2015). It is not clear why IDA's involvement was discontinued before
   the overall project was completed. The government contributed US$ 5.57 million of a planned US$ 8.9 million
   contribution. According to the ICR (p. 27), the difference between planned and actual costs reflects exchange
   rate fluctuations between the Euro and the US dollar. The Operations Portal indicates that US$ 65,814 of the
   original Credit was cancelled, and US$ 240,560 of the AF remained undisbursed at closure.

   Dates:
     In November 2010, the closing date was extended by six months to June 15, 2011, to allow processing of
       the Additional Financing.
     In March 2011, a Level II restructuring incorporated the Additional Financing, revised the objectives and
       results framework, reallocated proceeds, changed the environmental safeguards category from "C" to "B,"
       and extended the closing date from June 15, 2011 to December 31, 2014.
     On December 31, 2011, according to the Operations Portal, the original Credit closed. The AF closed as
       scheduled on December 31, 2014.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

   Relevance of the original objectives is rated High. The objectives are relevant to the World Bank Group's
   Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for the fiscal years 2012-2015, which specifically focuses on expanding
   access to primary health care through family medicine, and the need to increase equity, efficiency, and quality of
   governance in the sector. At appraisal, the health system's main challenges included financial sustainability,
   inefficient service delivery, limited institutional capacity and institutional fragmentation, and inequities in access to
   care. The country's epidemiological profile was dominated by non-communicable diseases (NCDs). The original
   objectives responded directly to this country context with their focus on development of family medicine, which
   would more effectively and efficiently prevent and treat NCDs. The objectives were also highly relevant to the
   Country Assistance Strategy (2004) and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (2003) at the time of appraisal, with
   their emphasis on improved health sector management, better access to quality health care, reconfiguration of
   the health care delivery system to reduce inefficiencies, reform of health financing, and building of institutional
   capacity. The inclusion of strengthened monitoring and evaluation in the objectives was highly appropriate, as
   complete and accurate data are a prerequisite for effective reform of primary care and enhanced sectoral
   efficiency.

   Relevance of the revised objectives is rated Substantial. Although the revised objectives removed the initial
   discrepancies in wording between the credit agreement and the PAD, they also eliminated reference to increased
   health sector efficiency as an objective. While the expansion of the family medicine model is inherently expected
   to increase efficiency, overall sector efficiency improvement was not an overly ambitious expectation. Increased
   sectoral efficiency should have been a demonstrable outcome of project interventions, responsive to the
   2012-2015 CPS (that calls for improvements in the quality of public spending), particularly since planned project
   activities included preliminary steps toward hospital restructuring as well as primary care enhancement.

b. Relevance of Design:

   Relevance of Design is rated Substantial under both the original and revised objectives. In addition to
   interventions directly related to upgrading the quality of family medicine institutions and training, the project also
   appropriately included necessary activities for strengthening of the policy environment governing family medicine,
   improving managerial capacity at all levels, upgrading monitoring and evaluation systems, and perhaps most
   importantly, communication and persuasion of a variety of constituencies on the benefits of the family medicine
   model. However, project design did not specifically account for the highly fragmented nature of the country's
   health systems (responsibility for health services in the FBiH is delegated to its ten cantons, but is centralized in
   the single Ministry of Health and Health Insurance Fund in RS). Design also did not include provisions for
   necessary capacity strengthening and staffing for the Project Coordination Units in the health ministries.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   Enhance health system efficiency /address inefficiencies of the sector (original primary objective ) is rated
   Modest, as outcome data related to sectoral efficiency are not reported.

   Outputs

   Several policy and legal frameworks related to sectoral efficiency were introduced, including a Strategy for
   Primary Health Care (2006), Strategy for Secondary and Tertiary Health Care (2007), Law on Health Care
   (2009), and a law on health insurance. A Strategic Plan for Strengthening of the Health System until 2020 is
   being prepared.

   Implementation of selected preventive services (for example, hypertension, breast cancer, prostate enlargement,
   smoking, etc.) was piloted using a pay-for-performance model by family medicine teams in four cantons in FBiH,
   doubling the target of two cantons. A total of 100 teams participated, divided evenly between a control and
   experimental group; the final report produced at completion indicated significantly better performance by the 50
   teams receiving the payment incentives (ICR, p. 17). The ICR (p. 14) also reports that a diagnosis-related group
   system was introduced in hospitals, but no details are provided. The project team later confirmed that the project
   did not extend its support to hospitals.

   Outcomes

   The ratio of FM doctors to non-FM doctors in primary health centers decreased in RS from 1:1.56 in 2005 to
   1:0.77 in 2010, and in FBiH was 1:1.1 in 2010, meeting the targets of 1:1.1 for FBiH and 1:0.77 in RS. No
   baseline is provided for FBiH.

   Several indicators on efficiency in the planning, financing, and regulation of the health service delivery system
   (access to primary care, decreased number of unnecessary referrals to higher levels of care, number of primary
   care providers financed under a new provider payment mechanism) were dropped at restructuring, and the ICR
   reports no data on these indicators.


   Expand and enhance the family medicine model of primary health care (original intermediate and revised
   primary objective) is rated Substantial .

   Outputs

   The number of doctors and specialists completing a program of additional training in family medicine increased
   from 330 in 2005 to 986 in 2014 in FBiH, exceeding the original target of 740 and the revised target of 940; and
   from 69 in 2005 to 148 in 2014 in RS, not meeting the original/revised target of 342.

   The number of doctors completing a family medicine specialization in FBiH in 2014 was 436 (no baseline
   available), exceeding the original target of 234 but not meeting the revised target of 523, and in RS increased
   from 83 in 2005 to 227 in 2014, exceeding the original target of 116 but not meeting the revised target of 250.

   The number of operational family medicine teams increased in FBiH from 107 in 2005 to 793 in 2014, exceeding
   the original target of 652 but not meeting the revised target of 900, and in RS increased from 138 in 2005 to 685
   in 2014, exceeding both the original target (649) and the revised target (650).

   The number of nurses in operating family medicine teams who completed programs of additional training
   increased from 536 in 2005 to 2070 in 2014 in FBiH, exceeding the original (1437) and revised (1900) targets,
   and in RS increased from 141 in 2005 to 1273 in 2014, also exceeding both the original (1031) and revised
   (1300) targets.

   4587 total personnel received training in FBiH, exceeding both the original (3853) and revised (4000) targets; in
   RS, 3425 total personnel received training, also exceeding both the original (2055) and revised (3196) targets.

   The number of university teaching staff with a Masters or PhD level education in family medicine was 34 in FBiH
   and 6 in RS in 2014, exceeding the target of 30 for FBiH but not meeting the RS target of 10.
385 health buildings were reconstructed or renovated in FBiH, exceeding both the original (79) and revised (129)
targets; in RS, 409 buildings were reconstructed or renovated, also meeting or exceeding both the original (56)
and revised (409) targets. 455 family medicine clinics were reconstructed or renovated in FBiH, exceeding both
the original (335) and revised (385) targets; in RS, 213 family medicine clinics were similarly served, exceeding
the original (146) but not the revised (275) target. 488 family medicine clinics in FBiH were equipped with
medical equipment and/or furniture, exceeding both the original (281) and revised (426) targets; in RS, 409
clinics were equipped, also exceeding both the original (251) and revised (400) targets. Family medicine offices
were equipped with information technology in two municipalities, not meeting the original/revised target of three;
in RS, 157 offices were equipped with IT by the project, and 510 others equipped through related projects,
partially meeting the original (500) and revised (510) targets.

The number of clinical guidelines developed and disseminated for family medicine practitioners remained
stagnant at 31 between 2011 and 2014, not meeting the target of 51.

Program monitoring tools for targeted non-communicable disease services were completed in four cantons of
FBiH.

Assistance was provided for communication activities to inform policy makers, providers of primary health care,
and the public about the family medicine reform, including preparation and dissemination of materials, media
spots, press conferences, brochures and posters, and radio and television shows. These activities were crucial,
given the complex political economy of the reform process. 57 innovation grants were awarded to various
institutions for activities focused on non-communicable disease prevention through family medicine teams and
promotion of healthy lifestyles.

Outcomes

Coverage of the population with family medicine increased from 86,270 in 2005 to 95.5% in 2014 for the RS, and
130,659 in 2005 to 69% in 2014 for FBiH. (The ICR does not provide the baseline figure in percentage terms.)
At closure, the national coverage level was 80.2%, exceeding the target of 70% (1.25 million for RS and 1.5
million for FBiH).

200 family medicine teams and 35% of health centers met accreditation standards through the Agency for
Accreditation and Quality Improvement, partially meeting the target of 260 family medicine teams and 35% of
health centers.

A cross-sectional survey of all ten cantons in FBiH in 2012 provided the following results: 68.9% of residents can
identify their family doctor, and only 6.1% of respondents reported never having visited that doctor. 80% reported
being able to see their doctor on the same day that they requested an appointment, and 89.4% were satisfied
with the services provided. Importantly, based on other comparable survey data, the percentage of adults age
25-64 in FBiH with a chronic disease reporting having their blood pressure checked in the last 12 months
increased from 63.4% in 2002 to 82% in 2012; those having their blood sugar checked increased from 41.9% to
69.2%; and those overall having visited a doctor in the last 12 months increased from 54.1% to 61.6%.


Build management capacity in the sector (original intermediate and revised primary objective ) is rated
Substantial.

Outputs

The number of management staff trained in relevant managerial techniques in FBiH increased from 25 in 2005 to
211 in 2014, exceeding the original/revised target of 131; in RS, the number increased from 20 in 2005 to 379 in
2014, exceeding the original (50) and revised (300) targets. 71 municipal-level staff completed all training
modules offered by the Health Management Center in RS, exceeding the target of 50. 349 management staff in
RS completed one or more training modules offered by the Health Management Center, exceeding the target of
250 (this training was not part of the project in FBiH). According to the ICR (p. 17), primary health care managers
and staff in RS surveyed in November 2015 indicated that training activities significantly helped them in the
process of establishing a quality management system.

16 Health Insurance Fund staff were trained in contracting in FBiH, and 5 in RS, meeting both targets.

600 family medicine teams were trained in change management, meeting the original/revised target of 600; in
RS, 385 teams were trained, exceeding the original (300) but not the revised (650) target.
One new PhD in health management was earned in FBiH, meeting the original and revised target. In RS, 2 PhDs
and 8 Masters degrees were earned, surpassing the original target (1 PhD and 7 Masters) but not meeting the
revised target (6 PhDs and 7 masters).

A program for Continuous Program Education in health management was developed, and training began in
October 2012. 199 students have completed its first level, 132 the second level, and 75 the third level.

Outcomes

Mid-Term Expenditure Reviews are now produced on time, with consultation of stakeholders including the
non-government sector, indicating that the health ministries have developed capacity to plan, track, and evaluate
spending decisions.

The Agency for Accreditation and Quality Improvement evaluated family medicine teams and health centers
according to established standards.

Centers for Health Management were developed and are fully operational: in FBiH as a unit within the Public
Health Institute, and in RS under the Ministry of Health.

A communication strategy surrounding the politically complex family medicine reform was drafted and
implemented, successfully targeting a wide range of stakeholders.

A Health Information System (HIS) was deployed and now supports family health care across FBiH, with the
same electronic medical records system operational in all but two cantons. The system is widely used to support
decision making at the facility level (ICR, p. 16).


Strengthen the policy making process through the development and implementation of a system for monitoring
and evaluating sector performance (original intermediate and revised primary objective ) is rated Modest, due to
limited evidence that M&E data/analysis have been used to support policy decisions.

Outputs

The project provided technical assistance for strengthening the FBiH Ministry of Health M&E system, and in
establishing its website. FBiH prepared a complete health M&E report, and health information standards were
completed and are being implemented. Primary health care information systems are in place in 18 municipalities
in FBiH, surpassing the target of three municipalities. The reporting system established for the
pay-for-peformance pilots in FBiH has been adopted as the standard reporting system there.

In RS, a survey was completed toward a primary health care program evaluation, but the planned analysis and
report have not been published. A number of analyses were carried out to analyze and evaluate the progress of
family medicine reform in RS.

Household surveys on health status and risk factors were completed in both FBiH and RS, and results were
published.

Outcomes

The ICR (p. 11) reports that the FBiH household survey on health status (completed in 2012) was important in
defining strategic priorities and crafting health promotion and disease prevention programs.

The Ministries of Health of both the RS and FBiH prepared new primary health care strategies and operational
plans to implement those strategies. The strategies have been adopted and updated. A report on health status
indicators was completed in 2007; this report also analyzed the impact of reforms. It is not clear whether more
recent reports have been generated, nor is it clear to what extent such reporting influenced the development of
sector strategy.

National Health Summits were held. Although the ICR (p. 19) reports that these were "considered significant
events in health policy discussions in the country," it also reports that they were not based on results of the M&E
systems and therefore did not reach their potential to impact policy discussions. The project team confirmed that
summits were held almost yearly, but that these were not national summits in the traditional sense of the word.
5. Efficiency:

    Efficiency is rated Substantial.

    The PAD (pp. 71-80) conducts an economic analysis quantifying the direct and indirect benefits of the primary
    health care restructuring component. Using a discount rate of 5%, a ten-year period of analysis, and reasonable
    assumptions of benefits deriving from a shift from hospital care to primary care, fewer time losses due to
    increases in outpatient treatment, and earlier detection of NCDs, the PAD found a Net Present Value (NPV) of
    US$ 32.8 million and an Economic Rate of Return (ERR) of 30%. A sensitivity analysis showed that results were
    robust if benefits were reduced by 10% or by one year. The ICR (pp. 32-37) repeats these calculations, using the
    same assumptions and based on actual project achievements, also focusing on the primary care restructuring
    component. The ICR's analysis finds a NPV of US$ 28.7 million, a benefit-to-cost ratio of 2.01, and an ERR of
    19.13%, over a 20-year time horizon. These findings were robust under a 20% reduction in benefits and a 30%
    increase in recurrent costs.

    There is evidence of substantial implementation efficiency. The ICR (p. 15) reports that, in FBiH, savings were
    achieved through combining procurement processes and reducing operating costs in the equipment of family
    medicine offices and ambulances with medical equipment and furniture; these savings were applied to additional
    equipment purchases and solving some emergency needs (repair of clinics and replacement of small equipment)
    generated by flooding in summer 2014. The ICR (p. 20) also reports that operation and maintenance costs of the
    project were reasonable compared with public expenditures in the country's health sector overall (as high as
    9.6% of GDP). There were minor shortcomings. Procurement processes in RS experienced contracting delays,
    and frequent turnover of task team leaders delayed the project's formal restructuring. According to the project
    team, however, procurement challenges were effectively overcome with support from across the implementing
    agency and ministry staff.

a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
   re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                Rate Available?                            Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                          Yes                                     30%                                     71%

    ICR estimate                       Yes                                     19%                                     88%
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

    Under the original objectives: Relevance of Objectives is rated High, and Relevance of Design Substantial. The
    intermediate objectives of strengthening the family medicine model of primary care and building management
    capacity were substantially achieved, but there is little direct evidence presented on improved sectoral efficiency
    (the primary objective) or the contribution of improved M&E systems to a strengthened policy making process.
    Project efficiency is rated Substantial. Taken together, these ratings are indicative of moderate shortcomings in
    the project's preparation and implementation, and therefore an Outcome rating of Moderately Satisfactory.

    Under the revised objectives: Relevance of Objectives is rated Substantial due to the elimination of the primary
    sectoral efficiency objective. Relevance of Design and Efficiency remain Substantial. The previous intermediate
    objectives were elevated to primary objectives; two of these were substantially achieved, but one (strengthening
    the policy making process through improved M&E) was modestly achieved. These ratings are indicative of minor
    shortcomings, and therefore an Outcome rating of Satisfactory.

    According to IEG/OPCS guidelines, when a project's objectives are revised, the final outcome is determined by
    the weight of Bank disbursements under each set of objectives. As more than half (65.6%) of disbursements in
    this case were prior to restructuring, the final outcome is weighted toward that under the original objectives. The
    overall Outcome rating is therefore Moderately Satisfactory.

a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   The government is committed to continued investments in the sector, is continuing project activities with CEB
   funding, and has expressed strong interest in a follow-up Bank-financed project that would deepen the family
   medicine reform model and extend capacity development also to hospitals. Primary health care reform, ensuring
   the gatekeeping function of primary care, has been solidified in a legal framework. One canton in FBiH is
   considering including performance-based incentives in its next contract with family medicine teams, hinting at
   potential sustainability of the pilot implemented by the project.

   However, human resources risks are present. The ICR (p. 15) points to a pattern of trained family medicine
   doctors seeking employment in other medical specialties, mainly moving from primary to hospital care.
   According to the Borrower's ICR (p. 52), there is no current or planned regulation or legislation that would prevent
   this drain, and human resource planning for primary care at the Ministry of Health and canton/municipal level is
   inadequate. In addition, financial sustainability of the health system is threatened by poor collection of insurance
   contributions and fragmented service delivery at the secondary and tertiary levels of care (ICR, p. 13).

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

   This project was the last in a planned series of four operations in the country's health sector. Project
   preparation benefited from lessons learned during the previous projects, and from a 2002 Operations
   Evaluation Department study of three completed health reform projects in the region: the need to pay careful
   attention to the political economy of reform, to keep implementation arrangements relatively simple, to
   prioritize institutional aspects of reform, and to expect and plan for political obstacles along the way.
   Alternative project designs were carefully considered and main risk factors identified, with appropriate
   mitigation plans put in place, prior to finalizing the preparation process. A wide array of stakeholders was
   engaged during the design stage.

   However, the project did not fully anticipate the need for capacity building within the FBiH and RS health
   ministries, and it did not account sufficiently for the highly fragmented nature of the FBiH health system. In
   addition, the initial M&E framework was inadequate (see Section 10a).


  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Satisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:

   The Bank team provided regular and appropriate supervision, with realistic appraisal of the project's
   performance in Implementation Status Reports. The ICR mission's interviews indicate that many
   stakeholders found the Bank's guidance valuable not only on issues directly related to the project, but on
   broader sector-related matters as well (ICR, p. 23). Although there were five task team leaders over the
   project's lifetime, continuity was maintained through smooth transition processes, albeit with some delays in
   the processing of the project's formal restructuring. Fiduciary and safeguards issues were well managed and
   reported (ICR, p. 23), and the Bank offered and encouraged strengthening of procurement capacity for the
   implementing agencies and the local private sector (ICR, p. 12).

   However, issues with the project's M&E framework persisted until the Additional Financing. It was only at that
   point that the team became proactive in identifying issues with the results framework and overcoming delays.



  Quality of Supervision Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:
    Despite the diffusion of authority in the FBiH health sector and political transitions during project
    implementation, the governments of both FBiH and RS have displayed consistently strong commitment and
    vision on sectoral reform. Close and effective coordination with donors was maintained. No counterpart
    funding problems were experienced; the government supplemented Bank financing when and where
    necessary to ensure timely completion of main project activities (rehabilitation/reconstruction and equipping of
    primary health clinics), and it took over financing of some activities when cantonal governments in FBiH
    lacked resources.


  Government Performance Rating                               Satisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:

    The implementing agency was the Social Insurance Technical Assistance Project (SITAP) Implementation
    Unit (SPI). The health ministries of FBiH and RS were also responsible for implementation. According to the
    ICR (pp. 9, 24-25, 60), SPI was not staffed adequately to carry out project activities, and the Project
    Coordination Units (PCUs) in the health ministries lacked necessary capacity and staffing. These
    shortcomings led to procurement challenges (see Section 11b), which were overcome during the Additional
    Financing through support from across the SPI and ministries. Financial management responsibilities were
    carried out in a satisfactory manner, and overall procurement performance was rated Moderately Satisfactory
    or Satisfactory throughout implementation (see ICR, p. 12, and Sections 5 and 11). In addition, challenges
    with M&E persisted until the Additional Financing, at which point performance improved significantly (see
    Section 10).


  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   The project's M&E plan specified data collection instruments and responsible institutions, as well as specific
   reports that would be generated. However, M&E design suffered from significant shortcomings. The results
   framework in the PAD (pp. 41-43) lacked baseline data and target values for key outcome indicators and some
   intermediate outcome indicators, with the assumption that necessary data would be collected during the first year
   of project implementation. Some PDO-level indicators were overly general, not geared specifically toward
   project-related outcomes. It is not clear when separate targets were set for FBiH and RS; the PAD does not
   discuss the two entities separately.

b. M&E Implementation:

   M&E was relatively neglected over the first year of implementation; at that point, the project team was asked by
   Bank management to revise the results framework and work with FBiH and RS to define baseline and target
   values for key indicators. FBiH data collection was part of the regular system for health statistics through its
   Institutes of Public Health; data in RS were obtained directly through the Ministry of Health. M&E received
   gradually increased attention until the Additional Financing in March 2011, at which time indicators were
   fine-tuned, baselines were well defined, and necessary surveys were organized and implemented. Some
   separate targets for FBiH and RS were defined at that time. M&E remained strong for the remainder of the
   project period.

c. M&E Utilization:

   M&E data and analysis produced by the project, including a household survey on health status, a public opinion
   survey, and studies of the impact of training on primary health care staff and managers, were used to adjust
   project implementation and for policy decision making and strategy formation by the government. In particular,
   the FBiH household survey on health status (completed in 2012) was important in defining strategic priorities and
    the crafting of health promotion and disease prevention programs.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

    The project originally triggered no safeguards and was assessed as "no impact" (PAD, pp. 15-16). At the
    Additional Financing in March 2011, the safeguards category was changed from "C" to "B" due to planned
    rehabilitation and reconstruction of primary health care facilities. Environmental management plans were
    disseminated and disclosed. The ICR (p. 12) confirms that all works were carried out according to environmental
    guidelines and that safeguards compliance was satisfactory.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

    Financial Management: The SPI and PCUs of the FBiH and RS health ministries provided adequate financial
    management, with quarterly reports submitted regularly to the Bank and the Ministry of Health, and audits on time
    and unqualified.

    Procurement: Procurement functions were carried out by the PCUs of the two health ministries. Across the
    entire duration of the project, there were challenges in hiring a full-time procurement specialist, "significantly
    encumbering performance" (ICR, p. 60). These challenges were magnified by the local private sector's lack of
    experience in preparation of bids in accordance with Bank procedures. There were isolated cases of potential
    collusion between bidders, leading to disbarment of two local firms. Despite these issues, according to the ICR
    (p. 12), overall procurement was implemented in a satisfactory manner. The project team later added that
    procurement improved significantly during the latter part of the project period through a concerted effort by the
    entire PCU and ministry teams.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):

    None reported.

d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                 Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately                    Moderately
                              Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.
13. Lessons:

    The ICR (pp. 25-26) offers several valuable lessons, including:

    Achievements in primary care reform through a family medicine model are put at risk in the absence of an
    attentive human resource strategy. In this case, the project's gains in training family medicine physicians and
    nurses could be lost if these professionals, lacking incentives to remain in primary care, move instead to
    specializations in other areas and/or to the hospital sector.

    Fully staffed project implementation units, regardless of their relationship with health ministries and other
    entities, are essential to smooth implementation. In this case, delays in hiring experts and the lack of a
    full-time procurement specialist hindered performance.

    M&E requires focused attention from the very beginning of project preparation. In this case, key elements of
    M&E design were neglected at the design stage, and ownership was weak until the project mid-term, making it
    difficult later to evaluate project performance effectively.

14. Assessment Recommended?                 Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


    The ICR is clear, concise, and evidence-based. It offers a thorough and candid account of preparation and
    implementation experience, and its lessons are well derived and should prove useful to future health sector
    reform projects across the region. However, its analysis of the project's restructuring does not take into account
    the dropping of the efficiency objective, and it does not explain adequately the country's federal structure and the
    dual-stream implementation of the project in FBiH and RS. It would also have been useful to know why IDA
    ended its involvement before the project had been completed.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
