Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RePlNO. 14058-UG
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1965-UG)
MARCH 15, 1995
Population and Human resources Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients onlv in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



UGANDA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At the time of appraisal
USh 150 = US$ 1.00
USh I= US$ 0.0066
At the time of project completion mission
USh 900 = US$ 1.00
USh 1 =US$ 0.0011
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July I - June 30
ACADEMIC YEAR
For Primary and Secondary Schools: January - November
For University: October - July
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CTB    - Central Tender Board
DCA    - Development Credit Agreement
DEO    - District Education Officer
EPRC   - Education Policy Reform Commission
IMU    - Instructional Materials Unit
INSTEP - In-Service Teacher Education Project, ODA
KIE    - Kenya Institute of Education
MoES - Ministry of Education and Sports
MoFEP - Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
NCDC - National Curriculum Development Center
NTC    - National Teacher's College
ODA   - Overseas Development Agency, UK
PCR    - Project Completion Report
PIU    - Project Implementation Unit
PLE    - Primary Leaving Examination
PTA    - Parent-Teachers' Association
PTTC   - Primary Teacher Training College
SAR    - Staff Appraisal Report
SEPU   - School Equipment Production Unit (Kenya)
SHEP  - School Health Education Program
STEPU - Science & Technology Equipment and Production
SUPER - Support for Uganda Primary Education Reform
TF      - Textbook Fund
TPP    - Textbook Pilot Project
TDMS - Teacher Developmcnt and Management System
TF      - Textbook Fund
UPE    - Universal Primary Education
VSO    - Volunteer Service Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Preface.
Evaluation Summary ................................................................i
Introduction ...............................................................i
Project Objectives and Description ...............................................................i
Implementation Experience and Results                          .................................... ii
Summary of Findings               ............................        .................................. iii
Part I: Project Implementation Assessment                                .....................................I
B ackground    ...............................................................I
Project Objectives and Description ...............................................................1
Achievement of Project Objectives ..............................................................2
Major Factors Affecting the Project .............................................................3
Implementation Record ...............................................................3
Project Sustainability and Future Operation ....................................................7
Bank's Performance  ...............................................................7
Borrower's Performance .............................................................8
Assessment of Outcome ...............................................................8
K ey   Lessons   Learned   ...............................................................8
Part II:Statistical Annexes
Table I               Summary of Assessments
Table 2               Related Bank Credits
Table 3               Project Timetable
Table 4               Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5               Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6               Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7               Studies Included in Project
Table 8A              Project Costs
Table 8B              Project Financing
Table 9A              Project Cost Effectiveness
Table 9B              Sensitivity
Table 10              Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11              Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12              Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13              Bank Resources: Missions
Appendices
Appendix A    Mission Aide-Memoire
Appendix B    Borrower Contribution to the ICR
Appendix C    Cofinancier Contribution (not applicable)
Appendix D    Chart and Other Tables
Chart                Implementation Schedule
Table 1              Pupils per Book Ratio Estimates
Table 2              Supply of Textbooks to Pilot Schools and Pupil Textbook
Ratios Achieved
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table 3     Enrollment Changes in Textbook Pilot Project Districts
Between 1989 and 1990
Table 4      Primary School Enrolment by District (1989-90, 1992-93)
Table 5     Textbook Fund: Parental and Government Contributions
Table 6     Number of Pilot Schools by District and Rate of Parental
Participation in TPP
Table 7      Expected Counterpart Funding Based on Actual Project
Expenditures
Table 8      Counterpart Fund Releases to Education IV
Table 9      Status of Audit Reports
Table 10     Staffing Status of the Inspectorate
Appendix E    Map of Uganda Fourth Education Project



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
FOURTH EDUCATION PROJECT (CR. 1965-UG)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Fourth Education Project in
Uganda, for which Cr. 1965-UG in the amount of SDR 17.1 million (US$ 22.0 million) was
approved on November 15, 1988 and made effective on May 12, 1989.
The credit was closed on June 30, 1994 (the original scheduled date).  The last
disbursement took place on March 3,1994, and undisbursed balance of SDR 5.2 million (US$7.6
million equivalent) was canceled as of September 7, 1994.
The ICR was prepared by Young Kimaro from the Population and Human Resources
Division (Eastem Africa Departrnent) of the Africa Region and reviewed by Messrs. Jacob van
Lutsenburg Maas (Division Chief) and Surendra Agarwal (Projects Advisor). The borrower
provided its own assessment of the project in a Project Completion Report, submitted to IDA on
October 15, 1994. An executive summary of the report is included as Appendix B to the ICR.






Evaluahon Summary                                                        page i of iv
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The project was preceded by Education III (Cr. 1329-UG; 1983-88) an emergency
operation which provided textbooks and instructional materials to primary schools that had been
depleted of teaching materials and books during the extended political turmoil and civil war. That
project covered approx 5,200 schools, leaving out those which could not be reached for security
reasons and smaller schools which did not go beyond P5. A disparity soon emerged between the
assisted and non-assisted schools, with students in the former consistently outperforming those in
the latter. Education IV (Cr. 1965-UG) was designed to redress this disparity and to provide a
bridge to a large sector-wide operation.
Project Objectives and Description
2.    The objectives of the project were:
(a) To maintain the momentum of the Government's educational rehabilitation efforts at the
primary education level and ensure their sustainability;
(b) To assist the Government in initiating, on a limited (pilot) basis, a revolving Textbook
Fund (TF) for the replenishment of instructional materials on a permanent basis;
(c) To strengthen key institutions under the Ministry of Education (now Ministry of Education
and Sports) involved in improving and monitoring educational quality and in project
implementation; and
(d) To help prepare a more extensive project to implement the Government's emerging
educational strategy.
Project objectives were appropriately modest for the then existing institutional capacity and for the
emergency nature of the intervention.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    The project was expected to cost US$27.9 million, of which IDA was to finance US$22.0
million to:
(a) Provide textbooks and instructional materials to about 3,400 primary schools not assisted
under Education III;
(b) Assist institutional capacity and policy development; and
(c) Carry out pre-investment studies primarily to complement ongoing policy work on cost-
effectiveness.
Rehabilitation of education facilities in Gulu and Bushenyi districts was added later to further
serve the project objectives, utilizing unused contingencies and project savings.
4.    The project took five years to complete. It became effective in May, 1989, and closed in
June, 1994. This compares favorably with the country average of 7 years and the sector average



Evaluation Summary                                                        page ii of iv
for Africa of 9 years. The project closed as of June, 1994; the undisbursed balance of US$7.6
million was cancelled as of September 7, 1994,.
5.     Based on information available, the mission found that:
*  The project objectives of maintaining the rehabilitation momentum and providing
a bridge to a more substantive education project were achieved. In addition to
providing input to policy discussions and formulation, and laying the ground work for
a follow-up IDA operation, numerous studies undertaken by the project also helped
identify the areas in need of strengthening and suitable methods for doing so, thus
facilitating MoES's ability to mobilize external support.
*  Most of the project activities were completed by September, 1991 (Part II, Table 4
and Appendix D, Chart), a full year ahead of the appraisal estimates.
*  Textbooks provision exceeded the target, and the textbooks were procured and
distributed cost effectively and in a timely manner, realizing a cost savings of about
US$2.6 million (Part 1, paras. 17-20 and Part II, Table 5).
•  Textbook Pilot Project (TPP) was prematurely discontinued, possibly for the
wrong reasons, i.e., overloading of the PIU rather than lack of parental interest or its
importance to the sector. (Part 1, paras. 21-27).
* Institutional capacity of MoES was improved, most importantly by clarifying the
roles of NCDC and the Inspectorate (Part 1, paras. 28-31).
*  Pre-investment studies exceeded the target in number (16 compared to 6 topics
identified) and in development impact (Part I, para. 32 and Part II, Table 7). Most of
these were undertaken in the first two years of the project, which provided important
input to the discussions on the White Paper (1992) and the Five Year Investment Plan
(1991).
*  Education facilities rehabilitation component for Bushenyi and Gulu, which was
added to the project in 1992 to utilize unused contingencies and project savings,
did. not materialize due to delays in procurement. The component was absorbed
into Education V, which is financing similar activities in other districts (Part I, para.
33).
*  A serious shortfall in Government counterpart funding. Compared to 21 percent
anticipated at appraisal (SAR p.18), actual counterpart financing, including parental
contributions to the TPP, came to 7.5 percent of total project cost. Counterpart fund
releases were often delayed, sporadic, and inadequate (Part I, paras. 14-15 and
Appendix D, Table 8). This adversely affected the field operations of the Inspectorate
(Part I, para. 29).
6.     The project was foremost an emergency intervention to reactivate an education system
which had been moribund from years of civil unrest. Except for testing out a mechanism for
replenishing textbooks, sustaining the impact of the project after the completion of implementation



Evaluation Summary                                                       page iii of iv
was a secondary consideration. Two key areas on which future operations should focus to sustain
the project's development momentum are: (i) development of a mechanism for sustained
replenishment of textbooks, and (ii) preservation and replenishment of stock of sector knowledge
(Part I, paras. 33-34).
Summary of Findings
7.     Education IV took risks to respond quickly to an urgent need, despite a dearth of
information, to resuscitate the ailing primary education system. Shortcomings which resulted were
amply compensated by successful implementation of the project and the speed with which the
primary education sector was able to embark on the road to recovery. Key lessons which could be
drawn from the project are:
*  Higher initial investment for higher physical specifications, training of teachers in book
management, and timely provision of storage cupboards can more than pay for itself with
prolonged book life. The project was able to realize increased book use life from an
expected average of 3 years to 5-7 years at substantial recurrent cost savings.
*  Meeting short-term needs for textbooks and the development of a local publishing industry
need not be mutually exclusive. The project provided textbooks speedily by importing
them (largely written by Ugandans for Uganda) from abroad. At the same time, MoES
took measures to liberalize the textbook sector and to assist the development of the local
publishing and printing industry, with positive results.
*  A systematic and planned devolvement of project implementation responsibilities from the
PIU into the mainstream of the Ministry is necessary to assure the Ministry's ownership of
the project and its sustainability after project completion. Ideally such a plan should be
incorporated into the project design. A detailed plan of action for such a devolvement
should be made one of the central themes of Mid-term reviews of projects with similar
implementation arrangements.
*  Closer and more systematic consultation with households through sample surveys could
have enabled the implementors to understand what parents are willing and able to pay and
what mechanisms would be more credible and, therefore, acceptable to them.
.  Shortcomings in project design can, in some cases, be overcome and the project
successfully implemented if it has the strong commitment of the Borrower, a dedicated
implementing agency, and the Borrower and the Bank are flexible and willing to fine-tune
the project as it is being implemented.
*  Pre-investment studies can provide enormous impact on sector policy formulation if the
need for information and data analysis is fully appreciated by the Borrower. Conscientious
undertaking of studies, involvement of numerous local consultants, and timely completion
of studies, enabled the project to provide meaningful input to the deliberation of the White
Paper and the Five-Year Investment Plan.
*  Textbook supply schemes should be kept uniform among schools in close proximity to one
another to minimize parental disaffection.



Evaluation Summary                                                       page iv of iv
*  A closer connection should be established between fee payment and textbook supply. This
will help make the scheme more credible to the parents and, thus, encourage their
participation.
*  Impact on education cannot be fully achieved through physical delivery of textbooks alone.
It should be combined with appropriate book use, a factor which is easily overlooked in
project design or supervision.
*  A systematic monitoring and evaluation of the project against its development objectives
could have enabled the project to identify and correct important deficiencies, such as low
usage of books, with a positive impact on project outcome.



Part I: Implementation Assessment                                                  pare I of 11
Part I: Project Implementation Assessment'
Background
1.     Political turmoil throughout much of  1970s and 1980s, as well as two civil wars, left
many Ugandan schools in total disrepair, depleted of their furnishings, textbooks and instructional
materials. Teachers were paid poorly and intermittently, and many left the teaching profession for
better paying jobs, within or outside the country. Uganda's gross primary school enrollment
nonetheless remained above 50 percent throughout the years of political turmoil because of strong
parental interest in children's education, but varied considerably throughout the country. Parents
supplemented meager Government funding to keep the schools open and operating. However, thcir
means were limited. By the time Education IV was being prepared, the education system was
faced with a continuing dearth of textbooks and instructional materials, dilapidated school facilities
and furnishings, and low pay/low morale of teachers. This was reflected in declining academic
performance and high drop-out rates.
Project Objectives and Description
2.      Schools urgently needed minimal instructional materials to enable the teachers to teach
more effectively. Education IV responded quickly to meet this need. It was to be a bridging
operation between the emergency intervention of Education III (1983-1988) and a subsequent,
more extensive and sector-wide operation (Education V became effective in 1993. See Part II,
Table 2). The project also aimed to eliminate the disparity that had developed between the 5,200
schools that were assisted under Education III and those which were unassisted for reasons of lack
of security in the locality, small school size or having only become operational since the completion
of Education III.
3.     The objectives of the project were:
(a) To maintain the momentum of the Government's educational rehabilitation efforts at the
primary education level and ensure its sustainability;
(b) To assist the Government in initiating, on a limited (pilot) basis, a revolving Textbook
Fund (TF) for the replenishment of instructional materials on a permanent basis:
(c) To strengthen key institutions under the Ministry of Education (now Ministry of Education
and Sports) involved in improving and monitoring educational quality and in project
implementation; and
(d) To help prepare a more extensive project to implement the Government's emerging
educational strategy.
1 An ICR mission took place from November 22 to December 8, 1994. The mission was composed of 'Iony Read
(Textbook Specialist/Consultant), Harriet Nannyonjo (Program Officer, Resident Mission/Kampala) and Young
Kimaro (Economist and Mission Leader). The report is based on review of documents and correspondences in
project files, data provided by Ministry of Education and Sports, particularly the Project Implementation Unit (PIU),
observations of the mission from field visits, discussions with PIU staff, Government officials, teachers and parents.
Much of the data and insights contained in the Borrower's PCR provided valuable inputs to the ICR. A draft ICR
was presented to the Government on February 9, 1995. Borrower comments, discussed on three separate occasions,
are summarized in an Aide Memoire dated February 21, 1995 (Attachment A).



Part I: Implementation Assessment                                       page 2 of 11
4.    The project aimed to:
(a) provide textbooks and instructional materials to approximately 3,400 primary schools not
assisted under Education 111;
(b) assist in institutional and policy development to
i - Set up a pilot Textbook Fund (TF) to be financed from parental and matching
Government contributions and intended to replenish textbooks in self-selected areas
which had benefited from the Third Project;
ii - Strengthen the Inspectorate (training, technical assistance, transportation, vehicle
maintenance);
iii - Support the National Curriculum Development Center (NCDC) and the Science and
Technology Equipment and Production Unit (STEPU) by provision of technical
assistance, training, and funding for initial operating costs;
iv - Strengthen the Project Implementation Unit (PIU); and
v - Support the Education Policy Review Commission (EPRC) to help finalize its work
and organize a follow-up donors' conference.
(c) carry out pre-investment studies primarily to complement ongoing policy work on cost-
effectiveness.
5.    The Development Credit Agreement was amended on March 9, 1992 to include
rehabilitation of education facilities in Bushenyi and Gulu to accommodate a Teacher Development
Management System (TDMS) network in these districts.
6.    Most of the project activities were completed by September 1991. At the time of project
closing, only US$17.1 million had been expended in contrast with US$19.4 in the Borrower's PCR
(see para. 14 on source of the difference), and far below the US$27.9 million estimated. US$15.8
million equivalent were drawn from IDA credit of US$22.0 million. Following project closing on
June 30, 1994, the remaining balance of US$7.6 million was canceled.
7.    The objectives of the project were modest, clearly stated for the provision of instructional
materials, but less so for institutional strengthening. The project was simple in design, involving in
large part the procurement and delivery of textbooks. It was well within the capacity of a weak
MoES to implement with some extemal technical assistance. IDA was responsive to the urgency
of the situation and took risks to put a project in place, despite a lack of background information;
the Borrower and IDA were both flexible and responsive, adjusting the project to changing
circumstances during implementation.
Achievement of Project Objectives
8.    The project had very modest sector policy objectives, which were to: (i) eliminate the
discrepancy between the number of teachers actually teaching and the number of teachers on the
payroll (DCA Article III, para. 3.03), (ii) ensure that the level of enrollment at primary school
teachers' training colleges is cost-effective, this objective was based on a false and yet to be proved
assumption about scale economies, (iii) improve the ratio of school-size to the number of subjects
offered at secondary school teachers' training colleges and technical and vocational institutions
(DCA Article III, para. 3.04), and carry out studies for, anong others, implementation policy



Part I: Implementation Assessment                                       paae 3 of 11
measures resulting from ongoing assessments of the education sector. These objectives were
partially met. A census of MoES staff, including the headcounting of teachers, has been carried
out, and all teachers' payroll has been computerized and decentralized to identify those to be
excised from the payroll. PTCs have been reduced from 99 to 67; 16 studies were carried out
(Part II, Table 7), and an analysis of fixed and variable PTC costs will be undertaken under
Education V (Primary Education and Teacher Development Project).
9.    A financial objective was achieved in procuring textbooks, which accounted for 66
percent of total project expenditures. More books (6 percent) were procured and distributed at 33
percent lower cost than anticipated in the SAR (see Part II Table 5). Physical specifications for
the textbooks were cost effective, enabling substantial recurrent cost savings due to longer book
life (Part II Tables 9A and 9B). However, the project did not achieve the financial objective of
establishing a sustainable means for replenishing textbooks as the pilot was discontinued before
such a mechanism could be established (paras. 21-27).
10.   Institutional development objective was partially achieved (paras. 28-31) by increasing
the number of and upgrading the professional capacity through training of staff (Inspectorate).
This was achieved by providing funds to start up the operation to put a new institution into motion
(STEPU), and by clarifying the roles of the institutions (NCDC and Inspectorate).
Major Factors Affecting the Project
11.   The project was implemented during a period when Uganda was recovering from
prolonged misgovernment and economic deterioration, including a recent civil war. The new
National Resistance Movement government inherited a civil service which had been depleted of
trained manpower and was paid far less than a living wage. An important factor beyond the
Government's control was the collapse in 1987-88 of world coffee prices; as a result, revenues
from taxes on coffee exports decreased from 4.6% of GDP in 1985/86 to 1.6% of GDP in
1987/88, and only 0.1 % of GDP in 1991/92. The total Government revenue effort was only 5.7%
of GDP in 1987/88, increasing to 8.2% in 1993/94, as the Government succeeded in gradually
increasing collection of non-coffee revenues. However, the revenue effort in Uganda remained far
below the average revenue/GDP ratio of 19% in African countries, and this made it very difficult
for the Government to provide the agreed counterpart funding. Initially, domestic inflation was
high and the exchange rate depreciated rapidly, but by the end of the period the Government
succeeded in establishing price and exchange rate stability. Factors subject to the implementing
agency's control were coordination with other departments of the Ministry, and the Inspectorate in
particular. At the early stage of institutional development, the Ministry remained highly
compartmentalized with little interchange among separate departments. PIU's ability to coordinate
with other departments of the Ministry and garner their support was limited.
Implementation Record
12.   Key Performance Indicators. The SAR did not provide key performance indicators. For
ICR purposes, a list of performance indicators was derived for three components, Textbooks,
Textbook Pilot, and education facilities from targets documented (Part II, Table 5). Indicators
show that the textbook component performance exceeded the target by 6 percent (the last column
of the same Table) while incurring much lower cost (savings of 33 percent). The Textbook Pilot
Project, on the other hand, fell far short of its original targets. The performance of these two



Part I: Implementation Assessment                                            page 4 of 11
components is discussed in detail below (paras. 16-25). Delays in procurement pushed the added
rehabilitation component beyond the project timeframe (para. 32).
13.    Disbursements. Disbursement data show that, after a start up delay of one quarter, most
activities were completed by September, 1991, more than a year earlier than anticipated (Part II,
Table 4). Total funds disbursed at the time of project closing was US$15.8 million or 71 percent
of the original amount. The undisbursed balance of US$7.6 million at project closing, including
US$1.4 million gained from favorable exchange rate movements, was canceled as of September 7,
1994.
14.    Counterpartfinancing. Local financing of the project, as computed by the ICR mission
was US$1.3 million, compared to US$3.6 million expected (SAR estimate adjusted for lower total
project cost). While the SAR anticipated 21 percent counterpart financing, the actual share of the
Borrower came to 7.5 percent (Appendix D, Table 8).2
15.    Funds from the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (MoFEP) were often delayed
and sporadic, with extended dry periods between fiscal years. While the Government released 87.8
percent of the budget voted for the project overall, the voted amount fell below the level needed to
meet project counteipart funding requirements. This has led to consistent shortfalls in funding for
those expenditure categories which depended heavily on counterpart funding such as in-country
workshops and seminars (50 percent local funding), and incremental operating costs (70-80 percent
local funding) of the Inspectorate and the PIU (Appendix D, Table 7).
16.    Provision of textbooks and instructional materials. This component is the largest and
most central component of the project, accounting for more than 60 percent of total actual project
expenditures. Its aim was to extend the benefits of basic textbooks and teachers' guide to all
schools in Uganda, thereby reducing the differential in school quality created by Education III.
17.    The selection, procurement, consolidation and delivery of about 3.2 million Education IV
textbooks and 0.29 million for "topping-up" for the pilot schools were all implemented early in the
project in an efficient and timely manner, with most of the delivery taking place in mid-1990.
Considerable savings were realized (US$2.6 million) from  this component.  Schools were
adequately prepared for the arrival of the books: teachers were trained on storage and stock
management; metal storage lockers were provided in advance of book arrival. Provision of
textbooks to 3,405 primary schools and an additional and unplanned provision to 65 Primary
Teacher Training Colleges, gave a morale boost to a demoralized system and provided a stimulus
to quality upgrading of schools. Careful preparation and physical specifications contributed to
prolonged book life, from the anticipated 3 years to 5-7 years, yielding considerable recurrent cost
savings. However, protracted life of the books also reflects a tendency to under use the books for
various reasons:
(a) Uncertain about the future stock replacement, schools issue few books at a time to pupils
to make the existing stock last longer;
2 The Borrower's PCR states total local funding to be US$3.6 million. The difference between IDA and PIU
estimates in US dollar terms arises from use of different exchange rates for the Uganda shilling, which depreciated
from USh. 150/US$ at the time of project appraisal to USh. 1,218/US$ in April, 1993. The PIU applied the exchange
rate prevailing at appraisal (150:1), whereas IDA applied monthly average rates (Appendix D, Table 5). PmU's
method is not only a poor accounting practice, but the exchange rate which translates USh. 961,590,000 into USS3.6
million is USh. 2671US$ and not Ush. 1 501US$. This also indicates inadequate attention to counterpart expenditures
during supervision.



Part I: Implementation Assessment                                       pace 5 of 11
(b) The practice of writing out textbook contents on the blackboard for pupils to copy, which
developed during years of under supply of books, has become such an ingrained teaching
habit that teachers are unable to adjust quickly; and
(c) Fear of losing and not being able to account for government owned book stock, hence a
tendency to keep books locked away rather than to issue them.
Education IV may have achieved less than full impact on education outcome because of inadequate
attention to book usage.
18.   The component was under-prepared and lacked a comprehensive baseline survey of
existing book provision levels or book usage practices. This resulted in setting arbitrary pupil to
book ratio targets, a decision not to re-supply Education III schools with textbooks though the
previous stock was now obsolete, and inadequate attention to book usage practices in schools
which undermined the realization of full benefits from an increased supply of textbooks.
19.   The project was to erase the quality disparity which had emerged between the schools
assisted or not assisted under the previous project. Instead, Education IV may have introduced
further gradations to the disparity such as the level of book stock, frequency of resupply,
updatedness of titles among schools, largely because supply decisions had been made without
adequate information on the stock situation of schools.
20.    Textbook Pilot Project (TPP). The project was to develop a mechanism to replenish the
textbook stock in a sustainable manner. Though a small component (5 percent of actual total
project cost), it remains relevant and critical to primary education.
21.   Four districts were selected for their interest in schooling (using enrollment rates as
proxies) and by their economic status: Iganga (high enrollment), Masindi (low enrollment rate),
Masaka (wealthy), and Mubende (poor) districts were selected. Districts identified 621 schools
whose textbook stocks had been depleted during the civil strife and which badly needed restocking.
District officials and schools were briefed on administrative arrangements.
22.   The first delivery of textbooks for the pilot scheme was intended to "top up" their depleted
stock, funded from the IDA credit. Some 289,600 books on five subjects (English, math, social
studies, science and local languages) were procured and distributed in mid-1990, at the same time
that textbooks were also being supplied to other schools which had not received books under the
previous project. The parents of the pilot schools were required to contribute USh.500 per child
per year (USh.300 or US$2.00 equivalent at the time of appraisal) to the Textbook Fund (TF) to
be used for replenishing the textbooks while parents at other schools were not required to pay for
the textbooks provided to them. This differential treatment appears to have created further
enrollment shifts out of pilot to non-pilot schools (Appendix D, Table 3).
23.   Over 1989-92, a total of USh. 116.2 million (about US$200,000) was collected from the
parents (Appendix D, Table 5), and Government contributed USh.188.5 million (about
US$220,000) to the TF. Because of the rapid depreciation of the currency, the PIU was able to
procure only US$369,000 worth of books (about 53,400 for Math and 81,700 for Science) with
the TF (Appendix D, Table 2).



Part I: Imnlementation Assessment                                       Pare 6 of 11
24.   The TPP encountered numerous difficulties, mainly arising from weakness in the project
design. Inadequate attention was given to the government's weak financial status, and the order of
magnitude of government's financing obligations was not made clear in the SAR. Moreover, as
designed, the more successful the pilot, the greater the financial burden it would impose on the
Government because of its obligation to provide matching funds.
25.   The designers of the project may have been equally optimistic about the parents' ability
and willingness to top up their already high share of the cost of educating their children (about 65-
90 percent, according to Uganda Social Sector Review, 1990). Further dampening the parents'
understanding of the scheme and their willingness to pay were a lack of direct connection between
the funds collected and textbook replenishments received, arising from a centrally managed system,
absence of ownership of the textbooks acquired through the TF, and unchecked free ridership
which gave those defaulting in payments equal access to the books.
26.   The interim TPP Evaluation study in 1991 recommended that the pilot scheme be reduced
in scope and continue to be tested in one district to reduce the supervision burden on the PIU, Bank
missions also encouraged the Government to come forth with a proposal for restructuring the pilot
on a reduced scale. But, field coordination between the Inspectorate and the PIU was poor.  The
Borrower did not follow-up on the Evaluation Study or the Bank's recommendations to restructure
the pilot. The pilot scheme was subsequently discontinued following the distribution of science
books in 1993, leaving no alternative mechanism for achieving sustainable replenishment of books.
27.   Institutional Strengthening: the Inspectorate.  The project helped strengthen the
Inspectorate by increasing the number of inspectors from 75 to 196, the majority of whom were to
operate in the districts. It improved their professional capacity through training of more than half
of the incumbents and almost all new recruits (Appendix D, Table 10), and it provided motorcycles
to increase inspectors' mobility in the field. A TA advisor set up a structured training system with
assistance from the Trainers of Trainers (ToTs) who were recruited and trained by him. Twelve
workshops/seminars were held, of which 10 were for Headquarters staff. One guidebook was
prepared by the Advisor; seven more were completed by the Inspectorate after the Advisor's
departure with further external assistance.
28.    Several factors reduced the impact of this component. First, the inspectors' ability to visit
and supervise schools was limited in the initial years of the project due to delays in the procurement
and distribution of the motorcycles, weak control over vehicle use, and inadequate operating funds
for their maintenance or field visits. Second, there were difficulties in integrating the work of the
Advisor into the Inspectorate as the Advisor reported to, and was accountable to, the PIU. The
Advisor worked with a few counterparts in the Inspectorate but generally remained independent of
the Inspectorate management. The coordination between the Inspectorate and the PIU was weak,
particularly in the field. Third, the focus of training was biased toward the Headquarters, and not
enough was provided for the field Inspectors. Fourth, the Inspectorate received no fuinds from the
project after the initial US$10,000 in 1990, though US$120,000 had been budgeted from the IDA
credit for the purpose. Lack of local funding does not appear to be a satisfactory explanation, as
operating funds for the PIU, also heavily dependent on local funding, was not under similar
constraints.
29.   Institutional Strengthening: NCDC and STEPU. The project was minimalist in its
support for both NCDC and STEPU. Funding for NCDC was limited to meeting the operating
costs of primary subject panels to design syllabi and a study on the prospects for a local publishing



Part I: Implementation Assessment                                       pape 7 of 11
and printing industry. The funding for subject panels was suspended after just one year because of
differences in priority between NCDC and the Ministry (NCDC preferring to focus on non-core
subjects for which less work had been done), only to be resumed in the last year of project
implementation. The study on local publishing helped to redefine NCDC's role, leading to the
adoption of multiple textbooks which effectively dismantled NCDC's monopoly over textbook
publishing. A conflict of interest in NCDC's role as both the producer and the evaluator of books
for schools was also eliminated with the evaluation responsibility being taken over by the
Inspectorate. Schools are now free to choose from a list of approved textbooks; it is up to the
publishers to promote their product to individual schools. In response to the opening of the
textbook sector, a dozen commercial publishers have entered into agency arrangements, joint
ventures or co-publishing arrangements with foreign companies based in the U.K., Kenya, South
Africa, and Ghana.
30.    Support received by STEPU was not only minimal, but most of it was for short-run
activities: STEPU was provided with start-up equipment and initial operating costs, and three
technical staff and one manager completed a study tour of an older Science Equipment Production
Unit (SEPU) in Kenya. These activities were all completed before the project became effective.
Only a short term consultancy to design a medium to long term work program and investment
plans for STEPU, completed in 1991, was funded by the project. The initial injection of funds and
know-how enabled STEPU to take off and obtain support from other sources (ODA) to keep it in
operation throughout the project period. STEPU may have been premature; throughout the project
period, no private enterprise has spontaneously taken to mass producing of STEPU's prototypes.
Rather, they demanded guaranteed purchase by Government. One might also question whether
designing cost effective educational equipment from locally available materials should necessarily
be undertaken by the public sector.
31.   Pre-investment studies. These studies were to provide background information for a
sector operation. Six topics and four other possible areas of investigation were identified at
appraisal. Most of the topics, save two, were substituted either because similar studies were being
conducted by other institutions or the topics were no longer a priority. In all, 16 studies were
carried out, all between 1990 and 1991, many by local consultants (Part II, Table 7). The studies
typically combined information gathering, (to fill the information gap created by protracted neglect
during the years of civil strife), analysis of the situation, and recommendations on the options and
goals for the future. The Education Policy Reform Commission (EPRC), formed to prepare a
White Paper on education, actively participated in selecting the topics and was the primary user of
the output. The studies also provided input to the Five-Year Investment Plan and prepared the way
for a follow-up education project of a more extensive scale (a US$104.1 million project cofinanced
by the Government of Uganda, USAID and IDA). This component easily outweighs its share of
total project expenditure (less than 3 percent) in terms of its development impact.
32.   Procurement.  With the purchase and consolidation of textbooks and instructional
materials totaling US$11.3 million and accounting for 66 percent of all goods and services
procured by the project, most of the procurement had taken place by the end of 1991, in
accordance with acceptable Bank procedures. Efforts to utilize surplus funds for the design and
construction of the PTT'Cs and Coordinating Schools in Bushenyi and Gulu districts were derailed
by delays and procurement procedural problems -- such as breech of confidentiality of evaluation
proceedings, change to the scope of services from those prescribed in the bid document, etc. Re-
tendering and award of contract were completed only by November 10, 1993. The consultants
were able to complete all the drawings and much of the documentation by Credit closing on June



Part I: Implementation Assessment                                       page 8 of 11
30, 1994. However, about 18 months were lost in the process. As it became evident that the
rehabilitation work could not be completed by project closing and Education V, which finances
similar activities was already effective, it was agreed to absorb the Bushenyi and Gulu districts
into this follow-up project.
Project Sustainability and Future Operation
33.   The Future Operation Plan (Part II, Table 6) lists actions which the Government has
already initiated or plans to take to sustain the development impact of Education IV. These actions
focus on two areas:  finding a mechanism for sustainable replenishment of textbooks, and
preservation and replenishment of sector knowledge.
34.   Sustainable replenishment of Textbooks. Current textbook related activities of USAID's
Support for Uganda Primary Education Reform (SUPER) focus on procurement and distribution
of textbooks. They do not address the sustainability issue. In order to design and test out a school
based and locally managed Textbook Revolving Fund, a study tour will be undertaken by a team of
Ugandan experts to neighboring countries which have been successful in replenishing textbooks
and in developing book markets. Following the study tour, a detailed costed action plan will be
developed by the IMU, in consultation with the Inspectorate, for designing and implementing the
pilot scheme. The initial investment costs for piloting could be born by Education V. IMU will
also design and undertake (i) a book use survey to eliminate the guesswork on the target pupil to
textbook ratios and to guide future investments in books, and (ii) a textbook market study.
Decentralized procurement of textbooks, which is more consistent with textbook market
development, will need to be pursued at the earliest opportunity. Such studies could be financed
under Education V. Preserving and replenishing the stock of sector knowledge. A pre-
investment studies component in Education V should enable continued updating and expanding of
the stock of knowledge on Ugandan education established under Education IV. In lieu of EPRC,
which had been disbanded after the completion of the White Paper, The Government intends to
establish a Standing Committee to continually review policy developments. There is also a need
for a locus for the safe-keeping of the stock of knowledge and information being accumulated such
as a reading room or a library within the Ministry.
Bank's Performance
35.   Identification of the critical areas in which intervention was necessary was successful, and
the urgency of the situation was correctly perceived. While IDA rightly took risks, with the benefit
of hindsight, preparation moved appropriately swiftly for an emergency operation, keeping the
project design simple and focused. An appraisal followed in May 1988; three months after the
completion of appraisal, the project had been negotiated. Speed and simplicity were of essence,
and the team delivered. What IDA did not adequately assess were the financial implications of the
project. Whilst it over-estimated both the Government and the parents' capacity and willingness to
carry additional financial burden, it underestimated the recurrent cost implications of the Project
(Part I, paras. 14 and 24-25). In supervision, IDA was responsive to the changing priorities and
needs of the project as presented by the PIU and supported flexibility in implementation. However,
it did not pay adequate attention to book use in classrooms, and focus on the project was
superceded by a new operation under preparation (Education V). It could also have been more
persistent in having the TPP continue to be tested in one district, considering the importance of the
sustainable supply of textbooks in the Government's budget plans. IDA was not clear on what
audits were expected of the Borrower for the Borrower to fulfill the financial covenant. Both the



Part I: Implementation Assessment                                        Page 9 of 11
DCA and SAR are vague on this point. IDA did not pay adequate attention to the quality or
coverage of audit report. Hence, though only IDA credit disbursements (and not all project
expenditures irrespective of source of funding) were covered and audit reports provided scanty
information, typically consisting of one summary table and a covering statement by the auditor,
there is no evidence that IDA made an issue of inadequate audit reporting.
Borrower performance
36.    MoES's institutional capacity was extremely weak, and the practice of internal
consultation was not well established when the project was being prepared. This limited its ability
to draw on its own staff to contribute subtantively to project preparation. The project was
narrowly owned by the PIU and the EPU (while the PS/Planning was within the Ministry). In
implementation, retention of the PIU staffing gave the project continuity and the benefit of the
experiences from Education III. The PIU prepared the schools well to receive the books (training
on book management, storage, etc.), and it kept in close contact with the field, especially in
managing the TPP. Shrewd negotiations and the advantage of intemational competitive bidding
enabled the Government to realize US$2.3 million in cost savings. Despite the logistical problems
posed by poor road and telecommunications conditions, the textbooks were distributed in a timely
fashion. The Borrowers' covenant compliance were frequently delayed and partial (detailed
description of the status of each covenant is presented in Part II, Table 10). Other departments of
the Ministry were too weak to assume the responsibility for redesigning the textbook pilot project.
This may have been exacerbated by the PIU's reluctance to provide operating costs to cover the
additional responsibilities expected of other department (para. 29). For future operations, the
Ministry is already taking steps to set up a reading room which could function as a depository of
sector knowledge being acquired; the IMU is keen on establishing a sustainable means of
replenishing textbooks and will prepare a costed action plan.
Assessment of Outcome
11.    Overall, the project outcome was satisfactory. The momentum of the Government's
educational rehabilitation efforts was boosted. The project put the sector on a path to recovery.
Textbooks and instructional materials were delivered to schools speedily and cost effectively, thus
raising teacher morale and parental interest in children's education. The institutional capacity of
the Ministry has been strengthened. Most important has been the redefining of the role of NCDC,
and the liberalization of the textbook sector.  On the other hand, the project fell short of
strengthening the Inspectorate.  Pre-investment studies exceeded expectations in number and
impact. The project not only fulfilled the objective of preparing for a larger investment operation
in the sector (Education V and USAID's SUPER), but it also provided valuable input to the
deliberations on the Govermnent's White Paper on education and the Five Year Investment
Program. One objective which was not achieved, not mentioned in the Executive Summary of the
Borrower's Completion Report (Appendix B), is establishing a Textbook Fund for the
replenishment of instructional materials on a permanent basis. This has been tackled as the
foremost goal of future operations to sustain the development impact of this project (para. 34 and
Part II, Table 6).



Part I: Implementation Assessment                                       page 10 of 11
Key Lessons Learned
12.    Lessons learned from the project are:
*  Higher initial investment for higher physical specifications, training of teachers in book
management, and timely provision of storage cupboards can more than pay for itself with
prolonged book life. The project was able to realize increased book use life from an
expected average of 3 years to 5-7 years at substantial recurrent cost savings.
*  Meeting short-termn needs for textbooks and the development of a local publishing industry
need not be mutually exclusive. The project provided textbooks speedily by importing
them (largely written by Ugandans for Uganda) from abroad. At the same time, MoES
took measures to liberalize the textbook sector and to assist the development of the local
publishing and printing industry, with positive results.
*  A systematic and planned devolvement of project implementation responsibilities from the
PIU into the mainstream of the Ministry is necessary to assure the Ministry's ownership of
the project and its sustainability after project completion. Ideally such a plan should be
incorporated into the project design. A detailed plan of action for such a devolvement
should be made one of the central themes of Mid-term reviews of projects with similar
implementation arrangements.
*  Closer and more systematic consultation with households through sample surveys could
have enabled the implementors to understand what parents are willing and able to pay and
what mechanisms would be more credible and, therefore, acceptable to them.
*  Shortcomings in project design can, in some cases, be overcome and the project
successfully implemented if it has the strong commitment of the Borrower, a dedicated
implementing agency, and the Borrower and the Bank are flexible and willing to fine-tune
the project as it is being implemented.
*  Pre-investment studies can provide enormous impact on sector policy formulation if the
need for information and data analysis is fully appreciated by the Borrower. Conscientious
undertaking of studies, involvement of numerous local consultants, and timely completion
of studies, enabled the project to provide meaningful input to the deliberation of the White
Paper and the Five-Year Investment Plan.
*  Textbook supply schemes should be kept uniform among schools in close proximity to one
another to minimize parental disaffection.
*  A closer connection should be established between fee payment and textbook supply. This
will help make the scheme more credible to the parents and, thus, encourage their
participation.
*  Impact on education cannot be fully achieved through physical delivery of textbooks alone.
It should be combined with appropriate book use, a factor which is easily overlooked in
project design or supervision.



Part :I.-           AR eN                                             ae 11 of 11
*  A systautic monitoring and evaluation of the project against its development objectives
could have enabled the project to identify and correct important deficiencies, such as low
usage of books, with a positive impact on projoct outcome.






Part 11
Table 1
Uganda
Fourth Education Project
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives
macro policies                                                                                XX
sector policies                         XX
financial objectives                                                        XX
institutional development               XX
physical objectives                     XX
poverty reduction                                                                             XX
gender issues                                                                                 XX
other social objectives                                                                       XX
environmental objectives                                                                      XX
public sector management                                  XX                                  XX
private sector development                                XX
,,,.,.   .   ....   .  , ...   . .....----  --
B. Project sustainability                                                        XX          .
U } S N N ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.........   . ...                  .... ...   . ...   .....................'- 
C. Bank performance
identification                                            XX_
preparation assistance                                    XX
appraisal                                                 XX
supervision                                                                 XX
D. Borrower performance
preparation                                                                 XX
implementation                                            XX
covenant compliance                                       XX          _
operation                         _                       XX          _       _
E. Assessment of outcome                      =                XX



Part II
Table 2
Uganda
Fourth Education Project
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Past Operations
Education III (Cr. 1329), The project assisted in rehabilitating primary, secondary,  1983  Closed
US$32 million         technical schools and, to a lesser extent, the University.       12/88
The project provided educational matenals such as
textbooks, instructional materials and equipment for about
5,200 primary schools, about 177 secondary schools, and
33 teacher training and vocational institutions. The project
also provided library books and professional journals to the
University, in addition to the rehabilitation of a number of
residence halls. The Completion Report for the project,
undertaken by the UNESCO Cooperative Program, noted
that in spite of political instability and persistent security
problems during the period of project implementation,
much of the materials procured under the project reached
the schools and provided an important, though temporary,
uplift to the education system.
On-going Operations
1. An education       The project will rehabilitate 4,200 primary school     1990     On-
component in         classrooms in 12 poorer districts                               going;
Alleviation of Poverty                                                               Closing
and Social Costs of                                                                  9/30/95
Adjustment Project
(Cr. 2008-UG)
2. An education        The project will help (a) integrate teacher education of  1992  On-
component in         3,000 primary school teachers, (b) improve technical            going;
Northern             training, and (c) rehabilitate 1860 primary school              Closing
Reconstruction Project  classrooms                                                   9/30/97
(Cr. 2362-UG)
3. Primary Education   The project will help (a) improve primary school teaching  1993  On-
and Teacher        and management, and (b) strengthen strategic functions of       going;
Development Project MoES, e.g., policy analysis, management and                    Closing
(Cr. 2493),        implementation.                                                 6/30/00



Part II
Table 3
Uganda
Fourth Education Project
Table 3 Project Timetable
Identification.
(Executive Project Summary)                                      January, 1987
Preparation                                    November, 1987       December, 1987
Appraisal                                      May, 1988            May, 1988
Negotiations                                   September, 1988      September, 1988
Board Presentation                             November, 1988       November 15, 1988
Signing                                        December 9, 1988     December 9, 1988
Effectiveness                                  February 1989        May 12, 1989
Change to the Development Credit Agreement                          March 9, 1992
Textbook Revolving Fund Pilot mid-term review  June 30, 1991        July, 1991
Project Completion                             December 31, 1993    December 31, 1993
Closing                                        June 30, 1994        June 30, 1994



Part II
Table 4
Uganda
Fourth Education Project
Table 4: Credit Disbursements, Estimated and Actual
SAR Estiiates                  Actual             Actual Cum.
Yr/Quarter                               7 Quarterly  .Cu   .Quatery   Cumeyul.  as % of
(US$ millions)             (JUS millions)           Total Credit
FY89   Q3            2.20       2.20          0.00            0.00          0%
Q4           2.40       4.60          2.25            2.25         10%
FY90   Ql            2.20       6.80          0.60            2.85         13%
Q2           2.00       8.80          0.66            3.51         16%
Q3           1.30      10.10          5.02            8.53         39%
Q4           1.60      11.70          1.53           10.06         46%
FY91   Ql            1.30      13.00          2.06           12.12         55%
Q2           1.50      14.50          1.60           13.72         62%
Q3           1.30      15.80          0.61           14.33         65%
Q4           1.10      16.90          0.65           14.99         68%
FY92   Ql            0.90      17.80          0.40           15.39         70%
Q2           0.90      18.70          0.00           15.39         70%
Q3           0.70      19.40          0.48           15.87         72%
Q4           0.60      20.00          0.27           16.14         73%
FY93   Ql            1.10      21.10          0.11           16.25         74%
Q2           0.90      22.00          0.09           16.35         74%
Q3                                    0.24           16.59         75%
Q4                                    0.13           16.72         76%
FY94   Ql                                     0.09           16.81         76%
Q2                                    0.13           16.94         77%
Q3                                   -1.30 /1        15.64         71%
Q4                                    0.00           15.64         71%
SAR Estimates and Actual Disbursements
>     25.00
20.00
E E   1 5.001                                                  1,11
2 2)  is.oo
U) 5.00
0.00
1     3:    5     7     9    11    13    15    17    19    21
Quarters
I SAR Estimates M Actual
Source: LOAAF
1/ For the final recovery of the initial deposit into the Special Account.



Uganda                                              Part II
Fourth Education                                        Table 5
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
1.     ..........   .     .   :..::..   . -   :   :'  .. - ..::''    -  ....  :   .'..     .  '- ':::: .  ....:.:. :  0 9
.... ... .... . ...                  ~~Unit   ..Ettl0ated      ActuAl.... 
. .. ...           F~~~Rt.W /5.
I.  KEY IMPLEMENTATION INDICATORS IN SAR /1
Provision of Instructional Materials
primary schools (and 65 PTCs)             number           3,400         3,470          102.1 %
textbooks and teacher guides              number       3,326,100    3,534,936 /2         106.3%
textbook expenditure                        US$        7,680,000    5,681,439 /2         135.2%
textbook consolidation                      US$        3,000,000    1,480,600           202.6%
Textbook Revolving Fund Pilot
textbooks/teacher guides                  number             n.a.      1 36,967 /4          n.a.
districts                                 number               4             4          100.0%
schools                                   number             800           621            77.6%
parental contribution                      USh.    216,000,000  116,224,384              53.8%
government contribution                    USh.    216,000,000  188,514,451               87.3%
total collected                            USh.    432,000,000 304,738,835                70.5%
II. MODIFIED INDICATORS /6
Rehabilitation of Education Facilities
PTTC reconstruction/rehabilitation        number               2             0             0.0%
construction of schools                   number              50             0             0.0%
reconstruction/rehabilitation of schools  number              75             0             0.0%
1/    As no performance indicator Table was provided in the SAR or President's Report, these have been
assembled from targets mentioned in various parts of the SAR.
2/    Including topping up of the stock for TPP schools.
3/    These were procured with Education IV books and financed with IDA credit.
4/    Textbooks financed with the Textbook Fund; IDA estimate in the absence of substantiation by the Borrower.
5/    Where cost savings have been realized, the performance rate is calculated as the reciprocal of
actual as % of target.
6/    Modified to utilize project cost savings; DCA was amended as of March 9, 1 992, to include a rehabilitation
component.
Part 1l, Table 5



Part II
Table 6
Uganda
Fourth Education Project
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Sustainable funding of  *  IDA's Education V provides US$1.2  *   a mechanism for sustainable  *   a study tour for Ugandan experts (FY95),
textbooks                   million.                             replenishment,
*   book use survey and book market study; possibly a
*  USAHD's SUPER is to provide      *   development of a book market.    household survey on textbook use and funding (FY96),
US$25.0 million for textbooks and
instructional materials,        *   increased exposure of teachers   *   design and implementation of a new Textbook Fund
and parents to newly available  pilot (FY96),
*   under BDA V and SUPER,              textbooks.
textbooks are procured based on the                              *   IMU to encourage privately operated book mobiles,
textbook needs identified by                                         stocked with MoES approved books and instructional
schools.                                                             materials, to tour the country (FY96).
*  teachers are trained in textbook to
maximize the textbooks' impact on
students' learning;
Continued updating of the   *  Education V continues to finance  *   a locus for initiatives for  *   a reading room within MoES headquarters is being set
stock of knowledge of the   pre-investment studies which are to  studies and policy analysis as   up to fbnction as a depository for studies on the
education sector and        be the vehicle for                   needs arise,                     education sector and other reference materials to be
analysis of its             maintaining/updating the stock of                                     made available to Ministry staff and researchers (FY95).
development.                knowledge and to provide the     *   a depository for all the studies
analytical basis for follow-up      on Uganda education and other
interventions in the sector.        reference materials for the
benefit of future research.
Part II, Table 6



Uganda
Fourth Education Project
Table 7: Pre-Investment Studies
Studies Carried Out Under Education IV
1. "Financing and Efficiency of Education in    External &  Review recommendations of previous studies;  Study sensitized the Ministry to the cost implications
Uganda," by V. Levine and C. Sentongo,   local           propose a financing system for education system  of proposals, the need for cost sharing, and provided
completed 12/90.                                         without having to rely heavily on external assistance.  unit cost estimates on which to base school charges.
2. "Books and Instructional Materials in  External &     Investigate the cost-effectiveness, quality, reliability   Study provided an analysis of local publishing and
Uganda" by C. Denning and D. Sentamu,    local           and speed of local publishing and printing in  printing capacity. Together with two other studies, it
completed 3/91.                                          comparison with alternatives abroad.           provided the information required for MoES to design
a new National Instructional Materials Policy in 1993.
3. "Science Education in Secondary Schools in  Local     Science education in secondary schools         Study provided basic information for further studies
Uganda" by J.O. Ilukor, J. N.Mulemwa, and                                                               under ADB n1 and PETDP.
P.J.M. Ssebuwufu, completed 12/90.
4. "Teacher Education in Uganda 1990-2000"   External &  To identify the mnajor issues and problems of teacher   Study laid the foundation for Teacher Development
by D.B. Evans and C.F. Odaet, completed 3/91.  local     education, assess demand and supply of teachers,  and Management System (TDMS).
design a framework for a national system of teacher
training and upgrading.
5. "Technical, Business & Vocational     Local           To identify the issues and explore solutions for  Study provided background infornation for developing
Education in Uganda" by Target Engineers and             improving technical, business and vocational   a Five Year Investment Plan and for developing a
Associates, completed 12/90.                             education in Uganda.                           Technical Colleges Rehabilitation Project for OPEC
funding.
6. "Design of Standard Accounting System for  Local      To improve financial management in primary     The report was used as a resource in drawing up head
Primary Schools in Uganda" by Serefaco                   schools.                                       teacher management training materials and a handbook
Consultants Ltd., completed 1/91.                                                                      for school management which will be introduced
through TDMS.
Table 7: page 1 of 4



-----------
77 "Design of National School Mapping   External &     To identify school mapping work to be carried out.   Identified school mapping work to be implemented by
Project" by Q. Khan and F.O. Passi, completed  local                                                PETDP.
3/91.
8. "Reform of Public Examination System in    External &  To evaluate the proposals of the White Paper.  The study identified weaknesses in the system and
Uganda " by V. Greaney and D.L. Ongom,  local                                                       provided an outline for the examination reform
completed 12/90.                                                                                    component of PETDP.
9. "Education Management Training in    External &     To plan intervention to address weaknesses in  Materials in the study, borrowed commonwealth
Uganda" by J.S. Carpenter, R.L. Smith, J.B.    local   school management.                           training, were in tum borrowed by TDMS for its
Farrell, and J.L. Nkata, completed 7/91.                                                            management training program.
10. 'Projections of Enrollment and Resource    External  To develop a model for projecting future enrollment  Study provide a bsis for estim4ing needs of Five Year
Requirements for Prirnary and Secondary                and to provide the basis for estimating teacher  Investment Program.
Education 1990-2000' by A. Nazareth,                   demand.
completed 4/91.
11. "Special Groups, Orphans, and Gifted" by   Local   To propose programs and policies to provide special  Programs and policies proposed by the study were
K. Namuddu, A.J. Sebina Nalwanga, and J.               recognition and support to the education of the  incorporated into the Five Year Investment Program,
Sengendo, completed 6/91.                              special groups.                              but has not been able to obtain funding for
implementation.
12. "School Construction Programme" by J.H.   External  To provide cost data for the school construction  Importance of staff housing for retention of quality
Wyles, completed 4/91.                                 component of the Five Year Investment Program and  teachers highlighted. The study provided a costing
basic data for PETDP.                        framework.
13. "Institutional Strengthening of the Project   External  To study the proposed expansion of PIU to handle    Organizational structure proposed for the P1U and job
Implementation Unit" by A.S. Jemberie,                 additional projects.                         descriptions for key positions have been taken up by
completed 7/90.                                                                                     PETDP/SUPER.
14. "Science and Technology Equipment   External       To develop a five year investment plan for STEPU.   Large scale expansion of STEPU envisaged in the
Production Unit, STEPU" by Target Engineers                                                         study has not yet obtained funding.
and Associates, completed 4/91.
Table 7: page 2 of 4



15. "Non-formal Education in Uganda" by  Local          To review the White Paper recommendations and  Various literacy pilot programs proposed by the study
Kebbede Mammo, completed 5191.                           design a pilot projects for inclusion in the Five Year  are being implemented outside MoES.
Investment Plan.
16. "Radio Education in Uganda 1992-1997"    External   To assess feasibility of the use of radio in non-  Radio education has not been included in subsequent
by S. Leighs, completed by 5/91.                         formal education, teacher education, and English  programs.
Language teaching.
Studies Identified in Education IV but not Carried Out
1. Analysis of Civil Service Census.                    Make more rational use of Civil Service manpower,
analyze discrepancies between the numbers
employed and numbers paid; propose measures to
eliminate these discrepancies; examine functions
and structure of MoES, its working relations, and
recommend ways to improve these relations.
2. Feasibility Study on Water Provision to               Propose lasting and practical solutions to the water
Rural Primary Schools.                                   supply problems, in particular when electrical power
is absent
3. Employment of Expatriate Ugandans in the              Explore ways and means to revive the interest of
Ministry of Education.                                   expatnate Ugandans to serve again in the teaching
profession of their country.
Table 7: page 3 of 4



4. Other Studies.                                           Other possible studies were                      Not carried out because (a) major issues being
(a) optimum enrollment to particular curriculum to    addressed in the White Paper on Education and/or (b)
ensure economic viability of institutions, especially   the subject matters were no longer regarded as prionty
TTCs and Technical Schools;                     issues.
(b) measures to reduce the oversegmentation of
primary school syllabus;
(c) ways to limit over-specialization of secondary
school teachers; and
(d) strategy for the phasing out of boarding facilities
and other forms of student subsidies or for gradual
introduction of fees to recover the full costs for these
services.
Table 7: page 4 of 4



Uganda                                          Part II
Fourth Education Project                               Table 8A
Table 8A: Project Costs (US$ millions)
Appil Estimates                    Actual
Project Components              Loal  Foreign  Total         Local  Foreign   Total
Costs   Costs   Costs        Costs   Costs    Costs
1. Primary School Improvement
(a) Textbooks                             0.00     6.43    6.43        0.00     5.22     5.22
(b) Instructional materials and           0.10     2.48    2.58        0.00     3.68     3.68
equipment
(c) Shipping & consolidation              0.00     3.00    3.00        0.00     1.48     1.48
2. Instructional & Policy Development
(a) Textbook Pilot Project                0.00     1.25    1.25        0.00     0.89     0.89
(b) Vehicles, Motorcycles & spare parts   0.00     0.13    0.13        0.10     0.60     0.70
(c) Technical assistance                  0.12     1.05    1.17        0.00     3.45     3.45
(d) Training abroad                       0.00     0.29    0.29        0.00     0.09     0.09
(e) Workshops & seminars                  0.51     0.06    0.57        0.13     0.07     0.20
(f) Incremental operating costs           3.17     0.35    3.52        0.62     0.30     0.92
3. Project Preparation Facility              0.03      0.28    0.31        0.00     0.25     0.25
4. Civil Works and Furniture                 0.00      0.00    0.00        0.00     0.21     0.21
5. Total Base Cost                           3.93    15.32   19.25        0.85    16.22    17.08
Physical contingencies                    0.39     1.58    1.97        0.00     0.00     0.00
Price contingencies                       4.89     1.34    6.23        0.00     0.00     0.00
Total Project Cost                            9.21    18124   27.45        0.85    16.22    17.08
SAR Estimates                                         Actual
E67                                          4  E67
3d
3
2_ 1                                              2                        1
Legend
1. Textbooks, instructional materials, and             4. Incremental operating costs
their shopping/consolidation                        5. Pre-investment studies
2. Vehicles, motorcycles and spare parts               6. Project Preparation Facility
3. TA, training, and workshops                         7. Civil works and furniture



Part II
Table 8B
Uganda
Fourth Education Project
Table 8B. Project Financing
SAR Estimates and Actual
(US$ millions)
SAR Emlms:                        Actuial
x pandUi; Catq             -ovtn|             Totl   G v mt Parejts   IDA        Total
1. Textbooks                           0.000  7.680  7.680     0.226    0.194  5.681   6.101
2. Instructional Materials and office and  0.000  2.580  2.580  0.000    0.000  3.679   3.679
teaching equipment
3. Overseas shipping and consolidation  0.000  3.000  3.000     0.000    0.000  1.481   1.481
4. Vehicles, motorcycles and spare     0.000  0.250  0.250      0.100    0.000  0.596   0.696
5. Technical assistance                0.000  1.580  1.580      0.000    0.000  3.450   3.450
6. Training Abroad                     0.000  0.280  0.280      0.000    0.000  0.087   0.087
7. In-country Workshops and Seminars   0.300  0.270  0.570      0.130    0.000  0.065   0.195
8. Incremental operating costs         3.000  0.520  3.520      0.624    0.000  0.298   0.922
9. Project Preparation Facility        0.000  0.310  0.310      0.000    0.000  0.254   0.254
10. Civil works and building materials  0.000  0.000  0.000     0.000    0.000  0.211   0.211
11. Furniture                           0.000  0.000  0.000     0.000    0.000  0.002   0.002
12. Unallocated                        2.600  5.530  8.130      0.000    0.000  0.000  0.000
Total Project Co£t           -      5.90 22.000 27s.00   1.080        0.194 15.804  17.078
Source: Mission estimates based on PIU data for Government/Parent financing and WB LOAAF
for IDA financing.
1/  Estimated as residual.
(file:TBL8B.XLS)



Uganda                                      Part II
Fourth Education Project                             Table 9
Table 9A: Cost-Effectiveness
Textbooks - average unit cost of printing     2.17       1.61           2.28    1.61        -29.29%
Consolidation and delivery cost per book      1.10       0.46           1.15    0.46         -60.14%
1/ In 1988 dolllars; these are adjusted by a factor of 1.04920, using MWJV indenx for developed countries to bring them to
1990 prices.
2/ In 1990 prices.
On the textbook component, which accounts for 66 percent of total project expenditures, the
project was cost-effective (Table 9A above). Both textbook procurement and consolidation/delivery
were achieved at substantial savings, much below the SAR estimates (Table 9A above).
Higher initial investment for higher specification books, with additional investments for
improved storage and book management, to achieve longer average book life was a cost effective
decision for the project. The alternative would have been to opt for lower quality at a lower initial
investment (US$1.0 million) but which would have resulted in a shorter average book life. When the
costs are annualized over the expected book life, the cheaper option comes out costlier (Table 9B)
than the higher specification option by US$363,000 annually and by more than US$1.8 million over 5
years, if the books are to be replenished after their average life.
Sensitivity analysis (Table 9B) shows that in order for lower specification/shorter lasting
books to match the lower annualized cost of higher specification books, they must be produced at
US$0.96, US$0.64 and US$0.32 for books lasting three, two and one year(s), respectively.
Table 9B: Savings Realized from Longer Book Life
1'
Higher specification             5,215,940    3,245,307     5               1,043,188       1.61
Lower specification              4,218,899    3,245,307     3               1,406,300       1.30
Savings                        997,041                                   -363,112
Sensitivity
Books lasting 3 years         3,129,564    3,245,307     3               1,043,188      0.96
Books lasting 2 years         2,086,376    3,245,307     2               1,043,188      0.64
Books lasting I year          1,043,188    3,245,307     1               1,043,188       0.32
I/ Average unit cost which must be achieved by lower quality books in order to break even with higher specification
books.



Uganda
Fourth Education Project
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
1    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
Article III     The Borrower shall, on a quarterly basis, make available to  Counterpart    CP           n.a.                 Delays and shortfalls in counterpart funding experienced throughout the project.
pars 3.01(c)    MoES, for use by PIU, such funds in Uganda shillings, as are  funding
estimated to be required by Pr13 in the following three-month
period to cover expenditures which are not to be covered by
withdrawals from the Credit Accounts
Article III    The Borrower shall submit to the Association, for its review, a  Sector policy  CD      12/31/89      4/92     IDA agreed to Govenmment's request (November 27, 1990) for postponement of
pars. 3.03     satisfactory action plan to eliminate the discrepancy between the   conditionaliry                             submission of action plan until the Teacher Establishment study of Public
number of primary and secondary school teachers actually                                                      Service and Cabinet Affairs is completed. Government has carried out census of
performing teaching duties and the number of teachers on the                                                  MoES staff, computerized all teachers payroll, decentralized payroll
payroll.                                                                                                      administration, and headcount of all teachers were carried out by the Public
Service Ministry.
Article III     The Borrower shall submit to the Association, for its review and   Sector policy  CD   12/31/90      2/93     Number of PTC's reduced from 103 to 67; the agreed minutes of negotiations
parm. 3.04      comments, an action plan to:(a) ensure that the level of  conditionality                                      for the follow-up PETDP project indicates that it was agreed that an analysis of
enrollment at primary school teachers training colleges is cost-                                              fixed and variable PTC costs would be carried out and that the govemnment
effective; and (b) improve the ratio of school-size to number of                                              resources and IDA assistance should be concentrated on instructional facilities
subjects offered at secondary school teachers' training colleges                                              and not boarding.
and technical and vocational institutions.
Article IV      The Borrower shall:                                       Accounting,        C           n.a.         n.a.    Account opened with Grindlays Bank (U) Ltd. (7/5/89)
pars. 4.01                                                                audit
(a) maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts                                                   Audit reports recevied on:
adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting                                                      *   SOEs and Special Account (FY90, FY9 1, FY92, FY93),
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect                                             *   Textbook Fund accounts (FY9 1, FY92)
of the project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the project or any part thereof, and
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) have the records and accounts
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, including those for
the Special Account and the TF for each fiscal year, audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) funmish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each year, a
Table 10: page I of 4



Article IV      certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of
par  4.01       such swope and in such detail as the Association shall have
(continued)     reasonably requested, and (iii) fumish to the Association such
oier infinmation concening said records, account and the
audit liereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request
c) For all expeditnsm with reaped to vwhich wihidrawals from
the Credit Account were made on the bais ofatatmea of
expndibtm the Bonower shall: (i) mantain or cause to be
aintained in accordance with pragrph (a) ofthis Section,
record and scorS refiecting uch expnditures; (ii) retain,
until at mat ane yer after the Aociation has received the
audit for the fisal year in wibch the last withdrawl from the
Crdit Acmoust wa made, all records (contact, orders, invoices,
bills, receip and  herdocnnts) as eidence of mich
e nditns; (iii) enable the Asociatioefs repratativ  to
enamme mich records; and (rv) awer thal mich records and
accans are inclded inthe anal audit referred to in
pwasph (b) of this Setin and that the repet of such audit
contaima asparate opinion by sid audito  as to whIther the
usa  of ofqxpeaditure sutted durmg such ficl year,
together with the procedures and inrnal cantos involved in
their prepatn can be rehed upon to support the related
With&nak
S dle 4         In order to fcilitate the proper implanentation ofthe Project,  Project       C            na          na.      PIU has been maintained fully saffed for the entire duration ofthe project.
Pas  I          MoES shal contime to maintain PITU with oveall responsibility  implamenta-
for the rmana ent and coordination of all Project activities  tion
PIi staff saU include a Director, an Advisor to the Director, a
Deputy Director, a Procinmet Manager, a Distribution
Manager, an Accountant, and an dequate number of spport
staffwoe qualification shallbe satictory to the
AuocatiosL
Sdedule 4       In order to asit PItU in the implementation of the Project,  Project          C            nat          at      Services ofthe firm which procred TA for Education III were retained for
pas  2          MoES shall,   and when required, enploy technical ssistnce    Implement-                                        Education IV  In addition to retainng the Project Coordinator and
mtug who shll form part of PIU.                            ation                                                Accountant from Education Il, the project procured a 2-year TA for the
Insapctorzte and a Procumiat Caultant on a short4em basi
Table 10: pog 2 of 4



Schedule 4     PIU shall prepare and submit to the Association, semiannual  Project          C           n.a.        n.a.     Progress reports were received.
pars 3         reposts on the progress of implementation of all Project   Implement-
acivities, and, prmtly after the completion of the Project, the    ation
Project completion report referred to in Section 9.06 of the
General Conditions.
Schedule 4     With the assistance of a suitably qualified consuftant, MoES  Cost recovery  CP           n.a.        n.a.    (a) arrangements were made, extensive campaign was carried out to educate the
par 4          shall take appropriate steps to launch a Textbook Fund (TF),  fuiancial,                                      teachers and local officials, but supervision and accountability were difficult;
with annual contributions from parents, communities and   monitoring &
MoES, for the purchase of books and instructional materials to    evaluation,                                 (b) the Govermnent did make foreign exchange available for TF, but was slow to
be used by schools in four distrincts seleced by MoES on the  and counter-                                    meet its obligation for providing matching fand;
basis of selection criteia satisfactory to the Association. MoES   part funding
shall submit to the Association, for its review and comnents, a                                               (c) monitoring of TF was weak; and
detailed plan for the operation of TF including:
(a) specific arrangements for the collection of TF funds                                                      (d) the level of Borrower contribution to TF fell 12.7 percent below commitmern
(b) arrangements to be made between MoES, MOF and the
Bank of Uganda under which MOF shall ensure that adequate
foreign exchange shall be made available to MoES for the
acquisition oftextbooks and educaional materials wrth TF
funds;
(c) specific criteria for monitoring progress during the
implementation of TF;
(d) the level of the Borrowees contributions to the TF
Schedule 4     MoES shall carry out an evaluation ofthe pilot scheme to: (a)  Monitoring &  CD         6/30/91      12/91    Outside consuhants carried out a detailed mid-term evaluation ofthe TF project;
pam 5          detemine the extent of success of the scheme, including an  evaluation                                         Evaluation report submitted to IDA.
assessment ofthe underlying causes;
(b) verify that all schools which make contributions to the
scheme actualy receive ther enitlements; and
(c) recommend appropriate modifications to the operation ofthe
scheme.
Schedule 4     MoES shall carry out a second (final evaluation ofthe scheme  Monitoring &   CP         8/31/93     Ongoing   A comrnittee was set up for the purpose of redesigning the Textbook Project and
pma 6          and, subject to the resuh of such evaluation, make appropriate    evaluation                                   a submission presented to the Permanent Secretary. Meanwhile, Textbook
recommendations. The Association shall be afforded an                                                         Policy has been assumed by the new Instructional Materials Unit established in
opportunity to review and connsent on such recommendations.                                                   PIU under Cr. 2493. (Was thefinal evaluation actually carried out?)
Table 10: page 3 of 4



......      ....                                                                                                                    ...   .       .. : 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.6                           e .a ....                                                                ...     .           ...    ... :
Schedule 4       MoES shall, wish the assistance of a suitably qualified expert:  Institutional      C             n.a.         n.a.      (a) detailed plan submitted (November 22, 1989);                              l
pars. 7          (a) prepare a detailed plan, including a work programn andI
strategy, satisfactory to the Association, for imnproving and                                                            (b) detailed series of workshops, seminars and training carried out;l
strengthening the Inspectorate;I
(b) organize and conduct workshops, semninars and training                                                              (c) guidebooks approved by IDA; printing to be undertaken under Cr. 2493;      l
programns for inapectors at the district and regional levels;I
(c) prepare suitable handbooks and guidelines for she use of                                                             (d) control of vehicle use and maintenance remained weak; short on operating  l
inspectors, teachers and headrnasters; and                                                                              costs to run the vehicles.l
(d) strengthen the systemn of vehicle use of maintenance.                                                                                                                                              l
Schedule 4       MoES shall submnit to the Association, for its review, a three-  Institutional      CD          9/30/89        11I/S9    Three year work programn received; Inspectorate performnance report, update of l
partsL           year work programn for the period beginning July I, 1990, and                                                            the work program, and training programn received each year.l
ending June 30, 1993, satisfactory to the Association, and, byl
September 30 of each subsequent year, submnitsa performance                                                             IDA recommeanded integration of the Inspectorate with TDMS (October 28,       l
repo.rt for the preceding fiscal year and an updated work                                                                1991).l
program for the following fiscal year.l
Schedule 4       MoES shall, with the assistance of consultants. if required, carry   Studies and     Cn.a.                     n.a.      In total, 16 studies have been carried out under the project (see Table 7).
par.  9            out studies for:                                             technical 
(a) implementation policy measures resulting from ongoing      assistance                                               Five Year Education Sector Programn wss prepared (May 1991), donor meeting l
assessments of the education sector,                                                                                 held to discuss the programn (June 1991), a subsequent sector operation was   l
(b) carrying out Project activities, and                                                                                prepared and became effective .l
(c) preparing for a subsequent sector operationl
Table 10: pagec4of 4



Part II
Table 11
Uganda
Fourth Education Project
Table II: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
OD1.0           Paras. 26-27 of OD 10.60 state that, as a minimum, financial reports should normally l
Accounting,         comprise a statement of receipts and payments, as well as total project costs and sources of
Financial           financing, and that the supporting schedules of statemcnts should disclose annual and
Reporting, and      supplemental budget allotments, actual expenditures under each budget category for
Auditing            which Bank financing is furnished, and the actual expenditures and amounts of Bank
disbursements claimed. In short, financial reporting should cover all accounts pertaining
OD 13.10           to project expenditures, irrespective of sources of financing.
Borrower
Compliance with     For Education IV combined audits reports for SOEs and Special Account and audit
Audit Covenants    reports for the Textbook Fund Account were submitted. No audits were submitted on
Financial Statements or Project Account, largely due to lack of clarity in the SAR and
DCA on what was expected of the Borrower to fulfill the financial covenant. IDA did not
pick up on this deficiency during supervision. Therefore, compliance with OD 10.60 and
OD 13.10 has been only partiaL
OD 6.30             The Bank usually expects the Borrower to contribute 10 percent minimum (net of taxes
Local Cost          and duties) to the project to demonstrate its commitment. In exceptional cases, however,
Financing and Cost  such as strained government finances, the Bank allows lower borrower contribution
Sharing
Borrower's contribution of 7.5 percent of total project cost falls substantially below the
level anticipated at appraisal, but SAR's expectations were unrealistic, given the weak
government financial position then.
Part II, Table 11 page I of 2



Part II
Table 12
Uganda
Fourth Education Project
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
.....   .  ~ ~ ~ ~.. ... ...... .... ..........   ...... ...   .. ... ... ... ... ... .    .     ........
Preparation to Appraisal           0.0          0.0            0.0          0 0          24.6           73.8
Appraisal                          10 0        30.0            4.0         12.0           6.9           20.7
Negotiations through Board601025351133
Approval
Supervision                       82.0        246 0           96.9       290 7           52.2          156 6
Completion                         11.0        33.0            11.0       33.0            9.5 /1        28.5
1/ Estimated
Memo:
Assumes average cost of US$3,000 per staff week



Part II
Table 13
Uganda
Fourth Education Project
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Up to
appraisal                                                                                                              n.an
appraisal
rAppraisal to
|    Board                                                                                                            n.a.
(i) Government's new decision that
all TA staff should pay taxes held
Board to                                                                                               up signing of TA contracts; (ii)
Effectiveness  Nov-88      1        14      2.0         Educator                                          delays in identifying and recruiting
an experienced Ugandan deputy
director for the PIU.
Supervision
(i) Agreed to procure motorcycles
for the inspectors immediately; (ii)
NCDC to re-orient its focus away
May-90       1        17     2.4          Educator              HS                HS        from textbook printing and toward
improving locally developed
textbook manuscripts.
li) Low participation rate in TPP and
poor accountability; (ii) severe cuts
in counterpart funding as part of the
Government's measure to control
Aug-90       1        4      0.6          Educator              HS                HS        inflation; (iii) did not endorse
proposal to set up a textbook
procurement unit under the PIU.
Table 13, page 1 of 2



(i) Inspectorate work program|
proceeding behind schedule due to al
Apr-91   1   7  1.0   Educator               HS                  HS        ~~~~~~~~~inspectors; (ii) move NCDC away|
Apr-91  1  7  1.0   Educator                 HS                  HS        ~~~~~~~~~~~from printing to developing textbookl
manuscripts; (iii} M&E for TPP; (iv1)
costed proposal for utilizing
_____________  ________  _______                  _________________                      ~~~~~~unallocated    funds.
(i) Training proceeding well, but   |
office equipment and handbook       |
preparation lagging, need to  
Mar-92        1         9        1.3          Educator                                               continue to strengthen the|
Inspectorate; (ii) proposal for     |
redesigned TPP expected; (iii) close|
________________ ____________ _______ collaboration needed between the I
(i) Major problems with civil works |
design bid evaluation; and (ii)
Feb-93  3    16      2.3       Impleductatior,S                                           covenant compliance outstanding o
Specialist, Economist'                                       that 3.04(b) be dropped as simnilar
Education V.
<                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bushenyi and Guiu delayed, and
Sep-93   1    1       0.1      ~~Implementation              SSlikely to be only partially used by
Sep-93       1       0.1Specialist                                                        project closing; PIU requests
extension of the project closing by
Feb-94        1         12      1.7       Impleementation              SNone
(i) Unexplained local expenditure of
US$2.33 million on textbooks; (ii) a
Textbook Specialist,                                        large divergence between expected
Completion     Nov-94         3        14       5.0       Program Officer              SSpplt  etokrto   n
.  (Resident Mission),                           ~~~~~~~~observations in the field; and (iii)a
_          ~~~Economist                                             serious shortfall in counterpart
Table 13, page 2 of 2






Appendix A
Page 1 of 3
UGANDA
EDUCATION IV IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CR. 1965-UG)
DRAFT AIDE MEMOIRE
(February 21, 1995)
1.    A Bank ICR mission consisting of Tony Read (consultant), Harriet Nannyonjo (National
Program Officer, World Bank Resident Mission, Kampala) and Young Kimaro (Task Manager)
visited Uganda in November/December of 1994 to prepare the Bank's assessment of the recently
completed Education IV project. At the wrap up of that mission, the Govemment expressed the
view that the draft ICR largely provided a fair representation of project experience. All the
outstanding issues raised by the mission then and subsequently after its return to Washington, have
been clarified and resolved. Comments received from the Govemment during the December
mission were taken into consideration in the revised ICR, presented to the Government for
comments early February 1995. This Aide Memoire summarizes the discussions the Task
Manager has had with the Government on the report and the understandings on the revised ICR on
a subsequent visit to Uganda. The discussions benefited from the institutional memory provided by
Mr. Shay O'Byme, the TA Project Accountant at the PIU. The draft Aide Memoir is subject to
endorsement by the Bank management.
Textbook Pilot Project TPP)
2.    It was explained that the reasons for discontinuing the Textbook Pilot Project were not due
to the reluctance of the PIU to share the responsibility with other departments of the Ministry. To
the contrary, the PIU had agreed that the Inspectorate take the lead and that the EPU and the
Inspectorate draw up a proposal for restructuring the TPP. This task, unfortunately, was never
completed, leading to the decision to drop the TPP. The mission was provided with invoices for
the TPP textbook imports, thus eliminating the need for guestimates on TPP expenditures. The
mission agreed to revise the text to reflect the new information provided.
Counterpart Financing
3.    The US$2.34 million stated as Government expenditure on textbooks was an error;
according to Govermment it should have been entered against the Textbook Pilot component. It
was explained that Govemment's estimate of US$3.6 million was arrived at by applying the
exchange rate prevailing at the time of project appraisal. The ICR, on the other hand, used
monthly average exchange rates over the project period, yielding US$1.3 million equivalent total in
Government and parental contributions, the large discrepancy between the two estimates being due
to the rapid depreciation of Ugandan shilling from USh. 150 at the time of project appraisal to
USh. 1,218 to one US dollar in April 1993. Applying the appraisal exchange rate to total USh.
961,587,194 yields US$6,410,600, overshooting the Government's estimate.
4.    The Government expressed concern over implications of the shortfall in its contribution,
from the expected 21 percent of the project expenditures to 7.5 percent. While IDA encourages
Borrowers to contribute at least 10 percent of investment costs to assure the Borrowers'
commitment, this minimum rate is applied for the country as a whole and not to each and every



ARpendix A
Page 2 of 3
investment, and allowances are made for exceptional cases when Governmient comes under severe
financial constraints, as was the case with Uganda when the project was being implemented. What
it does imply is that the Bank was overly optimistic and did not adequately take into account the
financial status of the Government. Consequently, there was a severe shortage of funds to meet the
field operating costs of the Inspectorate.
Audits
4.    It appears that the language used in the SAR and the DCA on financial covenants was not
sufficiently clear to the Borrower on what was expected from the Borrower to fulfill financial
covenants. Throughout the project period, the Government was also led to believe audit reports on
the textbook fund and a single audit report each year covering a statement of expenditure in
support of withdrawal applications were in full compliance with the financial covenants of the
Bank. The Bank was informed that the audit for 1993/94 had been completed and is awaiting
clearance from the Accountant General's office.
Future Operations
5.    It was agreed that the PIU will prepare a preliminary action plan for (i) developing a
sustainable mechanism for replenishing textbooks, and (ii) a book mobile scheme to expose the
teachers and parents to available textbooks and instructional materials, and (iii) a depository of
studies and other reference materials on education. Funds for the preparatory work for this may be
provided from PETDP.
* Study Tour. In AprillMay a team consisting of about four to five experts from Uganda will
tour a number of neighboring countries that have been successful in replenishing textbooks and
in developing book markets from which useful lessons could be drawn for Uganda. The study
tour team should be broad based (including the Inspectorate and an expertise in finance),
including those who will subsequently play a key role in the design and implementation of a
textbook replenishment scheme.
*  Action Plan for Sustainable Textbook Replenishment. Following the study tour, a detailed,
costed action plan will be developed by the IMU, in consultation with the Inspectorate, for
designing and implementing a pilot scheme.
*  A Book Mobile Scheme. The IMU will actively encourage the private publishers to re-
activate book mobiles, which were much in fashion prior to the civil unrest, to expose the
teachers and parents to books that are now becoming available. As decisions on which books
among those approved by the Ministry will be use in classrooms are left to schools, there is
incentive for the publishers to reach out to schools and parents.
*  Book market study. As a precursor to drawing up a strategy for developing textbook
markets, the study should focus on the current status and constraints in textbook market
development. Special attention should be paid to the impact of the decentralization of
Government, liberalization of textbook publishing and printing, textbook procurement
practices, and general business enviromnent which affects book shops.



ADDendix A
Page 3 of 3
* Action Plan for a Library/Reading Room. For a depository of sector knowledge, the EPU
and the PIU have agreed on a modest library/reading room. A costed plan will be prepared by
the EPU for establishing and managing such a depository in which all studies and data
pertaining to the education sector could be made accessible.






Appendix B
Uganda
Fourth Education Project
Appendix B
An Executive Summary of'
Borrower's Project Completion Report
1.    The Project objectives in 1988 were to:  (i) maintain the momentum  of the
borrower's educational rehabilitation efforts and ensure their sustainability; (ii) establish a
revolving textbook fund; (iii) strengthen key Ministry institutions; and (iv) prepare a
subsequent project to address Borrower's strategy for the education sector.
2.    The Project provided: (i) textbooks, guides and instructional materials to 3,400
primary schools; (ii) established, on a pilot basis, a textbook revolving fund in 621 primary
school; (iii) strengthened (a) the Ministry's inspectorate; (b) the National Curriculum
Development Centre; (c) the Science and Technical Education Production Unit; and (d)
the National Education Policy Review Commission, through consultancies, provision of
workshops, supply of vehicles and equipment and study tour; (iv) carried our a series of
seventeen major pre-investment studies and assisted in the preparation of the Ministry's
Five Year Investment Plan (v) commenced on design work for new primary teacher's
colleges (PTC); and (vi) expanded the capacity of the Project Implementation Unit.
3.    All of the original objectives of the project, with the exception of some elements of
the Inspectorate program, were completed by the first quarter of 1993 and US$ 7 mil
remained unspent of the Credit funds. Plans to spend this on new PTC's and school
facilities were not realized owing largely to delays in selecting consulting engineers.
4.    Audited accounts were submitted promptly and the Special Account has been
closed by refund of the undisbursed balance. All credit covenants have been complied
with satisfactorily except for those two carried forward to the subsequent credit, re:
teacher payroll and PTC enrollment/cost effectiveness.
5.    The project can be regarded as successful in relation to meeting the immediate and
urgent needs for instructional materials while preparing for a major reform of the primary
education sector.
6.    Evident weaknesses pertained to:   (a) the textbook revolving fund; (b)
Inspectorate outcomes; (c) construction unit under-staffing; and (d) inadequate operating
expenses support compounded by Government's economic reforms. It is encouraging to
note however, that all the above have already been addressed in the subsequent credit.
1 Full report can be obtained from the project files.






Appendix C
Uganda
Fourth Education Project
Appendix C
Cofinancier Contribution to ICR
Not applicable - there were no cofinanciers for the project






Appawdi D
Chwt
Uganda
Fourth Education Project
Implementation Schedule
1. TEXTBOOK PROCUREMENT____________________
|(a) Preparation of booklists             xxxxxxx-
|(b) Price negotiations with publishers          x xxx
Ic) Contracts awarded                                xx
2. BOOK CONSOLIDATION AND DELIVERY
(a) Preparation of tender documents          xxxx
(b) Tender period                         |     xxxx
(c) Contracts awarded                                xx
(d) Book consolidation and shipping                    xxx
(e) Books' arrival in schools                             xxxxx
3. EQUIPMENT PROCUREMENT
(a) Preparation of tender documents          xxxx
(b) Tender period                               xxxx
(c) Contracts awarded                                xx
(d) Equipment consolidation and shipping               xxx
Ce) Equipment arrival in schools                            xxxx
4. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND FELLOWSHIP
(a) Project management (PIU)                        cxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxx
(b) Inspectorate                                        xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxl I I
5. TEXTBOOK REVOLVING FUND
(a) MoES selects Districts                   xx
(b) Consultant for Pilot scheme                   xxxx      xxxx      xxxx
(c) Selection of Pilot schools                xxx           cxxxxxxx x xxx  xxxxx ,
(d) First phase of Pilot scheme                      xxxx      xxxxi          xxx
Legend
xxxxxxxx       planned
40400440       actual



Appendix D
Table 1
Uganda
Fourth Education Project
Table 1: Pupils per Book Estimates
,,,,,.,,,, ,,g .gg,, ..............................     ...   ......    ,,,,         .  ..  ...--,,,........  ..........  i.   i. --...... .E
~   Grid.~   ~kuc. 3   GrSs 4   Gid. ..r.d......d..
Based on National Statistics (1990) /i
English               2.9        2.5        2.8       2.4        1.6        1.3       0.7
Math                  3.3        2.7       2.8        2.5        2.4        2.2        1.5
Social Studies       38.9       33.3      20.7        4.4        2.7        2.1        1.6
Science              24.3       18.0       4.2        3.2        3.0        2.5        1.8
Based on         583,085   432,630   394,093   318,367   260,783   212,365   165,591
Student rolls of    5
Based on IMU Survey (1993) /2
English               5.0        5.0       4.0        5.0        3.0        3.0        2.0
Math                  4.0        5.0        5.0       6.0        5.0        5.0        4.0
Social Studies       13.0       18.0      19.0       15.0       13.0      13.0        11.0
Science              11.0       12.0        9.0       8.0        3.0        3.0        2.0
Based on            4,253     3,906      4,209      4,102     3,748      3,645      3,032
l Student rolls of 
Based on Random Count in Three Schools (1994) /3
English               8.0        n.a.      7.0        n.a.       7.0       n.a.       5.0
Math                 10.0       n.a.      11.0        n.a.       8.0       n.a.       6.0
Social Studies       20.0        n.a.     18.0        n.a.      13.0       n.a.      10.0
Science              14.0        n.a.     13.0        n.a.      10.0       n.a.       8.0
Based n               220        n.a.      180        n.a.      120        n.a.        90
Student rolls of
Note:
1/  This survey was conducted on approximately 1 00 schools. It is not known whether these were
schools which participated in the TPP. Theoretically the pilot schools should be the best supplied
schools in Uganda for textbooks because they have been supplied with textbooks and
teachers' guides under Education III (1985), Education IV (1 990) and with books purchased from the
revolving fund (1991 and 1993). No other schools in Uganda have received this level of consistent
support over the same period.
2/  These statistics and pupil:book ratios were derived from the 1 990 MoES Planning Survey, the
1 990 MoES/UNESCO Report and the MoES Statistical Abstract for Primary Schools 1989-1 992.
The ratios were compiled by a USAID consultant. It is not known whether the school book stocks
were reported before or after the provision of textbooks to schools from Education IV in 1 990.
Neither the nature nor the condition of reported bookstocks is available from the statistics. Because
school books are government property, most schools do not throw away damaged books with
pages missing or badly torn, thus they may be included in these figures. Similarly, many schools
have collections of very old and redundant books from a wide variety of different series, most of which
are not used in class. There is no indication whether or not these redundant books have been
included in the school count. Under the circumstances, with so much unknown about the origin of the
statistics and ratios, these statistics must be treated with considerable caution.
3/  These indicators are based on a rough count of books in store cupboards, cross-checked with
school stock books and with school enrollment figures obtained from visits to schools and
conversations with headteachers during the WB PCR mission (November/December 1 994).



Appendix D
Table 2
Uganda
Fourth Education
Table 2: Supply of Textbooks to Pilot Schools and
Pupil Textbook Ratios Achieved
: : -- -- -: ~Textbooks:Supplied                     : -upil               Ppil -
....   ....  ..... ........... ..........................
Subjects     I~DA          TFuddTotal    -EnrollD.                   Txbo
Funde                                        (1.. ..9.. .    !400)0  ..... .....
Maths                   50,962  /1        93,467  /2    144,429    171,486        1.19
English                 73,521                            73,521    171,486       2.33
Science                 77,022            43,500         120,522    171,486       1.42
Social Studies          59,517                            59,517    171,486       2.88
Local Languages         28,607                            28,607    171,486       5.99
Total/average   ~~~~289029:        1 36 967       428,5968   171,480        2,76
.                                                         ...   ,  . ,    .,   .,   -  -, - . - - ., , , . ., - . . .. .. .. , .. .. .. . . - . - - - . - - . . . ...   . . .. . . . .   . . .   . . . .   .
Source: TPP Evaluation Study (1991) amended with PIU data (1994).
1/ The TPP Evaluation Report (October 1991) gives this figure as 59,517 (See
Table 8, Annex 1 of the Report).
2/ The TPP Evaluation Report, which was compiled 2 months after the delivery
of this consignment to schools, records the total number of Math books supplied
as 79,800 (see Table 8, Annex 1 of the Evaluation Report).



Appendix D
Table3
Uganda
Fourth Education Project
Table 3: Enrollment Changes in Textbook Pilot Project Districts
Between 1989 and 1990
District Total
Enrollment in primary schoolsl
1989                 95,954   64,266   23,702   80,066   263,988
1990                 78,358   62,711    38,735   75,547   255,351
Changes in enrollment      -18.3%     -2.4%    63.4%     -5.6%    -3.3%
Pilot Schools
Number of pilot schools in 1989      230       196       47       148       621
Enrollment in pilot schools
1989                 89,899   66,912    11,666   58,960   227,437
1990                 60,972   50,347    9,413   50,754   171,486
Changes in enrollment       -32.2%    -24.8%    -19.3%    -13.9%    -24.6%
Source: TPP Evaluation Study.



Appendix D
Table 4
Uganda
Fourth Education Project
Table 4:  Primary School Enrollment 1989-90, 1992-93
. .W ..t ........%Ž.~                                                      99
1"     '''''""'''"'"'"   ..   ..m....... ...... ..  . .......  ..   ..... -.  . __. _........ _z. ....   .. _ . _
|1.          Kampala              61,375          59,038          61,112           57,179
CENTRAL
2.      Kalangala             2,983           1,373            1,792           2,052
3.      Luwero               45,935          61,732          62,298           62,290
4--.   . .   . . . . . . . .. . .   .       . . . .   .   --  . . .. . . . . . . .   .. . . . . . . .
4.  Maseks              $4420           02711. .........0
5.      Mpigi               139,096         115,089         122,331          123,831
0 .    .ip d      ...0.... ......
7.      Mukono               91,490          95,242          98,554          100,139
8.      Rakai                64,235          46,473          79,761           79,897
9.       Kiboga *                                            18,554           18,736
EASTERN
,-1-0.  i~4&          .       $~S04        -                        -        - i i -,  ..  .  .. . .i.
11.     Jinja                40,011          40,551           52,851          39,510
12.     Kamuli               46,818          49,853           41,383           57,266
13.     Kapchorwa            19,277          20,696           20,001          23,023
14.     Kumi                 52,471          56,693           53,309           54,985
15.     Mbale               133,402         148,857          145,712          137,101
16.     Soroti              106,833         105,596          106,198           94,089
17.     Tororo              152,459          137,411          91,280           82,457
18.     Pallisa *                                             46,707          47,633
NORTHERN
19.     Apac                 83,313          81,872           80,077          81,584
20.     Arua                119,293         123,161          125,726          111,680
21.     GuIu                 64,198          65,779           72,990           70,488
22.     Kitgumu              66,710          74,533           80,887           61,657
23.     Kotido                 1,220         17,413           15,671           14,788
24.     Lira                 91,174          87,117          108,126          108,136
25.     Moroto                9,029           8,610            7,870            8,654
26.     Mayo                 19,701          22,420           18,189          20,126
27.     Nebbi                50,203          51,399           49,255           79,617
WESTERN
28.     Bundibugyo           11,704          12,051           12,586           16,114
29.     Bushenyi            109,946         110,613          106,616          103,574
30.     Hoima               119,890          80,672           33,457           37,892
31.     Kabale               80,296          83,362           68,107           68,508
32.     Kabarole             88,795          91,084           63,782           89,849
33.     Kasese               40,218          37,058           41,890           39,767
---., .M ;- d i i3s7O2                3$.,73 j.
35.     Mbarara             117,457          83,451          129,576          120,289
36.     Rukungiri            63,163          56,980           57,939           60,046
37.     Kibale *                                              40,762          40,686
38.     Kisoro *                                              20,626           20,626
39.     Ntungamo '                                                             27,637
26AL-                         19,702 ,:,1 ,420            2,38,189            20,126#
Source: EPU/MoES.
*  New Districts                                           Textbook Pilot Districts



Appendix D
Table 5
Uganda
Fourth Education Project
Table 5: Parental and Govemment Contributions to the Textbook Fund
Parental contribution
1989     27,399,498         431.54    63,492.37     63,492.37
1990     54,712,336         545.65   100,270.02    163,762.39
1991     33,702,050       1,136.60    29,651.64    193,414.03     1,136.60      101,895
1992        410,500       1,268.75       323.55
1993                                                              1,202.00          342
116,224,384                 193,737.57                                  102,237
Govemment contribution
1989     27,258,423         431.54    63,165.46     63,165.46
1990     24,268,166         545.65    44,475.70    107,641.16
1991    113,512,764 /1    1,136.60    99,870.46    207,511.62     1,136.60      145,204
1992     23,475,098       1,268.75    18,502.54
1993                                                              1,202.00       19,530
188,514,451                 226,014.16                                  164,734
}L=::_:::.~.
1/ Interest rates provided by the PIU.
2/ Interest earnings on IDA credit account used for the purpose.
3/ Mission estimates, in the absence of information on actual dates of transaction.
Source: PIU.



Appendix D
Table 6
Uganda
Fourth Education Project
Table 6: Number of Pilot Schools by District and
Rate of Parental Participation in TPP
Based on Evaluation Study Enrollment Estimate (1171,486)
Iganga                230       63.12%        50.54%      57.79%
Masaka                196       65.31%        41.56%      54.62%
Masindi                47       41.21%        21.14%      31.85%
Mubende               148       55.94%        31.13%      44.00%
Total/averag          621       60.77%        40.55%      51.67%
Based on PIU Enrollment Estimate (240,284)
Iganga                230       49.94%        29.43%      39.69%
Masaka                196       58.30%        30.36%      44.33%
Masindi                47       39.99%        17.93%      28.96%
Mubende               148       55.11%        28.43%      41.77%
Average               621       53.08%        28.94%      41.00%
Source: TPP Evaluation Study and PIU.
Note:
The four pilot districts continued to contribute fees after the closure of the pilot
project. If these are added to the 1 989 and 1 990 totals, the gross collection rate
increases from 51.67% to 60.95%.



Appendix D
Table 7
Uganda
Fourth Education Project
Table 1. Expected Counterpart Funding Based on
Actual Project Expenditures
(US$ millions)
1.  Textbooks                                               0%                   0.0 °
Textbook pilot                                         100%                 0.420
2.  Instructional Materials and office and teaching  20%     0%                  0.000
equipment
3.  Overseas shipping and consolidation                      0%                  0.000
4.  Vehicles, motorcycles and spare parts          20%       0%                  0.020
5.  Technical assistance                                     0%                  0.000
6.  Training Abroad                                          0%                  0.000
7.  In-country Workshops and Seminars                                50%         0.100
8.  Incremental operating costs
A. Institutional and policy development                       70%         0.023
B. Other                                                      85%         1.632
9.  Pre-investment studies                                           0%          0.000
10.  Project Preparation Facility                           100%                 0.254
11.  Civil works and building materials             20%                          0.000
12.  Furniture                                      20%                          0.000
1! Based on actual local and foreign costs in Table 7A.
(file:D2-TBL1 .XLS)



Appendix D
Table 8
Uganda
Fourth Education Project
Table 2: Counterpart Fund Releases to Education IV
FY90                                          Oct-89      19,922,000                         232      85,870.69    l
Jan-90       9,529,665                        374       25,480.39   l
23,143,000                        374       61,879.68   l
Mar-90       1,922,000                         379       5,071.24    l
May-90        1,922,000                        384        5,005.21    l
41,475,000                        384      108,007.81   l
3,317,481                        384        8,639.27   l
,.,,,,  .....  ..,.e,.......................  .............                     . . . . .
FY91                                          Sep-90      11,471,250                         480      23,898.44
Dec-90      11,471,250                         540      21,243.06
Feb-91      11,471,250                        600       19,118.75
Jun-91      11,471,250                        700       16,387.50
FY92                                          Sep-91      83,843,000                         850      98,638.82   |
Jan-92      83,843,000                        970       86,436.08
Apr-92      83,843,213                       1,159      72,340.99 |
-    -.-. .. ..        <- s           s. ,             : M.-- s s
FY93                                          Sep-92      20,833,000                       1,185      17,580.59   |
25,000,000                       1,185      21,097.05
Dec-92      25,000,000                       1,214      20,593.08
Feb-93      25,000,000                       1,217      20,542.32
25,000,000                       1,217      20,542.32
Apr-93      49,750,000                       1,218      40,845.65 |
May-93       16,024,823                       1,213      13,210.90 |
Jun-93      46,595,177                       1,199      38,861.70
25,000,000                       1,199      20,850.71
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .. .s;:.                   ....      . ...... i
Source: PIU, MoES.



Appendix D
Table 9
UGANDA
Fourth Education Project
(Cr. 1965)
Status of Audit Reports
Year   --e ... ..t                ype. .TP.  -f     Ln.....
. ..........ed                 d ~ tir .  .............
.. . .. . . . . . ...  .. .e. r . .......   ...   ..   ..   -  -- -;l   g;#      g   -irg- l o- .    ..    .. . . .. . .   g .-; . i .. .. .. .   .. .. .
Statement of Expenses and Special Accounts Audit Reports
FY90        12/31/90      2/1/91        private        unqualified    Government
FY91        12131/91     10/1/91        public        unqualified    Government
FY92        12/3 1/92    11/18/92       public        unqualified    Coopers & Lybrand
FY93        12/31/93    11/18/93        private       unqualified    Coopers & Lybrand
FY94        1 2/31/94                   private     to be submitted  Coopers & Lybrand
Textbook Fund Account
FY90        12/31/90      2/1/91        private       unqualified    Coopers & Lybrand
FY91        12/31/91    10/1/1991       private       unqualified    Coopers & Lybrand
FY92        12/31/92    8/31/93         private       unqualified    Coopers & Lybrand
FY93        12/31/93    8/24/94
FY4.23/4piae                                       t  e umte    opr     yrn



Appendix D
Table 10
Uganda
Fourth Education Project
Table 4: Staffing Status of the Inspectorate
Incumbents                          May-90         75         41     54.67% l
New recruits                     Oct-90, Apr-92   121        114     94.21% l
Total number inspectors                      196        155     79.08% l
Natural attrition                   1 989-94       40l
Retrenched                          1989-94          8l
Total reduction in inspectors                 48                24.49% l
Incumbents                          Jun-94        148                75.51 %l
Source: Inspectorate, MoES.






31                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3!/31
SUDANA 
_   ~~~  J  =                 <            KOTID$) ~~~~~UGANDA
EDUCATION IV
TEXTBOOK PILOT PROJECT DISTRICTS
/    DISTRICT CAPITALS*
t  ARUA    ;>>  j   t<   KITGUM  yA                 NATIONAL CAPITAL
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
- c   e LINTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
ZAIRE                                       GL
'Distridc names coincide .ith District Copitals, with one
exception: Fart Portal is the District Capital of Kabarole District.
a        _                                                                                  LESOOSROTI
L MC        BUHEY          MBARARA       ;-                                 
NTUNGAMO i-        bh.&.t,=,                     KALANAKI|O                                                           UGANDAk
=   3, RWAN DA   X  oszndolel   es  w                    ~                         34.                  \                     3r                      >
10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20
w                                                                                                                                        _   _  _  _ _ _  _   _


















